
Menu
 
Search

 
Menu
 
Search

 

                                                                                        Cybertruck Armed With Machine Gun by Chechen Leader Kadyrov: A Game-Changer in Russia-Ukraine Conflict?                                         

                                                                                        Colorado Church Tokenizes $2.5M Chapel to Secure Historic Old Stone Church                                         

                                                                                        Fall Flavors Arrive: New Seasonal Menus from Krispy Kreme, Cracker Barrel, and The Human Bean                                         

                                                                                        Carl’s Jr. Drops Loaded Guacamole Bacon Fries, Sparking Excitement Across Fast-Food Fans                                         

                                                                                        Brian Armstrong: AI ‘Should Have Crypto Wallets,’ Coinbase’s $15K Grants to Spur Innovation                                         

                                                                                        The Secret Behind McDonald’s Perfect Fries: The Four Potato Varieties They Use                                         

                                                                                        Panasonic to End Fluorescent Lamp Production by 2027, Marking an Era’s Close                                         

                                                                                        Checkers Marks 10 Years in Buffalo with Special Deals and Community Events                                         

                                                                                        Ethereum ETF Poised to Capture 50% of Bitcoin ETF Inflows as Investor Interest Surges                                         

                                                                                        Ex-Google CEO Turns Arms Dealer, Unleashes AI Attack Drones to Alter Ukraine War                                         

                                                                                        Gurman: Apple Intelligence Fails to Impress, Lags Behind Google's Gemini in AI Race                                         

                                                                                        Navigating the Intersection of Private Equity Insurance and Economics: Strategies for Maximising Returns and Managing Risks                                         

                                                                                        SpaceX Prepares for Risky Tower Capture in Upcoming Starship Flight 5 Test                                         

                                                                                        Huawei Takes Aim at Nvidia: Ascend 910C AI Chip Set to Disrupt China's Market                                         

                                                                                        Cybertruck Controversy Erupts: Musk Denies Involvement as Global Reaction to Chechen Leader Intensifies                                         

                                                                                        Popeyes Worker’s Chicken Seasoning TikTok Sparks Debate Over Hygiene and Preparation                                         

                                                                                        Shiba Inu Community Faces New Scam Threat: Fraudsters Impersonate Legit Wallets to Steal SHIB                                                 Photo by: Iron Mountain Website KT Group Bolsters Local AI Industry with $11.65M Investment in Moreh KT Corporation and Iron Mountain Inc. formed an alliance to work together on establishing a blockchain-powered electronic document platform. The South Korean telecom firm entered into this strategic partnership to digitize the latter’s physical documents. KT and Iron Mountain will launch an E-Document ecosystem that will use blockchain technology to create electronic versions of paper documents and keep them in safe storage. This cooperation will expand the certified electronic document ecosystem based on blockchain. As per CoinMarketCap, as agreed by KT and Iron Mountain, it was stated in their contract that they will use the former’s blockchain-based electronic document platform to convert physical documents of the American enterprise information management services company. They also plan to expand their cooperation to include projects beyond digitization. In line with this, the companies will explore a wide range of potential businesses across different markets. This will be very beneficial to KT as Iron Mountain has an extensive presence worldwide, covering 54 countries. It was noted that the South Korean telecom giant started operating its e-document platform in 2020. Since then, it has been providing services, including document storage, contract writing, and registered document delivery. The digitization of documents has been especially beneficial to small and medium-sized businesses as the service allowed them to stamp out the need to establish individual systems. KT and Iron Mountain are now eyeing the Asia-Pacific market for their e-document services. Their goal is to capture this market where conventional paper documentation is still the norm. “We hope that KT’s expertise in ICT and Iron Mountain’s global business expertise merge to bring about positive change to the global market,” Korea Joongang Daily quoted Song Jae Ho, vice president of KT AI/DX Convergence Division of KT Corp., as saying during the contract signing last week. “This MOU will solidify KT’s position as a leader in the market in document management.”   Photo by: Iron Mountain Website Breathing through your nose when you exercise may make your runs easier Entrepreneurs are facing a mental health crisis — here's how to help them Are fish oil supplements as healthy as we think? And is eating fish better? Will AI kill our creativity? It could – if we don’t start to value and protect the traits that make us human Does AI have a right to free speech? Only if it supports our right to free thought How can I lower my cholesterol? Do supplements work? How about psyllium or probiotics? Why we need to set limits on sperm donation Aging with a healthy brain: How lifestyle changes could help prevent up to 40% of dementia cases Seven techniques to avoid weight regain, approved by experts  
                                                                                                Mark Gonzales’ adidas Aloha Super Lands in 'Burnt Sienna' as Gazelle Indoor Sports Halloween Colors  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Mocked as Supporter Falls Asleep During Pennsylvania Rally: Critics Call Him 'Boring AF'  
                                                                                                Huawei Export Restrictions Set for Potential US Relaxation as Lawmakers Warn of Economic Fallout  
                                                                                                Tesla Cybertruck Hits 400-Mile Range with Core Wheels, New Owner Reveals  
                                                                                                McDonald's to Launch Yu-Gi-Oh Happy Meal in August as Pokemon Announces New Toy Line  
                                                                                                U.S. EV Sales Surge in June, Outpacing Overall Auto Market Growth: Report  
                                                                                                Gurman: Apple Intelligence Fails to Impress, Lags Behind Google's Gemini in AI Race  
                                                                                                McDonald’s Brings Back the Beloved Pumpkin and Creme Pie Just in Time for Fall  
                                                                                                Hyundai Claims 10% of US EV Market, Closing the Gap with Tesla in 2024  
                                                                                                Ex-Donald Trump Official Reveals 'Cringe' Remarks About Kamala Harris' Looks Amid Growing Tensions 
Back to Top ▲
 
                        

                        
                        ©Econometrics LLC . All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.                     Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results. Sign up for daily updates for the most important
            stories unfolding in the global economy. 