1 Badminton Korea Association starts investigation without dialogue with An Se-young  3 Netflix Korean originals struggle to replicate success of 'Squid Game'  5 Unredeemed miles with Korean Air, Asiana Airlines estimated at $2.58 bil.  7 Missing woman found dead after 36 hours trapped in patrol car  9 INTERVIEWKorean language can be gateway to new opportunities 11 Heat wave to worsen despite Typhoon Jongdari's approach  13 EV fires heighten concerns: Tesla, Mercedes-Benz accidents add to alarm  15 Hot springs of the past: Korea's south  17 Budget carriers hit hard as demand for China routes weakens  19 Powerful earthquake hits off far east coast of Russia, though no early reports of damage  2 2NE1 updates YouTube channel for first time in 7 years ahead of reunion 4 Korea experiences record-breaking streak of tropical nights amid unrelenting heat wave  6 Olympic shooting medalist signs with talent agency  8 INTERVIEWSF9 continues to dream big after 9 years 10 Kim Min-hee wins best performance at Locarno Film Festival  12 Korean tourist stabbed in Philippines amid rising violence against Korean nationals  14 Traces of COVID-19 virus surge in wastewater amid summer wave  16 Will HMM continue to transport EVs, batteries by sea?  18 S. Korea-US-Japan partnership to face test when Biden, Kishida leave office  20 Duty free industry suffers slump despite increasing international tourists  Close for 24 hours KT Cloud employees pose with the company’s new cloud service AI SERV, specialized for AI service development companies that need high-performance computing systems at affordable prices, Monday. Courtesy of KT KT Cloud launched a powerful cloud computing service designed for AI service development, which will help boost its AI infrastructure business, the cloud subsidiary of KT said on Monday. The company said AI SERV is a dedicated infrastructure for AI inference services that applies slicing technology to graphic processing units (GPUs). In the field of hyperscale AI development, the learning area requires a large number of high-performance GPUs for a short period of time, while the inference area requires a small number of GPUs to be used continuously and constantly. As a result, using the infrastructure used for learning as the inference infrastructure has resulted in an unnecessary cost burden. KT Cloud said AI SERV focused on the fact that AI companies that have completed AI development and learning processes and are providing AI services can divide high-performance GPU infrastructure into the optimal amount needed for each service. The company added AI SERV uses slicing technology to divide a single GPU service into five 0.2-GPU units. This allows users to use the infrastructure as needed, reducing costs and allowing for flexible use in a variety of situations. Previous slicing technologies could suffer performance degradation in the divided units. However, AI SERV is able to use the infrastructure 100 percent without performance degradation, even when sliced, the company added. “The launch of AI SERV allows customers to use the optimal infrastructure at each stage, from AI learning to inference and serving, at a more reasonable cost,” Yun Dong-sik, CEO of KT Cloud, said. “We will continue to work with domestic and foreign partners to promote the growth and expansion of the hyperscale AI industry, while also helping various AI companies and startups to use AI infrastructure without additional burden.” KT Cloud has been leading the AI infrastructure business here, launching its first pay-as-you-go infrastructure service, HAC (Hyperscale AI Computing), in 2022. The company has also collaborated with chip design company Rebellions and AI infrastructure solution company Moreh to develop AI frameworks, AI cloud semiconductor chips, and other related services. Bayern Munich beat Tottenham Hotspur in Seoul  Tottenham 4-3 K-League All-Stars  World Water Day 2024  Busan World Team Table Tennis Championships Finals  Super Bowl 2024 