Introduction: The outsourcing of information technology (IT) services has become increasingly prevalent in the banking and financial sector. There are several challenges that have come up and regulators have stepped in with a framework to enable prudent risk management. RBI Master Direction The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has released the Master Direction on Outsourcing of Information Technology Services to address the need for risk management in outsourcing contracts related to technology. This blog does a deep dive into outsourcing IT services in the banking industry. This master circle covers ten different domains and emphasizes on policies, risk frameworks, and controls, with a specific focus on cloud adoption. The directions will come into effect from 1st October 2023. Need for Outsourcing: Various factors have contributed to the increased outsourcing of IT services, including the growing issues with adoption of technology, challenges with migration of data and platforms, new entrant, increased cloud adoption, relevance of outsourcing opportunities and presence of digital channels. Potential Impact Areas: Outsourcing IT services has relevance for different stakeholders. This potential impact is on banks, small finance banks, payments banks, non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), credit information companies (CICs), urban cooperative banks (UCBs), and service providers. It explores the need for strengthened structures, governance, and compliance obligations. I. Impact on Banks  II. Impact on Small Finance Banks & Payments Banks III. NBFCs, CICs, UCBs IV. Service Providers 10 Chapters of Master Circular The Master Direction comprises ten chapters that cover various aspects of outsourcing IT services. These chapters include: 1. Preliminary 2. Role of the Regulated Entity 3. Governance Framework 4. Evaluation & Engagement of  Service Providers 5. Outsourcing Agreement 6. Risk Management 7. Monitoring & Control of Outsourced  Activities 8. Outsourcing within a Group Conglomerate 9. Cross Border Outsourcing 10. Exit Strategy Applicable Service Elements: This section identifies the specific IT service elements and outlines the applicable activities. It also mentions non-applicable activities that are excluded from the scope. Applicable Activities 1. IT Infrastructure Management 2. Network & Security Management 3. Application Development & Maintenance 4. Application testing Services 5. ATM Switch ASPs 6. Data Centre Operations & Hosting 7. Cloud Computing Services 8. Managed Security Services 9. Payment System Services Infrastructure  management Non-Applicable Activities 1. Corporate Internet Banking Services 2. Audit Services (including VA/PT) 3. SMS Service Provider 4. Procurement & Acquisition of  Hardware/Software 5. OEM Led maintenance 6. Regulatory bodies 7. BCs, Fintech Partnership, Data Enablers Governance Framework: To ensure compliance with the Master Direction, regulated entities need to establish a board-approved IT outsourcing policy. This section outlines the requirements for building the policy including key outcomes to look for. Requirements Action Plan  Key Outcomes Checkpoints for Compliance Evaluation and Engagement: Effective evaluation and engagement of service providers is critical in outsourcing. This section outlines the requirements for establishing a risk-based due diligence, an action plan, key outcomes to target, and checkpoints for compliance. Requirements Action Plan  Key Outcomes Checkpoints for Compliance Outsourcing Agreements Regulated entities need to establish a legal binding agreement framework and document the terms and conditions in conjunction with their legal teams. This section highlights the importance of regular monitoring, assessment frameworks, and performance monitoring aligned with service level agreements (SLAs). An action plan is needed for regulated entities to create the necessary legal agreement templates and ensure compliance. Requirements Action Plan for RE Key Outcomes Checkpoints for Compliance Monitoring and Control of Outsourced Activities A robust management structure with defined roles and responsibilities is crucial for monitoring activities. This section not only outlines the development of monitoring and control checklists, establishment of audit mechanisms but also identifies the key outcomes and checkpoints for compliance. Requirements Action Plan for RE Key Outcomes Checkpoints for Compliance Exit Strategy Requirement to have a well-defined exit strategy for terminating or exiting outsourced IT activities or services. This section outlines the requirements for documenting exit strategy terms, termination clauses, and alternative arrangements. An action plan is provided for creating exit strategies, termination processes, and protecting data during the transition period. Checkpoints for compliance are also highlighted. Requirements To Document Exit Strategy terms into policy with regards to: Action Plan for RE Key Outcomes Checkpoints for Compliance Cloud Computing Services Cloud Service Provider (CSP): Selecting a suitable Cloud Service Provider (CSP) is critical in this process. To ensure a secure and reliable partnership, regulated entities (REs) should contract exclusively with service providers operating under jurisdictions that ensure the enforceability of agreements and safeguard their own rights. Cloud Service Management & Security Consideration In the context of cloud service management and security considerations, there are certain key factors that regulated entities (REs) have to take account of. These factors help ensure the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of data in the environment. Conclusion:  Outsourcing IT services in the financial domain needs and due consideration of multiple aspects to ensure compliance, risk management, and operational resilience. Though adherence to these guidelines, banks can enhance their outsourcing practices while giving due consideration to security and efficiency. Disclaimer: This article provides general information existing at the time of preparation and we take no responsibility to update it with the subsequent changes in the law. The article is intended as a news update and Affluence Advisory neither assumes nor accepts any responsibility for any loss arising to any person acting or refraining from acting as a result of any material contained in this article. It is recommended that professional advice be taken based on specific facts and circumstances. This article does not substitute the need to refer to the original pronouncement   Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 
Post Comment


 Copyright © TaxGuru. All Rights Reserved. Maintained by V2Technosys.com