
  Avro have unveiled a quartet of new signings as preparations continue for their first ever season in the Northern Premier League.
 
  Brothers Deane and Dominic Smalley join from Wythenshawe Town, while forward Vani Da Silva and winger Kuda Chingwaro were last at Oldham Athletic and Northwich Victoria respectively.
 
  Manager Alex Frost feels the four new faces perfectly complement last season’s promotion-winning squad, who have nearly all chosen to stay at the club for its debut in step four football.
 
  He said: “We know Deane and Dominic well from our games against Wythenshawe over the last couple of seasons.
 
  “They are extremely experienced defenders who have the same desire and hunger that they had when they started out - they play every match as if it were going to be their last one.
 
  “I believe that they will be massive assets to us as we get used to playing a higher level of opposition on a weekly basis.
 
  “Vani and Kuda are both really exciting prospects for us.
 
  “I think it is important that Vani has spent time on loan at decent non-league clubs during his time at Oldham, so he knows what this level of football is all about.
 
  “We have been very impressed with Kuda when he has played against us for Barnoldswick and Vics, and we are confident that he can make the step up.”
 
  Meanwhile the club have confirmed fans will have a second opportunity to take advantage of their ‘Pay What You Can Afford’ season ticket offer at this Saturday’s friendly against Wythenshawe FC - a scheme which proved very popular prior to last Wednesday night’s 1-1 draw against Radcliffe FC in the pre-season curtain opener.
 
  “We are very conscious of the fact that times are hard, and money is tight for many football fans who live in our local community,” said Frost. “We are so excited about what lies ahead, but we want to be able to share that experience with as many people as possible.
 
  “This initiative gives us the opportunity to do just that.”
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.