Stephen Root should yabba-dabbo-do! just fine as the voice of Fred in Bedrock, Fox’s in-the-works follow-up to The Flintstones. Amy Sedaris, meanwhile, is set to voice Wilma in the prospective adult animated comedy, our sister site Deadline reports. More from TVLine 9-1-1: Lone Star Sneak Peek: Marjan's Return Leads to a Deadly Encounter 9-1-1's Oliver Stark Reacts to Buck's Fate: I Had Crew Members Asking Me, 'Are You Really Leaving? Is This Real?' 9-1-1 Offers Grim Update on Buck's Condition -- Watch Sneak Peek Penned by Lindsay Kerns (DC Super Hero Girls) and with Elizabeth Banks voicing grown-up Pebbles as well as exec-producing, Bedrock will catch up with the Flintstones two decades after the classic cartoon was set, with Fred on the brink of retirement and a 20something Pebbles embarking on her own career. “As the Stone Age gives way to a shiny and enlightened new Bronze Age, the residents of Bedrock will find this evolution harder than a swing from Bamm-Bamm’s club,” quips the synopsis. Other voice cast additions for what at this point is just a pilot presentation include Nicole Byer (Grand Crew) as Betty, Joe Lo Trulio (Brooklyn Nine-Nine) as Barney, and Manny Jacinto (The Good Place) as Bamm-Bamm. “Long before the Simpsons and Springfield, the Griffins and Quahog, or even when the Belchers started serving burgers on Ocean Avenue, there were the Flintstones and Bedrock,” Fox Entertainment president Michael Thorn said back in April 2021, when the project was first put into development. “Their imprint on the animation universe is undeniable, and the idea of adapting it for today’s audience is a challenge we here at Fox are very much looking forward to taking on with Warner Bros., Elizabeth and Lindsay. No pressure whatsoever, really.” “The Flintstones are the first family of primetime animation,” added Warner Bros. Animation EVP Peter Girardi. “Elizabeth and Lindsay have a brilliant take on these characters, and Fox and Brownstone are the perfect partners to bring them back to primetime. This is going to rock (sorry).” Best of TVLine Stars Who Almost Played Other TV Roles — on Grey's Anatomy, NCIS, Lost, Gilmore Girls, Friends and Other Shows TV Stars Almost Cast in Other Roles Fall TV Preview: Who's In? Who's Out? Your Guide to Every Casting Move! Get more from TVLine.com: Follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Newsletter Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.