Ever wished you could step into the world of a Disney movie? This is your chance. The Disney Animation: Immersive Experience is coming to Nashville. The immersive will open to the public on Feb. 9, according to a news release from its organizers. It will run through May 14 in Music City. The event is a collaboration between Walt Disney Animation Studios and Lighthouse Immersive Studios, which also created the Immersive Van Gogh experience that came to Nashville last year. It will feature modern Disney hits like Encanto, Zootopia and Frozen, alongside classics like The Lion King, Peter Pan and Pinocchio. Guests will follow a "pixie dust wish trail" through the galleries as they explore the history and sketches behind Disney's animators and characters; interactive features like a moving, responsive projection; and movement-activated bracelets that light and respond to the projections. "In a particularly show-stopping moment, the Gazillion Bubbles special effects team fills the 500,000 cubic feet of galleries with bubbles," the release said. The immersive first ran in Toronto in December, and kicked off its U.S. installments in Cleveland, Ohio, last month. It will also run in several more cities nationwide, including Detroit, Denver, Boston and others over the next several months. More cities are being added, along with plans for an immersive in Tokyo, the release said. The immersive is located at the Lighthouse ArtSpace on 4416 Ridgefield Way in Nashville. It will premiere with a private opening night on Feb. 8. After that, individual tickets for the ongoing event start at $28. Family and group rates are also available. Tickets, along with a full list of cities and more information, can be found at disneyimmersive.com. This article originally appeared on Nashville Tennessean: Disney Animation Immersive Experience Nashville: Tickets, dates, more New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.