To make sure you never miss out on your favourite NEW stories, we're happy to send you some reminders Click 'OK' then 'Allow' to enable notifications Amelia Jones Noel Gallagher had some choice words for Matty Healy in response to his comments calling for an Oasis reunion tour, describing the 1975 frontman as a 'slack-jawed f**kwit'. During an interview with Spin magazine to promote his upcoming album Council Skies with High Flying Birds, the singer-songwriter was asked what he thought about the comments Healy had made. And Noel's response was characteristically cutting as he asked the interviewer: "Oh, that fucking slack-jawed f**kwit. What did he say?" Advert Healy had expressed a desire for brothers Liam and Noel Gallagher to 'grow up' so that an Oasis reunion can happen. Talking in a February interview with Q With Tom Power, the musician was discussing how being 'silly' helps the band keep tensions to a minimum. He then asked 'why do bands get so serious' about something that’s 'not that complicated.' He went further by saying: "What are Oasis doing? Can you imagine being in potentially – right now, still – the coolest band in the world, and not doing it because you’re in a mard with your brother? Advert "There’s not one kid, not one person, going to a High Flying Birds gig or a Liam Gallagher gig that would not rather be at an Oasis gig.” And Gallagher responded: "He would never be able to imagine it. He needs to go over how s**t his band is and split up." The frontman also touched on why, despite rumours circulating, an Oasis reunion is not likely to be on the cards. Advert He said: “If Oasis hadn’t fulfilled its potential, I might have a different attitude towards it. But as Oasis did everything it set out to do and more." In apparent reference to the band’s former guitarist, Bonehead, who also called on both brothers to consider regrouping because of how much it would mean to younger generations who didn't get to see them play live, he said: “I don’t see the point. It was a moment in time and if you missed it, tough s**t. "I missed the Sex Pistols, and I’ve managed to get over that. So people should get over it." Liam had already replied to the comments in a tweet back in February. Advert The thread began with Liam tweeting about booking a skiing holiday. eH was then asked: "About your return... Matty Healy says you're just wasting your time and you should stop being like children... what do you think?" To which Liam clapped back: "It’s our time to waste who made him the boss of time. "CHILDREN." Topics: News, UK News, Music, Celebrity Advert Advert Advert