

                By Jimmy Briggs For Daily Mail Australia
              
05:44 13 Apr 2023, updated 08:19 13 Apr 2023
  Comments  Comments   Former Married At First Sight groom Ryan Gallagher launched a scathing tirade on Thursday against tennis star Nick Kyrgios over some recent comments he made. The tennis star, 27, was asked on Instagram whether he would appear on the reality show I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! and defiantly shot down the suggestion. And now Gallagher, 34, has taken issue with Kyrgios' bold claim that the cast aren't genuine 'celebrities' and are only known in Australia. Ryan appeared on the show back in 2020. The former MAFS star - who is now engaged to Olympian Emily Seebohm - shared Nick's response to social media and responded with some choice words of his own.  'Rather be just known in Australia than known worldwide as a f***wit,' he wrote alongside the photo of Kyrgios. He also drew an arrow pointing to Nick and on top of it wrote 'k**b'. Ryan appears to be a fan of the popular reality series after starring on it in 2020, where he ended up in eighth place with the series winner being celebrity chef Miguel Maestre. He appeared alongside actress Rhonda Burchmore, illusionist Cosentino and media personality Perez Hilton. The famously outspoken world-class tennis player said he would never appear on the reality show because it does not feature 'real celebrities'. He also accused the Australian cast members of going on the show for the 'money' and taking themselves too seriously, because they are only known to local viewers.  Nick's spray against the show, currently filming in South Africa, came during a fan Q&A he shared to his Instagram stories on Wednesday. After one follower asked whether he would go on the real-life survival series, Nick answered with a vicious serve aimed, it seemed, at past and present cast members. 'No. People who go on that show tend not to be celebrities, anyway,' the tennis star explained, before adding, [the cast do the show as] an excuse to get money.'  'They take themselves a bit too seriously,' he went on, 'because they are well known in Australia.' Nick also posted a picture of himself standing by a small jet plane in the story. Among the cast members battling it out in the jungle this season are reality stars Domineca Calarco from Married at First Sight and Ian 'Dicko' Dickson from Australian Idol.   Comments  Comments   'Britain's Bill Gates' and his 18-year-old daughter are among six feared dead after his 180ft... Billionaire tech tycoon Mike Lynch's co-defendant in US fraud trial DIES in hospital after being hit... Is this the end for Flip Out? Under-fire trampoline firm already being probed for string of... One dead and six missing including four Brits after luxury 180ft Bayesian superyacht sinks during... Brit tech tycoon Mike Lynch among six missing after his superyacht Bayesian was 'hit by freak... Pictured: Hero mother aboard Bayesian yacht, 36, who fought to keep her baby alive in tornado-lashed... What Jill Biden said to Kamala Harris after Joe dropped out is revealed for the first time... after... Moment French border guards ram their speedboat into an overloaded migrant vessel as it sets off... Riotous moment brawling passenger is served instant karma after slapping a steward in the face... Wife of missing British tech tycoon Mike Lynch who is now 'recovering from injuries in a wheelchair'... We took out a loan to pay for Spanish holiday from hell... but I wouldn't put a dog in our hotel... Two girls, 16, are 'sexually assaulted by group of men' in sea off Bournemouth beach as suspect, 22,... Katie Price's income from TikTok will be suspended as part of efforts to pay off money owed under... Pictured: Mother-of-four, 43, stabbed to death in Manchester knife attack as girl, 17, and man, 64,... Waterloo Station is paralysed due to 'trespassers on the tracks' causing huge crowds to gather in... BBC bosses 'have spoken to' Dame Laura Kenny after Olympic cycling legend accused of promoting...