NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT Matty Healy has responded to Noel Gallager’s brutal take-down of him and his band, The 1975.  In what is a bizarre yet entertaining feud to follow, the rockers seem to be taking public hits at each other and it doesn’t look like it’s going to stop any time soon.  It all started when Matty commented on how Noel and his brother Liam Gallagher should put their famous decade-long feud aside and reunite one of the ‘coolest’ indie bands of all time, Oasis.  He said: ‘What are Oasis doing? Can you imagine being in potentially the coolest band in the world, and not doing it because you’re in a mard with your brother?’ The star then pointed to Oasis for getting ‘so serious’ about being in a band. ‘They’re men of the people and they’re sat around in Little Venice and Highgate, crying over an argument with their brother. Grow up! Headline Glastonbury!’ he said. The Wonderwall hitmakers called it quits on the band in 2009 and have reportedly not spoken since, although of late it’s been rumoured they might reunite ahead of the 30th anniversary of their debut album Definitely Maybe.  However, Noel recently squashed the whispers and now the siblings appear to be stuck in a ‘call me’ gridlock where neither will pick up the phone and reach out to the other.  But Noel wasn’t too happy with Matty wading in on the Oasis debate, as he retorted in a later interview by calling the 1975 frontman a ‘slack-jawed f**kwit’. And if that wasn’t bad enough, the Don’t Look Back In Anger singer continued: ‘He would never be able to imagine it. He needs to go over how s*** his band is and split up.’ Now it seems the Chocolate hitmaker has heard Noel loud and clear, as in a recent Dublin gig, he responded: ‘I love Noel Gallagher.’  But rather than fully killing the Oasis singer with kindness, poking fun at the brothers’ feud, Matty added: ‘We asked Liam to open up and he said he would have done it but he was busy.’  In full, the singer – who was rumoured to be dating Taylor Swift until recently – said with a smile: ‘Noel Gallagher called me a slack-jawed f**kwit.  Noel Gallagher, 57, says he'll be 'lucky to make it to 60' The controversial kiss that could end up costing $2,400,000 Liam Gallagher's son teases most promising update yet on Oasis reunion James Bond star, 84, frail and walking with frame after retiring from showbiz ‘I love Noel Gallagher. We asked Liam to open up and he said he would have done it but he was busy.’  ‘I love Noel Gallagher. Give it up for Noel Gallagher. Continuing with a chuckle, Matty said: ‘The difference between me and Noel is I do a series of interviews to promote an album, whereas he does an album to promote a series of interviews.’  ‘But we love you Noel, get Oasis back together.’ Got a story? If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you. 

	MORE : ‘Concerned’ Liam Gallagher urges brother Noel to ‘call’ in alarming public message: ‘You don’t seem yourself’

 

	MORE : Matty Healy steps in as support act for own headline gig after singer tragically loses voice

 



  Get us in your feed