By Jimmy Briggs For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  00:44 EDT, 13 April 2023   |  Updated:  03:19 EDT, 13 April 2023      7 View  comments  Former Married At First Sight groom Ryan Gallagher launched a scathing tirade on Thursday against tennis star Nick Kyrgios over some recent comments he made. The tennis star, 27, was asked on Instagram whether he would appear on the reality show I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! and defiantly shot down the suggestion. And now Gallagher, 34, has taken issue with Kyrgios' bold claim that the cast aren't genuine 'celebrities' and are only known in Australia. Ryan appeared on the show back in 2020. The former MAFS star - who is now engaged to Olympian Emily Seebohm - shared Nick's response to social media and responded with some choice words of his own.  'Rather be just known in Australia than known worldwide as a f***wit,' he wrote alongside the photo of Kyrgios. Former Married At First Sight groom Ryan Gallagher (pictured) launched a scathing tirade on Thursday against tennis star Nick Kyrgios over some recent comments he made about I'm a Celebrity He also drew an arrow pointing to Nick and on top of it wrote 'k**b'. Ryan appears to be a fan of the popular reality series after starring on it in 2020, where he ended up in eighth place with the series winner being celebrity chef Miguel Maestre. He appeared alongside actress Rhonda Burchmore, illusionist Cosentino and media personality Perez Hilton. The famously outspoken world-class tennis player said he would never appear on the reality show because it does not feature 'real celebrities'. The former MAFS star - who is now engaged to Olympian Emily Seebohm - shared Nick's response to social media and responded with some choice words of his own. 'Rather be just known in Australia than known worldwide as a f***wit,' he wrote alongside the photo of Kyrgios He also accused the Australian cast members of going on the show for the 'money' and taking themselves too seriously, because they are only known to local viewers.  Nick's spray against the show, currently filming in South Africa, came during a fan Q&A he shared to his Instagram stories on Wednesday. After one follower asked whether he would go on the real-life survival series, Nick answered with a vicious serve aimed, it seemed, at past and present cast members. 'No. People who go on that show tend not to be celebrities, anyway,' the tennis star explained, before adding, [the cast do the show as] an excuse to get money.'  After one follower asked whether he would go on the real-life survival series, Nick answered with a vicious serve aimed, it seemed, at past and present cast members  After rising to fame on MAFS in 2018, Ryan subsequently appeared on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here in 2020 'They take themselves a bit too seriously,' he went on, 'because they are well known in Australia.' Nick also posted a picture of himself standing by a small jet plane in the story. Among the cast members battling it out in the jungle this season are reality stars Domineca Calarco from Married at First Sight and Ian 'Dicko' Dickson from Australian Idol. Among the cast members battling it out in the jungle are reality stars Domineca Calarco (pictured) from Married at First Sight and Ian 'Dicko' Dickson from Australian Idol  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group