Team D3, a coalition of brands consisting of D3 Technologies, MG-AECO Technology Partners, and ECAD Inc, will be expanding its CAD LIVE Training platform to offer a wider variety of training plans and position the platform as the standard for continuous professional development. Team D3 represents a convergence of knowledge bridging the gaps between the manufacturing; architecture, engineering, construction and operations (AECO); and plant & process industries. The CAD LIVE Training platform provides professional development opportunities for all of these industries. Team D3 offers training plans that offer a streamlined, cost-effective solution to train new hires and provide ongoing professional development. The training plans that Team D3 provides are focused on training professionals in the AECO and manufacturing industries, but will soon include more offerings. The CAD LIVE training platform currently enables Team D3 to deliver over 150 individual Autodesk courses covering a large array of Autodesk products and software to students nationwide. The platform leverages cloud-based technology to simulate a traditional classroom in a remote and digital environment. Students have the ability to interact with a geographically diverse class, participate in live lectures and demonstrations with a certified Team D3 instructor, and practice hands-on with their own remote computer. All software and class files are provided through the platform.  “Autodesk assessed multiple delivery platforms for training their educational partners and chose Team D3’s CAD Live platform as their standard,” says Kevin Schlack, founder and CEO of Team D3.  “CAD LIVE is all about connection—connecting our passionate industry-professional instructors, students who are eager to learn new skills, and the technology that makes it all possible. ” says Ryan Johnson, manager of Education Programs at Team D3. He shares that Team D3 has taught over 4,000 students nationwide just in the last year. The company offers an Evolve training plan, which provides subscription-based live training with unlimited access to all included courses.  D3 Technologies is an Autodesk Platinum-level partner dedicated to Autodesk manufacturing solutions in North America, including being an integrator of Autodesk manufacturing and plant solutions.  MG AECO Technology Partners is a premier provider of architecture, engineering, construction and owner (AECO) technologies and services. MG combines expertise in AECO industry professional best practices and the technology solutions that help their clients. Offering various premium products, training and services, and support, ECAD is a CAD software and service providers. As an Autodesk Platinum Partner, ECAD is a leader in the Plant & Process Industries, known for its expertise in supporting their clients who participate in the oil and gas markets.  Sources: Press materials received from the company and additional information gleaned from the company’s website. DE’s editors contribute news and new product announcements to Digital Engineering.
Press releases may be sent to them via  [email protected].