ALHAMBRA, CA, Dec.  20, 2022  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- EMCORE Corporation (Nasdaq: EMKR), a leading provider of advanced mixed-signal products that serve the aerospace and defense, communications, and sensing markets, today announced results for the fiscal 2022 fourth quarter (4Q22) ended September 30, 2022. Management will host a conference call to discuss 4Q22 financial and business results today at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time (ET). For 4Q22, EMCORE's consolidated revenue was $25.6 million, comprised of $21.0 million from the Aerospace and Defense (A&D) segment and $4.6 million from the Broadband segment. Net loss was $16.9 million and $10.9 million on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA was negative $9.4 million. Please refer to the schedules at the end of this press release for GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations and other information related to non-GAAP financial measures. "4Q22 represents the beginning of a new era for EMCORE. We closed the acquisition of the Inertial Navigation product lines from KVH Industries which, in combination with the Space & Navigation acquisition the quarter before, and existing QMEMS and FOG products, creates the world's largest independent1 provider of Inertial Navigation solutions. The strength of the combined larger product portfolio enhances our ability to serve key A&D customers in this $3 billion plus market," said Jeff Rittichier, President and Chief Executive Officer of EMCORE. "A&D accounted for over 80% of the top-line in 4Q22, and while A&D gross margin was adversely impacted by integration-related and other items during the quarter, we have been working diligently on a re-organization initiative to move us closer to operating as one cohesive Inertial Navigation business and to profitability. Additionally, we recently completed the sale/leaseback of the Tinley Park property, adding $10.3 million in cash to our balance sheet in December." Consolidated Results 1 All sales are to unaffiliated third-party customers. Aerospace and Defense Segment For Q422, A&D's sequential-quarter revenue increase was driven primarily by the addition of the Inertial Navigation product line acquired from KVH Industries, Inc. on August 9, 2022. A&D segment gross margin decreased primarily as a result of numerous factors related to the transition of newly acquired operations in Budd Lake, NJ and Tinley Park, IL as well as QMEMS inventory valuation charges during the quarter.       Broadband Segment For Q422, Broadband's sequential-quarter revenue decrease was primarily due to a decline in CATV revenue. Broadband segment gross margin decreased primarily as a result of the lower revenue and higher under-absorption of fixed overhead. R&D expense increased due to higher product development expenses associated with Chips and Sensing products.   Business Outlook The Company expects revenue for the fiscal 2023 first quarter ending December 31, 2022 to be in the range of $25 million to $27 million. Conference Call The Company will discuss its financial results on Tuesday, December 20, 2022 at 5:00 p.m. ET (2:00 p.m. PT). To participate in the conference call, click on the following link (ten minutes prior to the call) to register: https://register.vevent.com/register/BIe349dc322f5b477c8630cb906ea632c8. Once registered, participants will have the option of: 1) dialing in from their phone (using their PIN); or 2) clicking the "Call Me" option to receive an automated call directly to their phone. The call will be webcast live via the Company's website at http://www.emcore.com. A webcast will be available for replay following the conclusion of the call. About EMCORE EMCORE Corporation is a leading provider of advanced mixed-signal products that serve the aerospace and defense, communications, and sensing markets. Our best-in-class components and systems support a broad array of applications including navigation and inertial sensing, defense optoelectronics, broadband communications, optical sensing, and specialty chips for telecom and data centers. We leverage industry-leading Photonic Integrated Chip (PIC), Quartz MEMS, Lithium Niobate, and Indium Phosphide chip-level technology to deliver state-of-the-art component and system-level products across our end-market applications. EMCORE has vertically-integrated manufacturing capability at its facilities in Alhambra, CA, Budd Lake, NJ, Concord, CA, and Tinley Park, IL. Our manufacturing facilities maintain ISO 9001 quality management certification, and we are AS9100 aerospace quality certified at our facilities in Budd Lake and Concord. For further information about EMCORE, please visit http://www.emcore.com. Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company conforms to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") in the preparation of its financial statements. We disclose supplemental non-GAAP earnings measures for gross margin, operating expenses, research and development expenses, operating margin, and net loss, as well as adjusted EBITDA. Management believes these supplemental non-GAAP measures reflect the Company's core ongoing operating performance and facilitates comparisons across reporting periods. The Company uses these measures when evaluating its financial results and for planning and forecasting of future periods. We believe that these supplemental non-GAAP measures are also useful to investors in assessing our operating performance. While we believe in the usefulness of these supplemental non-GAAP measures, there are limitations. Our non-GAAP measures may not be reported by other companies in our industry and/or may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in calculation. We compensate for these limitations by using these non-GAAP measures as a supplement to GAAP and by providing the reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure. The schedules at the end of this press release reconcile the Company's non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. The adjustments share one or more of the following characteristics: they are unusual and the Company does not expect them to recur in the ordinary course of its business, they do not involve the expenditure of cash, they are unrelated to the ongoing operation of the business in the ordinary course, or their magnitude and timing is largely outside of the Company's control. For all reporting periods disclosed, the Company has applied consistent rationale, method, and adjustments in reconciling non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with or an alternative to GAAP, nor are they meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures. Our disclosures of these measures should be read only in conjunction with our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as a substitute for the Company's GAAP results. Forward-Looking Statements The information provided herein may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"). These forward-looking statements are largely based on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends affecting the financial condition of our business. Such forward-looking statements include, in particular, projections about our future results, including growth expectations in the A&D segment, expected revenue from our recent acquisitions of the Space & Navigation business of L3 Harris Technologies, Inc. and the inertial navigation business of KVH Industries, Inc., and statements about our future results of operations and financial position, plans, strategies, business prospects, changes, and trends in our business and the markets in which we operate. These forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of terms and phrases such as "anticipates", "believes", "can", "could", "estimates", "expects", "forecasts", "intends", "may", "plans", "projects", "targets", "will", and similar expressions or variations of these terms and similar phrases. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as projected financial results, the development of new products, future growth, enhancements or technologies, sales levels, expense levels, and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements. We caution that these forward-looking statements relate to future events or our future financial performance and are subject to business, economic, and other risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, that may cause actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements of our business or our industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, including without limitation, the following: (a) uncertainties regarding the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to subside, and the impact of measures intended to reduce its spread on our business and operations, which is evolving and beyond our control; (b) the rapidly evolving markets for the Company's products and uncertainty regarding the development of these markets; (c) the Company's and the acquired businesses historical dependence on sales to a limited number of customers and fluctuations in the mix of products and customers in any period; (d) delays and other difficulties in commercializing new products; (e) the failure of new products: (i) to perform as expected without material defects, (ii) to be manufactured at acceptable volumes, yields, and cost, (iii) to be qualified and accepted by our customers, and (iv) to successfully compete with products offered by our competitors; (f) uncertainties concerning the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components that we do not make internally; (g) actions by competitors; (h) risks and uncertainties related to applicable laws and regulations, including the impact of changes to applicable tax laws and tariff regulations; (i) acquisition-related risks, including that (i) the revenues and net operating results obtained from our recent acquisitions may not meet our expectations, (ii) the costs and cash expenditures for integration of our recent acquisitions may be higher than expected, (iii) we may not recognize the anticipated synergies from our recent acquisitions, (iv) there could be losses and liabilities arising from these acquisitions that we will not be able to recover from any source, and (v) we may not realize sufficient scale from these acquisitions and will need to take additional steps, including making additional acquisitions, to achieve our growth objectives for this product line; (j) risks related to our ability to obtain capital; (k) the effect of component shortages and any alternatives thereto; (l) risks and uncertainties related to manufacturing and production capacity and expansion plans related thereto; (m) risks related to the conversion of order backlog into product revenue; and (n) other risks and uncertainties discussed under Item 1A - Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021, as updated by our subsequent periodic reports. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analysis made in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, and expected future developments as well as other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. While these statements represent our judgment on what the future may hold, and we believe these judgments are reasonable, these statements are not guarantees of any events or financial results. All forward-looking statements in this press release are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and subsequent facts or circumstances may contradict, obviate, undermine, or otherwise fail to support or substantiate such statements. We caution you not to rely on these statements without also considering the risks and uncertainties associated with these statements and our business that are addressed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that are available on the SEC's web site located at www.sec.gov, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Certain information included in this press release may supersede or supplement forward-looking statements in our other Exchange Act reports filed with the SEC. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statement to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by applicable law or regulation. EMCORE CORPORATIONCondensed Consolidated Balance Sheets(unaudited) EMCORE CORPORATIONCondensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive (Loss) Income(unaudited) EMCORE CORPORATIONReconciliations of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures(unaudited)     Contact:EMCORE CorporationTom Minichiello(626) 293-3400investor@emcore.com 