A monthslong investigation into a rural California warehouse uncovered an illegal laboratory filled with infectious agents, medical waste and hundreds of mice bioengineered "to catch and carry the COVID-19 virus," according to Fresno County authorities. Health and licensing said Monday that Prestige Biotech, a Chinese medical company registered in Nevada, was operating the unlicensed facility in Reedley, California, a small city about 24 miles southeast of Fresno. The company, according to Reedley City Manager Nicole Zieba, had a goal of being a diagnostics lab. "They never had a business license," Zieba told USA TODAY. "The city was completely unaware that they were in this building, operating under the cover of night." The Fresno County Public Health Department launched its investigation into the facility in December 2022 after a code enforcement officer saw a garden hose attached to a building that was presumed to be vacant and had no active business license, Zieba said. Further inspection in March revealed that the facility housed various chemicals, suspected biological materials, bodily fluids and hundreds of lab mice, among other lab supplies, according to court documents. County public health officials said they also found medical devices believed to have been developed on-site, such as COVID-19 and pregnancy tests. "Being a small, rural town of 26,000 − walking into what we believed to be a vacant building and finding lab supplies, live white mice ... was was fairly shocking," Zieba said. After several attempts to communicate with Prestige Biotech, Fresno County officials are accusing the company of not being forthcoming with information and failing to comply with orders, such as providing a plan for hazardous and medical waste disposal. Fresno County Public Health staff completed biological abatement work of all the materials found in the facility by July 7, according to court documents. New York university lawsuit: Janitor who shut off lab freezer due to 'annoying' alarms ruined decades of research, college claims in suit Zieba said officials had to conduct a separate investigation into the warehouse for several weeks because it was private property. After authorities discovered that people were working inside the building, Zieba said, federal, state and local agencies joined the investigation, including the county health department and the FBI. Authorities were then able to serve an inspection warrant in March. "Certain rooms of the warehouse were found to contain several vessels of liquid and various apparatus," court documents said. "Fresno County Public Health staff also observed blood, tissue and other bodily fluid samples and serums; and thousands of vials of unlabeled fluids and suspected biological material." Hundreds of mice also were found at the warehouse, where they were "kept in inadequate conditions in overcrowded cages" with no food or water, according to court documents. An associate with Prestige Biotech told investigators the mice were "genetically engineered to catch and carry the COVID virus," the documents added. Under an abatement warrant, the city seized the mice in April and euthanized 773 of them. Nearly 180 mice were already dead, court documents said. Zieba said officials called in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention after about 30 freezers and refrigerators were found, with some set to minus 80 degrees. The CDC detected at least 20 potentially infectious agents, according to court documents. "Ultimately, what we did find is some viruses, such as HIV, COVID, chlamydia, rubella, malaria, things of that nature," Zieba said. LA illegal drug extraction lab: Fake Los Angeles pizza shop turns out to be an illegal drug extraction lab, officers say Prestige Biotech had been operating the unlicensed and unregulated laboratory since October 2022, according to court documents. Emails between city officials and Xiuquin Yao, the company president, showed that Prestige Biotech had assumed assets from the now-defunct company Universal Meditech Inc. (UMI). Prestige Biotech was a creditor to UMI and became its successor, court documents said. The assets were then moved to the Reedley warehouse from a site in Fresno, court documents said. Authorities were unable to find any California-based addresses associated with the company except for UMI's Fresno location. Court documents noted that other addresses provided were either "empty offices or addresses in China that could not be verified." During the investigation, Zieba said the company reported it was making COVID-19 and pregnancy tests with "a goal of being a diagnostics lab." This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Illegal lab in California carried bioengineered mice, infectious agents Charges were announced Monday against four men in connection with the fatal shooting of "General Hospital" actor Johnny Wactor in May.  Robert Barceleau, 18, was charged with one count of murder with special circumstances and personal use of a firearm, one count of attempted robbery with personal use of a firearm, and one count of grand theft with an allegation of principal armed with a firearm, according to Los Angeles County District Attorney George Gascón, who announced the charges at a news conference.  The DA alleged Barceleau shot Wactor one time in his chest. In a presidential campaign like no other -- and just four weeks after President Joe Biden bowed out of the race -- Democrats are gathering in Chicago this week to nominate Vice President Kamala Harris as their candidate to take on former President Donald Trump.  Mickey Guyton, a Black country music artist, is the first entertainer of the night.  Guyton is performing her song "All American" on stage. A federal judge on Monday rejected the latest attempt by President Joe Biden's son Hunter Biden to dismiss several tax-related charges he faces in Los Angeles, all but ensuring that the case will go to trial as scheduled early next month.  In July, attorneys for Hunter Biden filed a pair of motions seeking to dismiss his cases in both California and Delaware, citing a decision by a federal judge in Florida to dismiss the classified documents case against former President Donald Trump.  Scarsi, in denying the motion, cited Hunter Biden's previous ill-fated efforts to dismiss the case. Former President Donald Trump is spending the week traveling to battleground states -- a way of counterprogramming against the Democratic National Convention,  -- starting with remarks Monday on the economy and energy in York, Pennsylvania, just a few hours before key speakers took the stage at the DNC.  Trump zeroed in on the economy while speaking inside a manufacturing plant of local company Precision Custom Components, repeatedly describing Vice President Kamala Harris as a "communist" and claiming her policies will "bankrupt" the United States.  "If Kamala gets in, the United States will rapidly become a deindustrialized third world nation," Trump told the crowd of fewer than 200 people, many of them employees of Precision Custom Components. Democratic National Committee delegates on Monday evening by voice vote adopted the party's 2024 platform at their convention, a document that echoes President Joe Biden more than Vice President Kamala Harris and contains no call for an arms embargo on Israel as pro-Palestinian delegates and some uncommitted delegates had wanted.  The full, 92-page draft platform, unveiled by the party late on Sunday night, was written before President Joe Biden left the 2024 race, and was voted upon by the DNC's Rules Committee in July.  It has not been updated significantly since Harris replaced him at the top of the ticket. Former Rep. George Santos, R-N.Y., on Monday pleaded guilty to wire fraud and aggravated identity theft, telling reporters outside the courthouse the guilty plea was the "right thing to do."  "This plea is not just an admission of guilt," Santos told the media.  In court, Santos, wearing gray slacks and a black sports coat, told the judge he was "committed to making amends and learning from this experience." Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will speak Monday on the first night of the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, where later this week Vice President Kamala Harris will formally accept the party's nomination for president.  Harris will be the second woman in history to do so following Clinton, whose monumental 2016 run made her the first woman to clinch a major party's nomination, though she went on to lose the general election to Donald Trump -- Clinton famously conceding she had failed to shatter the "hardest glass ceiling."  Clinton endorsed Harris the same day President Joe Biden announced he was leaving the 2024 race and backing his vice president to take his place atop the ticket. When President Joe Biden bids the Democratic National Convention a bittersweet farewell Monday night, he will be introduced by one of his closest champions, his youngest daughter, Ashley.  Although she has remained mostly out of the spotlight compared to her siblings and mother, she has helped promote and advocate on behalf of her father as far back as her childhood.  Ashley Biden, 43, was born in June 1981, the only child of the then-Delaware senator and his second wife, Jill Biden. A 183-foot sailboat carrying 22 people sank early on Monday off the coast of the Italian island of Sicily following stormy weather in the area, killing at least one passenger, according to Italian officials.  Members of the coast guard have rescued 15 passengers, but six -- including two Americans -- are still missing, according to the coast guard and a local port authority.  British and Canadian citizens are also unaccounted for, the coast guard said in a statement. Heavy rainfall and severe flooding in Connecticut left two people dead and over 100 evacuated as the governor declared a state of emergency.  During a press conference in Oxford Monday, state police announced that residents Ethelyn Joiner, 65, and Audrey Rostkowski, 71, were found dead after flooding on Route 67 swept them away from their vehicles.  Firefighters attempted to rescue her while she held onto a traffic sign, but the racing water became too strong and she was swept away, police said. Patrick Mahomes is a proud husband and father.  On Sunday, Aug. 18, the NFL star's wife Brittany Mahomes shared a cute snap on her Instagram story that showed Patrick Mahomes reading a bedtime story to his two kids, Sterling Skye Mahomes and Patrick "Bronze" Lavon Mahomes III.  "Bronze started getting very mad he didn't get to participate in Sterling and Dad's bedtime routine, so he now has been added and mom gets to watch this sweetness," Brittany Mahomes wrote in text over the photo. Just a handful of states have yet to hold their primary elections this year, and on Tuesday, three more states will see voters head to the polls to finalize their ballots for November: Alaska, Florida and Wyoming.  While the sole race that we track in the Cowboy State (the at-large House seat currently held by Republican Rep. Harriet Hageman) isn't competitive, there are a few heated races worth watching in Florida and Alaska that could give us a glimpse into how the general election might shake out this fall. In Brooklyn, New York, a Black woman inspired by French culture opened the Je T'aime Patisserie bakery last summer.  It has risen to become a popular destination in the Bed-Stuy neighborhood in the year since.  Jatee Kearsley, from the neighboring borough of Queens, is the bakey's owner and described herself as a lover of everything that has to do with love, family, friends, relationships, food and community. As Vice President Kamala Harris prepares to formally accept the Democratic nomination for president this week in Chicago, the spotlight is focused on not only on her, but also her family.  Harris, who entered the 2024 presidential race after President Joe Biden ended his reelection campaign, is the stepmother of two children with her husband, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff.  When she was sworn in as vice president in 2021, Harris, 59, made history as the first stepmother to be America's vice president. Barry Keoghan shared a sweet photo of his son Brando on social media over the weekend.  "He's more of a charmer than i am. Our wee Brando ☘️🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿," Keoghan wrote in the caption of an Instagram post Sunday.  Brando, 2, can also be seen playing with toys laid out on a table. Kate Hudson is a mom of three and the center of what she has described as a "patchwork family."  Hudson, 44, shares her eldest child Ryder with ex-husband Chris Robinson, 57.  The "Bride Wars" star also is a mom to two other children: son Bingham, 12, whom she shares with ex Matt Bellamy, and daughter Rani Rose, 5, whom she shares with fiance Danny Fujikawa. The World Health Organization (WHO) said Monday it has confirmed 1,940 attacks on health care in Ukraine since the war with Russia began in February 2022.  During the course of the war, 86% of these attacks have targeted health care facilities, usually with heavy weapons, according to the WHO.  The agency said attacks on health facilities have "intensified significantly" since December 2023 and are now occurring nearly every day. Jamie Lee Curtis and Lindsay Lohan are jumping in on the popularized "very demure" TikTok trend, which has taken the internet by storm.  "Straight hair, very demure," said Lohan in the video posted on Friday, imitating Jools Lebron, a TikTok user who has gone viral offering tips on how followers can appear "demure" and "mindful" executing daily mundane activities.  Lohan, sitting in a car with the Oscar winner, turns the camera to Jamie Lee Curtis. Zoë Kravitz and Channing Tatum are showing off two things: love and style.  The engaged couple was photographed in London during a photocall for "Blink Twice" photocall on Sunday wearing edgy ensembles that gave off "cool couple" vibes.  Kravitz, known to wear Saint Laurent for several past red carpets, wore a look from the luxury label that included a black, sheer lace-trimmed tank and matching knee-length skirt. Four children, ages 11 to 14, driving around Minneapolis in a stolen car were shot and wounded, one critically, when an assailant chasing them unleashed a barrage of gunfire on the vehicle, police said.  The shooting unfolded around 1 a.m. Sunday in northwest Minneapolis, setting off ShotSpotter gunfire detection activations and prompting multiple 911 calls, according to Minneapolis Police Chief Brian O'Hara.  Two boys and two girls were shot in the incidents, and an 11-year-old boy driving the stolen car was taken into custody, O'Hara said.