CISOs and Security leaders with impressive leadership and technical abilities are recognized for their accomplishments in transforming the security industry MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., March 30, 2023 /PRNewswire/ — Lacework®, the data-driven cloud security company, today announced five inspirational CISOs and security leaders selected as part of the “Secured by Women” initiative: Ami Dave Bansal, Chief Information Security Officer, Fanatics, Inc.; Julie Chickillo, VP, Head of Cybersecurity, Guild Education; Helen McLaughlin, Head of Security Enablement & Culture, Mambu; Melina Scotto, Vice President Cybersecurity, CISO, Hilton; and Erika Voss, Vice President of Cloud Architecture, Engineering, Capital One. Secured by Women is designed to bring visibility to women who have been leading the way in the security industry and celebrate their accomplishments. The women celebrated today exemplify true excellence in their field, paving the way for security of the future. “The women nominated by their peers in our Secured by Women initiative are revolutionizing security by driving innovation, problem solving for today’s most critical digital challenges, and creating radical change in the workplace,” said Meagen Eisenberg, CMO of Lacework. “I’m honored to celebrate all the nominees and the five recognized leaders who are not only pioneers in a rapidly evolving industry, but serve as role models for every girl in love with STEM. Thank you Ami, Julie, Helen, Melina, and Erika for thriving and leading women in security.”  The women selected as Secured by Women leaders will receive the opportunity to attend a major security conference of their choice. Lacework will also donate $5,000 in matching contributions to Girls Who Code, an international nonprofit organization that aims to support and increase the number of women in computer science. Lacework aims to continue the initiative past International Women’s Month as a continued effort for an industry-wide transformation and will host a Secured by Women event series at major industry gatherings throughout the year. Resources: About Lacework Lacework offers the data-driven security platform for the cloud and is the leading cloud-native application protection platform (CNAPP) solution. Only Lacework can collect, analyze, and accurately correlate data — without requiring manually written rules — across an organization’s cloud and Kubernetes environments, and narrow it down to the handful of security events that matter. Security and DevOps teams around the world trust Lacework to secure cloud-native applications across the full lifecycle from code to cloud. Get started at www.lacework.com.           SOURCE  Lacework  Keep updated AAPR aggregates press releases and media statements from around the world to assist our news partners with identifying and creating timely and relevant news. All of the press releases published on this website are third-party content and AAP was not involved in the creation of it. Read the full terms. AAP FactCheck provides factual, authoritative information Australians can rely on. Accredited with the Poynter Institute's International Fact-Checking Network and adhering to the highest industry standards, our experienced team works to minimise the impact of misinformation. Image buyers from all industries rely on AAP Photos. A digital treasure trove of content depicting Australian life, our fully-searchable database contains millions of images from around the country and around the world.   AAPNews delivers newswire content direct to the public. Choose from a number of subscription models to not only gain access to high-quality fact-based news on your desktop or mobile device, but also to show your support for Australia's only not-for-profit newswire. Get the news feed your organisation needs, with AAP offering extensive coverage of news, courts, politics, sports, finance and the arts. Take advantage of AAP’s partner content to get the international news that matters to your business, with news feeds delivered via multiple channels including API and FTP. AAP is Australia's only independent newswire service, delivering stories and images around the country and around the world every day. By supporting AAP with your contribution you are backing a team of dedicated, objective journalists to continue this work. Thank you.   Donations over $2 are tax deductible. AAP Acknowledgement of Country 
                        In the spirit of reconciliation Australian Associated Press acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of country throughout Australia and their connections to land, sea and community. We pay our respect to their Elders past and present and extend that respect to all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples today.
                     © 2024 Australian Associated Press. All rights reserved.