  Tue 20 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters Prince Louis made a brief but expressive appearance at his grandfather’s coronation yawning and fidgeting his way through before “retiring” for part of the two-hour service. The five-year-old, who delighted onlookers with his unfiltered antics at the late Queen’s Platinum Jubilee last year, was equally demonstrative during his short stint in Westminster Abbey. Dressed regally for the occasion, he wore a Hainsworth Garter Blue Doeskin Tunic with specially designed lacework embellishment to the collar, cuffs and fronts made by bespoke Savile Row tailors Dege and Skinner and black trousers complete with Garter Blue stripe. Arriving at the service with his parents the Prince and Princess of Wales and his eight-year-old sister Princess Charlotte, he processed through the Abbey before taking his seat between his mother and his sister on the front row. During the first half of the service, he was spotted letting out a big yawn and then pointing out something of interest to his sister. Further fidgeting in his seat followed and more yawning as the King was crowned just after midday. Then, shortly after the crowning, as television footage focused once again on the front row of royals Prince Louis was no longer to be seen. It is understood the youngster, who now attends Lambrook School in Windsor, was permitted to ‘retire’ for some of the deeply religious and solemn service with his nanny Maria Teresa Turrion Borrallo. Princess Charlotte, dressed in a mini-me version of her mother Kate’s outfit with a silver bullion, crystal and silver thread headpiece and an Alexander McQueen dress with an ivory silk cape with rose, thistle, daffodil and shamrock motifs, and her nine-year-old brother Prince George, one of the King’s pages of honour, remained for the entirety of the ceremony. The young Prince Louis rejoined the others to process out of the abbey with Charlotte and his parents at the end of service. The Wales family then travelled back to Buckingham Palace in a carriage as part of the grand coronation procession. For Prince Louis, it was his first foray into official religious services. He was not at his great-grandmother’s the late Queen’s funeral in September last year. But it was not his first official royal outing. His presence at the Platinum Jubilee celebrations captured the attention of the nation as he clapped, grimaced, wriggled and danced his way through proceedings. During the jubilee pageant, the now fourth-in-line to the throne could not contain his excitement standing on his chair, waving his hands in the air, wriggling around and sticking his finger in his ear during the show. Sat beside his mother, he gave the Princess of Wales a kiss and a cuddle before requesting a seat on his grandfather Charles’ lap. He was later seen letting out a howl and clapping his hands over his ears on the Buckingham Palace balcony during the Platinum Jubilee flypast as his “Gan Gan” the late Queen told him what was happening. In a nod to their young son’s charming but cheeky behaviour during the celebrations, the Prince and Princess of Wales later tweeted “We all had an incredible time, especially Louis… “. Today’s flypast, although it was cut short, had Louis just as enthralled.  He was once again pictured grimacing and shouting as RAF helicopters and the Red Arrows soared above Buckingham Palace. Louis’ first balcony appearance in 2019 saw the little royal wow royal fans, who were amazed by his behaviour at Trooping the Colour.  All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.