Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Founders: Vikram Kapoor, Mike Speiser, Sanjay KalraCo-CEOs: David Hatfield, Jay ParikhLaunched: 2015Headquarters: San Jose, CaliforniaFunding: $1.8 billionValuation: $8.3 billionKey technologies: Artificial intelligence, cloud computing, machine learning, software-defined securityIndustry: CybersecurityPrevious appearances on Disruptor 50 List: 0 At a time when workloads are moving to the cloud, attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and businesses are prioritizing spending on cyber technology defense systems.      When a vicious cyberattack on software in servers and the cloud occurred in late December, it immediately set off alarm bells to identify and stop it. It was a zero day attack, an unknown security risk in computer software where no patch exists yet. Data-driven cloud security company Lacework, through its regular scans to monitor any unexpected vulnerabilities, got an alert out right away about the threat, informing customers about the scope of the problem and what systems were impacted. It also provided guidance on fixes without impacting operations or causing downtime, and patches to prevent further attacks. See the full list of 2022 Disruptor 50 companies Silicon Valley supply chain fixer Flexport tops the 2022 CNBC Disruptor 50 list How we chose the Disruptor 50 companies What happens after the crash for cash-burning tech companies Where the billions being spent on autonomous vehicles is heading Early Tesla investor bets on a logistics start-up Where tech workers are finding buyers for private stock with IPO market shut The Oculus VR headset creator joins the military The company hoping to beat Warren Buffett's bet on dialysis A $40 billion presentation A very tall French warehouse robot coming for the jobs we can't reach How America's towns and cities are getting a climate retrofit It's this safety net and speed of response that helped Lacework achieve three times revenue growth during 2021, and sizeable funding to continue fine-tuning its cybersecurity offering, Polygraph Data Platform.    Global spending on the information security segment of cybersecurity is forecast by Gartner to grow by 12.4% to $170.4 billion in 2022. A research study by IDC recently found that nearly all organizations have encountered at least one cloud data breach in the previous 18 months. In this expanding market, Lacework competes with companies like publicly traded CrowdStrike and Palo Alto Networks in addition to start-up Snyk, a security vendor using open source code. Lacework relies on a patented form of machine learning built specifically within the cloud to protect an organization from the inside out. This approach provides insights internally to automatically learn patterns, flag deviations and provide alerts at the right time, without wasted time investigating false positives. As the platform ingests more data, it gains a better understanding of normal activities and is able to improve detections of malicious behavior or vulnerabilities. Lacework prides itself on a comprehensive cybersecurity service that can be accessed from a single platform across Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure and other cloud computing services. Its product offerings have recently been integrated with data cloud company Snowflake in a go-to-market partnership. Additionally, in 2021, Lacework made its first acquisition, purchasing Soluble, a vendor of cloud infrastructure management.   To continue scaling up, Lacework raised a $525 million Series C investment led by Sutter Hill Ventures and Altimeter Capital in early 2021. That was followed up in November with a $1.3 billion investment at an $8.3 billion valuation, which included Google Ventures as an investor. With GV on board, Lacework made its Polygraph Data Platform available within Google Cloud. Founded in 2015 in San Jose, Lacework has grown to more than 700 employees. It's expanding internationally, with the European market seeing good traction while a push into Asia Pacific is picking up. The start-up also has been adding to its executive bench, hiring Jay Parikh, former Facebook vice president of engineering, as co-CEO alongside David Hatfield.  Sign up for our weekly, original newsletter that goes beyond the annual Disruptor 50 list, offering a closer look at list-making companies and their innovative founders. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by