We have several FREE e-letters that could help you out.
Just take this short survey to see which one is best for you. By Ben Broadwater Updated Jul 14, 2023 at 8:18AM
 Investors are eagerly awaiting the Lacework IPO. The cybersecurity giant recently announced it’s looking at different ways to go public. Here’s what we know…  Lacework is an automated, data-driven security platform for the cloud. Through Lacework, companies can automate the collection and analysis of huge amounts of data that go through their cloud platforms. As a result, they can innovate with speed and safety. The company offers end-to-end cloud protection under its Polygraph Data Platform. The Polygraph Data Platform offers… Lacework has grown significantly since its founding in 2015. It’s the only company to offer automated anomaly detection across Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure. This presents a unique opportunity for investors. Furthermore, several major companies rely on its security tools. This includes data warehouse giant Snowflake, personal finance leader NerdWallet and social networking app Nextdoor. In addition, the company is gaining attention from major investors as revenue grows year-over-year. Let’s take a look… In a September press release, Lacework reported 3x revenue growth, 5x increase in new customers and an almost 300% employee growth year-on-year in the first quarter of 2021. Furthermore, the company continued its growth into the second quarter as it expanded into 10 new countries. David Hatfield, Co-CEO at Lacework, said… The rapid adoption of the cloud presents organizations with a multitude of opportunities; however, it has introduced new cybersecurity challenges that many organizations do not have the right resources to protect against. At Lacework, being customer-centric is a core part of our DNA and it’s been empowering to work with our customers and partners to help them overcome these barriers and enable them to innovate quickly and securely. Hatfield went on to say that Lacework is still in its infancy stages. Furthermore, the company’s funding rounds dwarf those of other companies. Lacework recently landed one of the largest venture funding rounds of the year in the United States. And the company’s rapid growth has investors asking about the company’s plans for a Lacework IPO. Let’s take a closer look… At the beginning of 2021, Lacework raised $525 million. At the time, it was the largest-ever funding round in security industry history. As a result, the company landed a billion-dollar valuation. Lacework’s CFO, Mike Staiger, said… Not too long after that, we started hearing expressions of interest from current and potential new investors to invest even more in the company because they see the promise of the market, and they see the progress that we’ve been making. Soon after, the company and its investors blew the earlier round out of the water. Lacework raised $1.3 billion, landing one of the largest U.S. venture funding rounds of the year. The funding round was the unicorn’s second record-setting investment in under a year. In addition, the company’s valuation grew more than eightfold, making Lacework worth $8.3 billion. In response, David Hatfield and Jay Parikh, Co-CEOs of Lacework, said… Our growth over the last 36 months reflects the pain many businesses endure as they attempt to navigate the cloud using security products that simply aren’t designed for it. This investment, and the partnership of these long-term investors, will help us realize Lacework’s promise of becoming the most trusted cloud security platform. This new investment will enable the startup to expand globally. It plans to do this by boosting its product innovation as well as making strategic acquisitions. Moreover, Hatfield told Reuters that the company is exploring different routes to go public. So, investors should start preparing for a Lacework IPO announcement. Here are the details… Lacework is exploring different routes to go public. The company’s co-CEO David Hatfield told Reuters that it’s looking at a traditional IPO or a direct listing. Although, the company hasn’t finalized when it plans to make its public debut… There are a lot of different options for companies like ours, (including) a direct listing or an IPO, and we are considering those options, but nothing actively There have been no official announcements about the Lacework IPO. However, the cybersecurity unicorn is one of the most anticipated IPOs of 2022. So, investors should start preparing to invest in the stock. You can learn more about the IPO process in this step-by-step guide to going public. As always, make sure to research before you invest. IPOs can be volatile for the first few months and share prices are constantly changing. Furthermore, if IPO investing interests you, check out our top recent IPOs and our IPO calendar. We update the calendar daily to give you the latest news on upcoming and filed IPOs. June 26, 2024  June 1, 2024  April 22, 2024  April 10, 2024 