   Courtesy of Western Colorado Land Trust The Black Bridge Winery and Orchard Valley Farms in Paonia, which was recently conserved, provides a scenic glimpse of the pastoral North Fork Valley against the backdrop of the iconic Mt. Lamborn and Landsend of the West Elk Mountains. A 55-acre property in eastern Delta County, full of fruit trees and grapevines, has been conserved through a partnership between the Bradley family and Colorado West Land Trust. The Land Trust announced that a conservation easement will now protect the Black Bridge Winery and Orchard Valley Farms in Paonia. The partnership helps secure important local food production, provides opportunities for the next generation, protects habitat along the North Fork of the Gunnison River and protects scenic views in the North Fork region, according to a press release. “We are so thankful to collaborate with the Bradley family on this remarkable conservation project. This partnership represents our commitment to safeguarding the North Fork’s agricultural lands, precious riparian habitats and scenic landscapes,” said Colorado West Land Trust Conservation Manager Ilana Moir, “This conservation easement stands as a testament to the power of community-driven conservation, and we are honored to be part of its protection.” Black Bridge Winery is a family-owned and operated working farm that features orchards, vineyards, a winery, a farm market and a wine-tasting room open to the public seasonally. Lee and Kathy Bradley moved to Paonia in the early 1980s to teach at the local school. Lee also managed farms owned by a mining company. When the mines shut down, the opportunity arose for the Bradleys to purchase an orchard Lee had been managing. Their son, Ryan, now helps run the operation alongside his wife, Kendal. “After we closed the conservation easement, my dad and I both felt a real sense of pride. We felt like we had become agricultural leaders of the Western Slope by conserving our land,” Ryan said. “To me, the pinnacle is how you manage your land and keep it that way. It’s more important than anything else.” The 55-acre conservation easement joins 27 other nearby conservation easements totaling more than 6,000 acres. The property will continue to be accessible by the public and used for educational purposes. “I think all that we’ve done is so worth it now,” Kathy said. “It’s just a giant payoff with all our family here.” Kendal agreed, “Beau gets to run around in the same place his daddy grew up.” Ryan added, “And the farm will always be here now. Even if we fail, somebody else can step in.” On Glade Park, just a few miles west of Grand Junction and above the Colorado National Monument, the Colorado West Land Trust is helping lando…    Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.