A $100,000 grant from the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) will help reduce Michigan food waste and carbon emissions in line with goals in the MI Healthy Climate Plan. EGLE’s support will boost work by the nonprofit Michigan Sustainable Business Forum, Make Food Not Waste, Center for EcoTechnology, and an advisory council of industry stakeholders and national experts to develop a Michigan Food System Waste Reduction Road Map to inform state and local decision makers of policies and programs that encourage decarbonization by reducing waste in production and distribution in various food sectors. Michigan disposes of more than one million tons of food waste through its municipal waste stream each year. Food waste is the largest source of material disposed of in the state’s landfills and waste-to-energy facilities. According to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) estimates, 30%-40% of the state’s food supply is lost to waste. The nonprofit Project Drawdown estimates that wasted food is responsible for roughly 8% of global emissions and ranks food waste reduction as the most impactful solution to address climate change. The MI Healthy Climate Plan – Michigan’s roadmap to a healthy, prosperous, carbon-neutral economy for all Michiganders by 2050 – recommends that Michigan adopt and pursue a joint USDA/U.S. Environmental Protection Agency goal to reduce food loss and waste by half no later than 2030. The food waste roadmap project will engage stakeholders throughout Michigan’s food system in identifying strategies to guide policymakers on potential incentives, funding mechanisms, technical assistance, outreach, policy changes, and other programs that could be developed to reduce food waste among Michigan businesses and institutions. The project team is seeking collaborators to join a series of virtual discussions to develop recommendations for cross-sector solutions. Sessions will present current research and the potential applicability of best practices and policies and will draft recommendations for each interest area. Individuals with experience in food loss or food waste within agriculture, food processing and production, grocery and retail, food service, and transportation and logistics sectors are invited to participate by signing up on the Michigan Sustainable Business Forum website, misbf.org, or at https://form.jotform.com/230866368233158. Working sessions will focus on the following topics: Boasting a circulation of more than 95,000 100% qualified subscribers, Waste Advantage Magazine is an independent publisher with staff that has more than 100 years of experience in publishing. Printed 12X annually, Waste Advantage Magazine is solely dedicated to covering the solid waste and recycling industry with one publication and one price.

Our circulation delivers a blanket coverage of the industry, focusing on our key audience that consists of municipal and private sector executives and operations managers in the areas of collection, transfer stations, recycling, landfills, waste conversion and C&D activities throughout North America. Diverse content helps our audience stay informed through the latest news, best practices, equipment and technology, and a dedicated MarketPlace connects buyers and sellers of new and used equipment and services.  Phone
1-800-358-2873 Email
[email protected] Copyright © 2024 Waste Advantage Magazine. All rights reserved. Website designed and programmed by Green Group Studio