New for September 2024 entry, undergraduate students will now be able to study BSc (Hons) Artisan Food Production, an additional offering to NTU’s FdSc Artisan Food Production course. The BSc (Hons) Artisan Food Production course will give students the opportunity to explore the context of artisan food within the wider food industry, with hands-on practical modules, and consideration of ethical and sustainability issues in food production. In comparison, the FdSc Artisan Food Production course is more vocational, with greater emphasis on practical and applied skills, ideal for those who want to set up an artisan food business. The course is tailored to develop the skills needed to work in the artisan food industry as well as the wider food production sector. Students will develop practical skills, produce a range of food products, as well as study the physical and eating qualities of food. Students on the new BSc (Hons) Artisan Production course will study at both NTU’s Brackenhurst Campus in Southwell and The School of Artisan Food, which is based in north Nottinghamshire on the Welbeck Estate. The School of Artisan Food has an outstanding reputation for the quality of training it provides, and students will be taught by professional artisan food specialists, including some of the most skilled and experienced artisan producers and practitioners in the UK, Europe and beyond. Sheila Russel, course leader for Artisan Food Production, comments on the launch of the course: "We are really excited to be offering a brand-new BSc course in Artisan Food Production, taught at both NTU and The School of Artisan Food. This new degree will enable us to reach a worldwide audience, teaching an interesting range of modules reflecting the ever-growing demand for good quality, traditionally made food. From learning about global systems and culture, to creating a product to sell in a local farm shop, this course will ignite a passion and curiosity about the wider food industry. This course will offer a unique, exciting experience for those that attend as they learn about the ethics and sustainability of artisan foods, whilst developing their practical skills in state-of-the-art training rooms, supported by some of the industry’s leading tutors." Find out more about NTU's new BSc (Hons) Artisan Food Production course.  NEWS Horses are a lot smarter than previously believed, researchers argue, after a study revealed how they cleverly adapted their approach to a game in order to get the most treats for the least effort. ntu.ac.uk/about-us/news/news-articles/2024/08/horses-much-more-intelligent-than-we-thought,-study-suggests NEWS Scientists are embarking on a new study aimed at better understanding the qualities, importance and function of subsoil in maintaining crucial soil health in the face of climate change. ntu.ac.uk/about-us/news/news-articles/2024/06/study-aims-to-unearth-knowledge-of-largely-unexplored-subsoil NEWS Last month our Further Education (FE) staff and students attended the Nottinghamshire County Show. Students from our agricultural courses took part in the events on the day from cow judging to lawnmower racing. ntu.ac.uk/about-us/news/news-articles/2024/06/fe-staff-and-students-attend-nottinghamshire-county-show 
+44 (0)115 848 2999
enquiries@ntu.ac.uk
Other ways to get in touch
 Lines are open:
                Monday – Thursday 8.30 am – 5 pm
                Friday 8.30 am – 4.30 pm
             © Nottingham Trent University.