Black Voices at Ohio State In celebration of Black History Month, Black x Bold Magazine and The Lantern have come together for the third installment of the Black Voices project. In an effort to highlight the Black experience on campus, the project presents stories highlighting and celebrating the experiences and achievements of both former and current Ohio State students and faculty. Black x Bold Magazine, founded in 2019, aims to uplift, inspire and champion underserved and underrepresented voices within the Ohio State community. By the culture, for the culture. Since 1881, The Lantern has been the student voice on Ohio State’s campus. The staff is committed to championing diverse voices and stories. Chantal BrownBlack x Bold Editor in Chief It is a joy to co-present the third edition of Black Voices at Ohio State. In an ultra-competitive media environment, many will find it refreshing to see two different publications coming together.  It is one thing to see an Instagram post or headline about people’s accomplishments, but it is another to read about how they got there. Black students and faculty contribute more than just their presence. They contribute to ground-breaking medical research. They start businesses to boost the local economy. Their organizations give back to local high schools in the community.  Each photo, feature article, and video packaged in this edition was included with the common goal in mind to capture the voices of Black people at the university with authenticity. Jessica LangerLantern Editor in Chief The Lantern is grateful to partner with Black X Bold to bring our readers the third-annual edition of our collaboration, Black Voices. This year, we highlight the experiences, accomplishments and insights of Black students, faculty and staff who work to better the Black experience at Ohio State and in Columbus. We are excited to be sharing these stories with you. A Buckeye Legacy A Buckeye Legacy Story: Sydney JonesPhoto: Courtesy of Andrew Pierce How USG President Andrew Pierce influences the Black experience at Ohio State, inspired by his mother  USG’s impact continues as Derek Moore serves as the first Black vice president since 1983 USG’s impact continues as Derek Moore serves as the first Black vice president since 1983 Story: Sydney JonesPhoto: Courtesy of Derek Moore Derek Moore, the first Black USG vice president since 1983, discusses his experience as a first-generation college student and his time in USG. Carry A Mood combines fashion and mental health into a single brand  Carry A Mood combines fashion and mental health into a single brand  Story: Chantal BrownPhoto: Courtesy of Tahlayah Morrow Tahlayah Morrow starts streetwear clothing brand Carry A Mood to promote mental health awareness with the help of local entreperenuership development programs Dr. Kathy Wright Dr. Kathy Wright Story: Arianna SmithPhoto: Courtesy of the Ohio State College of Nursing Dr. Kathy Wright is a well-established researcher and assistant professor at Ohio State known for her work with hypertension and its link to cognitive decline.  Exploring Black identity through albinism Exploring Black identity through albinism Story: Amani BayoPhoto: Courtesy of Amani Bayo Experts and students who posses the skin condition Albinism discuss its causes and how it affects how they are perceived as an African American.  The Minds Behind the Funk The Minds Behind the Funk Video: Celia Andrews and Christian HarsaPhoto: Celia Andrews Ohio State students Veronica Cook and Nia Snelling created Mind Funk Mag as a platform for women of color and LGBTQ+ people of color to build a community that celebrates unbounded creativity in all of its forms. Hammond Harkins Gallery highlights Black art in ‘Winter Selections’ exhibition Hammond Harkins Gallery highlights Black art in ‘Winter Selections’ exhibition Story: Frances DenmanPhoto: Hammond Harkins Galleries  Explore the works of Columbus native Aminah Robinson at Hammond Harkins Galleries’ “Winter Selections” Exhibition, showcasing a diverse assortment of art inspired by African American history and culture. Buckeyes share honor, recognition through involvement in Black History Month Buckeyes share honor, recognition through involvement in Black History Month Story: Jayla VanhornPhoto: Zachary Rilley | Photo Editor Find out more about the Ohio State women’s basketball team’s Black History Month involvement and what it means to the Buckeyes to recognize and honor the history. Entrepreneur Christina Allen strives to help Columbus by making food accessible to marginalized groups. Entrepreneur Christina Allen strives to help Columbus by making food accessible to marginalized groups. Story: Sharon NimyelPhoto: Courtesy of Christina Allen How an Ohio State alumna and President’s Prize recipient strives to make food accessible to marginalized groups, increase sustainability for diabetic patients in Columbus. Ange-Marie Hancock brings new vision to Columbus through role in Kirwan Institute for the Study of Race and Ethnicity  Ange-Marie Hancock brings new vision to Columbus through role in Kirwan Institute for the Study of Race and Ethnicity  Story: Jessica BarbozaPhoto: Courtesy of the Ohio State University New executive director of the Kirwan Institute Ange-Marie Hancock aims to create a more equitable future in central Ohio through community-engaged research. Columbus’ first all-Black improv troupe, Affirmative Distraction, is back for its fifth season Columbus’ first all-Black improv troupe, Affirmative Distraction, is back for its fifth season Story: Nyah SnezekPhoto: Courtesy of Anthony Windsor II “I started AD because there was a huge omission of Bblack improvisers, I wanted us to be able to occupy a space that allows us to be funny and weird without being judged or taken advantage of.” Artwork by Christian Harsa and Abby Fricke Web Design by Christian Harsa  The Lantern is the award-winning, independent student voice of Ohio State. Please consider supporting the future of journalism by donating to The Lantern.