While the insects don't bite or sting, they do have the potential to cause major harm and damage to plants and trees While the insects don't bite or sting, they do have the potential to cause major harm and damage to plants and trees The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. While the insects don't bite or sting, they do have the potential to cause major harm and damage to plants and trees The sun is shining, the birds are singing and, unfortunately, our pesky unwanted neighbors are back again this spring. Many parts of the Pittsburgh region are reporting spotted lanternfly sightings.   The spotted lanternfly is an invasive species from Asia. It first was spotted in Pennsylvania in Berks County back in 2014. The species eventually made its way to Allegheny County a few years later in 2020. While the insects don't bite or sting, they do have the potential to cause major harm and damage to plants and trees in Pennsylvania including grape vines, birch trees and maple trees.  "They love grapes and grapevines, we are finding them on lots of woody species," said John Creasy.  Creasy is the executive director of the Garfield Community Farm, a non-profit that has restored nearly three acres of abandoned land in the city's Garfield neighborhood. They specialize in providing fresh produce to neighbors in the area. Creasy has also found himself specializing in the squashing of spotted lanternflies this year.   "Last year, we saw them towards the end of the year in the fall when they were fully grown," said Creasy. "But this year, we are seeing little tiny guys all over the place in mass," added Creasy, "hundreds of them in one location."  Creasy showed Pittsburgh's Action News 4 around the grounds of the garden Tuesday afternoon. Our cameras spotted hundreds of the flies.  Experts say the species grow in stages. They start as egg masses that can be found on anything from trees and stones to cars and buildings. In this phase they can look like big piles of dried mud piles.  The second stage is known as the early nymph phase and runs from late May to June. During this phase, the insects are very small. They are primarily black with white spots. Later in the summer, the nymphs begin to add red to their bodies before they grow wings.  The adult spotted lanternfly is about 1 inch long when fully grown. "Right now, they are in that early, little nymph stage, so they are kind of hard to spot," explained Joe Stavish, the education director with Tree Pittsburgh. Stavish says although they are little, the bugs are still able to jump and spread during this phase.  Stavish believes the insects are developing a little quicker this year.  "Probably because they hatched a little earlier with the mild winter," explained Stavish. "We will probably notice them earlier in the summer months, more abundantly than we did last year." Experts say there is no way to predict the patterns or number of infestations likely in any given location. This year, there have already been confirmed reports of hatching lanternflies across the Commonwealth.  As of May 18, the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture had confirmed reports in 54 locations in 18 counties, including Allegheny and Westmoreland Counties. According to Shannon Powers, press secretary with the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture, crews from the department are actively searching for hatched insects across the state.   Experts say the best kind of spotted lanternfly is a dead spotted lanternfly. They ask anyone who sees the insect to stomp it, smash it, or spray it. They also ask that people report their sightings online or by phone at 1-888-4BAD-FLY (1-888-422-3359).   Allegheny County residents can learn how to spot and report the spotted lanternflies at informational meetings hosted by the Penn State Extension. Those interested can sign up online.  The following meetings have been scheduled for the month of June:  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.