How to see the incredible Ruby Falls, inside Lookout Mountain in Chattanooga, Tennessee. If you’re not sure if nature has a sense of humor, consider this: One of the most stunning natural wonders in the U.S. is hidden within another gorgeous American natural landmark. Ruby Falls, the tallest and deepest underground cave waterfall in the U.S. that’s open to the public, is set inside Lookout Mountain, which itself is one of the area’s top attractions. Both sites are located in Chattanooga, Tennessee, a southern town known for its rock climbing, biking, and hiking. And while you’ll see plenty of people lined up to ride the glass-roofed Incline Railway up Lookout Mountain, the real gem is found inside the peak. Courtesy of Ruby Falls The journey begins with a glass-front elevator that descends 26 stories into the heart of the mountain. At the bottom, visitors will see a series of stalactites, stalagmites, ancient formations, and of course, Ruby Falls, which is set 1,120 feet within Lookout Mountain. In order to keep the underground cavern well-preserved and visitors safe, all visits to Ruby Falls must be guided. The popular Cave Walk tour offers a faster-paced journey through the cave to the waterfall with pre-recorded audio. There is also a before-hours Gentle Walking Tour with more in-depth information and an after-hours Lantern Tour. Courtesy of Ruby Falls Those visiting around Valentine’s Day this year can book the Romance at Ruby Tour, which takes place Feb. 10, 11, and 14. This romance-focused journey delves into the falls' past. Leo Lambert, who came across the falls in 1928, named the discovery after his wife, Ruby. If a February visit isn’t in the cards, don’t worry, Ruby Falls is open year-round and boasts 60-degrees-Fahrenheit average temperatures in all four seasons.In addition to seeing the underground cave and waterfall, travelers to Ruby Falls can climb the neighboring Lookout Mountain Tower and Blue Heron Overlook for sweeping views of the valley and the Tennessee River. High Point ZIP Adventure, a series of zip lines and a climbing tower, is also situated near Ruby Falls on Lookout Mountain. Tickets to Ruby Falls’ 70- to 80-minute Cave Walk are $25 for adults and $14 for children ages 3 to 12. The two-hour Gentle Walking Tour and Lantern Tour are both $40. Those interested in the Romance at Ruby Tour can book at https://tickets.rubyfalls.com with rates from $90 per couple. Tickets to Ruby Falls must be booked online, ideally several days in advance. For more Travel & Leisure news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on Travel & Leisure. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.