These tiny pests pack a punch on the local environment – and hundreds of millions of dollars for the economy These tiny pests pack a punch on the local environment – and hundreds of millions of dollars for the economy The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. These tiny pests pack a punch on the local environment – and hundreds of millions of dollars for the economy They're on grapevines, trees, lawn furniture and across backyards – the infamous spotted lanternflies.  Since it was first detected in Pennsylvania in 2014, spotted lanternflies keep returning – wreaking havoc on the environment and the economy.  Originally from China, spotted lanternflies are an invasive species –  a label defined as non-native to the ecosystem that can cause harm to the economy, environment, or human health.  Because they don't have a lot of natural enemies, spotted lanternflies have spread quickly across the North East – traveling on their own or by hitchhiking on vehicles and shipping containers.  Spotted lanternflies have been found in at least 14 states, including Connecticut, Delaware, Indiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia and West Virginia. The insects cause serious damage by feeding on over 70 species of plants – causing oozing sap, wilting, leaf curling and dieback in trees, vines, crops and other plants. Some of the most valuable plants impacted include oak, black walnut and grapes.  They also leave a sweet and sticky substance called "honeydew" that encourages the growth of black sooty mold and attracts stinging insects. The mold is harmless to humans but dangerous to plants. In Pennsylvania alone, the state's Department of Agriculture says the economic impact could total in the hundreds of millions of dollars and hundreds of thousands of jobs in the grapes, apple, hops and hardwood industries. The spotted lanternfly transforms drastically throughout its life stages. From May to June, spotted lanternflies hatch. At its early nymph stage, the bug has black and white spots.  At its late nymph stage, it changes to red with white spots and black stripes.  In July, adults begin to appear and are found through December. The adults have light brown front wings with black spots and red back wings with black spots and black and white bands. From September through November, spotted lanternflies lay their eggs. The egg mass looks like cracked mud and can be found on flat surfaces like tree trunks, branches, rocks and outdoor gear.   According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, if a spotted lanternfly is found, take a photo, note the location, and report it to your state department of agriculture before killing it.  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.