It's never too early to start getting into the spirit of spooky season — and what better way than to browse Disney Store's collection of Halloween costumes, apparel, accessories, and home decor? On Aug. 13, the Disney Store will officially launch its new "Hocus Pocus" collection as a part of its 2024 Halloween lineup. PS has an exclusive sneak peek for you ahead — and we can confidently say: it's one of the brand's best Halloween collections yet.  From dress sets and jerseys to costumes of the iconic Sanderson sisters, the "Hocus Pocus"-themed collection has everything you need to gear up for Halloween. Fans will be happy to see delightfully spooky highlights like a glow-in-the-dark mini backpack for kids to wear to school or trick-or-treating, as well as a coloring book for adults with 100 images from the beloved movie. Disney+ subscribers can enjoy a select set of items they can shop exclusively from Aug. 13 to Aug. 21, including a Sanderson Sisters headband and a comfy "Hocus Pocus" tie-dye hoodie.  But there are plenty of items everyone can delight over from the beloved franchise now, which you can see for the first time ahead. Scroll through to check out the Disney Store "Hocus Pocus" collection — available to shop on Aug. 13 — and keep scrolling to check out more of our faves from various franchises. And you can get a head start on picking out the Halloween costumes, home decor, and accessories you need to create your own spooky wonderland this Oct. 31.   — Additional reporting by Jessica C. Andrews Sanderson Sisters Pin ($18)
 Add a touch of "Hocus Pocus" magic to any look with the Sanderson Sisters pin. From the Oct. 31 billing for a Town Hall theater midnight show to graphic art of the sisters, this accessory will get everyone talking. It's available to Disney+ subscribers from Aug. 13 to Aug. 21, and becomes available to the general public on Aug. 22. Sanderson Sisters Ear Headband for Adults ($35)
 Looking to add a finishing touch to a Halloween costume or a spooky accessory to a plain LBD? Look no further than this Sanderson Sisters headband. The accessory features graphics like the Sanderson sisters, a black cat, half moon, and splattering of stars — but the highlight is undoubtedly the green sequin bow in the center. It's available to Disney+ subscribers from Aug. 13 to Aug. 21, and becomes available to the general public on Aug. 22. Sanderson Sisters Live! T-Shirt for Adults ($30)
 This Sanderson Sisters T-shirt deserves a permanent spot in your wardrobe. The fun souvenir tee demands a second glance, with its live performance billing and fun orange and green color palette. Wear this with black separates on Halloween for an effortless costume, and style it with jeans or sweats long after the holiday. It's available to Disney+ subscribers from Aug. 19 to Aug. 21, and becomes available to the general public on Aug. 22.
 Hocus Pocus Tie-Dye Pullover Hoodie for Adults ($60)
 Cozy up in this "Hocus Pocus"-themed, tie-dye hoodie. The neon pullover features a fun cartooned print that makes it stand out while keeping you warm and comfy in the cool Fall weather. It's available to Disney+ subscribers from Aug. 19 to Aug. 21, and becomes available to the general public on Aug. 22. Hocus Pocus Spirit Jersey ($75)
 Invest in a long-sleeved shirt you can wear on Halloween day and long after. This green-and-black, tie-dye shirt is the epitome of comfortable, festive style with a soft cotton-blend and the Sanderson sisters decal featured on both sides. Hocus Pocus Glow-in-the-Dark Loungefly Mini Backpack ($89) 
 What better way to carry your trick-or-treat goodies than in a glow-in-the-dark backpack? This find boasts a main compartment and front slip pocket adorned with screen art of Winifred, Mary, and Sarah Sanderson as well as Binx the cat.  Hocus Pocus Dress Set for Women ($129)
 Heading to a Halloween party and want to look festive and chic? This dress set fits the bill with a trendy capelet, fitted top, and full skirt boasting spider-web and Binx-the-cat embroidery as well as an allover "Hocus Pocus"-themed print.
 Keep scrolling to shop returning fan-favorites from the Disney Store Halloween "Hocus Pocus" collection. Art of Coloring: Hocus Pocus Book ($17)
 Add this fun, witchy coloring book to your collection. Featuring over 100 images with all your favorite scenes from "Hocus Pocus," this buy will be your go-to during the Halloween season and beyond. Mary Sanderson Costume for Adults by Disguise - Hocus Pocus ($60)
 Lean into your love for "Hocus Pocus" with a full-on Halloween costume. You can dress up as Mary Sanderson and wow everyone at the costume party or just along the trick-or-treat route. This costume includes everything from a lace-up corset to a multi print skirt and pink satin petticoat. Add the Mary Sanderson Wig for Adults ($35) to really nail the costume. Sarah Sanderson Costume for Adults by Disguise – Hocus Pocus ($60)
 If Sarah Sanderson is your favorite sister from the beloved film, this costume is for you. It boasts a knee-length dress with a corseted, floral-printed bodice and peplum skirt, alongside a yellow satin petticoat. Finish your look with the Sarah Sanderson Wig for Adults ($35) or just add beach waves to your blond hair to channel the beloved character. Winifred Sanderson Costume for Adults by Disguise – Hocus Pocus ($60)
 You can't go wrong dressing up as the iconic Winifred Sanderson for Halloween. This spot-on costume comes with a velveteen green dress, faux lace-up detail, and a green and purple petticoat. Don't forget the Winifred Sanderson Wig for Adults ($35) to make this costume instantly recognizable.
 Keep scrolling to shop other faves from the Disney Store Halloween collection. Mickey and Minnie Mouse Halloween Countdown Calendar ($17, originally $55)
 Kids will absolutely love this spooky countdown calendar, which lets you tick down the days until Oct. 31 and features Halloween-themed Mickey and Minnie Mouse figurines set against an eerie haunted house. Spider-Man Adaptive Costume for Kids ($55) This authentic Spider-Man adaptive costume will make your little one feel like a real hero. Plus, it has specially designed openings and self-stick fabric closures to make it fully accessible for a range of special needs. Black Panther Light-Up Costume for Kids ($55); Captain America Costume for Kids ($55); Iron Man Costume for Kids ($60); and Spider-Man Costume for Kids ($55) Your little one will be the envy of the neighborhood in one of these Marvel costumes. If there are any evil-doers out on Oct. 31, they'll turn and flee at the sight of one (or all) of these heroes out trick-or-treating. Darth Vader Costume with Sound for Kids ($60) 
 We kind of want this costume to come in adult sizes, too! The hyper-realistic "Star Wars" outfit fully transforms your little one into their favorite characters from the dark side. Mirel Zaman is the health and fitness director at PS. She has over 15 years of experience working in the health and wellness space, covering fitness, general health, mental health, relationships and sex, food and nutrition, spirituality, family and parenting, culture, and news. Jessica C. Andrews (she/her) is the senior content director of Shopping and PS UK. With more than 15 years of experience, her areas of expertise include fashion, shopping, and travel. Prior to joining PS, Jessica held senior roles at Teen Vogue, Refinery29, and Bustle and contributed to The New York Times, Elle, Vanity Fair, and Essence. She's appeared on "Good Morning America," NBC, and Fox 5 New York and spoken on various panels about fashion, hair, and Black culture.