 Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority chairman Chip Kline, left, and other state officials discuss revenue sharing options that would benefit coastal restoration and hurricane flood risk reduction in Louisiana with House Majority Leader Steve Scalise, R-Jefferson, in March in a U.S. Capitol conference room.   WASHINGTON – Amid the threat of a presidential veto, House Republicans worked Tuesday to shore up support for a bill by U.S. Rep. Steve Scalise that would dramatically escalate energy production and grant Louisiana a greater portion of offshore energy revenues. Scalise’s “Lower Energy Costs Act,” numbered H.R. 1, will be considered by the full House on Thursday. It is House Republicans’ No. 1 priority this session. If passed by the House, the bill must still clear the Senate, where Democrats hold the majority. President Joe Biden would then need to sign off. The White House cautioned Monday that the president would veto the bill if it clears both chambers as presently written, however, adding a layer of urgency to negotiations across the aisle. “This administration is making unprecedented progress in protecting America’s energy security and reducing energy costs for Americans – in their homes and at the pump,” officials with Biden’s Office of Management and Budget said in a statement. “H.R. 1 would do just the opposite, replacing pro-consumer policies with a thinly veiled license to pollute.” The Washington Post and Environmental & Energy News also reported this week that a few moderate Republican House members are privately saying they may not back the bill. Republicans hold a slim majority in the House. Given those realities, Scalise, R-Jefferson, and his supporters scurried around the U.S. Capitol Tuesday, making presentations, lobbying over lunches, and holding at least one press conference before heading to the House floor to launch debate over the 37 amendments to his legislation. Debate over the amendments began Tuesday afternoon and some were voted on Wednesday. Scalise remains optimistic the bill will pass when the House votes on the whole package Thursday. “We’ve got almost every Republican already committed, obviously the whip team is still working,” Scalise said, adding that he had also gotten support from Democratic representatives. Because the GOP majority is so thin, Scalise can afford to lose only five House Republican votes if House Democrats vote down the bill. In the Senate, Scalise said he thinks some Democrats will support the legislation even though Majority Leader Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-New York, opposes it. Scalise will need all the Senate’s Republicans and 11 of its Democrats to back H.R. 1 before it can head to the president. H.R. 1 is a consolidation of about 20 different bills aimed at increasing oil and gas production. It would require offshore lease sales; streamline permitting processes; incentivize building more infrastructure, such as pipelines; and roll back power of states to reject energy facilities. It would also repeal higher fees in the Inflation Reduction Act and some of that law’s other climate-change initiatives. Importantly, the Scalise bill would also increase Louisiana and other states’ share of the federal government’s royalties for offshore oil and gas production and wind farms. The higher royalties could help pay for a slew of planned projects aimed at slowing Louisiana’s coastal erosion, a problem that is only expected to worsen in the years ahead. At least 100 local and state officials flew to Washington last week to lobby for the bill’s approval, citing its benefits to the state. But Biden’s management and budget office said Monday that the bill would raise energy costs by repealing rebates and rolling back investments that make clean energy more accessible. Many of those investments are in the Democrats’ Inflation Reduction Act. “H.R. 1 would take us backward,” the statement said. “Therefore, if presented to the president in its current form, he would veto it.” Louisiana U.S. Rep. Mike Johnson, R-Benton, tweeted in response: “The only reason @POTUS would issue a preemptive veto threat is because H.R. 1 acknowledges and reverses many of the appallingly bad policies in his ‘Inflation Reduction Act.’” U.S. Rep. Garret Graves, R-Baton Rouge, tweeted: "The Biden Administration's anti-energy policies have resulted in high prices and are the biggest contributor to inflation. H.R. 1 will lower costs." Scalise pushed back at the idea that the bill would raise prices, saying instead that it would lower them. Other House Republicans also railed against Biden for 24 minutes of a 30- minute press conference Tuesday, blaming the president's spending and energy policy for inflation that has raised gasoline prices and consumer costs.  Republicans could have at least one trump card in behind-the-scenes negotiations over H.R. 1. Democrats need Republican support in order to raise the country's debt ceiling, which would allow the government to borrow more money. If it cannot borrow more, the government will default on its debts beginning this summer.  House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, R-California, told Biden Tuesday that he wanted Scalise’s energy proposals to be part of debt ceiling discussions.  Email Mark Ballard at mballard@theadvocate.com.   News Tips:nolanewstips@theadvocate.com Other questions:subscriberservices@theadvocate.com Need help?  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: