Your digital subscription includes access to content from all our websites in your region.
Access unlimited news content and The Canberra Times app. Premium subscribers also enjoy interactive puzzles and access to the digital version of our print edition - Today's Paper. An understaffed passport office did not anticipate a post-COVID shift to "last minute" travel, a trend which contributed to a backlog of 430,000 applications in September last year.  Login or signup to continue reading The agency had planned for a surge when Australia's borders reopened, but the sheer scale of it caught top public servants by surprise. "We had a plan, the plan wasn't enough and we were found wanting last year," Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade deputy secretary Craig Maclachlan told a Senate estimates hearing on Thursday. "And we regret that very much." About two million Australians did not renew their passports during the pandemic, Mr Maclachlan told senators.  "We anticipated needing more staff than we had prior to the pandemic, because we anticipated some people who delayed renewing their passport coming back in," he said.  READ MORE PUBLIC SERVICE NEWS: "We anticipated that as the borders opened and the flight availability came on that progressively more and more Australians would want to travel overseas. "We didn't anticipate the volume, the other issue we probably didn't anticipate was the change in the way in which people approach international travel." Between June and November 2022, about 1855 extra staff were hired by Australian Passport Office, bringing the total staff working in the office to 2456 as at November 18. During peak demand, DFAT graduates and Services Australia were also redeployed to help process applications and renewals.  Mr Maclachlan said staff had worked late nights and weekends to process the huge demand, which peaked between late May to June.  Bottlenecks in the passport office have significantly improved, with the backlog dropping to about 70,000 to 80,000 in January. While the average wait for adult passports in the second half of 2022 was 23 business days, that had dropped to seven in January.  We've made it a whole lot easier for you to have your say. Our new comment platform requires only one log-in to access articles and to join the discussion on The Canberra Times website. Find out how to register so you can enjoy civil, friendly and engaging discussions. See our moderation policy here. Miriam Webber is a federal politics and public sector reporter, with an interest in integrity, transparency and accountability in government. She has been a member of the federal political bureau since 2023, and previously worked as the city reporter. Reach her at miriam.webber@canberratimes.com.au Miriam Webber is a federal politics and public sector reporter, with an interest in integrity, transparency and accountability in government. She has been a member of the federal political bureau since 2023, and previously worked as the city reporter. Reach her at miriam.webber@canberratimes.com.au DAILY Today's top stories curated by our news team. Also includes evening update. DAILY The latest news, results & expert analysis. WEEKLY Get the editor's insights: what's happening & why it matters. WEEKLY Love footy? We've got all the action covered. DAILY Your exclusive preview of David Pope's latest cartoon. AS IT HAPPENS Don't miss updates on news about the Public Service. WEEKLY Every Sunday explore destinations, deals, tips & travel writing to transport you around Australia and the globe. WEEKLY Get the latest property and development news here. WEEKLY Going out or staying in? Find out what's on. WEEKLY We've selected the best reading for your weekend. WEEKLY Join our weekly poll for Canberra Times readers. WEEKDAYS Sharp. Close to the ground. Digging deep. Your weekday morning newsletter on national affairs, politics and more. TWICE WEEKLY Your essential national news digest: all the big issues on Wednesday and great reading every Saturday. WEEKLY Get news, reviews and expert insights every Thursday from CarExpert, ACM's exclusive motoring partner. TWICE WEEKLY Get real, Australia! Let  the ACM network's editors and journalists bring you news and views from all over. AS IT HAPPENS Be the first to know when news breaks. DAILY Your digital replica of Today's Paper. Ready to read from 5am! DAILY Test your skills with interactive crosswords, sudoku & trivia. Fresh daily! Advertisement Advertisement