NOTHING beats a festive staycation in December. If you're still looking for a last-minute UK break, we found the best deals from £199 - working out at £8pp a night for six people sharing. There are properties of different sizes around the country, so you won't have a problem finding one that will suit your needs - from caravans, lodges and unique properties. We've got you covered with the best deals to enjoy the festive season away from home. Destinations include Devon, Cornwall, Norfolk, Kent, the Lake District and Essex, to name a few. The biggest bargain we've found comes from Hoseasons, with four-night stays at Tencreek, Cornwall, costing from £199 per stay. The property can accommodate six people, meaning you can head off to Cornwall from £8pp a night on December 23. Pontins also has some great deals for New Year breaks, with three-night stays costing from £189 (£16pppn for a family of four). The deals are available at the Prestatyn Sands and Southport parks. The holiday parks have on-site restaurants, bars and takeaways, indoor heated pools with slides and an arcade. More activities at Pontins include crazy golf, trampolines, go-karts and fun bikes. Another popular holiday park in the UK is Parkdean Resorts, with many of the resorts offering a variety of activities and entertainment for children during the day and evening.  Some activities include kids' clubs, laser tag, crazy golf, high ropes courses and bungee trampolining. The holiday parks still have some availability during Christmas and Twixmas: There are lots of other cheap breaks, too, including three-night caravan breaks with Shorefield Holidays from £480 and luxury stays with Forest Holidays from £800 per stay.  Away Resorts also have many accommodation types, including classic caravans, luxury lodges and properties with private hot tubs. Here are some of the best last-minute deals we've found: We also rounded up the cheapest staycations with hot tubs from £15pp a night this winter.  You could even start planning your spring break with seaside UK holidays from £7pp a night, including cheap hot tub breaks. For a holiday outside the UK, we rounded up the cheapest city breaks in Europe from £139pp, including flights. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/