UK Edition Can’t wait until summer to jet off for some sunshine? You don’t have to. If you’re not restricted to heading away in the school holidays you’ll be rewarded with some great deals. We’ve found holidays to the Caribbean at a snip of the price, a tempting package to Greece or — if you want to stay closer to home — a brilliant bargain for Bath. While Bath is resolutely classical, with its stately honeystone crescents and period tearooms, Homewood is excitingly contemporary. A Georgian estate 20 minutes’ drive from the city, it has 31 colour-splashed bedrooms alongside a modern British restaurant. There’s also a spa to rival Bath’s complexes, and a heated outdoor pool amid 20 acres of greenery. Three nights’ B&B costs the price of two — starting at £506 — if you visit before March 23, and a half-bottle of champagne is thrown in for good, fizzy measure (mrandmrssmith.com). Behind their stylish black façades, two cosy eco-cabins beside seafood-famous Loch Fyne have bright, timber-lined interiors and open-plan layouts. Picture windows face the loch, whose shore lies just 20m away. Days might be spent visiting the whisky distilleries of the Isle of Arran on the ferry, or Glasgow is within an hour’s drive. Kip Hideaways specialises in small, cool properties; sign up for membership for £19 a year and prices are at present reduced by 20 per cent, leaving two nights’ self-catering for two costing from £368 (kiphideaways.com). Part of the proven Brown brand, the Isla Brown Chania is a new Greek island design hotel due to open on May 1, and is offering 25 per cent savings on all stays until October 31. A clifftop residence on the Akrotiri peninsula in northern Crete, it will be a luxurious affair with 48 airy, earthy-toned bedrooms, a pool, a good spa and three restaurants to choose from. B&B doubles now start from £159 (brownhotels.com). Discounted by more than a third, Ambassador Cruise Line’s no-fly Norway voyage is a bit of a cross-your-fingers job. Stop-offs in cities such as Bergen to see grand gothic cathedrals and great museums should be delightful, as will the country’s fjord-riven western coast, with lectures, comedy shows and bridge tournaments along the way. The main hope, however, is that passengers witness the northern lights at least once. Departing from Tilbury on March 9 aboard the 1,400-guest Ambience, 14 nights’ full board now costs from £899pp, including entertainment, classes and porterage (ambassadorcruiseline.com). Wind-blasted Britain or sun-sloshed Caribbean? To make an easy choice easier still, the Hideaway Waterfront Apartments on Grenada have slashed 15 per cent off stays between March 25 and June 10; you must book before March 15. Featuring hammocks and verandas, these five comfortable seafront homes border the northern end of Grand Anse, one of the island’s 40 white-sand shores. Snorkel off them, or venture inland for jungles, waterfalls and walking trails. Three nights’ self-catering for four now costs from £368 (hideawaygrandanse.com). Fly to Grenada. Palm trees. Perfect white sand. Warm water. Sunshine. Snorkelling. In short, Trou aux Biches is your dream beach. It lines the north of the Indian Ocean island of Mauritius and backs onto Le Palmiste. Thatched buildings, three pools, two bars, one spa and a determinedly Mauritian restaurant complete the picture at this relaxing resort. Reduced by 36 per cent, seven nights’ all-inclusive costs from £1,049pp on selected April dates, including flights from Gatwick or Birmingham, transfers and 15-minute massages, if you book this month (bluebaytravel.co.uk). © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.