Pune, Maharashtra, India – Business Wire India Bajaj Markets, a subsidiary of Bajaj Finserv, offers travel credit cards that can be great for one’s vacation plans. Regardless of when one’s holidays are planned; these credit cards offer unique benefits to enhance every traveller’s experience. Here are the top travel credit cards that users can avail of, to fund last-minute purchases. •  IRCTC SBI Card (on Rupay Platform)o  Annual Fee: Rs. 500+GSTo  Renewal Fee: Rs. 300+GSTo  Best for railway ticket bookings •  Bajaj Finserv RBL Bank Travel Easy SuperCardo  Joining Fee: Rs. 999+GSTo  Annual Fee: Rs. 999+GSTo  Best deals on cab bookings from Ola and Uber •  ICICI Bank MMT Platinum Credit Cardo  Joining Fee: Rs. 500+GSTo  Annual Fee: NILo  Best for hotel bookings for vacations•  ICICI MMT Signature Credit Cardo  Joining Fee: Rs. 2,500+GSTo  Annual Fee: NILo  Exclusive deals on holiday bookings •  SBI ELITE Credit Cardo  Joining Fee: Rs. 4,999+GSTo  Annual Fee: Rs. 4,999+GSTo  Offers the lowest Forex markup From discounts on airfare to cashback at dining partners, travel credit cards can help one save easily. One can also get free travel insurance, complimentary lounge access, travel vouchers, and more. In addition, such cards help with secure digital payments, which can be a boon while holidaying. Here’s why applying for such credit cards on Bajaj Markets is ideal: •  Choose from multiple travel credit cards•  Compare the features and benefits of top travel credit cards easily•  100% online application process Getting these travel credit cards is both quick and hassle-free on the Bajaj Markets’ website or app. This one-stop financial marketplace also offers a wide range of other credit cards and financial services, allowing one to access customised credit for all needs seamlessly. About Bajaj Markets Bajaj Markets, a subsidiary of Bajaj Finserv, and one of the fastest growing fintech in India, is a one-stop digital marketplace that offers multiple financial products across all categories - Loans, Cards, Insurance, Investments, and Payments. Bajaj Markets has partnered with some of the most trusted names to offer choices to its customers and help them achieve their financial life goals. Having started its journey as a fintech, Bajaj Markets has since then, built a very strong business as a techfin. Its technology services businesses are built on its core capabilities in consumer insights, technology, and data analytics. Its first B2B SBU, Skaleup, has been created to become the leading digital technology services provider in India through deep domain expertise and execution capabilities.  Bajaj Markets has built a new business unit to become the preferred partner for digital technology initiatives across all group companies of Bajaj Finserv. Herein, the strategy is to align with the digital technology roadmap objectives of all the group companies of Bajaj Finserv and offer digital technology services and platforms at market competitive rates. Visit www.bajajfinservmarkets.in or download the Bajaj Markets app from Play Store or App Store. With Bajaj Markets, “Ab Choices Hue Aasaan”. (Disclaimer: The above press release comes to you under an arrangement with Business Wire India and PTI takes no editorial responsibility for the same.). PTI  PWRPWR (This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI) Copyright © 2024 All rights reserved