Many shoppers were out getting last-minute festive goods for Sunday Psst... share your email to join the Secret Elves Club and get first access to exclusive reviews of this year's must-have products. We have more newsletters Psst... share your email to join the Secret Elves Club and get first access to exclusive reviews of this year's must-have products. We have more newsletters Let the chaos begin. Christmas Day is nearly here, but many shoppers in Coventry are still getting last-minute gifts in time for the festive celebrations on Sunday. Drivers were warned to expect long traffic queues on major routes on the approach to Christmas. And the Ricoh Arena Shopping Park was amongst the busiest locations today with the car park full and queues stretching across the whole shopping park. The city centre was also busy with shoppers grabbing the last items. One local said 'they couldn't get out' of the Ricoh as the queues were 'up to 30 minutes and even more'. Another shopper told us he was expecting it to be quiet - but it was anything but. "I thought I might get sorted pretty quickly, but there were people everywhere. And some people were queuing in the car parks for ages." Over in Hinckley, things were also frantic. Earlier today shoppers said the Sainsbury's car park there was "gridlocked". Many were waiting around an hour to get out, LeicestershireLive reports. One person said "it happens every year".  Shoppers scrambling for last-minute goodies face other challenges. Wet and icy weather makes going out a tougher proposition - with some Brits facing snow on top of that. The build-up of cars shows that many still like to visit stores in person - despite the rise in online shopping since the pandemic. However, due to the recent Royal Mail strikes, many shoppers found themselves hitting the stores to get last-minute gifts.  According to AA, the busiest days for travel are today and tomorrow, with an estimate of nearly 17 million cars on UK roads. A survey of more than 12,000 motorists showed that 51% plan to make a car journey today with 50% to make a trip the next day. What are your plans for Christmas? Let us know in the comments below.  Want more of the latest news from Coventry  ? Sign up for our daily newsletter here.  Read next:  Waste drop off sites to open in Coventry in New Year   Coventry home bakery busy with lots of orders for Christmas   Christmas lurgy that feels like Covid but isn't   Coventry woman furious at 'selfish' BMW driver parked entirely over pavement  