Today's Paper Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary, please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com. There is no option to place them through our website.
Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions.
 
General Information:
 
Obituary Specification:
 
Policies:
 
Verification of Death:
 
In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required. We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death. If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program, or a similar program, their phone number is required for verification.
 
Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours.
 
A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary.
 
Guestbook and Outside Websites:
 
We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online. We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead; contact us with any questions regarding this matter.
 
Obituary Process:
 
Once your submission is completed, we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper. This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear.
 
Please review the proof carefully. We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day’s deadlines.
 
After publication, we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing.
 
Online:
 
All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence. If you wish to have the online presence removed, you can contact us to remove the guestbook online. Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk. Call us with further questions.
 
Payment Procedure:
 
Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule. Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents.
 
Credit Card: Payment accepted by phone only due to PCI (Payment Card Industry) regulations
 
EFT: Check by phone. Please provide your routing number and account number.
 
Cash: Accepted at our FRONT COUNTER Monday – Friday from 8:00AM – 3:30PM
 
Rates:
 
Deadlines:
 
Please follow deadline times to ensure your obituary is published on the day requested.
 Hours Deadline (no exceptions) Ad Photos MONDAY – FRIDAY 9:00AM – 5:00 PM Next Day Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 4:30PM Make changes by 5:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 4:30PM SATURDAYS 10:00AM – 2:00PM Sunday Publication Must receive obituary content and payment same day by 1:30PM Make changes by 2:00PM Must receive photo(s) by 1:30PM SUNDAYS 12:00PM – 3:00PM Monday Publication Must receive obituary content, payment, and final changes same day by 2:30PM Must receive photo(s) by 2:30PM 
MEMORIAM (NON-OBITUARY) REQUEST
 
Unlike an obituary, Memoriam submissions are remembrances of a loved one who has passed. The rates for a memoriam differ from obituaries.
 
Please call or email us for more memoriam information
 
Please call 651-228-5280 for more information.
 
HOURS: Monday – Friday 8:00AM – 5:00PM (CLOSED WEEKENDS and HOLIDAYS)
 
Please submit your memoriam ad to memoriams@pioneerpress.com or call 651-228-5280.
  Sign up for Newsletters and Alerts Today's Paper 
			OUR PICKS:		  Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) kicks the game tying goal against the New England Revolution in stoppage time in the second half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. The Minnesota United managed a draw on a 93rd minute goal by Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) against the New England Revolution. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  The Minnesota United celebrate Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) game tying goal against New England Revolution goalkeeper Earl Edwards Jr (36) in stoppage time of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. The Minnesota United managed a draw on a 93rd minute goal by Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) against the New England Revolution. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United defender Michael Boxall (15) gets his foot stepped on by a New England Revolution player in the first half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United midfielder Wil Trapp (20) layout to stop a shot from New England Revolution forward DeJuan Jones (24) in the first half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United midfielder Emanuel Reynoso (10) and New England Revolution forward Giacomo Vrioni (9) battle for the ball in the first half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United midfielder Wil Trapp (20) makes a sliding stop against New England Revolution midfielder Nacho Gil (23) in the first half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United defender Doneil Henry (5) keeps New England Revolution midfielder Nacho Gil (23) away from the ball in the first half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United defender Miguel Tapias (4) gets tangled up with a New England Revolution player in the first half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United defender Michael Boxall (15) attempts to kick the ball past New England Revolution goalkeeper Earl Edwards Jr (36) in the second half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept. 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  New England Revolution goalkeeper Earl Edwards Jr (36) watches the replay on after giving up a game tying goal to Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) in stoppage time in the second half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. The Minnesota United managed a draw on a 93rd minute goal by Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) against the New England Revolution. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7), not pictured, flies past New England Revolution goalkeeper Earl Edwards Jr (36) in stoppage time for the tie in a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. The Minnesota United managed a draw on a 93rd minute goal by Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) against the New England Revolution. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United goalkeeper Dayne St. Clair (97) plays forward in stoppage time as the United look to tie the game in the second half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. The Minnesota United managed a draw on a 93rd minute goal by Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) against the New England Revolution. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United goalkeeper Dayne St. Clair (97) makes a save against the New England Revolution in the second half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United midfielder Wil Trapp (20) and defender Doneil Henry (5) defend against New England Revolution midfielder Nacho Gil (23) in the second half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United midfielder Wil Trapp (20) and New England Revolution forward Giacomo Vrioni (9) battle for the header in the second half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United midfielder Hassani Dotson (31) leaps high to field the header against the New England Revolution in the second half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept. 9, 2023. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) gets a hug from fellow midfielder Emanuel Reynoso (10) after scoring the game tying goal against New England Revolution for the tie in a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. The Minnesota United managed a draw on a 93rd minute goal by Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) against the New England Revolution. (John Autey / Pioneer Press)  Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) leaps into the stands after scoring a game tying goal against New England Revolution goalkeeper Earl Edwards Jr (36) in stoppage time in the second half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. The Minnesota United managed a draw on a 93rd minute goal by Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) against the New England Revolution. (John Autey / Pioneer Press) Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) kicks the game tying goal against the New England Revolution in stoppage time in the second half of a MLS game at Allianz Field in St. Paul on Saturday, Sept., 9, 2023. The Minnesota United managed a draw on a 93rd minute goal by Minnesota United midfielder Franco Fragapane (7) against the New England Revolution. (John Autey / Pioneer Press) Saturday at Allianz Field, Minnesota United seemingly spent every second of the game’s 93 minutes knocking on the New England Revolution’s door.It took one of the strangest combinations in Minnesota United history to finally unlock it.Not only did Franco Fragapane score the tying goal of a 1-1 draw, with the final kick of the match, with his much weaker right foot, but the assist came from — of all people — goalkeeper Dayne St. Clair.The keeper had run the length of the field for one final corner kick for Minnesota, as the Loons searched for an equalizing goal — and finally found it after a scramble in the New England penalty area. The ball fell to St. Clair near the Revolution penalty spot, and the keeper poked it to Fragapane, who coolly finished into the bottom right-hand corner of the net.“We’ve been working in training all week on Dayne setting Fraga up in the last minute,” deadpanned manager Adrian Heath said.MNUFC piled up 27 shots, and 15 corner kicks, in the match, but it took until its final one of each to finally get its first goal. And for St. Clair, the only disappointing thing was that he ended up miscontrolling the ball and having to pass it to Fragapane. “Anyone that knows me knows that I was definitely going to shoot it,” he said.Asked whether he’d ever scored a goal, he said, “I have not yet — key on yet. I will get there one day.”Loons 1, Visitors 1 has been a very common scoreline in St. Paul this year. This was Minnesota’s eighth draw in 13 home games — seven of which have come by that same 1-1 scoreline. Minnesota has just three wins at home this season, fewer than every team in MLS except for the hapless Colorado Rapids.

New England took the lead in the 38th minute, thanks to its Spanish brother-to-brother combination. After a Revolution corner kick, Nacho Gil was given too much space by the Loons defense on the right side of the field, giving the 28-year-old plenty of time to pick out his 30-year-old brother Carles in the Minnesota penalty area. The elder Gil made no mistake, side-footing the ball into the corner of the MNUFC net.“He’s certainly got too much room in the corner to get the ball in,” said Heath of the goal conceded.In the end, though, Minnesota felt that it deserved the point that it eventually pulled out.“We’ve had two or three games this season where we’ve conceded with virtually the last kick of the game,” Heath said. “Today, we’ve had our reward.”St. Clair had some ideas about rewards, too.“I told Fraga after the game that he’s got to take me out to dinner for the assist,” he said. “And I’ve got to go to Adrian and start asking for some assist bonuses.”Related Articles
Minnesota United FC |  

			Where Loons coach Eric Ramsay sees Joaquin Pereyra fitting in		


Minnesota United FC |  

			Minnesota United adds Joaquin Pereyra, but doesn’t appear defensive midfielder will get done		


Minnesota United FC |  

			Loons in advanced talks for Argentine midfielder Joaquin Pereyra		


Minnesota United FC |  

			Minnesotan Caden Clark to be traded from Loons to CF Montreal		


Minnesota United FC |  

			Minnesota United striker Tani Oluwaseyi expected out one month		

 It took one of the strangest combinations in Minnesota United history to finally unlock it. Not only did Franco Fragapane score the tying goal of a 1-1 draw, with the final kick of the match, with his much weaker right foot, but the assist came from — of all people — goalkeeper Dayne St. Clair. The keeper had run the length of the field for one final corner kick for Minnesota, as the Loons searched for an equalizing goal — and finally found it after a scramble in the New England penalty area. The ball fell to St. Clair near the Revolution penalty spot, and the keeper poked it to Fragapane, who coolly finished into the bottom right-hand corner of the net. “We’ve been working in training all week on Dayne setting Fraga up in the last minute,” deadpanned manager Adrian Heath said. MNUFC piled up 27 shots, and 15 corner kicks, in the match, but it took until its final one of each to finally get its first goal. And for St. Clair, the only disappointing thing was that he ended up miscontrolling the ball and having to pass it to Fragapane. “Anyone that knows me knows that I was definitely going to shoot it,” he said. Asked whether he’d ever scored a goal, he said, “I have not yet — key on yet. I will get there one day.” Loons 1, Visitors 1 has been a very common scoreline in St. Paul this year. This was Minnesota’s eighth draw in 13 home games — seven of which have come by that same 1-1 scoreline. Minnesota has just three wins at home this season, fewer than every team in MLS except for the hapless Colorado Rapids. New England took the lead in the 38th minute, thanks to its Spanish brother-to-brother combination. After a Revolution corner kick, Nacho Gil was given too much space by the Loons defense on the right side of the field, giving the 28-year-old plenty of time to pick out his 30-year-old brother Carles in the Minnesota penalty area. The elder Gil made no mistake, side-footing the ball into the corner of the MNUFC net. “He’s certainly got too much room in the corner to get the ball in,” said Heath of the goal conceded. In the end, though, Minnesota felt that it deserved the point that it eventually pulled out. “We’ve had two or three games this season where we’ve conceded with virtually the last kick of the game,” Heath said. “Today, we’ve had our reward.” St. Clair had some ideas about rewards, too. “I told Fraga after the game that he’s got to take me out to dinner for the assist,” he said. “And I’ve got to go to Adrian and start asking for some assist bonuses.” Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group