As Labor Day signals the waning days of summer, the extended weekend also represents one of the last opportunities for a warm weather micro-cation. But, last-minute flights during a holiday weekend can be expensive. However, there are still are handful of reasonably priced roundtrips for Labor Day weekend out of Milwaukee Mitchell International Airport. So for those craving a spontaneous, yet affordable, getaway, here are five destinations you can still travel to for about $300 or less this weekend. But keep an eye on the weather forecast for the Florida sites, with Hurricane Adalia approaching the northwest part of the state mid-week. Disclaimer: These flights and prices are subject as of 1 p.m. Monday and are subject to change. The prices don't include baggage fees. Denver is by far the cheapest and most convenient option on this list as Frontier Airlines — a name you will hear again in this article — offers nonstop service into the Mile High City. Airline: Frontier Dates: Friday to Monday Price: $148 Travel time: 2 hours, 43 minutes (nonstop) The fourth-biggest city in the United States and the biggest in the state of Texas, Houston is a destination that offers amazing food, sports and art. Airline: United Dates: Friday to Monday Price: $294 Travel time: 6 hours, 2 minutes (1-hour layover in Denver) The home of Disney World, Orlando is heavily serviced by budget airlines, making it a more affordable option. Beyond Disney, various cultural amenities in the city make it a great destination for a family weekend. Airlines: Frontier/Spirit Dates: Friday to Monday Price: $273/$301 Travel time: 15 hours, 30 minutes (9-hour layover in Denver) on Frontier; 2 hours, 37 minutes (nonstop) on Spirit Perhaps the best value on this list, a flight to San Francisco can often cost upwards of $500. However, an option from Frontier makes traveling to the city much more affordable. Airline: Frontier Dates: Friday to Monday Price: $217 Travel time: 14 hours, 12 minutes (8-hour, 45-minute layover in Denver) Time on the beach is always a great vacation and a quick trip to Tampa can offer as much — though it should be noted that this flight has a lengthy layover. Airlines: Frontier Dates: Friday to Monday Price: $279 Travel time: 17 hours, 37 minutes (11-hour layover in Denver) Our subscribers make this reporting possible. Please consider supporting local journalism by subscribing to the Journal Sentinel at jsonline.com/deal.  DOWNLOAD THE APP: Get the latest news, sports and more This article originally appeared on Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: These are Milwaukee's cheap flights for Labor Day weekend New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.