The Londoner Macao is a love letter to all things British, from afternoon tea to Premier League football. Although the property has officially been operational for two years, the city’s strict coronavirus restrictions were finally lifted in early 2023, giving The Londoner the chance to celebrate its grand opening this week, complete with an appearance from David Beckham, who designed high-end suites on the property. The Londoner includes two all-suite hotels, The Londoner Hotel and Londoner Court. From the replica Big Ben to the sleek wood-paneled bar inspired by Britain’s members-only clubs, no detail is overlooked. Anglophiles will enjoy the hotel’s naming conventions, which shout out some of the United Kingdom’s most famous people and places. Guests can begin their stay by entering the gleaming, marble-bedecked Crystal Palace lobby atrium. This multipurpose space features a replica Elizabeth Tower (best known as the home of clock Big Ben), a full-scale replica of the Shaftesbury Memorial Fountain and a Shakespeare-inspired three-story atrium designed in the style of the Royal Albert Hall. But its true highlight is the once-a-day Changing of the Guard ceremony that re-creates the one held in front of Buckingham Palace. From there, guests can hop into a London-style black taxi for a virtual tour of the British capital led by a hologram of Beckham or board a classic red double-decker bus for photo ops. A Beckham-designed suite featuring a photo of the man himself. - Sands China Ltd. There’s also a replica of 10 Downing Street, the home of the UK prime minister, complete with a statue of Winston Churchill flashing the V-for-victory sign and a model of beloved pet Larry the Cat. Other re-created London landmarks include Nelson’s Column from Trafalgar Square, the Abbey Road crossing made iconic by The Beatles and statues of monarchs King Henry VIII and Queen Elizabeth I. But it wouldn’t be a British-inspired hotel without a classic afternoon tea. Churchill’s Table is a Western-style cafe that goes over the top with its cakes, namely its signature confections in the shape of crowns. By night, the hotel-guests-only The Residence is the place for gin-based cocktails. While many of The Londoner’s amenities are open to the public, guests can retire to their rooms afterward to keep enjoying the British experience. The most notable lodgings are the 14 suites designed by football legend David Beckham. Don’t expect a football theme, though: the suites are decorated in pale blue and gray tones with original photography and the initials “DB” embroidered onto pillows. Guests can also sample some cigars, foods and whiskeys hand-picked by the star himself. Other suites, like Mayfair and Windsor, get their names from famous places around the UK. In-room amenities include massage chairs, Victorian-style marble bathtubs, private powder rooms and pillow menus to guarantee a good night’s sleep. There are also two heated outdoor swimming pools, each with views of “Big Ben,” which doesn’t just bong to note the hour – on the clock face there’s a mini light show featuring some of London’s famous landmarks. The Londoner is located on Taipa Island, Macao. - Sands China Ltd. Macao, often called the Las Vegas of Asia, spent nearly three years with some of the strictest pandemic regulations in the world. Now that it has reopened to global travelers, the former Portuguese colony is trying to rebrand itself as a family-friendly destination with more to offer than just gambling. An expanding food and beverage scene plus investment in art and new non-gaming attractions is slowly reshaping the way the world looks at Macao. As the city’s most recent big hotel opening, The Londoner stands as part of that new effort. For more CNN news and newsletters create an account at CNN.com New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.