Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Baltimore Sun eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Ethan Miller World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. Chairman Vince McMahon appears in the ring during the WWE Monday Night Raw show at the Thomas & Mack Center August 24, 2009 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Fourth of July fireworks will light up Baltimore's Inner Harbor Tuesday night. Robert Seyffert Learn how to paint during Robert Seyffert's class at Manor Mill in Monkton. Baltimore by Baltimore Devin Wilkins brings The Black Baltimore Renaissance to the Inner Harbor. Associated Press Frank Sinatra, left, seen performing at the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas with fellow Rat Pack members Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr. and Joey Bishop. (Associated Press) Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Fourth of July fireworks light up Baltimore's Inner Harbor last year. World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. Chairman Vince McMahon appears in the ring during the WWE Monday Night Raw show at the Thomas & Mack Center August 24, 2009 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Watch a fireworks display, listen to a cover of a Frank Sinatra album, create your own work of art, listen to homegrown talent or root for your favorite wrestler.Tuesday: Fourth of July
Fourth of July fireworks light up Baltimore’s Inner Harbor Monday night.Celebrate Independence Day with a 15-minute long fireworks display at the Inner Harbor at Fourth of July in Baltimore on Tuesday. The event is free. The festivities begin at 3 p.m. with food, fun and a DJ at West Shore Park. Concerts will be held at the Inner Harbor Amphitheater from 4 p.m. to 6:30 pm. and at 8 p.m. the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra will host a Star-Spangled Celebration concert. baltimore.orgTuesday 9:15 p.m.Friday: Chris Pinnella — ‘Sinatra at the Sands’
Frank Sinatra, left, seen performing at the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas with fellow Rat Pack members Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr. and Joey Bishop.Singer Chris Pinnella and his 12-piece big band will cover Frank Sinatra’s iconic live album “Sinatra at the Sands” (1966) at the STAR Centre, 700 Congress Ave. in Havre de Grace. The performance will be done in the style of the arrangements by Count Basie and Quincy Jones. The album featured such classics as “I’ve Got You Under My Skin,” “Fly Me to the Moon (In Other Words),” “It Was a Very Good Year,” and more. Ticket prices start at $39.50. starcentremd.comFriday 7 p.m.Saturday: Oil Paintings with the Landscape in Mind


Learn how to paint during Robert Seyffert’s class at Manor Mill in Monkton.Painter Robert Seyffert shares some tips and secrets at “Workshops: Fine Art: Oil Painting with the Landscape in Mind.” The six-hour class will teach mixing colors, techniques and point of view in creating a work of art. Tickets cost $120. 2029 Monkton Road, Monkton. manor-mill.comSaturday 10 a.m.Saturday: Baltimore by Baltimore Festival
Devin Wilkins brings The Black Baltimore Renaissance to the Inner Harbor.Producer Devin Wilkins brings “A Curation of Love for Our City” to the Inner Harbor Amphitheater with “The Black Baltimore Renaissance,” part of the Baltimore by Baltimore festival series. The event features spoken word performances, health and wellness lessons, a six-piece African-American Jazz band, youth artworks, vegan and soul food, and more. Wilkins is the founder of Meeting Where You Are. The festival will focus on youth voices from Baltimore Youth Arts, B360 and others. Pratt Street and Light Street. waterfrontpartnership.orgSaturday 12 p.m. to 8 p.m.Monday: WWE Monday Night RAW
World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. Chairman Vince McMahon appears in the ring during the WWE Monday Night Raw show at the Thomas & Mack Center August 24, 2009 in Las Vegas, Nevada.Get a seat and catch all the trash-talking and body slamming at WWE Monday Night RAW at CFG Bank Arena, 201 W. Baltimore St. Tickets start at $20. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. and the show starts at 7:30 p.m. ticketmaster.comMonday 7:30 p.m.Events calendarDiscover more events or submit your own. //cdn.cityspark.com/wid/get.js Tuesday: Fourth of July Celebrate Independence Day with a 15-minute long fireworks display at the Inner Harbor at Fourth of July in Baltimore on Tuesday. The event is free. The festivities begin at 3 p.m. with food, fun and a DJ at West Shore Park. Concerts will be held at the Inner Harbor Amphitheater from 4 p.m. to 6:30 pm. and at 8 p.m. the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra will host a Star-Spangled Celebration concert. baltimore.org Tuesday 9:15 p.m. Friday: Chris Pinnella — ‘Sinatra at the Sands’ Singer Chris Pinnella and his 12-piece big band will cover Frank Sinatra’s iconic live album “Sinatra at the Sands” (1966) at the STAR Centre, 700 Congress Ave. in Havre de Grace. The performance will be done in the style of the arrangements by Count Basie and Quincy Jones. The album featured such classics as “I’ve Got You Under My Skin,” “Fly Me to the Moon (In Other Words),” “It Was a Very Good Year,” and more. Ticket prices start at $39.50. starcentremd.com Friday 7 p.m. Saturday: Oil Paintings with the Landscape in Mind Painter Robert Seyffert shares some tips and secrets at “Workshops: Fine Art: Oil Painting with the Landscape in Mind.” The six-hour class will teach mixing colors, techniques and point of view in creating a work of art. Tickets cost $120. 2029 Monkton Road, Monkton. manor-mill.com Saturday 10 a.m. Saturday: Baltimore by Baltimore Festival Producer Devin Wilkins brings “A Curation of Love for Our City” to the Inner Harbor Amphitheater with “The Black Baltimore Renaissance,” part of the Baltimore by Baltimore festival series. The event features spoken word performances, health and wellness lessons, a six-piece African-American Jazz band, youth artworks, vegan and soul food, and more. Wilkins is the founder of Meeting Where You Are. The festival will focus on youth voices from Baltimore Youth Arts, B360 and others. Pratt Street and Light Street. waterfrontpartnership.org Saturday 12 p.m. to 8 p.m. Monday: WWE Monday Night RAW Get a seat and catch all the trash-talking and body slamming at WWE Monday Night RAW at CFG Bank Arena, 201 W. Baltimore St. Tickets start at $20. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. and the show starts at 7:30 p.m. ticketmaster.com Monday 7:30 p.m. Events calendar Discover more events or submit your own.  //cdn.cityspark.com/wid/get.js Copyright © 2024 Baltimore Sun