We may receive a commission on purchases made from links. 
 Whether due to the harsh weather or regular wear and tear, windshield wipers will eventually give out on you. Tearing, streaking, and clattering are all valid reasons to head to the store and pick up a new set of windshield wipers. But finding a set that fits your needs can be difficult. The first step in the process is finding a wiper that's compatible with your car. For this list, the wipers chosen are compatible with a wide range of vehicles, but it's always best to double-check their compatibility before purchasing. One way you can do that is by inputting your car into Amazon's Garage, and it will automatically inform you if the wiper you are looking at is compatible with your car. Another tip is to choose a wiper in accordance with where spend most of your time driving. This list includes wipers that specialize in combating different types of weather, including heavy rain and snowstorms. It also features wipers built to last for years in neutral weather. Although, with how global warming is impacting the planet, it's only a matter of time before we all need extreme weather windshield wipers. 
 The $17.99 Rain-X Water Latitude 2-in-1 is one of the best windshield wipers to buy if you live in an area that experiences regular rainfall. That's because this blade applies a Rain X glass water-repellent formula onto your windshield via its rubber blades during use. This substance turns your windshield into a water-resistant surface that makes water slide off without leaving a trail, giving you a clearer view of the road. This blade fits 96% of vehicles, so you shouldn't worry if it will fit your car. It is also simple to install, as the QR on the back of the package provides a video detailing the installation instruction. This makes it a decent choice for those who have never replaced their windshield before and require extra help. Because of its beam blade design, this wiper contours to the windshield, giving it more contact points than standard wiper blades. The beam blade also has no exposed parts, preventing snow and ice from building. 
 The Trico ICE Wiper Blade retails for around $12.91. This wiper is designed to withstand even the coldest winters with its high-strength rubber material that keeps it safe in sub-zero temperatures. Additionally, its synthetic-blended armor makes it durable enough to survive whatever else winter throws at it. The wiper is available in lengths from 13 to 28 inches and features a universal one-click installation that makes it compatible with most arm types. Its beam design makes contact with the entire windshield, making it proficient at clearing off water and other debris without missing a spot. It's also flexible, contouring itself to the windshield to get every inch clean. Because of its durability and compatibility, Anyone that lives in an area that experiences heavy snowfall will want to check out the Trico Ice Wiper Blade. A durable wiper blade that can withstand harsh conditions will prevent you from running to the store every other month to replace your generic wiper blade. 
 At $23.99, a pair of Aero Avengers are built to last. Aero awards this wiper with a durability of 1 million wipes, stating that it will only show signs of minimal wear at around 120,000 wipes. This is around the same time many generic wipers need to be replaced, making the Aero Avenger far more durable than some of its competitors. Aero also provides two free squeegee refills, helping the wiper last even longer. That, alone, makes the Aero Avenger a worthy choice for your car. But that's not all this wiper has to offer. The Aero Avengers' blended rubber prevents streaks and chatter. Additionally, it sports an aerodynamic design, helping it combat noise, drag, and wind drift. Its dual-tensioned spring strips further reduce noise and shock. The Aero Avenger is an all-season wiper that doesn't need to get swapped out during the year due to its bracketless design combating snow and ice. 
 The Bosch Icon is a $29.99 wiper blade that comes in sizes 13-28 and attaches to hook adapters of 9x3mm and 9x4mm. It locks into places via a Valeo top lock that keeps it secure in all scenarios. Its wind spoiler also holds it in place by preventing it from lifting off at high speeds. This wiper is designed to function in all weather conditions, no matter how extreme. Its Dual Rubber design makes this possible, allowing it to survive in severe heat and cold. Like many of the blades on this list, the Bosh Icon has a beam design that resists snow and ice build-up. Additionally, its Tension Spring Arcing Technology contours the curvature of the wiper to each side of the windshield, ensuring that no water is left behind when wiping. This wiper is long-lasting, proven to last 40% longer than other blades at a similar price point, making it one of the most durable all-around wiper blades. 
 The $38.99 Trico Diamond wipers come in sizes 15 to 28 and can be picked up as a pair. The wiper is compatible with various arm types and mounts via a pinch tab. This all-season wiper is designed to provide the smoothest glide possible. Its highglide treated rubber keeps the wiper from chattering during use to minimize sound. The rubber also prevents the wiper from leaving streaks on the glass. Because of its beam blade design, it provides maximum coverage. For those speed demons out there, the Trico Diamond may be for you, as its durable steel frame makes it wind resistant up to 135 mph. So, as long as you are not on the Autobahn in a supercar, you're safe from the wiper flying off. Not only is it safe at high speeds, but it is also long-lasting, as it won't lose pressure over time thanks to its dual-point coupler.