In a recent study published in The Lancet Microbe, researchers determined the link between improved access to sanitation and better water quality and the human intestines' antibiotic resistance gene (ARG) frequency. Study: Evaluating the relationship between community water and sanitation access and the global burden of antibiotic resistance: an ecological study. Image Credit: SergeyMironov/Shutterstock.com Resistance to antibiotics is a significant population health concern, particularly in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). Inadequate water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) infrastructure and access to water may exacerbate the spread of antibiotic resistance, as pathogenic bacteria can acquire ARGs through horizontal gene transfer. Metagenomic sequencing has revealed the widespread prevalence of ARGs among bacteria, highlighting the challenge of preventing pathogens from acquiring them. In the present observational ecological study, researchers assessed regional disparities in ARG frequency and investigated whether improper WASH facilities could drive antibiotic resistance. ARG abundance in human fecal metagenomes and community-level penetration of enhanced sanitation and water quality in a 25.0 km perimeter of the metagenome coordinates. In January 2021, the researchers obtained georeferenced family survey datasets, which stated the availability of better sanitation and sources of drinkable water from the United States (US) National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Sequence Read Archive (SRA). The researchers selected studies from low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and high-income countries (HICs) to represent different ages and residential locations. The latitude and longitude coordinates were acquired from the metagenomic metadata in the SRA and confirmed with the associated study publication. Unpublished study authors from Kenya, Mozambique, and Bangladesh supplied additional human fecal metagenomes. The proportion of homes in the predefined area with better sanitation, drinking water, or both was calculated. Antibiotic consumption estimates, GDP per capita, income categorization by nation, defined daily doses (DDDs) among every 1,000 individuals daily, and population density in 2010 were also derived. If the geographical area and accessibility to better water supply and sanitation could not be confirmed, metagenomes were excluded. ARGs were discovered by matching reads to ARG amino acid sequences in the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database (CARD). Paired-end reads were assigned independently, with duplicate mappings deleted. Generalized linear modeling was performed for the analysis. In addition, sensitivity analyses included radii of 50.0 km and 75.0 km. Data from the US Agency for International Development and the UNICEF Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys were gathered for the year closest to the study date (range of dates utilized in the analysis (2010 to 2018). In total, 36 relevant studies were identified, including 25 LMIC studies, eight HIC studies, and three additional LMIC studies. Due to a lack of information on improved water quality for drinking and sanitation, three research investigations (one and two in Fiji and China, respectively) were removed. Furthermore, a study conducted in Brazil was rejected because of a high proportion of non-bacterial microbes and the absence of measurable ARGs in numerous metagenomes. A total of 1,589 metagenomes were identified from 26 nations, and increased availability of sanitation and better water quality was related to a reduction in ARG abundance, imparting resistance to trimethoprim and tetracycline antibiotics. Africa had the greatest mean ARG abundance compared to the West Pacific, North America, and Europe. In contrast, the southeastern part of Asia had the second highest compared to North America and Europe. Of the geographical regions investigated with variation in access to WASH, improved sanitation and water supply were related to the greatest decrease in ARGs in southeastern Asia. Tetracycline resistance was ubiquitous throughout all regions. The link between better sanitation and water supply and ARG richness was higher in cities than in remote regions. The most abundant bacterial families among all metagenomes were Bacteroidaceae, Prevotellaceae, Oscillospiraceae (or Ruminococcaceae), Enterobacteriaceae, and Lachnospiraceae. The subgroup analysis findings indicated a strong relationship between increased access to sanitation and drinkable water and ARG frequency in the fecal metagenomes was observed with a relatively high frequency of Enterobacteriaceae. Africa had a greater log10-derived mean Enterobacteriaceae proportion than Europe, North America, or the Western Pacific. Notably, in Madagascar, Mozambique, Indonesia, Italy, and one Bangladesh investigation, the average Enterobacteriaceae proportion exceeded 15%. The sensitivity analysis yielded results. Increased accessibility to sanitation and safe drinking water was associated with reducing the number of ARGs in the samples. Of 198 ARGs identified in at least 5.0% of the samples, ermT (MLS), tetM (tetracycline resistance), blaCTX-M (beta-lactamase resistance) and qnrS (fluoroquinolone resistance) are known threats to global public health due to their presence in the genetic makeup of Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecium, Acinetobacter baumannii, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Based on the study's findings, enhancing community access to sanitation and safe drinking water may reduce antibiotic resistance in LMICs. However, further study is needed to evaluate the relationship between improved WASH and the healthcare burden of antibiotic resistance. The follow-up in future studies must also consider the time required for pre-existing ARG clearance from the human intestine. Erica R Fuhrmeister et al. (2023) Evaluating the relationship between community water and sanitation access and the global burden of antibiotic resistance: an ecological study. Lancet Microbe. doi: 10.1016/ S2666-5247(23)00137-4. https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanmic/article/PIIS2666-5247(23)00137-4/fulltext Posted in: Medical Science News | Medical Research News | Disease/Infection News | Healthcare News Tags: Acinetobacter, Acinetobacter Baumannii, Amino Acid, Antibiotic, Antibiotic Resistance, Bacteria, Biotechnology, Enterococcus, Fluoroquinolone, Frequency, Gene, Gene Transfer, Genetic, Healthcare, Hygiene, Public Health, Research, Staphylococcus aureus, Tetracycline Written by Pooja Toshniwal Paharia is an oral and maxillofacial physician and radiologist based in Pune, India. Her academic background is in Oral Medicine and Radiology. She has extensive experience in research and evidence-based clinical-radiological diagnosis and management of oral lesions and conditions and associated maxillofacial disorders. Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: APA Toshniwal Paharia, Pooja Toshniwal Paharia. (2023, July 05). The relationship between the burden of antibiotic resistance in humans and community access to drinking water and sanitation. News-Medical. Retrieved on August 20, 2024 from https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230705/The-relationship-between-the-burden-of-antibiotic-resistance-in-humans-and-community-access-to-drinking-water-and-sanitation.aspx. MLA Toshniwal Paharia, Pooja Toshniwal Paharia. "The relationship between the burden of antibiotic resistance in humans and community access to drinking water and sanitation". News-Medical. 20 August 2024. <https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230705/The-relationship-between-the-burden-of-antibiotic-resistance-in-humans-and-community-access-to-drinking-water-and-sanitation.aspx>. Chicago Toshniwal Paharia, Pooja Toshniwal Paharia. "The relationship between the burden of antibiotic resistance in humans and community access to drinking water and sanitation". News-Medical. https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230705/The-relationship-between-the-burden-of-antibiotic-resistance-in-humans-and-community-access-to-drinking-water-and-sanitation.aspx. (accessed August 20, 2024). Harvard Toshniwal Paharia, Pooja Toshniwal Paharia. 2023. The relationship between the burden of antibiotic resistance in humans and community access to drinking water and sanitation. News-Medical, viewed 20 August 2024, https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230705/The-relationship-between-the-burden-of-antibiotic-resistance-in-humans-and-community-access-to-drinking-water-and-sanitation.aspx. Cancel reply to comment John Yates In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024, we spoke to Professor John Yates about capturing cardiomyocyte cell-to-cell heterogeneity via shotgun top-down proteomics. Tim Simpson Hologic’s Tim Simpson Discusses the Future of Cervical Cancer Screening. Maria Marco In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024 in San Diego, Maria Marco discusses her research on the health benefits, safety, and waste reduction potential of fermented foods, and the microbial processes involved in their production. 

                                                  
                                                        News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                                        with these terms and conditions.
                                                        Please note that medical information found
                                                        on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                                        between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
                                                  
                                                  

                                             Last Updated: Tuesday 20 Aug 2024  News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site Owned and operated by AZoNetwork, © 2000-2024 
                Your AI Powered Scientific Assistant
             Hi, I'm Azthena, you can trust me to find commercial scientific answers from News-Medical.net. A few things you need to know before we start. Please read and accept to continue. Great. Ask your question. 
                Azthena may occasionally provide inaccurate responses.
Read the full terms.
             Terms 
            While we only use edited and approved content for Azthena
            answers, it may on occasions provide incorrect responses.
            Please confirm any data provided with the related suppliers or
            authors. We do not provide medical advice, if you search for
            medical information you must always consult a medical
            professional before acting on any information provided.
         
            Your questions, but not your email details will be shared with
            OpenAI and retained for 30 days in accordance with their
            privacy principles.
         
            Please do not ask questions that use sensitive or confidential
            information.
         Read the full Terms & Conditions. Provide Feedback