Ranked among the top water research institutions in the world, the Water Institute is a leader in  water  research and  education. Microplastics, pervasive pollutants in aquatic ecosystems, present a pressing challenge for researchers striving to understand and mitigate their impact. Amidst this challenge arises a new technology: microwave-microfluidic based sensors. This article delves into the transformative potential of these sensors in the realm of microplastic research. You would be hard-pressed to find a corner of the world free from microplastics, plastic particles measuring less than five millimetres. They contaminate our drinking water, accumulate in the food we eat and have been found in the human body, including in blood, organs, placenta, semen and breast milk. A School of Public Health Sciences research team, co-directed by Water Institute members Drs. Craig Janes and Warren Dodd, have been awarded more than $1.5 million through the federal government’s New Frontiers in Research Fund, which supports interdisciplinary and transformative research led by Canadians working with international partners.  As part of the Water Institute's WaterLeadership training series, the Water Institute, presents, "Knowledge Mobilization 101” with Nancy Goucher, Knowledge Mobilization Specialist, Water Institute, University of Waterloo. As part of the Water Institute's WaterLeadership training series, the Water Institute, presents, Sharing Science: Effective presentations.. As part of the Water Institute's WaterLeadership training series, the Water Institute, presents, Sharing Science: Clear language writing. Water Institute University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567, ext. 42658water.institute@uwaterloo.ca Centre for Environmental and Information Technology (EIT)Rooms 3001 to 30118:30 am to 4:30 pm Provide website feedback 
The
Water
Institute
acknowledges
that
we
are
on
the
traditional
territory
of
‎the
Neutral,
Anishinaabeg,
and
Haudenosaunee
peoples.
The
University
of
Waterloo
is
situated
on
the
Haldimand
Tract,
the
land
promised
to
the
Six
Nations
that
includes
six
miles
on
each
side
of
the
Grand
River.
Our
actions
toward
reconciliation
take
place
through
our
research,
teaching,
learning,
and
community
events,
with
guidance
from
the
University’s

Indigenous
Initiatives
Office. The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg, and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is co-ordinated within the Office of Indigenous Relations.