How much water do you drink a day? If a new study is anything to go by, the you’re likely not drinking enough. A new survey has found that as much as one in 10 Brits say they never drink water, and that millions more are drinking less than the daily recommendation. Read more: This motivational bottle helps me drink more water (and my skin has never looked better) - Yahoo Life UK, 3-min read In fact, 39% of the 2,000 people surveyed by Zip Water said that they only have the recommended daily amount of water 'once in a blue moon', and 24% of people who don’t like water avoid it due to the taste and 25% find it 'boring'. While 30% of people keep a bottle of water handy to try and up their intake throughout the day, and 29% glug water first thing, here are some other ways to up your water intake if you’re not a fan. The NHS recommends between six to eight glasses of water per day, which is between 1.5 to 2.5 litres. However, extra fluid is needed during hot weather or exercise as you may be sweating more. Some of the benefits of keeping hydrated, according to Harvard University, include: Preventing infections Keeping organs functioning properly Regulating boy temperature Keeping joints lubricated Delivering nutrients to cells Being dehydrated can affect your kidney function, lead to a loss of strength and stamina and can manifest itself in headaches, dizziness and lightheadedness. Read more: Do tea and coffee count towards daily water intake? - Yahoo Life UK, 5-min read If constantly going back and forth to your kitchen or office sink to fill up your cup is time you considered wasted, an all-in-one water bottle might be the perfect solution for you. A motivational water bottle from QuiFit is 2.2 litres and has time stamped markings down the side so you know how much water you should consume by what time each day. If you love the feel of a fizzy drink on your tongue, you can try swapping it for sparkling water to get that same sensation with more hydration benefits. If it’s the taste of water that's putting you off, try adding a slice of lemon or lime to your glass of water or even some strawberries to get it a fruity taste. Read more: What to eat to beat the heat: 15 foods with high water content - Yahoo Life UK, 3-min read While your English Breakfast tea does technically count towards your daily fluid intake, if you want to increase your water consumption consider swapping to a herbal tea like a green tea as this is essentially hot flavoured water. Green tea is also a good option if you’re looking to drink less coffee as it has naturally occurring caffeine. While you should certainly be aiming to reach your daily water intake goals from fluid alone, there are some foods that contain high amounts of water that can help aid this hydration. The fruit and vegetables with the highest water content include cucumber, iceberg lettuce, celery, radishes, tomatoes, green peppers, cauliflower, watermelon and spinach. But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. "We still have hope and will never give up" Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. I'd never really thought about it before, but I wouldn't expect this to be the origins of 'o'clock'. A mum has divided opinions after admitting she purposely excluded one boy from her daughter's birthday party - even she isn't sure whether or not she did the right thing The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." Debbie Duncan has spoken out on rumours her son was involved with a drug cartel A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend Rochelle Humes opened up about her three children while chatting to Channel 5 stars on ITV's This Morning