If you're eager to explore different cuisines, reduce takeout expenses or adopt a healthier eating habit, meal delivery services provide an excellent opportunity to diversify your dinners. With numerous options available, ranging from meal kits to pre-made dishes, our preferred choice, Home Chef, stands out by offering a wide range of delicious meal kits that can be tailored to your individual preferences. The best meal delivery services like Dinnerly offer convenience, ample customization and, most ... [+] importantly, great value. Meal delivery services are often particularly beneficial for those with a busy schedule. “Everyone these days is time-strapped,” says Megan Lyons, a certified clinical nutritionist. “If you are debating between cooking all your meals fresh at home and ordering takeout or going to restaurants for all of the meals, that feels like a really impossible trade-off between both health and time. A meal delivery service bridges both, providing the benefit of saving time and not having to cook, as well as the health benefit of not eating all your meals at restaurants.” When evaluating different services, factors to consider include the types of meals available, recipe variety and alignment with your dietary preferences. While some services cater to vegetarian, vegan, gluten-free, keto and even Whole30 diets, it's worth noting that specialized meal plans often come with a higher cost per serving. Here are our recommendations of the absolute best meal delivery services on the market—so get ready to make room in your fridge. Home Chef Type: Meal kits or pre-made meals | Price per serving: $9.99 and up | Lifestyle options: Vegetarian, calorie-conscious, carb-conscious | Serving size(s): One, two or four | Prep Time: 20-40 minutes for meal kits What You’ll Love: Keep In Mind: If you’re looking for a highly customizable meal delivery service, Home Chef is our top recommendation for most households. The service offers oven-ready and grill-ready meals as well as more traditional meal kits—there’s a plan for everyone. The Fast & Fresh option, for example, includes prepared meals that you just have to pop in the microwave or oven. If you’re looking for something a little more gourmet (think Caprese-style chicken pasta bake) and you’re willing to do a little cooking, opt for dishes belonging to the Culinary Collection. Plus, Home Chef will even allow you to customize protein sources on select recipes—for instance, switching the chicken out for steak or adding extra meat to your box. While the service doesn’t offer dedicated plans for specific lifestyles, it gives you endless opportunities to tailor meals to your preferences. For example, you can note if you’re carb-conscious or if you avoid foods like sesame, pork or peanuts. Home Chef also offers tons of options: Every week, take your pick from 30-plus meals and a variety of extras, including breakfast and dessert items. The 2024 Forbes Vetted Best Product Awards are here: Explore our 150 top-recommended items across categories after extensive research and testing. Dinnerly Type: Meal kits or pre-made meals | Price per serving: $4.99 and up | Lifestyle options: Vegetarian | Serving size(s): Two or four | Prep Time: 20-40 minutes for meal kits What You’ll Love: Keep In Mind:  Dinnerly offers convenience, ample customization and, most importantly, great value. It’s one of the most affordable meal delivery services out there, starting at under $5 a serving. With the service, you can pick how many people you’re looking to feed with each kit—two or four—how many meals you’d like delivered each week, and whether you’d like to make your box fully vegetarian, so you’re only shown veggie choices in the next step. You’re then directed to choose from over 100 recipe options per week, some of which are labeled “no-chop” and, as you’d expect, require almost no prep on your part. Dinnerly says it’s able to keep costs so low because of a unique, no-frills approach: The company uses digital recipe cards, simple recipes with a smaller assortment of ingredients than you might see otherwise and minimal packaging. But if great-tasting and low-cost food is what you’re after, this is a small trade-off. Blue Apron Type: Meal kits | Price per serving: $7.99 and up | Lifestyle options: Vegetarian, family-friendly | Serving size(s): Two or four | Prep Time: 30-45 minutes What You’ll Love: Keep In Mind: Blue Apron is one of the best-known meal kit services, and it gives you a lot of options when it comes to dinnertime. All ingredients in the company’s kits are sourced from suppliers that focus on sustainability, and the produce is top-notch. You can pick meals based on a qualifier, like “Fast & Easy,” which are ready in 30 minutes, or “Ready to Cook,” which can just be put straight into the oven. You can also choose from two- and four-serving plans and up to five recipes per week.  Menus change weekly, allowing you to select new choices that feature meat, fish or plant-based proteins, and attractive menu cards show you how your dishes should look and can be saved for later use. HelloFresh Type: Meal kits | Price per serving: $7.49 and up | Lifestyle options: Vegetarian, family-friendly, pescatarian | Serving size(s): Two or four | Prep Time: 30-35 minutes What You’ll Love: Keep In Mind: HelloFresh is one of the most popular meal delivery services out there, and for good reason—it’s easy to use, offers a wide range of options and is budget- and family-friendly to boot. The company lets you choose whether you’d like to receive anywhere from two to six recipes per week, each of which serve either two or four people. Select from a range of dietary preferences, too, including meat and veggies, pescatarian, family-friendly and even a “quick and easy” option for when you know you won’t have the time to spend on a more involved meal.  Once your kits arrive, just whip out the included ingredients, follow the directions printed on the menu cards and enjoy. Some chopping and dicing is required, so don’t expect it to be a total cakewalk to prep these dishes. But most dishes don’t have a ton of ingredients, so they really are easy enough to make. The menu cards can also be stowed away for later, allowing you to recreate your favorite dishes at your leisure. BistroMD Type: Pre-made meals | Price per serving: $10.99 and up | Lifestyle options: Gluten-free, diabetic-friendly, heart-healthy, keto, vegan, menopause | Serving size(s): Single-serve | Prep Time: Less than 5 minutes What You’ll Love: Keep In Mind: Jump start your weight loss routine by planning out every meal the easy way. BistroMD offers meals designed by a dietitian to support your weight loss goals and caters to specific needs like gluten-free, diabetic-friendly, and heart-healthy. There’s even a menu plan designed specifically for women experiencing menopause to support the unique needs of this life stage with well-balanced nutrition. After choosing your diet preference, you select how many meals you want. The full program is the easiest way to eliminate guesswork from your meal planning, and it includes breakfast and lunch for seven days, and dinner for six days, leaving you one meal per week to treat yourself. However, you can also opt to receive just lunch and dinners for five or seven days. Plus, there are more than 150 recipes in total available each week, making it easy to stick with the eating plan without becoming bored.  CookUnity Type: Pre-made meals | Price per serving: $11 and up | Lifestyle options: Vegetarian, vegan, low-carb, keto, paleo and more | Serving size(s): Single-serve | Prep Time: Less than 5 minutes What You’ll Love: Keep In Mind: If you want to be able to try new, exciting meals each week, CookUnity offers more than 200 different chef-crafted recipes to choose from. This prepared meal service works with regional chefs to create delicious single-serving dishes, and they’re shipped fresh to your door, allowing you to quickly heat up your food and dig in. You can select anywhere from four to 16 meals per week, and there are options that cater to a variety of dietary requirements, including vegan, keto, paleo and low-carb recipes. Plus, you can add on a variety of other items to your delivery, including everything from breakfasts, desserts, drinks and even condiments.  Fresh N Lean Type: Pre-made meals | Price per serving: $7.93 and up | Lifestyle options: Vegetarian, low-carb, keto, common allergens | Serving size(s): Single-serve | Prep Time: Less than 5 minutes What You’ll Love: Keep In Mind: While many prepared meal services ship frozen entrees, Fresh N Lean sends you fresh meals that preserve the taste and texture of the foods inside. Ingredients are organic, non-GMO and free of preservatives, and each vacuum sealed tray has a shelf life of seven to 10 days in the refrigerator. Though you can freeze the meals to stretch their shelf life to 6 to 8 weeks if necessary. Fresh N Lean offers a variety of menu plans to fit your dietary preferences, such as keto, vegan, low-carb vegan, protein plus, bulk and paleo. (However, it’s worth noting that there’s no “standard” plan—you have to choose one of these categories.) One of the best things about Fresh N Lean’s meals is the option to exclude up to three ingredients from your meal plan—either because of dietary restrictions or taste preferences. A separate option lets you omit the most common allergens from your meal.  Factor Type: Pre-made meals | Price per serving: $10.99 and up | Lifestyle options: Chef’’s choice, keto, protein plus, vegan/veggie, “flexitarian,” calorie smart | Serving size(s): Single-serve | Prep Time: Less than 5 minutes What You’ll Love: Keep In Mind:  Formerly known as Factor75, Factor is a popular prepared meal service for anyone serious about committing to a ketogenic diet or looking to streamline their weekly meal prep routine. Factor offers breakfast, lunch and dinner options to make it easy to stick with your food and fitness goals, and it recently increased its menu to cater to even more dietary preferences. In addition to its keto plan, there are options for low calorie, protein plus, vegan/veggie and “flexitarian.” The ordering process is simple: Select from six to 18 meals per week, then pick out any additional items you’re craving. Prices range between $11 and $14 per entrée, depending on how many meals you order for the week, and the food is shipped fresh to your door, so you don’t have to worry about freezer burn.  Trifecta Type: Pre-made meals | Price per serving: $14 and up | Lifestyle options: Whole30, keto, vegan, classic | Serving size(s): Single-serve | Prep Time: 2-10 minutes What You’ll Love: Keep In Mind: Whole30 is a popular 30-day meal plan where you eat whole foods and eliminate ingredients like sugar, alcohol, grains, and dairy, and if you want Whole30-approved meals delivered to your door, one of the best options is Trifecta. This prepared meal delivery service offers a Whole30 plan that’s made from whole, organic ingredients and follows all the Whole30 rules.  With Trifecta, you can choose between five, seven, 10 or 14 meals per week, with the option to add on seven breakfasts. The recipes have balanced macro nutrients to keep you feeling full, and they’re quick and easy to heat up, allowing you to have dinner ready in less than 10 minutes.  Purple Carrot Type: Meal kits or pre-made meals | Price per serving: $11 and up | Lifestyle options: Vegan | Serving size(s): Two or four | Prep Time: 25-45 minutes What You’ll Love: Keep In Mind: Purple Carrot only serves up plant-based meals, so you never have to stress about a stray piece of steak winding up in your delivery box. Choose from four plans—High-Protein, Gluten-Free, Quick & Easy or Chef’s Choice—or create your own box by choosing meals from a menu that changes weekly. There are a lot of options for getting your food, including two- and four-serving plans and up to four dinners a week. You can even pick whether you prefer to create your own dishes or heat up pre-made meals. There are also Celebrations boxes that focus on serving more people for special occasions. Worth noting: The company isn’t fully organic, but it does have plenty of organic options.  The Forbes Vetted team has ample experience when it comes to meal delivery services—we’ve tested many of the best meal kits included on this list, and we’ve also written extensively about other types of food delivery services. We’ve spent hundreds of hours researching all the most popular brands available today and even spoke with people who have used the services themselves.   Maybe one of your goals in 2024 is to cook more at home; maybe it is to follow a plant-based or vegetable-forward diet; maybe your schedule’s gotten busy and you need a little help to save your precious time. Whatever the reason, there is probably a meal delivery service out there that’s right for you—and we’ve formatted this list to make it extra-easy to identify the winner.   Meal delivery services are a convenient and easy option to get delicious food on the table for busy weeknights, but there is a wide range of options to choose from. Keep these factors in mind when choosing the right meal delivery service for you. There are two main types of meal delivery services: meal kits and pre-made meals. If you don’t mind a longer prep time, there are several benefits to meal kits. “Meal kits get all the ingredients for you and directions so you can cook the meal yourself—this is great if you don’t have time to run to the grocery store,” explains Dr. Laura Purdy, MD, a board-certified physician. “Because you are cooking it, food is fresh and hot, and you can make any adjustments you want with items you have at home already.” Meal kits are also typically cost less per serving. On the other hand, prepared meals are much faster to get on the table—they typically just need to be warmed in the microwave or oven for a few minutes. However, they sometimes lack the flavor of freshly prepared meals, and they cost more. As you compare meal delivery services, you may want to look at the ingredients used in their meals. “See what ingredients they are picking, how they are cooking and what they are cooking with,” recommends Dr. Purdy. “Are they using oils or butters to cook in? Are they adding a lot of salt to the meals? Are they providing healthy ingredients and options? Are the meals full of sauces and condiments?” You may also want to consider whether the service uses locally sourced ingredients and whether the food is certified organic. It can be hard to tell whether meal delivers will taste good just by looking at the photos online, which is why it can be helpful to read customer reviews. You’ll also want to consider factors like the level of spice in the recipes (which is often a personal preference), whether you can exclude ingredients you don’t like and how the food is shipped. Pre-made meals that are shipped frozen often lose a bit of flavor and texture, which can make them less enjoyable to eat: “Some of these meals are cooked fresh somewhere but then either shipped over long distances or frozen and then delivered to you frozen. If it comes frozen, the nutrients are probably more intact, but the texture can be off,” says Lyons. The best meal delivery services offer a wide range of meals and introduce new recipes on a regular basis, helping to keep things fresh. As you compare different services, take a look at their sample menus to see how many options they offer each week. This is especially important if you have specific dietary needs—such as a vegan diet or gluten-free foods—as many brands have more limited selections in these categories. Meal delivery services can range from $5 per serving to $20 or more: “One of the drawbacks is that it is more expensive than cooking your meals at home,” explains Lyons. You’ll want to consider your weekly budget when selecting a service, taking into account shipping fees, as well. Many services offer discounts when you order more food, so you may want to think about ordering in bulk and freezing the food to eat later, especially if you’re opting for pre-made meals. Meal delivery services come with a lot of perks. “There are some great benefits when using a meal delivery service,” says Dr. Purdy. “It can create habits that are healthy for you, but finding meal delivery services that are good for you and provide nutritious food is key.” “It can also help you eat the right portion sizes,” she explains. “Oftentimes, when you are eating out for pick up, delivery or dining in, the portion sizes are so much bigger than typical per meal.” In particular, prepped meals offer pre-portioned servings that can help you stay on track with your health and dietary goals and make it less tempting to order takeout on a whim—a decision that can benefit your health and your wallet. Having a refrigerator (or freezer) full of prepped meals can also reduce stress since you don’t have to figure out what you’re having for dinner. While the upfront cost of a meal delivery service may be more expensive than preparing the meal yourself, the time and forethought you save often proves invaluable. If you break down the price per meal, you may end up paying more for prepped meals delivered right to your door than you would if you cooked the same meals from scratch, but it’s important to consider all factors. Do you have a lot of food waste when you buy groceries? Do you end up eating out more often because you don’t feel like cooking? Do you eat larger portions when you make your own meals? These are all things that will affect your overall food costs.  