Chief secretary SS Sandhu has directed officials to work on building small parking facilities near picturesque tourist spots in the mountainous districts. The search for sites to build parking facilities should be done as a continuous process. Surface parking and similar facilities should be arranged at low gradient sites along national highways and State highways. The chief secretary said this while holding a meeting to review the progress of tunnel parkings to be built in the State here on Friday.
He said that the portal based monitoring of sites identified for tunnel and automated parking facilities should be done through the GatiShaktri Sanchar portal. He also directed the officials to continue looking for new parking spaces across the State. The chief secretary said that identification of new sites for building parking spaces is a continuous process and should be continued in the future also. In case of any type of problem being faced at any level in any parking project, the solution should be worked out with consistent communication with the official or secretary concerned. Sandhu further directed that the progress of the task of building parking projects should be reviewed on a weekly basis.
Officials stated in the meeting that a total of 26 sites have been identified across the State for construction of tunnel parking facilities. The work on these projects is progressing at varied levels, informed the officials. Additional chief secretary Anand Bardhan, principal secretary RK Sudhashu among other officials concerned were also present in the meeting. Chief secretary SS Sandhu has directed officials to work on building small parking facilities near picturesque tourist spots in the mountainous districts. The search for sites to build parking facilities should be done as a continuous process. Surface parking and similar facilities should be arranged at low gradient sites along national highways and State highways. The chief secretary said this while holding a meeting to review the progress of tunnel parkings to be built in the State here on Friday. He said that the portal based monitoring of sites identified for tunnel and automated parking facilities should be done through the GatiShaktri Sanchar portal. He also directed the officials to continue looking for new parking spaces across the State. The chief secretary said that identification of new sites for building parking spaces is a continuous process and should be continued in the future also. In case of any type of problem being faced at any level in any parking project, the solution should be worked out with consistent communication with the official or secretary concerned. Sandhu further directed that the progress of the task of building parking projects should be reviewed on a weekly basis. Officials stated in the meeting that a total of 26 sites have been identified across the State for construction of tunnel parking facilities. The work on these projects is progressing at varied levels, informed the officials. Additional chief secretary Anand Bardhan, principal secretary RK Sudhashu among other officials concerned were also present in the meeting. 

