We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Healthline only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. We tested nearly 30 meal delivery services, and found these 6 to be the best gluten-free meal kits. Our registered dietitians tried them all to help you determine which delicious option is right for you. Anyone who has slipped up in their gluten-free discipline or missed a gluten ingredient buried in a long list of additives knows how painful or uncomfortable the effects of celiac disease or non-celiac gluten sensitivity are. A straightforward gluten-free diet can make avoiding the ill effects possible. Whichever category you’re in, if you’re looking for gluten-free meal delivery, we’ve got you.  After testing nearly 30 gluten-free meal delivery services, our testers have chosen the seven best for having the greatest variety in delicious, gluten-free prepared meals and meal kits, and for their efforts to reduce gluten exposure in their processes. You can read on to discover one that’s right for you.  Disclaimer: The services tested below were tried by Healthline writers or editors, who received the meals for free. All opinions are our own. Pricing information is current as of publication and is subject to change.  Healthline’s nutrition editor, Kelli McGrane, reviewed Green Chef from her expert perspective as a registered dietitian and a busy mom of two. “Green Chef does a really great job of providing nutritionally-balanced meals that are flavorful and enjoyable to eat. The meals were bursting with various textures and ingredients. The flavors were really tasty and different than what we typically cook at home.” For those who may be wondering what kind of cooking skills are needed, Kelli has this to offer: “Some take a bit more cooking skills than others, though none of the recipes require fancy cooking equipment.” – Kelli McGrane, MS, RD, Healthline nutrition editor Healthline’s nutrition editor, Kelli McGrane, reviewed Green Chef from her expert perspective as a registered dietitian and a busy mom of two. “Green Chef does a really great job of providing nutritionally-balanced meals that are flavorful and enjoyable to eat. The meals were bursting with various textures and ingredients. The flavors were really tasty and different than what we typically cook at home.” For those who may be wondering what kind of cooking skills are needed, Kelli has this to offer: “Some take a bit more cooking skills than others, though none of the recipes require fancy cooking equipment.” – Kelli McGrane, MS, RD, Healthline nutrition editor  SaVanna Shoemaker is a registered dietitian and busy mom who had this to say after testing Home Chef: “Home Chef is reasonably priced and they have a lot of quick meals that only require a few minutes of prep time. I had a good experience with Home Chef. The ingredients arrive packaged by recipe in plastic bags, which is really convenient when you’re getting ready to cook dinner. The meals were both really tasty and came together very easily, with helpful and straightforward recipe cards.” “The meals were simple with sauces that added lots of flavor. They also offer a lot of add on salads and sides to stretch the meals further.” While SaVanna enjoyed the meals, she found they could be more family focused: “I thought Home Chef needed a few more kid-friendly options.” – SaVanna Shoemaker, MS, RDN, LD, Healthline writer SaVanna Shoemaker is a registered dietitian and busy mom who had this to say after testing Home Chef: “Home Chef is reasonably priced and they have a lot of quick meals that only require a few minutes of prep time. I had a good experience with Home Chef. The ingredients arrive packaged by recipe in plastic bags, which is really convenient when you’re getting ready to cook dinner. The meals were both really tasty and came together very easily, with helpful and straightforward recipe cards.” “The meals were simple with sauces that added lots of flavor. They also offer a lot of add on salads and sides to stretch the meals further.” While SaVanna enjoyed the meals, she found they could be more family focused: “I thought Home Chef needed a few more kid-friendly options.” – SaVanna Shoemaker, MS, RDN, LD, Healthline writer Registered dietitian Rachael Ajmera tried Trifecta and gave the meals good marks for their range of ingredients, as well as the impressive tastes and textures, which did not diminish with reheating. “I found that the meals had enough variety and featured diverse ingredients, which helped ensure that they didn’t feel boring or repetitive throughout the week.” “I [also]  found that most ingredients maintained their taste and texture very well even after reheating, which can be a common issue with prepared meals.” — Rachael Ajmera, MS, RD, Healthline writer Registered dietitian Rachael Ajmera tried Trifecta and gave the meals good marks for their range of ingredients, as well as the impressive tastes and textures, which did not diminish with reheating. “I found that the meals had enough variety and featured diverse ingredients, which helped ensure that they didn’t feel boring or repetitive throughout the week.” “I [also]  found that most ingredients maintained their taste and texture very well even after reheating, which can be a common issue with prepared meals.” — Rachael Ajmera, MS, RD, Healthline writer  Registered dietitian Rachael Ajmera tried Daily Harvest and had a positive experience. “I sampled several entrees, breakfast dishes, snacks, and smoothies from Daily Harvest, all of which I found were tasty, convenient, and easy to prepare. That said, she was somewhat underwhelmed by the portion sizes. “The portion sizes were small and not very filling. Therefore, I would recommend using it alongside other meals or snacks to help round out your diet.” — Rachael Ajmera, MS, RD, Healthline writer Registered dietitian Rachael Ajmera tried Daily Harvest and had a positive experience. “I sampled several entrees, breakfast dishes, snacks, and smoothies from Daily Harvest, all of which I found were tasty, convenient, and easy to prepare. That said, she was somewhat underwhelmed by the portion sizes. “The portion sizes were small and not very filling. Therefore, I would recommend using it alongside other meals or snacks to help round out your diet.” — Rachael Ajmera, MS, RD, Healthline writer  Our in-house dietitian, Kelli McGrane, has tested dozens of meal kits and Sunbasket ticked a lot of boxes for her. “Thanks to seasonal ingredients and house-made spice blends and sauces, each of the meals I tried tasted fresh and flavorful. The kits arrived on-time and in good condition. In fact, I thought the packaging and quality of the meat and seafood was the best out of all of the meal kits I’ve tried.” “Overall, I found Sunbasket to offer the most consistently delicious flavors and exciting ingredient combinations. I also appreciated that the meals I tried were bursting with vegetables, which isn’t always the case with meal kits.” When asked to assess cost, Kelli had this to say: “While it isn’t cheap, I think Sunbasket is worth the cost if you value organic ingredients and exciting new flavor and ingredient combinations.” — Kelli McGrane, MS, RD, Healthline nutrition editor Our in-house dietitian, Kelli McGrane, has tested dozens of meal kits and Sunbasket ticked a lot of boxes for her. “Thanks to seasonal ingredients and house-made spice blends and sauces, each of the meals I tried tasted fresh and flavorful. The kits arrived on-time and in good condition. In fact, I thought the packaging and quality of the meat and seafood was the best out of all of the meal kits I’ve tried.” “Overall, I found Sunbasket to offer the most consistently delicious flavors and exciting ingredient combinations. I also appreciated that the meals I tried were bursting with vegetables, which isn’t always the case with meal kits.” When asked to assess cost, Kelli had this to say: “While it isn’t cheap, I think Sunbasket is worth the cost if you value organic ingredients and exciting new flavor and ingredient combinations.” — Kelli McGrane, MS, RD, Healthline nutrition editor  Epicured is a great choice for those who prefer a low FODMAP meal plan. Registered dietitian, Kelli McGrane, had this to say after trying it: “I sampled several items from the main menu, including entrees, wraps, and salads. I was pleasantly surprised by the variety of cuisines, proteins, and types of vegetables offered and liked that there were many types of meals available. “All of my meals arrived fresh and in good condition and I was particularly impressed by how fresh all of the vegetables tasted.” — Kelli McGrane, MS, RD, Healthline nutrition editor Epicured is a great choice for those who prefer a low FODMAP meal plan. Registered dietitian, Kelli McGrane, had this to say after trying it: “I sampled several items from the main menu, including entrees, wraps, and salads. I was pleasantly surprised by the variety of cuisines, proteins, and types of vegetables offered and liked that there were many types of meals available. “All of my meals arrived fresh and in good condition and I was particularly impressed by how fresh all of the vegetables tasted.” — Kelli McGrane, MS, RD, Healthline nutrition editor  We’ve tested nearly 30 of the most popular meal delivery services on the market. Testers select a week’s worth of meals from multiple menus to get a well-rounded view of the types of flavors and ingredients offered. During testing, we consider several factors, including the ease of the signup and meal selection process, the variety and nutritional composition of the meals offered, ingredient quality and freshness, how easy the meals are to cook, and, of course, the taste. Every meal delivery service on our list has been reviewed by registered dietitians and vetted to ensure that it aligns with Healthline’s brand integrity standards and approach to well-being. Each service in this article: You can read more about our vetting process. There are many factors to keep in mind when selecting a meal delivery service, especially if you follow a gluten-free diet: Yes, there are some terrific meals kits offering gluten-free options. Sunbasket wins our vote, offering a broad selection of gluten-free, organic meals that you make at home. It also has prepared meals. It’s important to note, however, that Sunbasket’s gluten-free menu items are packaged in a facility that processes food allergens, including gluten, so are unsuitable for those with severe gluten-related disorders, such as celiac disease. Green Chef has meal kits and prepared meals that are gluten-free. These options are prepared in facilities certified as a Gluten-Free Safe Spot business by the Gluten Intolerance Group. Yes, there are some terrific meals kits offering gluten-free options. Sunbasket wins our vote, offering a broad selection of gluten-free, organic meals that you make at home. It also has prepared meals. It’s important to note, however, that Sunbasket’s gluten-free menu items are packaged in a facility that processes food allergens, including gluten, so are unsuitable for those with severe gluten-related disorders, such as celiac disease. Green Chef has meal kits and prepared meals that are gluten-free. These options are prepared in facilities certified as a Gluten-Free Safe Spot business by the Gluten Intolerance Group.  Though HelloFresh doesn’t have any specific gluten-free menus or meal plans, it offers some recipes that can fit into a gluten-free diet.   However, its meal kits are not prepared in a gluten-free facility, meaning that cross contamination is possible.  Though HelloFresh doesn’t have any specific gluten-free menus or meal plans, it offers some recipes that can fit into a gluten-free diet.   However, its meal kits are not prepared in a gluten-free facility, meaning that cross contamination is possible. Some of it is. You need to choose Green Chef’s Gluten-Free meal plan in order to filter to the gluten-free options for entrees, soups, salads, and breakfast items. The preparation of these meals also meet criteria marking Green Chef as a Gluten-Free Safe Spot business by the Gluten Intolerance Group. Some of it is. You need to choose Green Chef’s Gluten-Free meal plan in order to filter to the gluten-free options for entrees, soups, salads, and breakfast items. The preparation of these meals also meet criteria marking Green Chef as a Gluten-Free Safe Spot business by the Gluten Intolerance Group. If you have a gluten-related disorder, or simply prefer to avoid gluten, gluten-free meal kit delivery services make it easy to enjoy healthy meals delivered straight to your door. When selecting a service, you may want to consider factors such as whether meals are certified gluten-free or produced in a gluten-free facility, as well as: Share this article People with certain conditions need to follow a gluten-free diet plan. Learn more about the protein gluten, which foods to eat, benefits, downsides… Gluten intolerance is fairly common and can cause widespread symptoms, some of which are not related to digestion. Here are 21 common signs to look… If you have a gluten intolerance, you need to avoid any food that contains this protein. Here are 8 food groups to avoid with a gluten intolerance —… It can be tricky to find gluten-free snacks that aren't packed with sugar and calories, but you can make your own healthy options. Here are 21 quick… A recent study presents evidence of a connection between the artificial sweetener erythritol and an increased risk of blood clots. After consuming… A new study compared the effects of a keto diet and a diet low in added sugars and found the keto diet was associated with raised "bad" cholesterol… A new study found a link between processed red meat and dementia risk. The saturated fat and preservatives in processed meats might contribute to this… Eating a healthy diet that is low in sugar may help slow signs of biological aging, a new study suggests. Here's why. NFL players Travis and Jason Kelce have teamed up with General Mills to launch a new breakfast cereal, "Kelce Mix," which is a unique blend of the… A formulation of over-the-counter antioxidant supplements may help prevent the progression of dry age-related macular degeneration, a new study finds… OUR BRANDS