Advertisement We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more› By Hannah Morrill and Mari Uyehara After a new round of testing, UrbanStems is our new top online flower delivery pick, replacing The Bouqs Company. Don’t underestimate the ability of flowers to turn someone’s day around. Whether you’re sending a bouquet to mark a holiday, celebrate a milestone, or make nice after an argument, we recommend UrbanStems as the best flower delivery service. Although your best bet is likely a reliable local florist, those sending flowers a long distance will appreciate that UrbanStems arrangements were the easiest to order, the most reliable, and, most importantly, the prettiest among arrangements from the dozen services we tested. We tested services that offered a nice variety of arrangement styles. And we docked points for wilting or damaged blooms, too much filler, and arrangements that didn’t resemble their online photos. We prioritized services with websites that were easy to navigate and could filter results based on helpful preferences. We looked for services that consistently delivered flowers on time, delivered on most days of the week, and could fulfill next-day shipments. We preferred flowers that arrived securely and attractively packaged, whether they were in a nice vase or box. Advertisement With a well-curated selection of artful arrangements, this company nails all of the perks of a modern digital florist: an easy-to-use website, clear and accurate photos, and timely deliveries. Ordering from UrbanStems was virtually frictionless: This company’s cheery, streamlined website is a breeze to navigate, deliveries typically arrive on time, and its bouquets easily transfer to home vases. Its unique, contemporary arrangements are among the closest we’ve found to those from a high-quality local florist. And the well-composed, long-lasting bouquets are beautiful and lush, with botanical diversity and elevated color variation. These arrangements are in a different class altogether than mass-market bunches with monochrome roses and ho-hum accents. In winter 2023–24, we ordered the Deluxe size of the Firecracker and the Single size of the seasonal Selene (similar to the Solène), to ship to multiple locations. And our testers unanimously gave the bouquets high marks for “great” arrangements with “really unique” colors that looked like their photos. The arrangements arrived in zip ties, with mesh netting protecting some blooms, and they were almost entirely without damage, despite using less packaging than the competition. “It looked great right out of the box and stayed looking beautiful the whole week,” enthused our tester in Durham, North Carolina, who also noted that the white roses in her arrangement didn’t have a speck of browning—a distinction from the light-colored roses in deliveries from other services. The arrangements are modern and expertly designed. UrbanStems bouquets are more thoughtfully selected than those from other online services, like 1-800-Flowers. The bunches frequently feature unique blooms (garden roses, anemones) and more sophisticated filler (eucalyptus, eryngium). Ubiquitous flowers, like standard roses in the Sorbet, are combined in varied assortments with textural variation, so the bouquets are elevated. The bouquets look beautiful right out of the box. The arrangements we ordered were typically in-bloom on arrival. In January 2024, one bouquet made it to the Detroit area in pristine form on a sub-10 ℉ day (though it didn’t last as long as others sent to more-temperate regions). And that experience wasn’t a fluke. We found that bouquets delivered all over the country looked remarkably similar to one another. And, unlike those of many services, the flowers actually mirror their online photos and aren’t teased out with cheap filler. They’re easy to order. The UrbanStems website is modern, customizable, and intuitive. It offers helpful filtering, allowing shoppers to narrow by both practical limitations (area code, shipping date, price) and aesthetic considerations (occasion, color). Most arrangements are available in three sizes. but they’re aren’t a lot of them—around 20 at the time of publication. For us, this was a plus. The tight curation makes it easier to execute a quick and confident choice among plenty of appealing options, no endless scrolling necessary. But some customers delight in more digital window shopping. You can count on the delivery date. UrbanStems has a few shipping partners (FedEx, UPS). And in the past two years of testing the service, all of our bouquets have arrived on time to cities across the country, including on holidays and during inclement weather that challenged other companies. Shipping: $10 to $25Vase: not included, $15 to $28; some arrangements include vase in base price This warehouse club offers exceptional pricing for full, lush bouquets. But there are trade-offs. Deliveries arrive on only four weekdays, and its site is confusing. The floral arrangements from Costco aren’t as modern or stylish as those of UrbanStems, but they’re fresh and pretty. And a couple of them are surprisingly contemporary, with unexpected flowers and accents, like pincushions and ​​hypericum. Since delivery is free, they’re about 30% cheaper than more-upscale vendors, like UrbanStems. This service came recommended to us by several staffers who have sent Costco arrangements to their own loved ones. Costco ships its flowers via different carriers, depending on location, and it sometimes offers next-day delivery on certain bouquets. In winter 2023-24, our testers were pleasantly “shocked by the value” and impressed by the “big, beautiful” bouquets. In this round, we ordered the Sunset Bliss, the Inspire Floral, and Warm Wishes bouquets for delivery across the country. We also tried a 50-stem order of roses, which was a steal for the price and made for an impressive display. The website was inelegant, though, and arrangements needed pruning on arrival. The bouquets are bountiful and well done. The arrangements we received were pretty in a traditional way, and the quality of the blooms we received was up to standard. A couple of bunches came with some bruising, but they were so plentiful that it wasn’t noticeable when we removed the damaged flowers. Opening the cardboard box revealed the glass vase and bouquet secured in plastic wrap and zip ties, as well as instructions on trimming the stems, adding plant food, and watering—perhaps not the festive experience of unwrapping a present but still satisfying. The service is straightforward. The page that lists the available arrangements is about as stylish as the rest of Costco’s website (which is to say, not at all). Yet it’s easy enough to navigate: From the main Floral page you can click categories such as Roses, Bouquets, Vase Arrangements, and Weddings & Event Flowers. From there you can filter for price, color, flower type, and delivery preference. The default is set to show out of stock items, an odd choice. There’s no option for viewing all the arrangements together, and several categories have overlapping offerings. There are also event and bulk options, such as 100 stems of baby’s breath, mixed in with normal arrangements. They’re affordably and transparently priced. Generally, Costco’s pricing for flower arrangements is roughly 30% lower than that of most other services we considered, and in contrast to many competitors, it usually includes shipping. Though you don’t need a membership to order flowers from Costco, nonmembers pay a 5% surcharge, which we consider nominal. Shipping: freeVase: included Advertisement These bouquets are classically pretty, and the site is easy enough to navigate. Unlike our other picks, Teleflora pulls from a network of local florists, so it can deliver excellent flowers on the same day, but quality can vary. Teleflora uses local florists to fulfill flower orders. But unlike BloomNation (a service we tested that works exclusively with local shops), it does not allow you to select the supplying florist when ordering. And the photos of the arrangements are supplied by Teleflora, not the individual florist. Since there is no centralized quality control, experiences can differ, sometimes widely. Still, thanks to that model, Teleflora is able to deliver a large selection of flowers the same day you order them, by hand—something not many companies can accomplish. In winter 2023–24, we ordered standard sizes of five arrangements (Desert Sunrise, Hello Autumn, Mod Rose, Standout Chic, More Adored) bouquets to locations on the East Coast, Midwest, and the South. With the exception of the Standout Chic, we found the arrangements were lovely and resembled their photos on the website, if only with somewhat fewer stems. It uses a network of local florists. In 2022, the Citrus Kissed bouquet that our Portland, Maine–based staffer received came via the fanciest florist in town and looked downright expensive, swapping the baby’s breath pictured online for drapey fronds and adding in pert tulips and chrysanthemums. Another tester’s arrangement was missing the blue eryngium and eucalyptus promised in the description; one person received a nice, but totally different, vase. Teleflora uses upscale vendors in less-familiar cities, but that variation introduces inconsistencies both good and bad. The website is easy to use. Teleflora’s site isn’t streamlined or sophisticated, but we still found it easy to navigate because you can search by occasion, color, or flower type. It also has more selections for same-day and next-day bouquets than other services. Many of the arrangements are very pretty, though their names may make you laugh while ordering; some favorites of ours include the Hey Gorgeous bouquet of 24 lavender roses and the My Little Chickadee arrangement, which comes in a yellow, chick-themed vase. There are also nearly 200 bouquets on the site, and many look quite similar to one another, so efficient shoppers may find the browsing experience to be somewhat tedious. The company delivers by hand, on the same day. As online services go, ordering flowers in the morning to arrive by that afternoon, without having to research local florists, is pretty impressive. Using local vendors also means that the flowers have less distance to travel and aren’t getting jostled, bruised, jammed in boxes, or left on the stoop for days. Shipping: service and handling fees about $20; guaranteed delivery before 1 p.m. an additional $15 Vase: included Several members of Wirecutter’s style team pitched in on the arduous task of receiving and reviewing flower arrangements for this guide. We’re a diverse and picky bunch, with editors on both coasts, as well as more than three decades of collective magazine and digital-media experience. Our editors and writers have had stints at Martha Stewart and Architectural Digest, among other publications, and one of us wrote a James Beard Award–winning food column. Professionally, we’ve seen a lot of pretty flowers, and in our roles, we’ve developed a finely honed sensibility regarding beauty and value. Advertisement After combing the internet for flower delivery services, reading dozens of reviews, and polling staffers on the companies they use, we identified 14 of the most popular online services. We then ordered bouquets for delivery to our Long Island City, New York, office from eight vendors, assessing delivery times, ease of using the website, packaging, style, and the freshness, longevity, and beauty of the arrangements. In our original reporting, in 2020, we ordered bouquets from eight vendors for delivery to our office in Long Island City, New York, assessing the service (website, delivery times, packaging, customer service), and the arrangements themselves (beauty, freshness, longevity, likeness to their online photos). We watched how they aged over time in bright, indirect light and with the use of any included plant food. After determining our favorites, we then tested them further by ordering bouquets for staffers in three different cities across the country, and we asked those recipients to assess their bouquets using the same criteria. In 2022, we reordered our top picks, in addition to retesting other services, to three new locations. In winter 2023–24, we once again retested top picks, competitors, and a few new additions. We also enlisted three testers in more-rural locations to order a range of bouquets to arrive on the same day; we surveyed those panelists on all aspects of their experience. We also incorporated reader feedback into our appraisal. One major caveat: We found that the quality of the individual arrangements tended to vary based on location and weather conditions. Both extreme heat and cold were detrimental to several deliveries across different services. Although we tested our picks in multiple cities, the process of cutting, arranging, and transporting fresh-cut flowers can change from one individual bouquet to another. We’ve experienced variability among testers and between services, even year to year. A beautiful bouquet of flowers that starts to wither and wilt after only a few days of enjoyment is one of the most disappointing things. For tips on how to save yours from such a tragic fate, we consulted Nicole Cavender, director of The Huntington Botanical Gardens in Los Angeles. Trim the stems: When you first receive the bouquet, trim all the stems at least 0.5 inch and repeat the trim every two or three days. Doing so “exposes fresh tissue that takes up the water much more efficiently,” said Cavender. Cutting the stems at a diagonal angle creates even more surface area for absorption. Change the water: To avoid bacterial growth, Cavender said, you should change the bouquet’s water every two or three days—you can do this when you pull the flowers out for their trim—using lukewarm water. (Not only does the growth clog stems and prevent them from adequately absorbing water, but it can also make the whole bouquet smell bad.) Remember that location is everything: Cut flowers last longer at moderate temperatures, so keep them away from direct sunlight and heat. Cavender also warned that you should keep flowers away from ripening fruit, such as apples, as they “can potentially release ethylene gas, which can decrease the longevity of the flowers.” Feed them: Many bouquets come with flower-food packets, which assist in their longevity and blooming process; most of these packets include a carbohydrate and a bactericide. If your bouquet doesn’t have a packet, you can make your own with this recipe from Cavender: Mix 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon bleach, and 2 teaspoons lemon or lime juice into a quart of water. Add it to your vase, and voilà—freshly fed flowers. Advertisement Bouqs, our previous top pick, delivered beautiful, modern arrangements that lasted longer than many other bouquets we tried. Over the years, however, the company has struggled with delivering on time. Most recently, three out of the five bunches we ordered in the 2023–24 testing arrived late, without notice or apology from the company. Numerous readers have reported similar issues. The company cited vendor delay and storm-related weather. In 2020, we found that many Benchmark Bouquets were out of stock, making it difficult to find something to order. When we retested in 2023, the bunch we ordered was stuffed with green-leaf filler and barely resembled its online photo. BloomNation is the only company that allows you to pick which local florist you’d like to use and shows you photos supplied by the actual florist creating the arrangement. But the arrangement we received in 2020 started to wilt and wither at the edges after about four days, and the pricing was not as clear up front in comparison with other services. The Light of My Life bouquet that we received from FTD (which, like Teleflora, partners with local florists to source flowers) was beautiful, but some of the lilies were slightly damaged. The leatherleaf fern filler felt pedestrian. The mostly uninspired arrangements from 1-800-Flowers.com seemed comparable to bouquets found at grocery stores, and many of the vases were dated. In 2020, we tried the Fun & Flirty, which was discontinued as of 2022. And though our arrangement was pretty enough, it barely resembled the listing online. In 2023, we retested Farmgirl Flowers’ Burlap Wrapped GRIT Bouquet (now under a new name since our original reporting). Not only was it the most expensive arrangement we tested, even without a vase, but the stems were cut in widely varying sizes (some very short) that didn’t transfer nicely to a vessel. The packaging was likewise uninspired, with crumpled tissue paper and a card stuffed randomly in the box. This article was edited by Hannah Morrill and Jennifer Hunter. You can take a few steps to extend the life of your bouquet (see our tips), but some flower types just naturally last longer than others. According to Amy Merrick, a florist and author of On Flowers: Lessons from an Accidental Florist, carnations are a particularly abiding bloom that “can last a month in a vase if the water is kept clean and the stems are trimmed often.” The botanical experts at The Huntington Botanical Gardens in Los Angeles recommend chrysanthemums, lilies, ranunculus, and zinnias as options that stay in relatively good condition for two to three weeks. After that, you can fashion them into potpourri or a dried display. Cats and dogs have a tendency to eat things they’re not supposed to, including flower arrangements. “Many flowers are toxic to both pets and humans, but it is generally quite rare for them to be deadly,” said Merrick. “Mostly they will make an animal sick.” She mentioned foxgloves and lilies as common culprits, and the ASPCA has a longer list of flowers and plants you may want to avoid in the home. Some pets can have a few nibbles without any adverse reaction, but the ASPCA advises that if your pet is experiencing lethargy, weakness, vomiting, diarrhea, drooling, or nausea, you should call your vet immediately. Though these occurrences are rare, if you are concerned that Fluffy will get to your bouquet even on the highest shelf, you can try many beautiful varieties that are considered nontoxic to pets, including orchids. (See the ASPCA’s full list.) If you want to eliminate the guesswork, UrbanStems has an entire section of pet-friendly flowers and plants. So does The Sill, one of our favorite sites for buying plants. Remember that any plant material—even if it’s nontoxic—might still make an animal sick, so do your best to minimize their munching. If you know that your gift recipient has springtime allergies, seek out flowers that are low pollen spreaders. Orchids, azaleas, begonias, cacti, succulents, camellias, hibiscus, hydrangeas, irises, and roses are the best options, according to the botanical staff at The Huntington. It’s best to avoid high-pollen varieties such as chrysanthemums, daisies, sunflowers, dahlias, and lilies. And steer clear of ornamental grasses and tree branches such as dogwood and oak, which can also be problematic for those with allergies; the pollen they produce is fine, so it’s easily airborne and respirable when agitated by wind (or an ambitious air-conditioning unit). Nicole Cavender, director of The Huntington Botanical Gardens, email interview, April 7, 2022 Amy Merrick, florist and author of On Flowers: Lessons from an Accidental Florist, email interview, April 1, 2022 Hannah Morrill Hannah Morrill is an editor on Wirecutter’s style team, spearheading the gifts and beauty sections. For the past decade, she has worked as a freelance writer and editor for publications such as Allure, Elle, and InStyle, among others. She lives in Portland, Maine, with her partner and their two children. Mari Uyehara Mari Uyehara is a staff writer for Wirecutter’s gifts team. She was previously an editor at GQ, Saveur, and Vice, and she won a 2019 James Beard Award for her column on American cooking in Taste. The daughter of a potter, she has long been a believer in the power of a well-made thing. by Ellen Lee, Caitlin Giddings, and Wirecutter Staff Whether you’re looking for one special gift or a project to complete together, we’ve gathered ideas to help spread the love this Valentine’s Day. by Samantha Schoech Whether you’ve been together forever or have just made it official, our sexy, useful, and thoughtful gift ideas can help you express your love with style. by Hannah Morrill and Samantha Schoech Delight your sweetheart, friend, or family member with one of these inexpensive but thoughtful gifts that declare your love for under $25. by Mari Uyehara Celebrate your best gal or a whole gaggle of them with our favorite glimmery, shimmery, and affordable Galentine’s Day gifts. Advertisement Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time). 