We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Medical News Today only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. Our tester’s Factor meals review praises the flavors, meal variety, and ingredient quality that this popular food delivery service provides. Read on for more about our tester’s experience with Factor meals. I’ve tried three meal kit delivery services before and as I have a very busy schedule, I’m always looking for ways to make dinners easier. I tried Factor for a week and found it had a lot of healthy options with different dietary focuses, like low carb, high protein, and low calorie. Overall, I was very impressed with the choice, ingredient quality, and freshness. Read on to learn about my experience with Factor. Factor offered me meals for a week. I chose the six-meal plan, which included various Protein Plus, Calorie Smart, and Keto. Factor pre-selected my meals but gave me the option to change them. However, all the selections sounded so good that I only ended up changing one. The signup process was super easy to navigate. You need an account to order your meals, but you can have a look at the menu and filter meals by dietary requirements before doing that. I could change my delivery date or pause for a certain time if needed. It was also very easy to cancel my subscription. It gave me the option to pause for no charge if I preferred that. You find out pricing and shipping information after you put in your ZIP code. I was impressed with the variety of meals to choose from. It seemed to be mostly American, Italian, and Mexican cuisine. However, within these cuisines, I found lots of different options so that I could have variety throughout my week. There were lots of healthy options with different focuses, like low carb, high protein, and low calorie. I try to have meals with a higher protein, so it was nice to have that category easy to find on the website. My meals included: These were by far the easiest meals I’ve ever had delivered. The items were packaged in a microwavable tray with a removable cover containing nutrition information and labeling.  The meals were extremely easy to prepare, requiring only a couple of holes in the plastic film of the tray and then 2 minutes of microwaving.  I cooked each meal for exactly 2 minutes and was always pleased with the temperature. I had six meals, and my thoughts on a few of them were: I was blown away by the texture of the chicken, as I am normally very skeptical about reheating meat. The chicken breast was juicy and flavorful as if I had just cooked it.  All of the vegetables were very fresh as well, not mushy like lots of other microwavable meals. I found that all the meals I tried were seasoned well. I could see that if someone wanted to enhance it further, it would be easy to add more spices (however, I did not need or want to).  Overall, I was very impressed with the ingredient quality and freshness. Factor does not charge more for certain menu plans. Instead, the amount of meals per week influences the cost per meal. People may find that buying more meals is better value. Below is the cost of each menu option:  My box got delivered to me while I was at work on the day they said it would be delivered. When I got home later in the evening, all the meals were still perfectly refrigerated. The box wasn’t too big or heavy. All their packaging felt very intentional. The packaging was extremely eco-friendly. Everything had descriptions of how it could be properly recycled, and it was made very clear that the packaging materials were recyclable.  The box also stated that the company is carbon neutral, which was nice to know. Even the padding and the frozen packs were recyclable with clear instructions. What stood out to me most were the company’s sustainability efforts and how they made it easy to recycle the packaging. I would recommend Factor to anyone who wants high quality meals without having to cook. I would absolutely recommend Factor to our readers. It couldn’t have been easier to use, and the meals were great. I think the company’s customer service, shipping, and overall process are done well and are in line with other meal delivery services I have tried. As I said before, what stood out to me most were Factor’s sustainability efforts and how it made it easy to recycle the packaging. $130 Off Factor, previously Factor 75, states that its in-house dietitians work with chefs to create flavorful and nutritious meals. The company aims to take the stress out of healthy living. While meal delivery services can be costly, using Factor may help some people diversify their diet, enjoy more nutritious meals, or manage their weight or health conditions. Meals from Factor are not frozen. Instead, the company delivers them fresh to the customer, who has up to 7 days to eat them at their best. Customers do not need to prepare anything other than heating the meals in the microwave or oven. The available meal plans include between 6 and 18 meals per week, and there are 20 or more weekly menu options. The prices are $10.99 and $13.49 per serving, depending on the plan a person selects, with free shipping. Factor offers menus suitable for the following diets: Customers can also filter their meal choices by allergens, but Factor says that it cannot guarantee that cross-contamination will not occur in its kitchens. Also, gluten-free meals may not be safe for individuals with celiac disease due to possible cross-contamination. Factor meal delivery service may suit someone who wants a balanced diet but has a busy lifestyle or is a less experienced cook. The meals can be convenient and take the stress out of shopping, preparing, and cooking. Delivery Factor delivers to all U.S. states, excluding Alaska and Hawaii. People can update their accounts to skip deliveries. Factor recommends doing this before the cutoff date, which is typically on Wednesdays at 11:59 p.m. central time. The company delivers Monday through Wednesday and arranges delivery slots by zip code. It also notes that as long as people give a 4-week notice, they can skip a delivery if they are away that week. Discounts and savings Factor provides a 15% discount for those who support and serve, including medical staff, service members, teachers, and first responders. Customer reviews and reputation Factor has mainly positive online reviews and both Medical News Today’s tester and Healthline’s tester had very good experiences trying Factor. Read Healthline’s Factor review. Read our detailed reviews of Factor’s competitors here: Yes, Factor is a good meal plan. It offers meals that are suitable for most dietary requirements. Factor also uses sustainable, recyclable, and insulated packaging. It also delivers meals in nontoxic and reusable gel packs that contain salt water and sodium polyacrylate. However, some Factor meals can contain up to 30 grams (g) of sugar, close to the American Heart Association’s recommended daily limit of 36 g for men and 25 g for women. As with all meal delivery services, people will need to adjust their other meals accordingly to stay within their recommended daily limit of nutrients. Yes, Factor is a good meal plan. It offers meals that are suitable for most dietary requirements. Factor also uses sustainable, recyclable, and insulated packaging. It also delivers meals in nontoxic and reusable gel packs that contain salt water and sodium polyacrylate. However, some Factor meals can contain up to 30 grams (g) of sugar, close to the American Heart Association’s recommended daily limit of 36 g for men and 25 g for women. As with all meal delivery services, people will need to adjust their other meals accordingly to stay within their recommended daily limit of nutrients. According to the company’s website, Factor’s meals suit people trying to lose weight. It states that the meals contain an average of 600 calories. People can also choose lower calorie meals. However, its meals may be high in sodium, which may not suit people trying to lose weight. Individuals who want to eliminate sugar from their diet may opt for meals free from or low in sugar. Customers can choose and combine meals that meet their nutrition goals. The company provides a nutritional value label that indicates the amount of calories, fats, fiber, or sugar the dish has. Factor enters its meals into apps such as MyFitnessPal and Carb Manager, which may make it easier for customers to track their nutrient intake. If a person wishes to discuss their weight goals in more detail, Factor also offers consultations with dietitians. According to the company’s website, Factor’s meals suit people trying to lose weight. It states that the meals contain an average of 600 calories. People can also choose lower calorie meals. However, its meals may be high in sodium, which may not suit people trying to lose weight. Individuals who want to eliminate sugar from their diet may opt for meals free from or low in sugar. Customers can choose and combine meals that meet their nutrition goals. The company provides a nutritional value label that indicates the amount of calories, fats, fiber, or sugar the dish has. Factor enters its meals into apps such as MyFitnessPal and Carb Manager, which may make it easier for customers to track their nutrient intake. If a person wishes to discuss their weight goals in more detail, Factor also offers consultations with dietitians. Yes, HelloFresh owns Factor. It acquired the company in 2020. Yes, HelloFresh owns Factor. It acquired the company in 2020. Besides low calorie meals, Factor offers low carb and keto meals. A short-term keto diet may be effective for weight loss, but some people find the diet difficult to sustain long term. Scientists need to conduct more research to confirm the long-term safety and effectiveness of the diet. A 2019 study also notes that using a subscription service, such as Factor, may help people with busy schedules maintain a balanced diet. Besides low calorie meals, Factor offers low carb and keto meals. A short-term keto diet may be effective for weight loss, but some people find the diet difficult to sustain long term. Scientists need to conduct more research to confirm the long-term safety and effectiveness of the diet. A 2019 study also notes that using a subscription service, such as Factor, may help people with busy schedules maintain a balanced diet. Factor can cost between $402.74 and $1,1013.31 a month. However, the company often has discounts for new customers. Factor can cost between $402.74 and $1,1013.31 a month. However, the company often has discounts for new customers. The company advises that it packs ingredients by hand using special ice packs and insulation to keep the contents fresh without freezing them. The company advises that it packs ingredients by hand using special ice packs and insulation to keep the contents fresh without freezing them. Factor advises that it never freezes its meals. It uses frozen gel packs to keep the ingredients refrigerated for delivery. Factor advises that it never freezes its meals. It uses frozen gel packs to keep the ingredients refrigerated for delivery. Factor offers dietitian-approved meals that cater to various dietary needs. A Medical News Today tester found Factor easy to use and convenient. They appreciated the brand’s sustainability efforts and thoroughly enjoyed the meals, complimenting the variety in cuisines, tastes, and textures. Get started with Factor Interested in trying Factor? We can help! Choose from a variety of meals on the company's menu to create your own custom plan that's right for you. Share this article We explore some of the best meal delivery services for different dietary preferences and health needs, including vegan, organic, keto, and more. Prepared meal delivery services can save time and money. Learn more about the best services to purchase from here. Following a low carb diet can be challenging. Learn about a few low carb delivery services that can help people stick to a low carb diet. The Mediterranean diet can offer health benefits, and some meal delivery companies offer such menus. Here, we look at some of these services in more… Several meal delivery services offer gluten-free meals. Learn more about which are best to use here. OUR BRANDS