We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Results from the armed forces continuous attitude survey (AFCAS).  Between July and August 2024, Analysis Surveys collected feedback on proposed changes to the catering questions from the Armed Forces Continuous Attitude Survey. This feedback has now been reviewed and used to finalise the questions for the next AFCAS due out in September 2024. A full list of the new catering questions can be found in the 2024 AFCAS Question Changes August 2024 (Annex C) document. Upcoming release dates for this publication are available. Updated information about AFCAS question changes 2024. Added note on the AFCAS proposed question changes July 2024 (Annex C) document. Added: 'Armed Forces Continuous Attitude Survey: 2024' and 'Armed Forces Continuous Attitude Survey: Summaries'. Addition of 'Armed Forces Continuous Attitude Survey: 2023'. Added Armed forces continuous attitude survey: 2022 Addition of: Armed forces continuous attitude survey for 2021 and update to landing page. Addition of: user feedback link. Added the Armed forces continuous attitude survey: 2020 page. Added the Armed forces continuous attitude survey: 2019. Added the Armed forces continuous attitude survey for 2018. Added Armed forces continuous attitude survey: 2017 Added AFCAS 2016 Included a sentence with link for upcoming release dates. Added Armed forces continuous attitude survey: 2015. Added updated details about the AFCAS public consultation. Added Armed forces continuous attitude survey: 2014 to the index. Added notice: A public consultation on changes to AFCAS in 2015 is open until 12 June 2014. First published. Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      