From Fred Itua, Abuja The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives candidate for Ideato North South Constituency of Imo State, Ikenga Ugochinyere, has frowned at the decision of the party’s national Chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu to challenge the victory of the Ideato South House of Assembly candidate, Chris Ogbu, at the Supreme Court. Ugochinyere in a statement described the move as provocative with consequences. He said Ayu is trying to get petty revenge at Ogbu for challenging his continued illegal stay in office. While noting that Ayu is fond of plotting against the party’s candidates opposing him to lose the forthcoming election, Ugochinyere vowed that he will not be PDP national chairman before the 2023 general elections for this petty attempt he made. The statement reads: “Ayu is a political traitor whose continue stay in office as PDP national chairman is wasteful. Ogbu did nothing to him, he’s the valid winner and candidate of Imo House of Assembly Ideato South Constituency, who dragged Ayu to Court for abuse of office and corruption and now Ayu has joined suit challenging his election and seeking Ogbu should be removed. “It’s actually shocking that a man whose house is on fire, rather than looking for ways to douse the fire, is busy escalating it. It’s not his first time doing this, he’s fond of plotting against party candidates opposing him to lose the forthcoming election. “You will recall that two months ago, Ayu openly bragged that he has the power to stop the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, from realising his senatorial ambition on the platform of the party. Ortom’s offence was simply and rightly calling for Ayu’s resignation as the party’s chairman as the only panacea to restore peace to the main opposition party. “This abuse of power by Ayu must be stopped and I vow that he will not be PDP national chairman before the 2023 general elections, he must resign or be sacked.” You must be logged in to post a comment. Nigerians want to proptest because they are hungry. They are... Much as I am in sympathy with the Nigerian youth nation- wid... May his gentle soul rest in peace and may the good Lord comf... Well spoken 'The Rock'. You were supposed to be leading us i... You talk as if Nigeria goes up in flames today, you and memb...