Laura Whitmore has managed to succeed at everything from writing to presenting to acting, and now she’s turned her hand to fashion, as she becomes Love & Roses’ first-ever A-list collaborator. The former Love Island presenter worked alongside boutique brand Love & Roses to create a 25-piece collection that’s packed full of summer-ready staples including cotton sundresses, cocktail-ready midi dresses, and billow-sleeved blouses in a range of fabrics. With shimmering metallics, clashing prints, and bold colours, this is your go-to for wardrobe essentials this summer. According to Love & Roses, the collection exudes Laura’s signature sense of style, mixing soft feminine style with a hint of edgy rock ‘n’ roll, aiming to create pieces that can be worn time and time again. Laura said: “I share the brand’s ethos in focusing on creating staples that last the test of time and can be worn now, reimagined tomorrow but most importantly kept forever.  "The abundance of colour and playful prints is key with the emphasis on how the product makes you feel, not just how it makes you look – though it makes you look pretty damn good!”  The collaboration officially launched on this week, with items starting at £29, including these must-have linen Highwaisted Paperbag Tab Detail Tailored Shorts,  £29 here, which are available in three different colours, blue, pink, and sage, and work perfectly on their own or as part of a suit with the Relaxed Double Breasted Blazer,  £59 here.   When it comes to summer, a dress is an absolute essential, and the Halter Keyhole Tie Waist Mini Dress,  £46 here, is available in two different colourways; an orange and pink broderie print, and a pink floral one. Another guaranteed summer hit is the Broderie Puff Sleeve Belted Mini Dress,  £50 here, which comes in a classic white for a more timeless look, or in go for a more vibrant pop of colour with either the yellow or green version.  Laura shared a sneak peek at her new collection on Instagram to celebrate the launch, with fans immediately going crazy for the bold colours and prints in the collection. One follower commented: "The colours!", whilst another tagged their friend saying: "Your dream colour clash!!!" Another eager customer wrote: "Just in time for a summer wardrobe update, looks fire" with a flame emoji. The colour combinations were definitely a big hit with her followers, who couldn't stop obsessing about the bright colours featured in the collection.  Clashing prints is a big feature in the Laura Whitmore X Love & Roses collection, with leopard print featuring in several of the designs. The Printed Twist Front V Neck Flutter Sleeve Midi Dress,  £52 here, features two different styles and sizes of leopard print paired together in a flattering twist front midi dress.   No summer wardrobe is complete without some sequins and metallics, and shoppers will be thrilled to discover Laura’s collection contains plenty of both. There’s some major 70s vibes from the Metallic Twist Cross Neck Wide Leg Jumpsuit,  £55 here, whilst the Metallic V Neck Twist Front Flutter Sleeve Midi Dress,  £68 here, is perfect for evenings in the sun.   You can shop Laura’s full collection with Love & Roses  online at Next, or in store.  READ MORE: 'Quiet luxury' – how to wear fashion’s new mood without spending thousands Shoppers rush to H&M to snap up £30 summer staple dress seen on This Morning