Dotdash Meredith and Yahoo Inc. may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below. It’s from a brand made for mature skin. Laura Geller As I approach 40 this year, I find myself taking more time to do my research and read reviews of the products I’m tempted to buy. I’ve learned that the recommendations my teenage daughter passes along from TikTok are not always a trend that agrees with my skin. A brand I’ve been keeping my eye on that’s made for people with mature or aging skin (and is a favorite among celebs like Oprah and Bethenny Frankel, who previously partnered with the brand) is Laura Geller. As summer approaches, I generally move from a traditional liquid foundation to something more lightweight like a tinted moisturizer. I recently came across the brand’s Quench-n-Tint Hydrating Foundation that offers lightweight coverage ideal for warmer months, and I’m adding it to my cart. And right now, the entire Laura Geller site is on sale with up to 55 percent off everything plus an additional 5 percent with code CINCO, making the Quench-n-Tint just $19. Laura Geller Shop now: $19 with code CINCO (Originally $34); laurageller.com The foundation is known for its weightless feel and is described by the brand as being a makeup and moisturizer in one. Ingredients like hyaluronic acid add life to dehydrated skin, locking in moisture and evening out skin tone while providing light coverage. I love a simple, sheer glow in warmer months, and the hydrating foundation offers that without the feel of makeup running down your face. To find your perfect shade, Laura Geller has tools to ensure your match. Shoppers can either click to chat with a live person or scroll through a variety of different photos with various people wearing each shade of foundation to see which closest resembles your complexion and skin tone. To apply the foundation, start with a thin layer and blend it in an upward motion with a brush or your fingertip. If you’re looking for even more coverage, you can continue with additional layers of the foundation. One shopper who is over 65 shared that the foundation moisturizes with “no streaks and no caking,” and added that they work in a steamy and humid environment but the Quench-n-Tint “doesn’t melt.” Another reviewer said “even after hours of wearing” it, the foundation still feels “fresh and hydrated.”  Finally, a third person in their 60s said it “doesn't settle” into the lines and wrinkles on your face. Don’t miss your chance to snag the Laura Geller Quench-n-Tint Hydrating Foundation on sale for $19, and shop the rest of the Laura Geller sale before it ends May 8. For more InStyle news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on InStyle. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.