  Dell Technologies (NYSE:DELL) expands its high performance computing (HPC) portfolio, offering powerful solutions to help organizations quickly innovate with confidence. With a range of new offers, Dell delivers technologies and services to help customers power demanding applications while making HPC capabilities more accessible to businesses.  “As compute innovation accelerates to keep pace with demand, customers are looking to upgrade their IT environments and harness advanced computing capabilities to speed discovery and insights,” said Rajesh Pohani, vice president of portfolio and product management for PowerEdge, HPC and Core Compute at Dell Technologies. “New Dell Technologies servers and solutions give businesses of all sizes access to technologies once only accessible for the world’s largest research institutions and government agencies, allowing them to tackle HPC, ease AI adoption and propel their businesses forward.”  Dell PowerEdge servers champion advanced modeling and datasets  New Dell PowerEdge servers help organizations embrace AI and HPC initiatives to generate faster, smarter outcomes. Designed in collaboration with Intel and NVIDIA, the new systems use Smart Cooling technology and enable organizations to harness AI for model training, HPC modeling and simulation, core-to-edge inferencing and data visualization.  “As the world’s largest privately-held cloud computing company, with 27 cloud data center locations globally, it’s essential that we deploy technology to support the most demanding AI, machine learning, and high-performance computing workloads,” said J.J. Kardwell, CEO of Constant, the creator of Vultr. “Dell PowerEdge XE9680 servers with the NVIDIA H100 Tensor Core GPU and A100 Tensor Core GPU will provide the capabilities needed to deliver maximum performance and value.” Dell APEX High Performance Computing Speeds Innovation and Discovery HPC is driving growth and new insights across industries; however, organizations are often faced with time, budget and skills restraints. Dell APEX High Performance Computing empowers organizations to run large scale, compute-intensive HPC workloads delivered as-a-Service with a fully managed, subscription-based experience. Customers can choose between solutions for life sciences and manufacturing workloads.  Dell APEX High Performance Computing provides customers with everything needed to run HPC workloads, including an HPC cluster manager, a container orchestrator, a workload manager and underlying HPC-optimized hardware configurations. The service offers the flexible capacity and security required to meet changing workload requirements and realize faster results while getting the most from their HPC investments, all in one, three or five-year subscriptions.   Adopt quantum technologies more easily into existing infrastructure  With the Dell Quantum Computing Solution, organizations can begin to take advantage of accelerated compute through quantum technology. This solution helps customers quickly develop algorithmic approaches to complex use cases and accelerate chemistry and materials simulation, natural language processing, and machine learning.  This scalable, hybrid classical-quantum platform uses the Dell classic quantum simulator built on PowerEdge servers. Together with IonQ quantum technology, the solution integrates quantum computing into existing classical computational infrastructure. Fully integrated Qiskit Dell Runtime and IonQ Aria software allow quantum workloads to run with on-premises or cloud-based quantum acceleration. Implement HPC for faster, more efficient risk assessment The fast-paced global financial industry needs access to technologies that can provide measurable returns on investments. New Dell Validated Design for HPC – Risk Assessment runs data-intensive simulations on HPC systems, including GPU-accelerated Dell PowerEdge servers, Red Hat® Enterprise Linux® and NVIDIA Bright Cluster Manager® software, to look at large volumes of historical and real-time data to analyze risk and return faster.  The validated design offers financial services institutions optimal configurations for system performance and efficiency. These configurations are designed, validated and tuned for this specific use case by Dell HPC engineers and workload experts. The result is modular IT building blocks that offer simplified design, configuration and ordering more quickly with a single point of contact for services. Peter Rutten, research vice president, Worldwide Infrastructure practice, IDC, said “Accelerated compute technology helps business get all the value they can from the massive amounts of data they generate on a daily basis. Dell Technologies is seizing the opportunity with new accelerated Dell PowerEdge servers and solutions that can help customers tackle demanding performance intensive computing workloads.” © 2000 - 2024 Al Bawaba (www.albawaba.com) Dell empowers countries, communities, customers and people everywhere to use technology to realize their dreams. Customers trust us to deliver technology solutions that help them do and achieve more, whether they’re at home, work, school or anywhere in their world. Learn more about our story, purpose and people behind our customer-centric approach. Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content Subscribe  