In the longer term, the Group committed to leverage machine learning and related advanced technologies to enhance cybersecurity and establish secure channels for Computer Emergency Response Teams and private sector threat information sharing Washington: Quad, an informal grouping of four countries, Australia, India, Japan and the United States, has agreed to leverage machine learning and related advanced technologies to enhance cybersecurity, the White House has said. “Officials of Australia, India, Japan and the United States met in New Delhi on 30-31 January for the Quad Senior Cyber Group, during which they reaffirmed their commitment to advance a free and open Indo-Pacific that is inclusive and resilient,” it said. “In the longer term, the Group committed to leverage machine learning and related advanced technologies to enhance cybersecurity and establish secure channels for Computer Emergency Response Teams (CERT) and private sector threat information sharing,” the White House said in a statement on Thursday. The Group also committed to create a framework and methodology for ensuring supply chain security and resilience for information communication technologies (ICT) and operational technology (OT) systems of critical sectors, it said, adding these objectives form an important part of the future-looking, leading-edge work plan for the Group. The White House said progress on these objectives will enhance Quad members national cyber capabilities, lowering the number of serious cyber incidents and improving their response capabilities. “Closer collaboration on machine learning research will enable better detection of network intrusions and improving cyber risk management of critical infrastructure,” it said. “The framework for secure threat information sharing by CERTs and private sector entities will enable better real-time cooperation and assessments as cyber incidents arise,” the White House said. “A supply chain methodology will encourage major software services, products, and providers leveraged by governments to adhere to a Quad-endorsed best practice guideline for cyber security ICT and OT requirements for critical infrastructure,” it added. Observing that telecom security is a core function of national security, the statement said working in conjunction with Quad CET Working Group, the Group will strive to ensure that security-by-design and best practices of cyber security are incorporated in ORAN and 6G technologies. “Our meeting advanced the Group s positive and ambitious agenda. Quad partners are working together to better secure cyberspace and foster an international digital economy that works for everyone, including regional partners in the Indo-Pacific,” the White House said. The Quad countries, it said, are committed in the near term to drive more secure software services and products by common Quad government security practices, establish common cyber security requirements for nations critical infrastructure, conduct a Quad Cyber Challenge (a campaign to raise awareness among our populations and drive action to improve cybersecurity), collaborating on capacity-building activities and information sharing in the Indo-Pacific region under the Quad Cybersecurity Partnership. “Among other things, the Group discussed the importance of utilising trusted vendors in telecommunications infrastructure as part of our shared commitment to promote safe, resilient networks and technologies, including through exploration of open and interoperable network solutions which are occurring in each of and among our countries,” the statement said. “These efforts demonstrate the Quad s commitment to building regional capacity and ensuring the delivery of an open and secure telecommunications infrastructure in the Indo-Pacific,” it said. According to the statement, the Quad Cyber Challenge Campaign will promote basic cyber security awareness among individuals, organisations, businesses and governments throughout members to prevent them from becoming victims of cyber crimes and threats that can cause untold financial and personal damage. “We are committed to provide educational resources to our citizens to increase their cyber security as part of this effort,” it said. Read all the Latest News
, Trending News
, Cricket News
, Bollywood News
, India News and Entertainment News here. Follow us on
Facebook
,
Twitter
and
Instagram
. Find us on YouTube is on YouTube Copyright @ 2024. Firstpost - All Rights Reserved