PMG has named Jon Dupuis president. Former Dentsu global president Jon Dupuis has been named to the newly created role of president at Fort Worth-based independent technology and services agency PMG, Adweek reported. He will join PMG’s executive team to drive global integrated services, a key contributor to PMG’s customer success to date, the report said.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.