There’s nothing quite like Disney magic. 2023 marks Disney’s 100th anniversary, and Kose Sekkisei has joined hands with Disney to come up with four items bearing the designs of Disney characters related to the sea, which includes characters from three films, The Little Mermaid, Moana and Finding Nemo. These limited-edition designs of the Sekkisei line are available only in 2023 and include Kose Sekkisei Disney100 Gentle Face Wash, Kose Sekkisei Disney100 Limited Edition Pure Conc SS Toner for Sensitive Skin, Kose Sekkisei Disney100 Limited Edition Refining Milk SS Moisturiser for Sensitive Skin, and Kose Sekkisei Disney100 Limited Edition Herbal Gel. Look at how adorable our beloved protagonists, Ariel, Moana and Nemo are portrayed on the packaging against a pleasing sea-foam green colour palette; what can we say? Shop before stocks run out. Better yet, make full use of the ongoing 7.7 sales at Lazada and Shopee to enjoy greater savings! Shop the collab on Shopee Save more on Lazada Shop 7.7 Sale on 7 - 9 July S$43 S$46 at Lazada S$45 S$48 at Lazada S$49 S$56 at Lazada Be sure to check out on 7 to 9 July for further discounts! S$41 S$71 at Lazada S$45 S$87 at Lazada S$49 S$107.53 at Lazada Started in 2009, Save The Blue is an environmental initiative by Sekkisei to conserve and protect coral reefs in Okinawa. Collaborating with Disney this year, Kose re-launches their Sekkisei range, featuring iconic ocean-esque Disney characters like Ariel, Moana and Nemo. Nam Nguyen’s 10-day campaign of abuse was ‘some of the worst offending’ Met detectives dealing with the case had ever seen Beijing is “convinced that America is seeking to contain it and suppress its rise,” PM Lawrence Wong argued on Sunday. Pahang Crown Prince Tengku Hassanal Ibrahim Alam Shah says Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin’s remarks could openly incite the public to lose faith in the institution of Malay Rulers, and divide the people. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. The post Incredible Roasted Meat: “I would travel here just for these succulent Roasted Wings” appeared first on SETHLUI.com. ‘We were super unprepared for the experience,’ Margaret Bienert said in a TikTok "We joked that it wasn't April 1st," a Ukrainian soldier identified only by his first name, Serhiy, told The Economist. On a cold night in January, Akanksha Mehta*’s phone pinged with a text message that would change her life. Singapore’s Prime Minister Lawrence Wong dishes fresh handouts in first major speech. Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process A former Soviet aircraft carrier burned in a waterway near Shanghai over the weekend, the latest setback for the decommissioned warship since its conversion into a Chinese tourist attraction. Ex-president quickly broke away from prepared speech to accuse vice-president of being a communist and a fascist All the latest updates, gossip, rumours and deals from the summer transfer window A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. "Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward," Harris said to a crowd in Rochester, Pennsylvania. Vice President Kamala Harris’ ascent to the top of the Democratic ticket has dramatically reshaped the 2024 electoral map since earlier this year, when the contest looked to be between an unpopular and elderly incumbent president and the former president (and now convicted felon) he defeated four years prior. Meanwhile Vladimir Putin’s forces launch ballistic missile attack on Kyiv The post 15 best “clucking good” chicken rice stalls in Singapore [2024] appeared first on SETHLUI.com. Premier League clash delayed by 10 minutes with the Brazilian receiving lengthy treatment behind blankets before being stretchered off Paetongtarn Shinawatra, daughter of the divisive former leader Thaksin Shinawatra, became Thailand's prime minister after receiving a royal letter of endorsement Sunday, two days after she was chosen by Parliament following a court order that removed her predecessor.  Paetongtarn is the third Shinawatra to hold the job, after her billionaire father and her aunt Yingluck Shinawatra.  Both were removed from office and forced into exile in coups, although Thaksin returned to Thailand last year as Pheu Thai formed a government.