I was reading online the column of lawyer Aven Piramide in this paper yesterday when up popped one of those pesky advertisements that interrupt your reading. It was a Lazada pop-up trying to entice the reader with huge discounts. But just as unsettling are these pop-ups, even more so were the ads displayed. The Lazada advertisement showed a poster of the Ten Commandments in plain text. No pictures or other artwork. Just words in black set against a white background. Rather drab-looking, if I may be allowed to say so to describe something that plays a very important role in my faith. Or that part of it that continues to cling on to my consciousness. No problem with the Ten Commandments, though, whether in actuality or in its poster form as advertised, never mind the utter drabness of its appearance. I did not expect it to be otherwise, or frivolous anyway. What just truly struck me was the other advertised poster for sale, also at a discount, right next to it. Next to the Ten Commandments poster was a poster of a pretty, or shall I say, lusty-looking, woman in very skimpy clothing. No, not skimpy as in bikini-skimpy. She was not in a bikini. She was in a black dress that had large swaths of the clothing missing, with the nothingness just missing the vital parts in the smallest fractions of an inch. There is no way you cannot stare at the woman, or that part of her that you know is there but can only imagine because it is not there on account of the clothing stopping just short of revealing. I will be in violation of the 8th Commandment if I say the poster of the woman did not take my breath away. And that right there is my beef. Not about either of the posters because I am fine with the Ten Commandments and even more fine with the poster of the woman. I just could not fathom what got into the Lazada advertising or marketing people that they would try to sell posters of the Ten Commandments and a skimpy-clad woman side-by-side. If I had been on the hunt for something to buy at a discount online, I would skip that particular offer even if the Ten Commandments was going for 29% less and the woman poster even less at 30% off. I might have gone for the woman had not the Ten Commandments been there. If I went for the Ten...nah...never mind. This is the point I am trying to make, in particular to entities like Lazada and similar others. They ought to have a little sensitivity not just with regard to the products they are selling but how they are presented to the public, especially in the form of pop-ads which can very easily be done away with by a keystroke. Potential buyers need be made to feel confident and comfortable in their purchases, they need to be made to feel confident and comfortable even at the point of viewing and choosing. In fact, viewing and choosing is probably the most crucial part of any potential sale. That is why sales clerks may help but not breathe on the necks of shoppers. I doubt very much if Lazada can rack up much sales from the posters on account of how they were placed together. People in a buying mood may not be in their most reverent states. And the devil often accompanies spending. But if there are God reminders nearby, just the thought of God watching never fails to give people second thoughts. Philstar.com is one of the most vibrant, opinionated, discerning communities of readers on cyberspace. With your meaningful insights, help shape the stories that can shape the country. Sign up now! Signup for the News Round now