At the ceremony (Photo: VNA)  The ten banks honoured as the most prestigious commercial banks in the country in 2023 are Vietcombank, VietinBank, Techcombank, BIDV, Military Bank, VPBank, ACB, AgriBank, TPBank, and VIB. Meanwhile, the ten most prestigious life insurance companies include Bao Viet Insurance, Dai-Ichi Vietnam, AIA Vietnam, Prudential Vietnam, Chubb Vietnam, Generali Vietnam, Hanwha Life Vietnam, Cathay Vietnam, MB Ageas and Mirae Asset Prévoir. The top ten prestigious information technology - telecommunications companies include Military-run Industry and Telecoms Group (Viettel), FPT Corporation, Viet Nam Posts and Telecommunications Corporation, VNPT Vinaphone Corporation, Mobifone Corporation, CMC Corporation, VNPT-Vinaphone, Vietnam Technology and Telecommunication Joint Stock Company, Hanel Joint Stock Company, Việt Nam Technology & Telecommunication Joint Stock Company, Việt Nam Maritime Communication and Electronics Company, and Tien Phat Technology Joint Stock Company. The annual rankings are based on independent research and assessment by Vietnam Report. The enterprises honoured in this year's lists are all effective, experienced, well-positioned and reputable representatives, making positive contributions to the overall development of the industry in particular and Vietnam’s economy in general in recent years. According to a survey by Vietnam Report, banks do not expect breakthrough growth in the second half of 2023. The industry outlook is forecast to be stable, with a growth rate of between 42% and 44. 2% compared to the survey results in 2022 and 2021. However, opportunities coming from the State Bank's new policies such as flexible interest rate management, closely following market developments, and global digital transformation are expected to bring great impetus for banks to overcome difficulties. For the insurance industry, the "headwinds" in the market have had a strong impact on the industry in recent years, especially the series of cases related to insurance distribution channels through banks that have pulled down public confidence in the llife insurance market in particular and the insurance industry in general. Meanwhile, the information technology - telecommunications industry has made progress and continued to be a bright spot in Vietnam's economy in 2022. But from the end of 2022 to the beginning of 2023, businesses in the industry are affected by the weak demand due to the risk of world economic recession and inflationary pressure. To maintain growth in the current difficult context, businesses need to maintain their development goals, come up with balanced and comprehensive action strategies around technology and process issues and people such as improving competitiveness compared to other technology competitors, enhancing training of high-quality human resources. Taxation sector’s budget revenue reaches 36.6 billion USD in 7 months The taxation sector’s total state budget revenue in the first seven months of 2023 was estimated at 868.6 trillion VND (36.6 billion USD), equal to 63.3% of the estimate, and 94.5% compared with that of the same period last year, Radio the Voice of Vietnam quoted the figures of the General Department of Taxation. Taxation sector’s budget revenue reaches 36.6 billion USD in 7 months – Photo for illustration (Source: VNA)  To date, 58 foreign suppliers have registered to declare and pay taxes through an electronic portal dedicated to them, which was put into operation on March 21, 2022. Since the beginning of this year, they have declared and paid over 3.4 trillion VND worth of taxes via this portal. There are 334 e-commerce platforms that send data to provide information to tax authorities, of which many have a large market share such as Shopee, Lazada, Sendo, Voso and Tiki. Hanoi gets VND630 bln in tourism revenue from Blackpink concert The capital’s tourism industry benefited from the recent Blackpink concert, earning a total of VND630 billion in revenue, Radio the Voice of Vietnam quoted the information of the Hanoi Department of Tourism. According to the tour, Hanoi welcomed about 170,000 visitors for the two Blackpink performance nights on July 29 and July 30, of which the number of international guests reached more than 30,000. Blackpink performed in Hanoi (Photo: VOV)  Furthermore, about 65% of foreign guests stayed at hotels throughout Hanoi, with the majority coming from China, the Republic of Korea, Japan, the United States, the UK, France, India, Taiwan (China), and Australia. Approximately 70,000 spectators, including 3,000 foreign visitors, were thrilled by the performances put on by Blackpink at the My Dinh National Stadium on July 29 and July 30. Throughout the two-day concert, the number of visitors using double-decker buses witnessed a significant increase, with online bookings going up by 15% compared to previous days. The occupancy rate of hotels in Hanoi is currently high, and most Vietnamese bookings come from southern provinces. In addition to the luxury hotel segment, three-to four-star hotels in area close to the My Dinh Stadium there the performances made also saw their occupancy rates reach almost 100% on July 29. Not only in the My Dinh Stadium surroundings, hotels, and guesthouses in other areas also saw an increase in room bookings in late July and early August. Indeed, many hotels which cost around VND500,000 to VND2 million, between US$21 and US$84, per night reported a "fully booked" status. Spectators are thrilled by Blackpink performances at My Dinh National Stadium on July 29
            (Photo: VOV)  There are more than 3,700 tourist accommodation facilities with over 70,000 rooms throughout Hanoi, with the occupancy rate of hotel rooms reaching over 60% in July. Popular tourist destinations also saw a huge number of holidaymakers during those days. Vietnam wins “Best support actress” at AIFFA 2023 Vietnamese actress Kim B of Dem toi ruc ro (The Brilliant Darkness) won the title "Best support actress” at the ASEAN International Films Festival & Awards (AIFFA 2023) that took place from August 2-4 in Kuching island, Sarawak, Malaysia, said the Vietnam News Agency. Kim B, born in 1989 in Bien Hoa city, the southern province of Dong Nai province, is not a professional actress but a makeup artist. She has participated in makeup in famous film projects including "Kong: Skull Island" by director Jordan Roberts - a famous Hollywood movie set in Vietnam. Kim B's role as Kim Bao in "Brilliant Night" is her first role in the film industry. Director Aron Toronto and screenwriter Nha Uyen receive the award on behalf of Kim B.
            (Photo: Provided by the Organising Committee)  The film focuses on domestic abuse, telling the story of the funeral of a grandfather whose family members believe they have been left a fortune. His children soon discover that their father lost a fortune gambling and the mafia is coming to collect the debt. They must pay by sunrise or else there will be another funeral. AIFFA 2023 ‘s “Best Film” award was given to "Barbarian Invasion" by female director Chui Mun Tan from Malaysia. Previously, it won the Jury Grand Prix in the 24th Shanghai International Film Festival Golden Goblet Awards in 2021. AIFFA 2023 also presented the "ASEAN Inspiration" award to movie and music star Bi Rain from the Republic of Korea. Up to 120 films from filmmakers across countries in the region were sent to the AIFFA 2023. The jury had to select 34 films for an official competition round. Actress and director Hong Anh is the only Vietnamese representative on the jury at the festival together with other members including U-Wei Bin Haji Saari from Malaysia, Ihsan Nurullah Kabil from Turkey, Viva Westi from Indonesia, and Effendee Mazlan from Malaysia. Two Vietnamese movies, namely Memento Mori: Dat (Memento: Earth) and Dem toi ruc ro (The Brilliant Darkness), have been nominated in four categories of the AIFFA 2023. Nguyen Hai Yen and Tran Ngoc Khuyen of Memento Mori: Dat received nominations as best actress and best director of cinematography while Nha Uyen and Kim B of Dem toi ruc ro were nominated for best screenplay and best support actress./. / 

Managing editor: 
Editor-in-chief: Dr. Nguyen Cong Dung   Register No 373/GP-BTTTT on on-line information service issued
by Ministry of Information and Communications. 

© 2015 by Communist Party of Vietnam Online Newspaper 



Head office: 381 Doi Can str, Ba Dinh dist, Hanoi, Vietnam
Tel: +8 048916/ +8 048161     Fax: +8 044175
E-mail: dangcongsan@cpv.org.vn