By sticking to recent trends our man fancies a high drawn horse in the Cambridgeshire while a return to fast ground could work for Sacred Angel in the Cheveley Park Stakes Get ready for a shock as Newmarket’s Rowley Mile course could be Haunted this afternoon. It’s spooky how high-drawn horses in the bet365 Cambridgeshire have dominated this historic handicap in recent years. The last seven winners raced from stall 21 or higher and that bodes well for HAUNTED DREAM (3.40) in box 32. He’s been remarkably consistent in competitive handicaps this year. His third behind Pride Of America and Astro King in the John Smith’s Cup was followed by similarly solid efforts at the big festival meetings at Goodwood and York. Those were over 1m2f and that proven stamina is often a help for this race over the unusual 1m1f distance. Apprentice jockeys also have a good record in this race with three wins in the last nine years, so it should be helpful to have 5lbs-claimer Morgan Cole in the saddle. Have 2pts each-way on Ed Dunlop’s runner at 20-1. A couple of bookies are paying out on seven places. Sky Bet is stretching to a generous eight. SACRED ANGEL (2.25) will appreciate getting back on some fast ground in the Cheveley Park Stakes. She looked very smart when making all the running to land the Princess Margaret Stakes at Ascot in July and she was far from disgraced when fourth behind Vandeek in the red-hot Prix Morny at Deauville. The ground was pretty testing in France, when she took on a couple of the best two-year-old colts in Europe. Charlie Johnston’s runner looked happier on the quicker surface of her two victories. Have 1pt each-way at 9-1. Plenty of bookies are paying out on four places. It’s more than five years since ACCIDENTAL AGENT (5.25) grabbed Group 1 glory in the Queen Anne Stakes. Eve Johnson Houghton’s veteran is now a nine-year-old but there’s plenty of life left in him when things drop right. He should get the strong pace he needs and he does like the Newmarket tracks. Have 1pt each-way at 15-2. Get email updates with the day's biggest stories