Leading e-commerce enabler for brands in the Philippines, etaily, was the recipient of the 3-star certification from the Lazada Partners Program in 2022. The recognition, considered the highest standard for the platform’s partners, demonstrates etaily’s excellence in-store management, operations, and fulfillment. etaily CEO Alexander Friedhoff proudly announced the new accomplishment as another feat that defines the eCommerce enabler. ”Earning the Lazada Partners 3-Star Certification is a major accomplishment for etaily and alludes to the hard work and dedication of the team. We are proud to be recognized as the leading eCommerce enabler in the Philippines and look forward to further supporting our brand partners in their eCommerce journeys. We are excited to see what the future holds for etaily as we continue to evolve and innovate in the eCommerce spaces,” he said. etaily provides a comprehensive solution that enables and empowers eCommerce growth by offering end-to-end services such as technology, operations, brand, and data capabilities. Since 2020, etaily has continuously evolved as an enabler and is now the go-to partner of big brands across the country and Southeast Asia. Qualified 3-Star certified Lazada partners score above the set Lazada partners assessment metrics which evaluates factors including ship-on-time, return rate, cancellation rate, same-day chat response rate, seller rating, availability to purchase, campaign join rate, and participation in special projects. With the mega campaigns of 11.11 and 12.12, paired with the holiday sales, the last quarter of 2022 is the busiest time for all eCommerce players. Despite the increased demand for products and delivery volume, etaily emerged as the only partner meeting the highest standards set by one of the largest eCommerce operators in Southeast Asia. The recent certification adds to etaily’s growing list of accolades, including Forbes Asia 100 to Watch 2022, Retail Asia Awards Digital Initiative of the Year 2022, and Great Place to Work 2022.  © All Rights Reserved, Newspaper Theme.