
Menu
 
Search

 
Menu
 
Search

 

                                                                                        Japan’s Economy Rebounds with 3.1% Growth, Driven by Consumer Spending and Business Investment                                         

                                                                                        McDonald's to Launch Yu-Gi-Oh Happy Meal in August as Pokemon Announces New Toy Line                                         

                                                                                        U.K. Economy Shows Strong Growth Amid Lower Inflation and Rising Consumer Confidence                                         

                                                                                        Dug up in Australia, burned around the world – exporting fossil fuels undermines climate targets                                         

                                                                                        Navigating the Intersection of Private Equity Insurance and Economics: Strategies for Maximising Returns and Managing Risks                                         

                                                                                        A double whammy of winter fuel payment cuts and scrapping a planned cap on social care costs is set to hit older people                                         

                                                                                        Fall Flavors Arrive: New Seasonal Menus from Krispy Kreme, Cracker Barrel, and The Human Bean                                         

                                                                                        How a currency devaluation in Kazakhstan made the country’s poor worse off                                         

                                                                                        Oil Prices Rise Over 1% on Positive U.S. Economic Data and Geopolitical Tensions                                         

                                                                                        McDonald’s Brings Back the Beloved Pumpkin and Creme Pie Just in Time for Fall                                         

                                                                                        Intel to Launch Arrow Lake-S 'Core Ultra 200' Desktop CPUs on October 10                                         

                                                                                        10 Popular Burger King Items That Have Seen Dramatic Price Hikes Over the Past Decade                                         

                                                                                        Japanese Firms Grow Less Optimistic About Economy Amid Weak Yen and Inflation Concerns                                         

                                                                                        Krispy Kreme Expands Nationwide with McDonald’s, Modernizes Operations for Massive Rollout                                         

                                                                                        Is Australia ‘giving away’ its natural resources?                                         

                                                                                        Labor Strikes Surge in China's Property and Manufacturing Sectors Amid Economic Slowdown                                         

                                                                                        Circle K Operator Alimentation Couche-Tard Bids to Acquire 7-Eleven's Japanese Owner                                                 China’s JD will close its e-commerce services in Indonesia and Thailand after a bruising year for the Chinese business environment. JD did not give a reason for the closures. The company will end its services in Thailand on March 3 and in Indonesia from the end of the same month. Both units will stop taking orders on February 15. A JD spokesperson said that the company will continue to serve global markets, including Southeast Asia, through its supply chain infrastructure. JD started its e-commerce operation in Indonesia in 2015 as a joint venture with Provident Capital, while the Thai platform was launched in 2017 with the Central Group, Thailand’s largest retailer. The company, which also operates the omnichannel retail brand Ochama in Europe and has other ventures such as JD property, failed to gain traction against larger players such as Alibaba Group’s Lazada, Sea Ltd’s Shopee, and GoTo Group’s Tokopedia. In contrast to bigger competitors like Lazada by Alibaba Group, Shopee by Sea Ltd, and Tokopedia by GoTo Group, JD was unable to gain traction. JD's exits, according to Nattabhorn Buamahakul, a partner at Asia Group Advisors located in Bangkok, were a result of the region's fierce competition in e-commerce, particularly in Thailand. Breathing through your nose when you exercise may make your runs easier Entrepreneurs are facing a mental health crisis — here's how to help them Are fish oil supplements as healthy as we think? And is eating fish better? Will AI kill our creativity? It could – if we don’t start to value and protect the traits that make us human Does AI have a right to free speech? Only if it supports our right to free thought How can I lower my cholesterol? Do supplements work? How about psyllium or probiotics? Why we need to set limits on sperm donation Aging with a healthy brain: How lifestyle changes could help prevent up to 40% of dementia cases Seven techniques to avoid weight regain, approved by experts  
                                                                                                Krispy Kreme Expands Nationwide with McDonald’s, Modernizes Operations for Massive Rollout  
                                                                                                The Secret Behind McDonald’s Perfect Fries: The Four Potato Varieties They Use  
                                                                                                Donald Trump's Nephew Sparks Concern, Suggests Ex-President Shows Early Signs of Dementia: 'It Runs In The Family'  
                                                                                                Russia-Ukraine war spills into west Africa: Mali attacks signal dangerous times ahead  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Sparks Mental Fitness Concerns After Mistaking Pennsylvania for North Carolina at Rally  
                                                                                                Tesla Marks 400 Superchargers in Hong Kong with Specially Wrapped Stall, Celebrating a Decade of Growth  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Mocked as Supporter Falls Asleep During Pennsylvania Rally: Critics Call Him 'Boring AF'  
                                                                                                Huawei Export Restrictions Set for Potential US Relaxation as Lawmakers Warn of Economic Fallout  
                                                                                                Tesla Cybertruck Hits 400-Mile Range with Core Wheels, New Owner Reveals  
                                                                                                SpaceX Prepares for Risky Tower Capture in Upcoming Starship Flight 5 Test 
Back to Top ▲
 
                        

                        
                        ©Econometrics LLC . All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.                     Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results. Sign up for daily updates for the most important
            stories unfolding in the global economy. 