NPC Seal of Registration PEP.ph has been granted the NPC Seal of Registration in recognition of the successful registration of its DPO and DPS Partners In Crime, the action-adventure comedy film starring Ivana Alawi and Vice Ganda, is currently the top-ranking movie on Netflix Philippines as of Friday, March 31, 2023. Ivana played the role of a social-media influencer named Rose and served stunning looks throughout the film. Interestingly, one of her beauty looks didn't make it to the final cut of the movie. Celebrity make-up artist Muriel Vega Perez, who was responsible for Ivana's make-up in the movie, shared this with PEP.ph (Philippine Entertainment Portal) in an exclusive interview via Instagram's direct message. Muriel's exceptional skills in creating a red-carpet beauty look that highlights natural features were evident in this stunning rosy and glamorous look he created for the Kapamilya actress. It brought out the best in Ivana's features, making her look absolutely gorgeous. PHOTO: Muriel Vega Perez  Talking to PEP.ph, Muriel said he definitely enjoyed working with Ivana in the movie. Asked what the actress usually requests for her beauty look, Muriel said Ivana always goes for the "light, airy, innocent, fresh look with a kick of sexiness." If you want to recreate this particular make-up look, here's the list of make-up products Muriel used on Ivana. He started with Kiko Milano Refreshing Primer and Makeup Fixer to prepare Ivana's skin for the beauty routine and provide a subtle glow. This multi-use primer is available for PHP950 at Kiko Milano's stores in SM Mall of Asia and SM Megamall. PHOTO: kikocosmetics.com  To create Ivana's base, Muriel put on a light coating of Kiko Milano Skin Tone Foundation, then used Laura Mercier translucent setting powder to set it. Asked for a pro tip to achieving Ivana's glowing make-up finish, Muriel said, "The technique is by prepping the skin very well and using a sheer foundation." The foundation is priced at PHP1,450. Meanwhile, the setting powder is available for PHP1,875 on Shopee and PHP1,815 on Lazada. PHOTO: kikocosmetics.com / lauramercier.com  Muriel used the celebrity-favorite Backstage Rosy Glow Blush by Dior to give Ivana's cheeks a fresh and radiant look. Dior's store in SM Makati sells this blush, available in both Pink and Coral shades, for PHP2,500 each. PHOTO: Dior.com  Muriel highlighted the actress' features using Strokes Face Flash in Sparkling Champagne. This is available for PHP309 on Shopee and Lazada. PHOTO: Lazada  Using the Kiko Milano Glamour Finish Eyeshadow Palette in Sunset Vibes, Muriel created a stunning eyeshadow look, inspired by a pink sunset. This palette is available at the brand's boutiques in SM Megamall and SM Mall of Asia for PHP1,350. For those recreating the look, Muriel recommended a finishing touch to the eye make-up: use winged eyeliner to achieve a stunning eyeshadow look as "it extends the eyes and gives a subtle drama." Muriel did not forget using a set of Beauty Secret lashes. PHOTO: Beauty Secret PH on Facebook  To create Ivana's flawless eyebrows, Muriel applied Flormar Eyebrow Pomade in Brown and Flormar Eyebrow Fixator. The brow pomade is available on Lazada for PHP499. The eyebrow fixator, on the other hand, is priced at PHP349, also on Lazada. PHOTO: Lazada Ivana is known for her lush lips.  For this make-up look, Muriel used SPOTLIGHT Superstar Liquid Lips in the shade Glam Goddess. This liquid lipstick is available for PHP345 in Watsons, Shopee, and Lazada. PHOTO: Lazada  READ MORE: 

            HOT STORIES
        

























 Featured Searches:    We use cookies to ensure you get the best experience on PEP.ph. By continued use, you agree to our privacy policy and accept our use of such cookies. Find out more here.