One week of school holiday is over in a blink of an eye. Although one week may feel short, it can disrupt your child’s studying momentum. One of the ways to reignite the motivation to study, or even to go to school, is to have new school essentials. The start of a new school term is also a good time to restock some school essentials. To reduce the burden on your wallet, Lazada Singapore is having up to 70 per cent off school essentials and Disney products. Check out some of the best deals below. READ: Up to 50% off Hong Kong and Macau tours and experiences on KKday Singapore The most popular personal care brands in Singapore How to remove mould from your tiles and walls in Singapore Family-friendly activities to try in Bangkok 1. Stabilo 308 Retractable Ballpoint Pen with Rubber Grip - Pack of 6 S$3.13 S$3.90 at Lazada Singapore 2. Lordwey Korean Fashion Transparent Pencil Case S$7.99 S$10.59 at Lazada Singapore 3. Kyowa Bungu Correction Tape Horizontal Type 5mmx8m S$3.96 S$4.50 at Lazada Singapore 4. Kate Spade Stationery Colourful Plastic Mechanical Pencil Set of 5 - Candy Stripe S$39.95  at Lazada Singapore 5. MD Notebook A5 Blank / Grid / Lined / Dotted / Frame S$16.33 S$16.50 at Lazada Singapore 6. A5 Notebook Hardcover Diary - Just Lines - Time to Sparkle Unicorns S$6.90 S$18.90 at Lazada Singapore 7. GuangBo File Holder A4 Blue Plastic Folder S$5.90 S$11.80 at Lazada Singapore 8. Aicrane 8/18 Colours Glitter Pen Highlighter S$6.79 S$7.96 at Lazada Singapore 9. Kids School Shoes S$29.90 S$39.90 at Lazada Singapore 10. Divoom Backpack S | Student Waterproof Customisable LED Pixel Art Backpack S$169 S$199 at Lazada Singapore 11. Kocotree Cartoon Children Messenger Bag 13x18x7cm S$6.20 S$11.36 at Lazada Singapore 12. Kocotree Children's Schoolbag Decompression + Spine Protection S$89 S$110 at Lazada Singapore 13. Disney Cars - 450ml (BPA Free) - Ice Rally Championships (Different Cap Options) S$15.26  at Lazada Singapore 14. Disney Frozen - Soft Straw Canteen with Adjustable Strap (BPA-free), Pop-up Canteen Water Bottle S$13.95  at Lazada Singapore 15. Disney D66 Bluetooth Wireless Earphone S$24.90 S$30.21 at Lazada Singapore 16. Bata B.First Unisex School Shoes S$29.95  at Lazada Singapore Nam Nguyen’s 10-day campaign of abuse was ‘some of the worst offending’ Met detectives dealing with the case had ever seen Beijing is “convinced that America is seeking to contain it and suppress its rise,” PM Lawrence Wong argued on Sunday. Pahang Crown Prince Tengku Hassanal Ibrahim Alam Shah says Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin’s remarks could openly incite the public to lose faith in the institution of Malay Rulers, and divide the people. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. The post Incredible Roasted Meat: “I would travel here just for these succulent Roasted Wings” appeared first on SETHLUI.com. The singer-dancer wore her most naked look for a daring cover with Perfect Magazine featuring a make-shift bikini bottoms and no top... ‘We were super unprepared for the experience,’ Margaret Bienert said in a TikTok "We joked that it wasn't April 1st," a Ukrainian soldier identified only by his first name, Serhiy, told The Economist. On a cold night in January, Akanksha Mehta*’s phone pinged with a text message that would change her life. Singapore’s Prime Minister Lawrence Wong dishes fresh handouts in first major speech. Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process Ex-president quickly broke away from prepared speech to accuse vice-president of being a communist and a fascist All the latest updates, gossip, rumours and deals from the summer transfer window A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. "Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward," Harris said to a crowd in Rochester, Pennsylvania. Vice President Kamala Harris’ ascent to the top of the Democratic ticket has dramatically reshaped the 2024 electoral map since earlier this year, when the contest looked to be between an unpopular and elderly incumbent president and the former president (and now convicted felon) he defeated four years prior. The post 15 best “clucking good” chicken rice stalls in Singapore [2024] appeared first on SETHLUI.com. Meanwhile Vladimir Putin’s forces launch ballistic missile attack on Kyiv Paetongtarn Shinawatra, daughter of the divisive former leader Thaksin Shinawatra, became Thailand's prime minister after receiving a royal letter of endorsement Sunday, two days after she was chosen by Parliament following a court order that removed her predecessor.  Paetongtarn is the third Shinawatra to hold the job, after her billionaire father and her aunt Yingluck Shinawatra.  Both were removed from office and forced into exile in coups, although Thaksin returned to Thailand last year as Pheu Thai formed a government. Premier League clash delayed by 10 minutes with the Brazilian receiving lengthy treatment behind blankets before being stretchered off