
                For full functionality of this site it is necessary to enable JavaScript.
                Here are the 
                    instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
                
 Sectors 



 Save to read list



                                        Published by David Bizley,
                                        Editor
                                        

World Cement,
                                Thursday, 29 June 2023 12:21

 An old machine in Gorazdze, Poland had been in operation for many decades, and was to be replaced by a SCHADE Cantilever Reclaimer with the conveying capacity doubled to 400 tph, and an associated Belt Conveyor. SCHADE was responsible for the engineering, design, fabrication and supply. With the support of AUMUND Group Field Service the installation was supervised and the machines were commissioned within an extremely tight timeframe. The order presented a challenge on several levels. The equipment had to be integrated into the existing infrastructure and adapted to the design of the building, which had been constructed in the 1970s. In the very compact hall FGD gypsum and limestone are stored on two stockpiles. The materials are conveyed from here to the onward process of the cement plant. Due to the low ceiling height of the building, the assembly of the new equipment had to be carried out while the plant continued to operate normally. Jochen Delank, Project Manager at SCHADE Lagertechnik says, “The SCHADE equipment needs to move safely despite table edges and foundation slabs that had shifted during the long period of operation. The design of the Cantilever Reclaimer, with a total weight of approx. 90 t, consequently had to be adapted to the ground conditions.” Operation was to be interrupted for as short a period as possible. After assembly of the new equipment the installation team only had 10 days to dismantle the old machine and to switch operation over to the new equipment. After the final connection stages of commissioning, the Cantilever Reclaimer and Belt Conveyor were handed over by SCHADE on time. Read the article online at: https://www.worldcement.com/europe-cis/29062023/10-day-shutdown-commissioning-of-schade-cantilever-reclaimer-and-belt-conveyor/ 



 Olaf Michelswirth, Intercem Engineering, explores the advantages of modular grinding plants over larger cement production units. Embed article link: (copy the HTML code below): 
                            This content is available to registered readers of our magazine only. Please sign in or register for free.
                         
Register for free »
Get started now for absolutely FREE, no credit card required.
 Already a member? Sign in here  Virtual Conference Join us on 22nd October for the fifth edition of Optimisation 2024, focused on the latest developments in cement production technology.
   Register for FREE 
                            Copyright © 2024 Palladian Publications Ltd. All rights reserved | Tel: +44 (0)1252 718 999 |
                            Email: enquiries@worldcement.com
