Los Angeles law enforcement dismantled an organized retail crime ring accused of stealing thousands of dollars of merchandise from a single Nike store. On June 2-3, the L.A. Sheriff’s Department (LASD) Major Crimes Bureau Metro Detail Burglary-Robbery Taskforce (BRTF) worked with local police departments to conduct a surveillance operation at the Nike Community Store in East L.A., which has lost $750,000 in just the past year. More from Sourcing Journal Chamber of Commerce Reacts to California Bill's New Shoplifting Policy Going West! Texworld and Apparel Sourcing Launch in Los Angeles Old Navy and Lululemon Latest Victims of Retail Crime Free-for-all During the two-day stakeout, detectives handed down nine felony charges when arresting 12 people who were part of an organized retail crime crew. Law enforcement returned $2,669.28 in recovered merchandise to Nike, which did not immediately return a request for comment. The detectives along with deputies from the East L.A. police station also recovered an assault rifle from one suspect’s residence. East L.A.’s Special Problems Team and Summer Enforcement Team assisted in recovering two stolen vehicles tied to the suspects, one of which was stolen during a carjacking. According to the Sheriff’s Department, BRTF was formed a decade ago to address L.A.-area organized crime rings, which have increasingly targeted residences and businesses. It has cooperated with other stations and bureaus to monitor trends in crime behavior and identify the perpetrators responsible. The operation at the Nike store highlights the surging epidemic of retail crime. Smash-and-grab robberies have plagued cities coast to coast. A recent study from the National Retail Federation (NRF) found a 26.5 percent rise in violent organized retail crime in 2021 alone. The California State Senate recently took action to address the problem when it passed SB 553, which would prohibit retailers from requiring store associates to confront suspected shoplifters. This comes after Assemblymember Al Muratsuchi in April revived previous efforts to amend the state’s Safe Neighborhoods and Schools Act with harsher penalties for these criminals. AB 1708 would elevate petty theft or shoplifting to a felony or misdemeanor charge for anyone with two or more convictions for theft-related offenses. It would also compel those convicted to participate in programs for mental health or substance abuse treatment, if appropriate. “This bill proposes a balanced approach to fight retail theft, holding repeat offenders more accountable while seeking to address the root causes of the crimes,” Muratsuchi said. Nike has been a popular target for criminals, with some in Memphis getting away with $100,000 around Black Friday last year, others exploiting the supply chain to the tune of $800,000, and workers trying to get away with an inside job. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.