New Bengals safety Nick Scott will need to keep making big plays on the ball next season. AP CINCINNATI, Ohio - Nick Scott will have another chance to bet on himself. After earning a starting role with the Los Angeles Rams in 2022, Scott now finds himself in the same position with a new team. He joined the team this offseason during free agency and gives the Bengals desperately-needed veteran leadership in the defensive backfield.  Scott made a strong first impression as the Rams’ starting free safety last season and will need to continue ascending with the Bengals this fall.  Recommended Bengals stories The fifth-year star lands at No. 20 in our Top 25 Bengals for 2023 list which is the perfect sweet spot for the veteran safety. He deserves a spot on the list given how much defensive coordinator Lou Anarumo values his defensive backs. But Scott isn’t listed higher on the list mostly because he’s new to Cincinnati and has only started one season.  Vitals: 5-foot-11, 201 pounds, 28 years old  College: Penn State  NFL experience: Fourth-year veteran  Contract details: Entering the first year of a 3-year, $12 million contract.  2022 stats: 86 combined tackles (56 solo), two interceptions, two forced fumbles in 17 games (16 starts) Pro Football Focus (PFF) league ranking at position: N/A What PFF says: 54.2 overall defensive grade, 77.0 run defense grade, 43.4 pass coverage grade What he does for the Bengals: Scott is almost a surefire starter for next season and will likely replace Vonn Bell at strong safety. The Bengals appear primed to make Dax Hill their starter at free safety. Hill played behind Jessie Bates III last year so that shift makes more sense. Rookie Jordan Battle might either split snaps with Scott or even play alongside him in specific packages. A workhorse, Scott played 1,093 snaps last year, playing all over the field on defense and special teams. Most of his snaps were at free safety (635) but he also played at slot corner and up in the box, showing that Anarumo can put anywhere in anyway he pleases.  2023 is a success if: He’s a good fit for Anarumo’s system. Anarumo values his defensive backs so much that he asks a lot from there. Don’t expect Scott to play deep in coverage. His red-zone defensive skills will be critical as Bell and Bates led the charge on that front for the Bengals’ last year. Cincinnati was fifth in defensive red zone efficiency last year, meaning their opponents scored touchdowns from the red zone only 50% of the time.  Whether Scott is asked to force fumbles, make difficult tackles or cover tough receivers, he will have to prove he’s a do-it-all handyman. 2023 is a dissapointment if: The safety position becomes the Bengals’ weakest link.  Head coach Zac Taylor said last season that the team was yet to find a weak link on their roster. But he lost Bates, Bell, and veteran cornerbacks Eli Apple and Tre Flowers in free agency, so the Bengals’ defensive backfield might be vulnerable. Hill is in the same position Scott was in last year as a first-time starter.  If opposing offenses find ways to exploit both Hill and Scott, then Anarumo and Taylor could have a serious problem on their hands. Hill will need to depend heavily on the veteran Scott to apply the intricacies of the position that Hill may not have learned from Bates last year. Otherwise, opposing quarterbacks could be in for a field day when the play the Bengals.  See the complete list of the Top 25 for 2023 Mohammad Ahmad covers the Bengals for cleveland.com. You can follow him on Twitter @MohammadAhmadTV and read all his coverage at StrictlyStripes.com. If you or a loved one has questions and needs to talk to a professional about gambling, call the Ohio Problem Gambling Helpline at 1-800-589-9966 or the National Council on Program Gambling Helpline (NCPG) at 1-800-522-4700 or visit 1800gambler.net for more information. 21+ and present in Ohio. Gambling problem? Call 1-800-Gambler. Ad not displaying properly? Become a Cincinnati Football Insider by clicking here. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices