In a report released today, Dan Levy from Barclays maintained a Hold rating on Lear (LEA – Research Report), with a price target of $150.00. The company’s shares closed last Friday at $127.66. According to TipRanks, Levy is an analyst with an average return of -1.0% and a 36.28% success rate. Levy covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Tesla, Rivian Automotive, and General Motors. Lear has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $152.00, representing a 19.07% upside. In a report released on April 28, Deutsche Bank also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $137.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> The company has a one-year high of $155.81  and a one-year low of $113.39. Currently, Lear has an average volume of 609.8K.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 55 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of LEA in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Lear Corp. engages in the design, manufacture and supply of automotive seat, electrical distribution systems and electronic modules, as well as related sub-systems, components, and software. It operates through the following segments: Seating and E-Systems. The Seating segment consists of the design, engineering, just-in-time assembly and delivery of complete seat systems, as well as the manufacture of all major seat components, including seat covers and surface materials such as leather and fabric, seat structures and mechanisms, seat foam and headrests. The E-System segment consists of the design, development, engineering and manufacture of electrical distribution systems, as well as electronic control modules, electrification products, connectivity products and software solutions for the cloud, vehicles and mobile devices. The company was founded in 1917 and is headquartered in Southfield, MI.  Read More on LEA: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks