Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate auto insurance products to write unbiased product reviews. The minute an accident occurs, it's clear why auto insurance is so important. Car insurance can be costly, especially if you have tickets, accidents, a teenager, or other risk factors hiking your rates. But it's possible to meet state requirements, protect yourself and your property, and avoid paying more than you must with affordable policies. Occasionally, car insurance companies will not approve a policy, often due to a poor driving record. With responsible driving, drivers can work back to traditional auto insurance, but the worst thing you could do is let your coverage lapse. While some companies cater to high-risk drivers, states also have high-risk insurance pools. Each state-approved insurer is required to take on a certain number of drivers from this pool each year. The companies also have to offer state-approved rates. To qualify, you would have to be denied coverage by a set number of companies depending on your state. Most auto insurance companies are regional meaning the cheapest option may be a local auto insurance provider (varying in each state). However, among auto insurance providers licensed in all 50 states, GEICO consistently offers the lowest rates for most drivers. Male drivers generally have to pay more for car insurance. When it comes to other demographics, younger drivers under 25 tend to pay the highest premiums because they're considered a higher risk. Other groups that often pay the most for car insurance are those with multiple accidents or DUIs on their record or those with poor credit. GEICO could be the cheaper option overall, but Progressive is generally a cheaper auto insurance option if you have a DUI or multiple traffic infractions. States have different guidelines on how much auto insurance you need. New Hampshire and Virginia technically don't require auto insurance. But the financial responsibility aspect remains the same for every state: All 50 states require drivers to prove they can cover a set amount in damages if they injure another person or their property. Compare policy types from some of the best car insurance companies. The 2023 J.D. Power auto insurance satisfaction study breaks rankings down to different sections of the U.S., which vary widely. While the highest-ranked choice in each region varies, State Farm was the most consistent competitor in all areas. This doesn't come as a surprise. State Farm offers a reliable and familiar name to do business with. It has agents on the ground dedicated to quoting and binding policies with custom discounts for each customer. While State Farm agents provide you with the most competitive quote on company-specific products, agents can only provide you with quotes on State Farm insurance policies. They are considered "captive agents" meaning they cannot assist you in comparing rates elsewhere or if you don't qualify with State Farm. The good news is State Farm covers most drivers and families. This insurer also offers competitive rates for young drivers. State Farm Auto Insurance Review According to its website, USAA Auto Insurance has one stated mission: "to facilitate the financial security of its members, associates and their families", specifically military families. If you are a military member, you can buy a full range of financial products with USAA at discounted rates. If you are a military spouse or other dependent, your military member needs to have a USAA account first. If the military member passes, children coming into adulthood can be USAA-eligible as long as the military member signed up while living. Keep in mind, not all USAA products are limited to military families. You can check its website to verify which ones. USAA Car Insurance Review With its infamous GEICO Auto Insurance gecko, most people in the United States have at least heard the name GEICO. GEICO has insurance agents, but agents do not actively seek out customers. Instead, potential customers run quotes through its online system and sign up, manage plans, and more with assistance as needed from customer service agents. GEICO Car Insurance Review Known for its senior-friendly financial products and services, AARP also offers auto insurance as The Hartford Auto Insurance. You'll need to be signed up with AARP to get an auto insurance quote. But seniors can save on an auto insurance policy and get discounts on home, renter, recreational, and more. AARP Car Insurance Review The celebration of heroes has never been higher, but not all insurance companies are equipped to offer coverage or competitive rates to teachers, firefighters, nurses, and peace officers. Despite the name, California Casualty offers coverage in most states for the listed professionals at discounted rates. California Casualty is not currently offering coverage in Alaska, Hawai'i, Massachusetts, Michigan, New York, or Wisconsin. In the states it does cover, California Casualty offers discounted rates on homeowners and auto insurance with additional coverages like reduced deductibles for nurses when the damage occurs within 500 feet of their workplace. California Casualty Car Insurance Review Having a DUI, multiple traffic infractions, or poor credit in some states makes drivers difficult to insure. Some companies may choose not to renew coverage or accept policies. Whatever your circumstances, Progressive offers consistently competitive rates for drivers with complicated driving records. Progressive Auto Insurance Review There is no one-size-fits-all solution for car insurance. Different companies assess the same risk and assign wildly varying premiums. We use resources, including industry powerhouses like JD Power and customer reviews (both positive and negative). The popularity of the company and the price are two obvious factors. We also look at the coverage available, the likelihood of getting a policy, ease of maintenance once a policy is bound, and how quickly claims are paid. Many of the big names in auto insurance refuse to renew or accept policies with certain high-risk drivers. By combining all these factors and more, we narrow the list of companies to help readers find the right insurance coverage. Read our full insurance rating methodology for more details on how we evaluate insurance companies. Business Insider takes pride in helping readers find personal finance solutions that suit them. Our reviews and rankings in our insurance guides are not for sale. Jump to