In addition to its well-established UK business, client will be buying and selling goods within the EU and has just registered for VAT in the Netherlands. Ive been told there is no accounting software that can cope with both a GBP and a Dutch VAT registration. The company is not setting up any form of separate entity in the Netherlands and therefore will remain solely a UK limited company. As things stand, the only accounting option appears to be to run two separate ledgers on two instances of accounting software (with 2 separate bank accounts which isnt a problem ) and combine them at year end. Has anyone else had experience of this and, if so, what was your 'solution'? For background, the company in question has a turnover of about £3m which is increasing and is likely to gain a lot of business within the EU, partly because its competitors have decided trading in the EU post-Brexit isnt worth the hassle or cost. Thank you Some of the mid range ERP solutions such as iPlicit or xLedger will support multiple EU VAT registrations. That may be a step too far for your client and depending on the EU country you can still file returns manually. Therefore, so long as the existing accounting systems allows the seperate identification of the location of sales this may suffice. I have done this with a client on Xero in the past Could you not use one software license, and use cost centre to split sales between UK and Netherlands (ie, UK sales are coded to cost centre 001 and when you run the UK VAT report you want it to pick up only UK sales.  Likewise, cost centre 002 for Netherlands and run a VAT  report that only includes 002 for anything to go on the Netherlands return. That's sort of the approach we have with our clients who have a UK and an EU registration(s).  Year end then is easier as all sales in the one account/license, VAT returns split between UK/other, etc. Sorry for brevity, I'm stuck at Geneva airport as UK airports are seemingly closed due to a bit of snow and so whilst replying here whiles away the hours, I can't do big replies as a pain to use my mobile to type. I run seperate VAT registered EU Countries via a second VAT control account on Sage.  (OSS is set up on Sage aleady, if using that, it would be your third VAT control account)  I tend to use a speadsheet that mirrors the code, but purely because I love a speadsheet and you can glance and check workings as you go! I also find it easier to deal with currency variances when individual returns are paid. Check out Odoo. It's Brussels-based and caters to the whole EU market and for most of its life UK (or GB in VAT lingo) was part of its market. It has this biggest list of bank feeds I've every seen, loads of features and is way cheaper than Sage.