An MLive file photo of a road closure scene in October 2019. Michigan is in the midst of construction season, which may cause traffic delays for those traveling throughout the state this weekend. (Jenna Kieser | MLive file photo) Michigan’s road construction schedule for the upcoming weekend includes a number of closures on key highways throughout the southeast part of the state.  Lane and ramp closures will be in place along I-96, I-94 and I-75 in Wayne County, plus I-75 in Oakland County, and I-94 in Macomb County. There are also closures to look out for in Allegan, Berrien, Cheboygan, Hillsdale, Kent, Monroe and Van Buren counties. Travelers heading to the Upper Peninsula this weekend will want to avoid the bridge between 8:30 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. Saturday, June 24. Lanes will be closed in both directions for the International Bridge Walk, which returns after a three-year hiatus.  The state’s Department of Transportation lists nearly 50 road, bridge and ramp projects that will close at least a lane of traffic between Friday and Sunday, June 23-25. It’s a smaller list than in recent weeks, but ongoing closures will also have an impact on weekend travel. Before you leave home, check your route on the Department of Transportation’s map of construction projects and road closures. Below is a look at some of the significant projects to account for this weekend. I-94 and I-96 interchange The interchange between I-94 and I-96 in Wayne County will be under construction this weekend, beginning Friday evening, June 23.  Starting at 8 p.m. Friday, the westbound I-94 ramp to I-96 will be closed for construction. Drivers will be detoured using W. Grand Boulevard. The project is scheduled to be done early Monday morning, June 26.  Westbound I-94 will also have its two left lanes closed between Trumbull Street and I-96 through the weekend. Grand River Avenue remains closed at I-94 in the area, though that project is expected to be complete by Friday, June 30.  I-96 in Wayne County On I-96, there are multiple lane and ramp closures in place between Southfield Freeway (M-39) and Oakman Boulevard in Detroit. Drivers heading to and from the area will want to leave extra time due to expected traffic. Additionally, the ramp from westbound I-96 to M-5 (Grand River Avenue/Shaefer) closed this week and will remain closed into late September. The highway’s eastbound left lane will also be closed for three months. Two lanes on I-96 around Davison Avenue (M-8) will remain closed in both directions through the weekend with most work being done between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. daily. That project began in May and is scheduled to wrap up in another week. I-75 in Wayne County The left three lanes of southbound I-75 will be closed this weekend between 8 Mile Road (M-102) and Piquette Street in Wayne County. The two right lanes will also be closed between Goddard Road and Schaefer Road, as will the interchange between southbound I-75 and I-94 in both directions.  Intermittent ramp closures are scheduled between Friday evening and Monday morning from southbound I-75 to eastbound I-94 in Detroit, and at various points along I-75. I-75 in Oakland County Construction on I-75 could continue to affect travel this weekend, with an ongoing double-lane closure of the southbound lanes between Saginaw Road/Dixie Highway and Davisburg Road. The closure, which began earlier this month, will continue until mid-July and mostly includes work between 7 p.m. and 5 a.m. Meanwhile, northbound traffic in the area will be without the left lane around Davisburg Road until late-June. That work began last week. Michigan is investing $160 million to resurface and repair about 15 miles of I-75 in Oakland County over the next four years. I-94 in Macomb County Road work on I-94 in Macomb County is expected to cause some traffic congestion this weekend.  The project began Thursday, but will continue through Monday, June 26. During that stretch, eastbound traffic on I-94 will be down to one lane open between 23 Mile Road and County Line Road. Work will continue, mostly on nights and weekends, through the fall.  I-94 in Berrien/Van Buren counties Drivers traveling on I-94 in Berrien and Van Buren counties can expect evening single-lane closures to continue through the weekend between Coloma and Hartford.  The project, which began last week, is expected to conclude Monday, June 26. It’s an approximately $484,000 fix to resurface the road in both directions, plus guardrail replacement and new pavement markings.  M-99 and M-34 in Hillsdale County Work on M-99 and M-34 in Hillsdale County began this week and is expected to continue into mid-August. During the project, one lane will be open for each highway with traffic regulators from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily.  The work area includes M-99 from Steamburg Road to M-34, and on M-34 from M-99 to U.S. 127.  U.S. 23 in Monroe County Drivers coming back into Michigan from Ohio using U.S. 23 may encounter increased traffic starting Saturday morning due to a single-lane closure from the U.S. Crossover to Ida Center Road. The project is scheduled to conclude Wednesday morning, June 28.  Further east, northbound traffic on I-75 also continues to have a single lane closed between Erie Road and Otter Creek. That work started in the spring and is scheduled to wrap up in November.  Fulton Street in Kent County The resurfacing of four miles of Fulton Street (M-21) in Grand Rapids begins Friday, June 23, with an expected completion date in November.  Construction will take place from I-96 to Grand River Drive and include building indirect left-turn lanes at Taos Avenue and Rippling Drive and adding a right-turn lane at Alta Dale Avenue. The $5 million project will also include sidewalk ramp improvements, guardrails and pavement markings. During the project, drivers can expect lane closures and traffic shifts on Fulton Street.  Heading north on U.S. 127 A stretch of U.S. 127 between Jackson and Lansing has been dealing with a single-lane closure from Baseline Road to Cedar Street since March. That’ll continue into mid-November, meaning potential slowdowns for drivers traveling up north through the area. Once north of Lansing, the highway should be relatively clear of construction until you reach Cheboygan County. There, you’ll find about nine miles of highway between Levering Road and U.S. 31 with the left lane closed.  Blue Star Highway in Allegan County The interchange between Blue Star Highway and I-196 in the Saugatuck area remains under construction. The state is investing $8.3 million to improve five bridges over I-196 in Allegan County, including the two Blue Star Highway bridges, 107th Avenue, 109th Avenue and 114th Avenue. Work is expected to run into November with lane closures and traffic shifts in effect. The 109th Avenue bridge over I-196 is closed through mid-August, while the Blue Star Highway bridge over I-196 remains closed and detoured using 64th Street and 104th Avenue. Ramps from I-196 to Blue Star Highway remain open, though ramps to get onto I-196 in the area are closed. For more information on road construction projects in your area, check out MDoT’s online map, here. Read more on MLive: New roundabout project near Tanger Outlets begins to take shape More people are dying in traffic crashes. Officials blame risky behavior. ‘I got roofied and kidnapped.’ Woman’s story highlights safety issues at Michigan music festivals Infected monkeys at Michigan research lab threaten health and science If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices