Located in Brooklyn, NY, the Left Lane Capital corporate building overlooks the waters of the East River. There is no better view than on the 20th floor, where a full K-array system was installed in March as part of a complete renovation of the space. [SCN Hybrid World: How to Make Room Scheduling Easy] Specified and installed by Architech Designs, the project was in collaboration with the Ovadia Bros, New York fashion designers (and twin brothers) who provided interior design and furnishing direction. Having previously deployed K-array products in similar projects, Architech Designs opted for a full K-array sound system to work seamlessly with other integrated technology, including custom Crestron control, Ketra lighting, 100-inch Sony display, 4K videoconferencing cameras, and soundproofed huddle pods. "While initially designed for background music, K-array's headroom and output allowed for the open-area speaker system to provide exceptional audio,” explained Robert D’Amico, project manager at Architect Designs. “The end result is a system that caters for all occasions, from company functions to cocktail parties.” [NYC's Oldest Surviving Theater Jazzes Things Up with K-array] The high-end corporate install called for a minimal yet style-focused approach. The discreet design of K-array’s products allowed Ovadia Bros. to design a stylish, minimal interior without the need to work around bulky loudspeakers. “We chose K-array for their ability to deliver the world-class sound, performance, and reliability we were seeking,” explained Noah Siber-Sanderowitz, former operations manager at Architech Designs. “The goal was to deliver a world-class audio-video conferencing experience for the conference rooms, a sleek yet powerful office-wide music system for distributed audio, and an immersive audio system for the sensory room.” [I Love It Loud] K-array’s products were able to overcome the acoustical challenge of concrete walls while still providing high-quality sound. The audio system consists of 12 Tornado KT2 point source loudspeakers, four Vyper KV52 ultra-slim column loudspeakers, and two KU210 and eight KU44 Rumble subwoofers. Slimline Vyper column loudspeakers are in the main boardroom. Discreet yet powerful Tornado loudspeakers were used in the sensory room, which features a minimalistic design despite being packed with advanced technology. “The sensory room is a really special room with immersive audio provided by two Tornado loudspeakers and two Rumble subwoofers,” said Siber-Sanderowitz. “K-array's aesthetic-driven designs gave us the ability to blend the speakers into the space whilst providing class-leading sound. The client is thrilled with the performance and result, which looks as good as it sounds.” New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.