A PENSIONER has been left bloodied and bruised after tripping over an "optical illusion" cycle lane that has now claimed 60 victims. Dave Dawson, 76, is the latest casualty of the kerbed cycle lane on the high street in Keynsham, Somerset. Some 59 people have been injured on the street since the cycle lane was installed last year, according to council figures. Mary Richmond, 71, broke her shoulder in two places after a fall from the kerb last year. The lane has been blasted for it's confusing lined design, which hides a two-inch drop from the pavement onto the cycleway. The apparent optical illusion has confused pedestrians who believe the pavement and cycleway are on the same level. They then trip up as they step down off the pavement. Mr Dawson was seen falling into the road before bystanders came to help him up. His hands were left bloodied from the fall. He said: "I stepped with my right foot on the edge of the pavement because it looked flat, and I lost my balance and fell down. "I cut the palms of my hands and my knees a bit because the surface of the cycle lane is very sharp." Confusingly, in some places there is no drop between the pavement and the cycleway. Mr Dawson said he went on to trip a second time in the same day, even after carefully watching his step. Alan Hale, a councillor for Keynsham South, said 59 people have now been recorded as hurt along the road, according to a response to his Freedom of Information (FOI) request. Of these, 21 sought damages from the council for their injuries, Some seven of these have been rejected but the rest remain under investigation. The lane, which used to be the same colour as the road, was painted red in August last year - after 46 people were injured. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.