  A 1-year-old is dead and two people are injured in a pair of crashes that closed alternating sides of Interstate 75 Monday night near Northwoods Boulevard in Butler Township and the I-75/I-70 interchange in Vandalia. According to the Ohio State Highway Patrol, at around 7:39 p.m., a vehicle in the southbound lanes lost a wheel and crashed. Meanwhile, the wheel bounced into the northbound lanes and caused another crash. All southbound lanes were closed and the left lane on the northbound side of I-75 were closed around the 65 mile marker. This crash has since been cleared and all lanes have reopened. Two people were taken from this crash to the hospital, one of which OSHP could confirm was taken to Miami Valley Hospital. Their conditions are not currently known.   At around 9 p.m., however, another crash was reported just north of the I-75/I-70 interchange where a vehicle crashed into a tow truck, according to the highway patrol.  In a release, the OSHP said that a 2015 International 400 was broken down between the left shoulder and the left lane, when a 2016 Nissan Rogue, driven by Kristen Williams, 24, of Troy, crashed into it, flipped over and hit the median wall. Williams was seriously injured, and medics took her to Miami Valley Hospital. However, 1-year-old Khy’aire Meyers, also of Troy, who was a passenger in the SUV, was pronounced dead at the scene. The driver of the truck was not injured. All northbound lanes were closed due to the crash. OSHP said in a release that there haven’t been any charges filed in the Vandalia crash, but it remains under investigation. The highway patrol was assisted at the second crash by Vandalia Police Department, Vandalia Fire Department, Butler Township Police Department, Butler Township Fire Department, Huber Heights Police Department, Ohio Department of Transportation and Sandy’s Towing. About the Author  Daniel Susco is a Dayton-area native and staff writer covering breaking news throughout the greater Dayton area. He holds a journalism degree from Ohio University and began writing for the Dayton Daily News, Hamilton Journal-News, Springfield News-Sun, and Dayton.com in 2019.