Editor’s note: This article was updated Sept. 20, 2023, to include additional information from Leidos. WASHINGTON — Leidos will provide the U.S. Army with tens of thousands of pieces of information-technology equipment such as servers and workstations under a contract worth as much as $7.9 billion. The defense IT specialist announced its win of the Common Hardware Systems 6th Generation contract, or CHS-6, Sept. 19. The indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity deal could run for a decade, if all options are exhausted. No additional partners or suppliers were named. The CHS-6 arrangement allows for speedy procurement of commercial, off-the-shelf products for the Army and its units, among other organizations. The service is prioritizing computer networking and communication upgrades amid the Department of Defense’s larger connect-everything-everywhere campaign now known as Combined Joint All-Domain Command and Control, or CJADC2. Leidos plans to employ what it’s calling the Intelligent Logistics Platform to get the job done. Between 75,000 to 100,000 pieces of hardware are acquired via the contract in a typical year. “Recent events highlighted the devastating effect of supply chain disruptions, making resilience a national priority,” Gerry Fasano, the Leidos Defense Group president, said in a statement. “By combining flexible solutions with artificial intelligence and predictive analytics to increase visibility into operations, we will work to provide a uniquely resilient rapid fulfillment model.” The Defense Department received three bids for CHS-6, records show. General Dynamics held the prior contract, CHS-5, worth nearly $4 billion. Leidos earned $9.5 billion in defense-related revenue in 2022, earning it the No. 16 spot on the Defense News “Top 100″ list of the world’s largest defense contractors. It earned a little more than $8 billion in 2021. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.