Wells Fargo analyst Matthew Akers maintained a Buy rating on Leidos Holdings (LDOS – Research Report) today and set a price target of $121.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $94.41. Akers covers the Industrials sector, focusing on stocks such as Boeing, General Dynamics, and Lockheed Martin. According to TipRanks, Akers has an average return of 14.7% and a 68.92% success rate on recommended stocks.  The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for Leidos Holdings with a $113.80 average price target, a 20.54% upside from current levels. In a report released on October 2, Stifel Nicolaus also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $120.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Based on Leidos Holdings’ latest earnings release for the quarter ending June 30, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $3.84 billion and a net profit of $207 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $3.6 billion and had a net profit of $171 million
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.  Leidos Holdings (LDOS) Company Description: Leidos Holdings, Inc. is a holding company, which engages in the provision of scientific, engineering and information technology services and solutions in the areas of defense, intelligence, civil and health markets. It operates through the following three segments: Defense Solutions, Civil, and Health. The Defense Solutions segment focuses on deploying agile, cost-effective solutions to meet the ever-changing missions of the company’s customers in areas of intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance, enterprise IT and integrated systems and cybersecurity and global services. The Civil segment focuses on seamlessly integrating and protecting physical, digital and data domains. The Health segment offers solutions to federal and commercial customers that are responsible for the health and wellbeing of people worldwide including service members and veterans. The company was founded by John Robert Beyster on February 3, 1969 and is headquartered in Reston, VA. 
 Read More on LDOS: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks