Vista Technology Support announces the addition of Costa Coffee as one of its core UK hospitality customers We all know how that first coffee of the day hits differently.  No one understands this more than Vista Technology Support, having just proudly partnered with Costa Coffee to ensure that all operations run smoothly, and that customers can start their day bright-eyed and bushy-tailed, ready to take on the world with a coffee in hand.  The tech support company is looking forward to applying its Continuous Service Improvement (CSI) philosophy to reduce the occurrence of system faults and outages, and to maintain maximum operational time in over 1500 Costa Coffee stores across the UK. Costa has been hailed the 'Best Branded Coffee Shop Chain in the UK and Ireland' by Allegra Strategies for 13 consecutive years, and with the help of Vista, it's hoping to go from strength to strength.  When unable to predict a likely outage or interruption through Vista CSI, the Vista Field Services Team of more than 130 engineers around the UK will be quickly mobilised to repair and resolve any issues, ensuring that everyone can continue to enjoy the nation's favourite coffee shop. James Pepper, CEO of Vista commented: “Every one of our colleagues is excited at Costa’s selection of Vista as its service partner and looks forward to delivering our great service to their team.  "In our post-Covid world hospitality, just like retail, has seen a significant shift in technologies to accommodate new customer ordering, engagement techniques, and delivery methods.  "With more self-service, drive-thru, pay-at-post and customer automation solutions deployed, comes an increased level of support complexity. However, ensuring that everything remains operational and functional is at the core of Vista’s popular business offering.” Darren Phillips, Costa Coffee's global head of central IT services and support, said: “Costa is thrilled to welcome Vista Technology as our new retail stores break-fix provider.  "Its expertise and commitment to excellence align perfectly with our core values, allowing us to better serve our stores, providing them with an enhanced, innovative, and improved service.  "Costa is confident that this partnership will bring great success and mutual benefits to both organisations.” The addition of Costa Coffee continues a significant and sustained growth period for Vista over the past four years. Both during and after the Covid period, Vista has successfully added many further national organisations in the grocery, retail, hospitality and healthcare verticals to its ever-growing customer list.  The addition of Costa Coffee expands Vista’s hospitality presence, which already includes the UK’s largest hotelier and the UK‘s largest restaurateur.  The Cardiff-based company is now the largest independent retail, hospitality and pharmacy technology deployment and support provider in the UK. When not troubleshooting and maintaining its customers’ equipment, the Vista Projects and Deployment Team is busy behind the scenes installing the network infrastructure cabling for new and refurbished stores, deploying and commissioning all its customers’ new technologies, ready for a successful launch day.  With the continued expansion of Costa Coffee, the Vista Projects and Deployment team will be able to install and commission each of these new coffee shops around the country. James Pepper added: “Vista’s ability to manage a customer’s estate from a bare shell through to its installation, to opening and going live, as well as providing everyday helpdesk and field service support needs, all from a single organisation, is a very compelling proposition to many businesses.” Vista Technology Support is trusted by 120 retail, hospitality and pharmacy businesses to deliver its technology transformation projects and ongoing IT support services. Vista subsequently supports more than 250,000 points of sale, self-service and back-office IT systems. When it comes to the support and deployment of retail and hospitality technology, Vista provides reliable IT service desk and break-fix services for all in-store technologies, including: If your technology is deployed within a store environment, Vista can provide both preventative and responsive maintenance and support.  Visit the website, email the team at sales@vistasupport.com or call 0330 135 5795 to obtain expert advice from one of its experienced Business Development Managers.