Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 With 2.5 miles of shoreline along Lake Tohopekaliga, the developers of the 6,000-acre Green Island Ranch in Osceola County have come up with a name for the community that captures the essence of the new lakefront town: Waterlin.Wheelock Communities, which paid $150 million in late 2021 for the sprawling ranch property, gave GrowthSpotter a sneak peek at the first neighborhood in Waterlin and discussed how the brand and theme would be realized throughout the development.“What we really love about the brand that we’ve gotten to with Waterlin Florida is it’s authentic — not only to us as developers but also to the property,” Project Manager Matt Call said. “And then as we put this together, we really want to come up with a brand that was unifying and really pulled all these different concepts together. I think the Waterlin brand does a great job of that.”With entitlements for over 17,000 homes and a future marina on Lake Toho, Waterlin will contain multiple districts and neighborhoods with their own character, but it would all fall under the umbrella of Waterlin, he said. The first four neighborhoods east of Florida’s Turnpike are entitled for 2,321 single-family homes, 622 multifamily homes, a K-8 school and 106,000 square feet of commercial space.Wheelock is waiting for final site development approval from Osceola County for Phase 1 and has pushed its construction start from summer to late fall. So far, Lennar Homes has confirmed it will have a presence in Waterlin, but no other homebuilders have been announced.“The homebuilder announcements will probably be in the fourth quarter of this year,” Call said. The first section just off Canoe Creek Road is divided into five sub-phases. Plans call for 847 homes, including 213 townhomes, along with a Neighborhood Center with up to 21,000 square feet of non-residential uses.The first neighborhood park will have a community pool, dog park, pickleball courts and an open lawn.The neighborhood center will include amenities, a welcome center and a small amount of retail. Call said the developer would build a community pool and cabana, pickleball courts, a dog park, a playground, picnic pavilions and a large lawn.

Skyscraper set to open in fallThe developer building Society Orlando at 434 N. Orange Ave. is on track to deliver the 26-story tower in the fall, according to a report in GrowthSpotter.Nick McManus, senior director of construction for Property Markets Group, said they would start pre-leasing for the 484-unit apartment tower this summer.“We’re actually shooting to deliver all of the units at once,” he said.McManus said the general contractor has already completed about a quarter of the residential units.Nearly 30 percent of all units at Society will be included in PMG’s co-living program, where residents lease their bedrooms and bathroom and share common living spaces with roommates. The developer redesigned its four-bedroom four-bath co-living units to convert them into units with three bedrooms, three bathrooms and a den.“We gave back that square footage to the residents,” McManus said. The den will be furnished to act as a home office. “It should be a really nice amenity for those residents.”The building will have 34,000 square feet of commercial space on the ground floor, and much of that will be dedicated to food and beverage options.The Orlando project is the latest of PMG’s Society Living communities also in Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Chicago, Denver, Atlanta and Nashville.This is a sampling of stories from GrowthSpotter, a premium subscription service from the Orlando Sentinel that focuses on the early stages of real estate development. To subscribe, go to GrowthSpotter.com Wheelock Communities, which paid $150 million in late 2021 for the sprawling ranch property, gave GrowthSpotter a sneak peek at the first neighborhood in Waterlin and discussed how the brand and theme would be realized throughout the development. “What we really love about the brand that we’ve gotten to with Waterlin Florida is it’s authentic — not only to us as developers but also to the property,” Project Manager Matt Call said. “And then as we put this together, we really want to come up with a brand that was unifying and really pulled all these different concepts together. I think the Waterlin brand does a great job of that.” With entitlements for over 17,000 homes and a future marina on Lake Toho, Waterlin will contain multiple districts and neighborhoods with their own character, but it would all fall under the umbrella of Waterlin, he said. The first four neighborhoods east of Florida’s Turnpike are entitled for 2,321 single-family homes, 622 multifamily homes, a K-8 school and 106,000 square feet of commercial space. Wheelock is waiting for final site development approval from Osceola County for Phase 1 and has pushed its construction start from summer to late fall. So far, Lennar Homes has confirmed it will have a presence in Waterlin, but no other homebuilders have been announced. “The homebuilder announcements will probably be in the fourth quarter of this year,” Call said. The first section just off Canoe Creek Road is divided into five sub-phases. Plans call for 847 homes, including 213 townhomes, along with a Neighborhood Center with up to 21,000 square feet of non-residential uses. The first neighborhood park will have a community pool, dog park, pickleball courts and an open lawn. The neighborhood center will include amenities, a welcome center and a small amount of retail. Call said the developer would build a community pool and cabana, pickleball courts, a dog park, a playground, picnic pavilions and a large lawn. Skyscraper set to open in fall The developer building Society Orlando at 434 N. Orange Ave. is on track to deliver the 26-story tower in the fall, according to a report in GrowthSpotter. Nick McManus, senior director of construction for Property Markets Group, said they would start pre-leasing for the 484-unit apartment tower this summer. “We’re actually shooting to deliver all of the units at once,” he said. McManus said the general contractor has already completed about a quarter of the residential units. Nearly 30 percent of all units at Society will be included in PMG’s co-living program, where residents lease their bedrooms and bathroom and share common living spaces with roommates. The developer redesigned its four-bedroom four-bath co-living units to convert them into units with three bedrooms, three bathrooms and a den. “We gave back that square footage to the residents,” McManus said. The den will be furnished to act as a home office. “It should be a really nice amenity for those residents.” The building will have 34,000 square feet of commercial space on the ground floor, and much of that will be dedicated to food and beverage options. The Orlando project is the latest of PMG’s Society Living communities also in Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Chicago, Denver, Atlanta and Nashville. This is a sampling of stories from GrowthSpotter, a premium subscription service from the Orlando Sentinel that focuses on the early stages of real estate development. To subscribe, go to GrowthSpotter.com Copyright © 2024 Orlando Sentinel