Lenovo recently announced a series of PCs that run on Android as their main operating system. This was done in collaboration with Android custom versioning and management specialist Esper. These include two desktop devices and two ruggedized IoT devices. PCs running Android are rare. The collaboration between Lenovo and Esper, more akin to a reseller agreement, can therefore be considered quite remarkable. One reason for Lenovo to enter into the cooperation with Esper is that, in the eyes of the hardware giant, demand for PCs running Android as an OS has been increasing in recent years. This is in part to save costs, but also to use them in specific use cases. The PC devices now jointly developed are aimed at the business (industrial) market, as well as the retail, healthcare and hospitality sectors. More specifically, the collaboration consists of four Lenovo PC-devices equipped with an Esper custom version of Android: Esper Foundation for Android. The four devices also feature the Android MDM specialist’s various Android management software. The first elaboration of the collaboration is the ThinkCentre M70a. This is an all-in-one desktop, that is, including a screen. Under the hood, this Android PC runs on 12th generation Intel processors, from the i3 to the latest i7 processor, up to 16 GB of DDR4 3,200 MHz RAM memory and 512 GB of of storage capacity via a PCIe SSD, In addition, the desktop features a 21-inch screen. The Lenovo ThinkCentre M70q Gen 3 can be mounted behind a screen and also features the latest 12th generation Intel processors, up to 32 GB of RAM and storage capacity in the form of both an SSD up to 512 GB and an HDD up to 1 TB. Two IoT PC devices have also been introduced, namely the Lenovo ThinkEdge SE30 and the ThinkCentre M90n-1. Both are rugged edge clients. These PCs can be easily placed in IoT environments and serve to control certain activities. The Lenovo ThinkEdge SE30. Source: Lenovo Also read: Lenovo adds Edge AI portfolio to its TruScale IaaS model Android / IoT / Lenovo  "*" indicates required fields 
The tech sector has been underperforming in the stock market lately. ... 
SAP is adding new AI applications to its customer experience (CX) app... 
As we build the global technology industry back to the cadence we kne... 
IFS Sri Lanka started 25 years ago with 28 people. In 2023, you can s... 
Google unveiled the ninth line of Pixel smartphones. Four sizes and models will be available: Pixel 9, Pixel ... 
Discover the essential strategies and imperatives to create a data an... 
Some companies thrive in times of external uncertainty. They know how... 
The IT department is currently under great pressure, partly because o... 
As the software development life cycle becomes ever more complex and ... Techzine focusses on IT professionals and business decision makers by publishing the latest IT news and background stories. The goal is to help IT professionals get acquainted with new innovative products and services, but also to offer in-depth information to help them understand products and services better. © 2024 Dolphin Publications B.V.All rights reserved.