Believe it or not, back-to-school season is here once again. If you've already stockpiled all the notebooks, pens, pencils and textbooks you could ever need, now's the time to make sure you've also got everything you or your student needs on the tech side. That includes a laptop.  Whether you need a reliable notebook to help lighten your workload or something simple for the family to hop on and do their homework, you can secure one from Lenovo during its latest sales event. The Lenovo Back to School Sale is going on now, with blockbuster savings on laptops, 2-in-1 convertibles, gaming laptops and more – all at affordable prices.  Shop the Lenovo Sale From versatile options like the Lenovo Yoga 7i to the ThinkPad T14s, you've got plenty to choose from here. These laptops, simply put, are great for school, college or even gaming. To make things easier for you, we’ve rounded up some of the top laptop deals from Lenovo's Back to School Sale to help you kick off the school year right.  The 16-inch Yoga 7i convertible laptop comes equipped with a beefy CPU, aluminum chassis, and a battery life of over 18 hours. Its 2.2K touchscreen boasts vivid colors, and its keyboard and touchpad are among Lenovo's best in terms of comfort and key travel. $1,140 $790 Multitask like a master with this laptop that can allocate workloads to the right core and right thread, resulting in better collaboration and productivity. It offers all-day battery life, fast charging, intelligent video conferencing, and much more. $2,679 $1,607 Enjoy a quick, nimble system packed with more performance than ever thanks to the Lenovo 3i Chromebook. Its battery lasts all day, so you can use it anywhere and navigate with its touchscreen, or use its privacy shutter during a video call for additional security. $420 $280 with code FEBDEAL This laptop is great for work and play, harnessing Intel's latest hybrid architecture to power both games and productivity apps. Whatever you need to handle, on-board AI, whisper-quiet fans, and a practical design can help you tackle it all while you game or code your own titles.  $1,320 $1,000 This powerful laptop's display is all about keeping your eyes free from strain. It boasts special Eyesafe certification to cut down on eye fatigue. Its slew of additional features mean you can get plenty of work done as well as stay on work conferences with its all-day battery life. 
 $2,849 $1,567 Power through your favorite new games of the season thanks to the AMD Ryzen processor and RTX 4060 GPU. Get three free months of Xbox Game Pass Ultimate to try out over 100 different titles to put your new gaming station to the test, with new releases of first-party Xbox titles and more added routinely.  $3,500 $2,800 Work on the go with this flexible laptop featuring a 360-degree hinge and 10-hour battery life. Its touchscreen means you can opt for traditional mouse and keyboard or use your finger to control your favorite apps.  $2,959 $849 Built for lightness and thinness, you can take this ultra slim laptop with you everywhere you go. Available in Arctic Grey and Abyss Blue, this sturdy build stands up to harsh drops with military-grade durability for extreme travel conditions. $650 $400 The brilliant FHD WUXGA touchscreen display gives you vibrant color and contrast. Plus, a pair of Dolby Audio user-facing speakers deliver impressive sound quality for pure entertainment bliss. $850 $630 This larger laptop is all about mobile performance, but its 16-inch screen makes it a great option for a desktop replacement. With crisp visuals, excellent video calling, additional security features and a durable chassis, this laptop can do it all and then some.  $1,729 $813 Find everything you need to head back to class for the 2024-2025 school year in our Fall 2024 Back-to-School Shopping Guide. RELATED CONTENT: Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Style Sales & Deals