Sign up for our newsletter and receive the latest automotive news in your inbox! More than just “another” place to find news, reviews, spy shots, commentary, features, and guides about the auto industry. TheDetroitBureau doesn’t stop with the press releases or confuse a few lines of opinion with insightful, in-depth reporting. Like what you see? Have some ideas for making The Detroit Bureau.com even better? Let us know, we’d love to hear your voice.  
 
 
 Please leave this field empty.
 
 Δ TheDetroitBureau.com’s Headlight News offers a look at the past week’s top automotive news stories, as well as what’s coming up in the week ahead. Check out the week’s top story and our latest review…along with a dive into the past with this week in automotive history. home > news > Automakers > Mercedes Plans Big Splash at Pebble with New Model Mercedes-Benz is planning a big reveal during Automotive Week in Monterey. The company will unveil the new Mercedes-AMG GT and an exclusive special edition of the Mercedes-AMG SL.  The company will also display the Vision One-Eleven and Project Mondo G concept vehicles. “At Pebble Beach Automotive Week, we would like to invite you on an amazing journey back through time with a display of selected brand icons that show why Mercedes-Benz has continued to fascinate people for 137 years,” said Bettina Fetzer, head of Communications and Marketing Mercedes-Benz AG. “The event is a magnet for car enthusiasts and opens up new opportunities for us to facilitate a personal encounter with our brands in a first-class setting.”  The new two-door model is the fifth vehicle to be developed entirely in-house by Mercedes-AMG. It follows the SLS, the first generation of the two-door GT, the GT 4-Door coupe, and the SL.  Details on the specifications of the new AMG-GT have not been released, except to note that the new model has a modified look compared to its predecessor, but Mercedes-AMG stated that the car “remains true to its sporty, dynamic character.”  “For many decades, Monterey Car Week and the Pebble Beach Concours d’Elegance at its conclusion have been a fascinating showcase for highly exclusive automotive gems as well as for customers and enthusiasts,” said Michael Schiebe, CEO of Mercedes-AMG GmbH and head of the business units Mercedes-Benz G-Class & Mercedes-Maybach.  As an additional highlight, a limited special edition of the Mercedes-AMG SL will also debut. No details have been provided about the nature of that special edition.  The official Pebble Beach Tour d’Elegance will kick off the week’s activities Aug. 17. The tour will be led by two exclusive, supercharged models from the Mercedes-Benz W 06 series: a Model S, the letter standing for “Sport”, with a four-seater sports body from 1927, and a Model SS “Super Sport” Cabriolet from 1930 with coachwork designed for the Maharajah of Kashmir. “This year, Mercedes-Benz Heritage is focusing on an important, enduring aspect of our brand history: as the oldest automobile manufacturer in the world, Mercedes-Benz was already inspiring people with top-class, sporty dream cars featuring innovative technology as far back as the 1920s and 1930s,” said Marcus Breitschwerdt, head of Mercedes-Benz Heritage.  “The supercharged sports cars of the S-series are prime examples. Pebble Beach also shows how important automotive tradition is for the future. Because the event has long since spread its aura beyond the historical perspective — to encompass today’s vehicles and important innovations for the future of the automobile.”  Then on Sunday, Aug. 20, the Pebble Beach Concours d’Elegance will take place as the highlight of Automotive Week, culminating with the announcement of the coveted “Best in Show” award, which can be worth millions of dollars to the winning owner.  Mercedes-Benz is one of the most successful brands in the history of this Concours. The most recent Mercedes-Benz winners were Arturo and Deborah Keller’s Mercedes-Benz 540 K Autobahn Courier in 2021 and Bruce McCaw’s Mercedes-Benz Model S Tourer with Barker coachwork in 2017. The Mercedes-Benz Vision One-Eleven recently celebrated its world premiere in California. At Monterey, Mercedes-Benz will present this sports car concept that combines a highly dynamic design language with innovative, fully electric drive technology. The Vision One-Eleven has a supercar silhouette featuring the signature Mercedes-Benz “one-bow” design that underscores its 21st century style.  Technical highlights include two powerful, highly efficient axial-flux motors developed by YASA, a British electric motor specialist based in Oxford, England and a wholly owned subsidiary of Mercedes-Benz AG since July 2021. The Mercedes-Benz Vision One-Eleven continues the tradition of the legendary C 111 experimental vehicles from the 1960s and 1970s. Mercedes-Benz owners will also have their day in the sun at Legends of the Autobahn West in Pacific Grove Aug. 17, which is a celebration of German cars of all ages. BMW will unveil the new all-electric 5-Series sedan at that event.  Do you need to cover $150,000 + cars here? Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ