The two agencies win all regional awards and bring home nine golds between them. LEO Digital Network and Ruder Finn Asia bag two golds. BBDO wins one gold and Greater China Best Place to Work.
 
Ogilvy and Zenith have picked up the three regional-level awards in the just-announced Greater China Agency of the Year Awards. Ogilvy wins Greater China Creative Agency of the Year and Greater China PR Agency of the Year, while Zenith takes the Greater China Media Agency of the Year. Ogilvy keeps both titles from 2021.  
> See all 2022 Agency of the Year coverage < 
> See the full list of 2022 Greater China Agency of the Year winners < 
Regionally, Ogilvy wins ten awards won across the Greater China agency categories, including six golds and four silvers. The agency retains all its five Golds that it won last year, this year adding a creative agency title in the Hong Kong market. The Golds are: 
China Creative Agency of the Year has no Gold. Ogilvy and TBWA share the silver award title, and BBDO wins bronze.  
 
Zenith's regional wins are five awards in the agency categories; these include three Golds and two Silvers. Zenith's golds are for:  
Without a Gold award for China Digital Agency of the Year and China Media Agency of the Year, Ogilvy and TBWA win the digital Silver and Bronze, and Dentsu X and Initiative win the media Silver and Bronze.  
 
WPP brands and agencies, including Ogilvy, take 22 awards in the agency categories, with eight Golds, eleven Silvers and three Bronzes.  Other Golds are: 
Wavemaker also wins one Silver for Greater China Data Analytics Agency of the Year. Mindshare adds two silvers, and MediaCom adds one silver and one bronze.  
Publicis brands and agencies, including Zenith, take 19 awards in the agency categories, with seven Golds, eight Silvers and four Bronzes. Other Golds are: 
Omnicom agencies are close with 13 awards in the agency categories, including three Golds, four Silvers, five Bronzes and Best Place to Work. TBWA\BOLT Shanghai wins Gold for Greater China Social Media Agency of the Year. OMD Hong Kong collects Gold for Hong Kong Digital Agency of the Year, while BBDO Greater China takes the Gold for Greater China Best Culture and the title of Greater China Best Place to Work.  
Dentsu agencies bag eight awards, with four Silvers (Dentsu Creative for Hong Kong SAR Creative Agency of the Year, Dentsu X for China Media Agency of the Year, VERYSTAR for Greater China E-commerce Agency of the Year, and Dentsu Public Relations Consulting Beijing for Greater China Event Marketing Agency of the Year) and four Bronzes.  
LEO Digital Network takes two golds for Greater China Customer Engagement Agency of the Year and Greater China Brand Experience Agency of the Year. Ruder Finn Asia wins two golds for Greater China Consultancy of the Year and China Independent Agency of the Year. 
Other key Gold winners in the 2022 agency categories include: 
In the brand categories, ARCFOX is named Greater China Brand of the Year. 
For the people/team awards, both BBDO and Mindshare take away two awards.  
Mindshare: 
BBDO: 
Other winners in people/team categories:  Top news, insights and analysis every weekday Sign up for Campaign Bulletins 
Despite the leaps in machine-written text, the CEO of verbal branding agency Reed Words is betting on the longevity of human-generated creative communications as he launches a new practice in Asia.
 
Hassan has a way of incorporating fun, on-brand campaigns with progressive sensibilities such as community impact and sustainability.
 
Campaign explores Yili’s Summer Olympics marketing campaigns—which included trend-jacking memes, memorable colours, and athlete ambassadorship—and discusses future strategies to ensure the brand's lasting momentum.
 
Campaign looks at some of the global ads around the Paralympic Games Paris 2024.
 
Terms & Conditions / Contact Us
 

© Haymarket Media Ltd.
