Dalit organizations across the country have launched a campaign against the Supreme Court’s judgment on Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes reservations. According to Oneindia, various […] The teaser for the upcoming film “Chhaava” has been released, which stars Vicky Kaushal and Rashmika Mandanna in the lead roles. The release date for […] Rakshabandhan, or Rakhi, is a Hindu festival observed every year to celebrate the bond between a brother and a sister. On this day, sisters tie […] “Stree 2” has taken the box office by storm, raking in impressive numbers within its first three days of release. The horror-comedy, starring Shraddha Kapoor […] Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has convened a Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting on August 22 in the wake of Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot granting permission […] The United States Department of Justice is considering breaking up Alphabet Inc.’s Google. this consideration comes after a historic court verdict found that the company illegally monopolized the […] US Republican Presidential nominee Donald Trump has agreed with FoxNews to debate Democratic Presidential nominee Kamala Harris on Wednesday, September 4th. He announced in a […] US President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden on Thursday expressed their condolences over the ongoing landslides in Wayanad, Kerala. He also praised the […] The U.S. Senator for Wyoming, Cynthia Lummis officially introduced the Boosting Innovation, Technology and Competitiveness through Optimized Investment Nationwide (BITCOIN) Act in the U.S. Senate. […] More than 400 startup founders, tech leaders, and venture capitalists have pledged to support Vice President Kamala Harris for the 2024 Presidential Elections. These investors […] 

									Bitcoin Price May Not Reach $70,000, BTC Death Cross Might Trigger 10% Drop								
 

									12,000 Bitcoin Sell Order: Market Manipulation or Strategy?								
 

									Ripple USD (RLUSD) Begins Beta Testing on XRP Ledger and Ethereum Mainnet								
 

									Twist in XRP Lawsuit: SEC Mulls Appeal as Ripple Celebrates Partial Win								
 

									XRP Price Rockets 19.45% in 24 Hours: Analyst Predicts $2.30 Target								
 

									‘Stranger Things’ Season 5 Leak: Find Out Release Date, Cast And More								
 

									Friday New OTT Releases on Netflix, SonyLIV, JioCinema, Hotstar And More								
 

									‘Phir Aayi Hasseen Dillruba’ Review: Murderous Love Triangle Unfolds								
 

									From ‘Turbo’ to ‘Phir Aayi Hasseen Dillruba’, New OTT Releases This Week:								
 

									World Friendship Day: Stories That Showcase Unusual Friendships								
 

									What is Bharat Bandh, happening on August 21								
 

									Raksha Bandhan 2024 Greetings, Wishes, WhatsApp Status								
 

									MUDA Case: Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah Calls Urgent CLP Meeting After Gov. Approval for Prosecution								
 

									Maharashtra ‘Ladki Bahin Yojana’: Women To Get Rs. 1500 Every Month, Know Details Here								
 

									Noida Rave Party Busted, Underage Students Detained, Drugs, Alcohol Seized								
 

									On Duty Doctor Raped And Murdered In Kolkata, Doctors, Students Go On Strike								
 

									Happy Independence Day 2024 Quotes, Messages And Wishes								
 Installing solar panels on your Los Angeles home is a decision that brings a multitude of benefits, both financial and environmental. As the cost of […] Winners will be celebrated during a gala awards banquet on Monday, September 16 at the Marriott Marquis Hotel in New York City. Tickets are now on […] You need a car that is as tough as nails when you are gearing up for a long road trip in India. In fact, the […] Philippine Savings Bank (PSBank), the thrift banking arm of the, grew its net income by 18% to PhP 2.56 billion in the first half of […] A single current account helps you meet multiple banking needs. It helps you enjoy daily high-volume transactions, overdraft facilities, restriction-free deposits, unlimited withdrawals, digital banking […] Copyright © 2024 | WordPress Theme by MH Themes