published author share on Havas Indonesia has beefed up its leadership board with new strategic additions to enhance its digital capabilities and fuel market growth. Sanchar Roy (pictured left) has been appointed as the head of digital, Nancy Firdaus (pictured middle) as the new head of digital business solutions and Rizkl Darmawan (pictured right) as the head of content for Socialyse Indonesia, a social media player under Havas Group.  These appointments, according to a release to the press aim to signify Havas Indonesia’s commitment to staying ahead in the digital landscape. With the combined talent and expertise of these new team members, the agency is better equipped to deliver impactful and successful digital campaigns. Roy joins Havas Indonesia with a strong background in data analysis, content marketing and paid advertising. As Head of Digital, Roy’s primary objective is to propel the agency's digital growth by guiding clients in effectively harnessing and navigating digital channels to accomplish their marketing and business goals. Prior to Havas, Roy was the associate partner and digital lead for FMCG brand P&G at EssenceMediacom from 2021 to 2023, before which he was the business manager of e-Commerce and media planning at Mediacom from 2019 to 2021. The bulk of his career was at Indian advertising agency, Performics India, from 2014 to 2019. This was gleaned from his LinkedIn page. Don't miss: Havas names new CEO for Havas Media Network China Firdaus brings a wealth of experience in spearheading digital media strategies, specializing in the creation of impactful digital strategies that deliver tangible results and foster business growth. As the newly appointed head of digital business solutions, her primary responsibilities include overseeing new business development initiatives and managing client relationships. Prior to her current role, Firdaus has worked at iProspect Indonesia as a client leadership director as well as a head of digital media at Indonesian advertising agency, Narrada Communications, as seen on her LinkedIn page. As the new head of content for Socialyse, Darmawan is set to help to drive Socialyse’ integrated strategic capabilities, develop strong content strategies for clients to build engagement and deliver business results. Darmawan brings a wealth of experience from reputable advertising agencies, and his outstanding achievements have garnered recognition on diverse award platforms, thus showcasing his expertise. Before joining Havas Indonesia, Darmawan was a creative partner at Cocoo, from 2018 to 2021, in charge of building and integrating holistic campaigns and e-Sport activations as seen on his LinkedIn page. He has also had experience working at various creative agencies, from Leo Burnett to M&C Saatchi, to Ogilvy. Speaking about the new appointments, Satyajit Sen, CEO at Havas Indonesia, said that these new hires bring fresh perspectives and expertise to the table. In addition to empowering our existing team members with the latest knowledge and tools, we have also strategically made new hires who bring fresh perspectives and expertise to the table. By combining the experience and skills of our current team with the insights and capabilities of our new members, we cultivate a dynamic and agile workforce that excels in navigating the ever-changing digital landscape.” He further emphasised that this collective expertise allows the agency to not only meet its clients’ expectations but to consistently surpass them, resulting in tangible and impactful business outcomes in the fast-paced realm of digital marketing. “Additionally, our strong local talent pool is further reinforced by the exceptional e-commerce and performance support from our regional Centre of Excellence, amplifying our capabilities in delivering top-notch results for our clients,” he added. Across the shores in Hong Kong, Havas Media Group Hong Kong recently appointed Carmen Wu as the head of eCommerce, following the launch of its strategic full-service eCommerce consultancy, Havas market.  Currently operating in a couple of APAC markets including Australia and Singapore, Havas Market provides comprehensive understanding and analysis across all sales channels, including leading marketplaces, social commerce, direct-to-consumer and digital-to-retail, using a unique methodology that goes beyond media. To further its commitment to creating a more meaningful shopping experience for consumers, Havas Market delivers end-to-end solutions that support clients looking to transform their commerce approach and actively engage their audience across a highly competitive category. Related articles:Havas names new CEO for Havas Media Network ChinaHavas bolsters event offerings in China with new president of events roleHavas unveils new brand architecture and visual identity to align with global strategy share on We break down the big and messy topics of the day so you're updated on the most important developments in Asia's marketing development – for free. MARKETING-INTERACTIVE is an online publication of Lighthouse Independent Media. ©  Lighthouse Independent Media. All rights reserved. Marketing Interactive is not responsible for the content of external sites.