
                October 10, 2023
                     • by ADT Staff
 •  
Bookmark +

 CreditDriver is exclusively powered by Equifax for soft-pull credit data. IMAGE: Informativ Informativ, which brings together credit and compliance technology companies Credit Bureau Connection, Dealer Safeguard Solutions, and CreditDriver, and provides automobile dealers and other businesses with credit-focused lead generation, credit reporting and compliance solutions, launched CreditDriver, which allows consumers to start the car-buying experience on their mobile devices. Thes lead-generation and prequalification technology offers a mobile-first prequalification experience that Informativ says leads to 30% higher conversion rates compared to website prequalification. After a buyer opts in by scanning a QR code, information is collected and provided to the dealership, including the lead source. The solution includes the option for consumers to get prequalified for credit and quickly understand their buying potential through a soft-pull credit report. CreditDriver delivers the enriched lead data, which enhances a dealership’s current sales process, through seamless integrations with top automotive customer relationship-management systems and with Informativ’s proactive and enforceable compliance technology, Dealer Safeguard Solutions. “Offering consumers a truly mobile experience to get prequalified, without any impact on their credit, and then ensuring that data is validated before the dealership receives it, greatly improves the lead generation process and the experience for both the customer and the dealership,” said Informativ SVP of Sales Michael Byrd. “Additionally, our technology creates an FTC-compliant digital deal jacket to ensure the consumer’s information and the dealership are protected.” While Informativ partners with all three major credit bureaus, CreditDriver is exclusively powered by Equifax for soft-pull credit data. Providing the data to businesses enables them to gain insight into a consumer’s financial health to structure a deal before advancing it, which creates a smoother process for both parties. “The automotive landscape today is increasingly competitive,” said Lena Bourgeois, general manager of automotive services for Equifax. “Automotive dealers must continually evolve and find better ways to enhance the consumer's experience by understanding their preferences. By partnering with Informativ, dealers have access to valuable insights on consumer financial health to help make better decisions, and in the end help consumers seeking to finance a vehicle.”     Dealers are invited to learn more aboutCreditDriver technology at Booth 1710 at Digital Dealer Las Vegas Oct. 17 to 19, and can also watch an on-demand webinar on soft-pull best practices and the benefits to the customer experience. Editorial See all comments The Industry's Leading Source for F&I, Sales and Technology The Industry's Source for Product Providers The Industry's Source for Automotive and Powersports Agents 
We respect your data and privacy.
                            By clicking the submit button below, you are agreeing with Bobit Business Media’s Privacy Policy and this outlined level of consent.
                         
            The secure and easy all-access connection to your content.
            Bookmarked content can then be accessed anytime on all of your logged in devices!
         Already a member? Log In