Evgeny Grigul is the cofounder of Virto Commerce, a B2B-first ecommerce innovation platform for enterprises.   Building an enterprise marketplace has become viral worldwide. Many business owners in different industries have considered trying this model to boost revenue—and for a good reason. By 2027, Forrester estimates B2B e-commerce will reach $3 trillion in the U.S. with a CAGR of 10.7%. However, though 65% of businesses already use B2B e-commerce, many companies admit that they instead use their websites as an e-commerce channel to uplift their commercial potential and do not fully understand the value their businesses can gain from marketplace technologies. These concerns seem reasonable. It's hard to imagine every company running its marketplace. There is no doubt that B2B marketplaces will continuously grow, but other approaches will probably be used. Not long ago, only a few businesses could afford marketplace technologies. Today, the implementation cost is much lower, so we no longer depend on payback, and B2B marketplace technologies are now available for a broader range of businesses. As more affordable solutions hit the market, businesses have more significant growth opportunities. Two ways to use B2B marketplace capabilities differently are the automation of B2B group purchasing organizations (GPO) and e-procurement. Let's dive deeper. According to Digital Commerce 360, e-procurement sales grew by 18% YOY in 2022 and reached $1 trillion. Most B2B marketplace solutions offer capabilities to build such systems straight on the businesses' platforms. Modern e-procurement is tailored for large industrial corporations. These companies purchase large amounts of goods and materials considering each department's unique requirements. Another challenge is that the frequency of purchasing goods may differ significantly, so the logistics department has to control all of these details. These challenges make the procurement process too complex to control in a centralized way. The delays in decision making caused by slow procurement lead to constantly growing operational costs and the inability of the staff to optimize procurement prices. Modern digital marketplace technologies change this approach drastically. Acting as a "digital B2B marketplace" of all procurement tasks for internal departments only, it enables employees to control the whole e-procurement process in a centralized way. This doesn't mean traditional e-procurement systems are in danger. Marketplaces enhance them, complementing these heavy solutions with more capabilities to make the process faster and easier while resolving some challenges that were impossible for their processors. 1. User interface and user/customer experience. The end users of e-procurement systems can get their CX close to their daily shopping experience. Different functionality but similar interfaces and services lead to greater operational efficiency, reduced errors and transparency in operations. 2. Integration with vendors and partners. Marketplace technologies offer seamless integration capabilities for vendors. No need to use essential PunchOut technologies when the business can directly integrate with any systems through API. Such integrations enable vendors to manage their product information (to the limit the central organization allows) and provide maximum transparency on all processes. Another powerful way to use digital marketplace technologies is the automation of B2B GPOs. The B2B group purchasing market keeps growing. An IBISWorld report shows that the total revenue of GPOs will reach $6.3 billion in 2023 and keep growing for the next five years. GPO services suppose purchasing products and services in bulk, which leads to significantly reduced costs—the discount can reach 70%. For businesses, this is the way to lower their purchasing expenses. However, inconvenient communications seriously affect the process, as companies have to spend additional resources to contact third parties in the procurement chain. The symbiosis of the modern marketplace solutions with e-procurement functionality allows for providing buyers with convenient CX and necessary features. Replatforming and digitalization are always more about change management than technical peculiarities. This is why when thinking about transitioning to modern digital marketplace technologies, businesses should start with deep analysis, goal statement and planning. These are the main challenges companies can face and ideas on how to resolve them. 1. Unawareness of internal processes and existing issues. Before starting any significant transformation, the business should thoroughly analyze the existing strategies and technologies and then determine the bottlenecks restricting the company's growth. 2. Unclear goals and lack of responsible business visioner to control the process. Digital transformations require deep knowledge of both business processes and the technical side. To launch the project successfully, businesses need a stakeholder who will set and confirm short-run and long-run goals, build a goal roadmap and manage the whole process. 3. Too much centralization—or lack of it. The super-center doesn't always know how to arrange the technical side of the implementation but still controls compliance with goals and policies. A two-level can be applied to avoid over-management or lack of business understanding on the lower levels. 4. No technical expertise and poor technology choice. Technical realization of the project requires a team of experts and solution architects. Before starting the transformation, the business should hire a team to cover the whole process. The effect of these challenges can also be reduced if the company starts the transformation process gradually instead of choosing the "Big Bang" approach—from a pilot project in a separate department to further scaling and growth. This approach also provides an opportunity to change all internal documentation and provide onboarding timely. The company gets the necessary experience and can amend its plans and goal roadmaps accordingly. B2B digital marketplaces are outgrowing simple marketplace building and are becoming the perfect tool for building modern, robust e-procurement systems for any industry. The ones who realize these capabilities now will be the pioneers in the forthcoming market change. The other side of marketplace technologies might be how to build a solid future-proof business. This is why it is essential to consider these changes now. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 