Broadway + NYC Broadway Off-Broadway Off-Off Broadway Cabaret Dance Opera Classical Music United States  Eastern  Central  Western St. Louis St. Louis Maine Chicago Maine Washington, DC West End  WEST END UK Regional International Canada Australia / New Zealand Europe Asia Latin America Africa / Middle East Entertainment TV/Movies Music The omedy superstar brings the noise (and the LOL's) with his all-new show featuring his cheeky and razor-sharp wit, superb punchlines and hilarious anecdotes. POPULAR MZA presents Micky Bartlett - Let Me Start From The Start. Northern Ireland's comedy superstar brings the noise (and the LOL's) with his all-new show featuring his cheeky and razor-sharp wit, superb punchlines and hilariously embarrassing anecdotes that would make a psychiatrist blush. Micky has sold out multiple solo tours across  Ireland and Australia - in 2022 he sold over 10,000 tickets in Belfast alone with multiple sellouts  in the Waterfront and he is the Deckchair half of the smash-hit podcast “Deckchair and Yumz”.  In additional to his large-scale Irish theatre tours, Micky is a regular guest on the 'General Banter'  podcast and appears at all of the biggest comedy clubs across the UK. He was the long term  resident host at Belfast's legendary Empire comedy rooms and has opened for some of the  biggest names in live stand-up including Tommy Tiernan and Patrick Kielty and Kevin Hart.  Micky has also starred in BBC online's “Tight Shorts” digital strand, regularly guested on BBC's  "Bad Language", on both series of BBC NI Panel show “Monumental” (alongside Adam Hills,  Andrew Maxwell, Jarred Christmas and Jimeoin), BBC Radio 4's "State of the Nations", BBC  Radio Ulster's “The Blame Game” and BBC's “Sketchy”. Micky also hosted the studio warm  ups for both “Top Gear” and “TFI Friday” seasons as well as for Netflix game show “Flinch”. In 2019 he stormed his solo debut off-Broadway in New York.  3 - 27 August, 7.15pm (60 mins)  No performance 4 + 14 + 16 August  VENUE 393: Just the Tonic NUCLEUS, SUB-ATOMIC   140 The Pleasance, Edinburgh EH8 9RR AGE RESTRICTION: 16+  WARNING: SOME STRONG LANGUAGE   TICKETS: Buy a ticket in advance to guarantee entry or Pay What You Want at the venue Venue   https://edinburgh.justthetonic.com/event/88:3131/  Fringe 0131-226 0000 / https://tickets.edfringe.com/whats-on/micky-bartlett-let-me-start-from-the-start  Submit Press Releases, Sign Up For Interviews, Social Media Posts, and More! Tom Brace: The Ride 4D opens with Brace bounding onto the stage, setting up the premise for the hour of magic and dreams. He introduces us to ‘Tomland’, a theme park he claims is entirely his own creation, with a wink and a nod to certain other famous theme parks. What did our critic think of CHEMO SAVVY at Gilded Balloon At The Museum, Auditorium?It may feature some famous faces from River City, but you haven’t seen a hospital like this! In tribute to their colleague Andy Gray, Scottish comedy stars Grant Stott, Jordan Young and Gail Watson star in the tongue-in-cheek cancer romp Chemo Savvy. Written by Somebody Jones, the piece explores the relationship a black woman has with swimming, and how she overcomes her fear to access the water. A stereotype sadly rooted in statistics, this piece brings to light a perspective that should be heard. Fans of the Gossip Girl TV adaptation may recognise the show’s writer, Todd Almond, as he sits down at the piano. He begins to skilfully accompany himself while telling us about an unconventional day where a character, we presume is largely based on himself, reluctantly goes to a friend’s brunch and ends up meeting the potential love of his life. Videos 
Scotland SHOWS Recommended For You Sign up for announcements, and exclusive discounts on tickets to your favorite shows!  © 2024 - Copyright Wisdom Digital Media, all rights reserved. Privacy Policy 