Marcus Rashford has scored just one goal for Manchester United so far this season and Stan Collymore thinks Erik ten Hag should sign a new left-sided winger next summer  Former Liverpool striker Stan Collymore believes Erik ten Hag should drop Marcus Rashford if he continues to struggle in Manchester United's next two or three matches.   Rashford, 25, has scored once in seven Premier League appearances so far this season, with his only goal coming in the 3-1 defeat at Arsenal last month. The England international also failed find the net in United's 4-3 loss against Bayern Munich in the Champions League.  It has been a difficult start to the campaign for Rashford, who scored 30 goals last season, and Collymore believes the forward should be given a couple more matches to show why he should be starting week-in week-out for United, who face Galatasaray at Old Trafford on Tuesday evening.  Collymore told Caught Offside : "On the opposite end of the spectrum, Marcus Rashford is in dire form. His season hasn't yet started and his head is very much down. It's clear by now that Rashford is a confidence-player. He blows hot and cold with very little consistency to his game.  "He's a couple of weeks away from turning 26 years old; he's no spring chicken and it's very unlikely that his game is going to dramatically change – he is what he is. So if I were in charge of Manchester United's technical performance analysis, I would be advising Erik ten Hag to stick with him for so long, probably another two or three more games, and if he continues to misfire, drop him. "I would certainly be looking at a new left-sided winger in the summer though, and I would want a player to come in and look at Rashford and say 'I am taking your spot and you're never going to play for this club again.  Does Marcus Rashford deserve to be dropped? Let us know in the comments below!  "I'm the main man now' because I think it could be really easy to discourage and overwhelm Rashford and effectively end his Old Trafford career. He's far too nice. If he stopped playing now, would he be considered a United legend? – Absolutely not."  Rashford misfired once again for United as they slumped to a disappointing 1-0 home defeat against Crystal Palace on Saturday. It was the Red Devils' fourth loss in seven Premier League matches, representing their worst start to a top-flight campaign in 34 years.  United's Adidas home shirt is made up of the same colour of the city's iconic red rose and features a black collar. The collar also features a dash of both red and white, giving it a slick and modernised look. Ten Hag was quizzed on Rashford's form in his post-match press conference and he is confident the United academy graduate will get back to his best. "I think he knows he can do better than he's doing now. I'm sure it'll come," the Dutchman said. "He works hard, he will finish and it will come. It’s not automatic. As you've seen today, we were in the right positions and the decision-making was not good enough and we didn't score." Join our new WhatsApp community! Click this link  to receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you’re curious, you can read our  Privacy Notice.  Can United mount a title challenge? Get our FREE daily Manchester United email newsletter