 GUYSBOROUGH — A new social group, Club 7, is coming to the Municipality of the District of Guysborough, targeting communities along the southeastern shore of the district. The initiative is just getting started, but it promises to make the coming months ones full of activities.  GUYSBOROUGH — A new social group, Club 7, is coming to the Municipality of the District of Guysborough, targeting communities along the southeastern shore of the district. The initiative is just getting started, but it promises to make the coming months ones full of activities. Earlier this year, the Guysborough County branch of the Community Business Development Corporation (CBDC) received a grant from the federal New Horizons for Seniors initiative to create opportunities to get seniors out of their homes, following the impact of COVID on social activities. Marilyn Pellerin was asked to spearhead a group to develop the initiative that focuses on the communities of Whitehead, Port Felix, Charlos Cove, Lundy, Larry’s River, Tor Bay and New Harbour. Pellerin sat down with The Journal last week to discuss the new project. Over the past three years of COVID-19, many events in small communities shut down, and some of them didn’t return after COVID restrictions were lifted. The aim of the club, said Pellerin, is to create events that would bring people from different communities together “to meet with friends and neighbours, [and] meet new people that they might never have run into before.” The group has a liaison member in each community “to reach out to their friends and neighbours and say, ‘We’ll get you out of the house on a Tuesday evening. What would you like to do?’” The group had a planning meeting last week, where they identified numerous activities and potential locations to hold events. The first, a games day, is scheduled for Thursday, Oct. 5, from 1 to 3 p.m., in the New Harbour Community Centre. “With the funding from the grant, we were able to purchase a number of different games like crokinole, chess and checkers, Wordle, Scrabble and other things – like ladder golf and that type of thing,” said Pellerin. Some of the other activities on the drawing board are chair yoga, Nordic pole walking, art night, Christmas wreath making and more. Pellerin said, “We’re very interested in having people show up to some of these initial events and let us know what they would like [to do].” The group plans to hold events in various communities but, of the seven targeted by the project, only three are fully accessible and available. The first few months the club will work to determine scheduling; juggling when people prefer to attend activities and ensuring that events don’t overlap with other events already planned in the communities. All events, said Pellerin, will be free or for a minimum fee. She told The Journal that, although the initial idea focused on seniors, people of any age and from anywhere in the area, not just the seven focus communities, are welcome to attend club events. For more information on Club 7, contact Pellerin at 902-525-2534 or email mms.pellerin@gmail.com. To join the conversation set a first and last name in your user profile. Sign in or register for free to join the Conversation 
Error! There was an error processing your request.
         
           There was a problem with the recaptcha. Please try again.
         
                             You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google privacy policy and  terms of service apply.
                         
                                 Want more of the latest from us? Sign up for more at our newsletter page.
                             
                             You may unsubscribe at any time. By signing up, you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google privacy policy and  terms of service apply.
                         Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: © Copyright 2024 Metroland Media Group Ltd. All Rights Reserved
8 Spadina Avenue, Suite 10A, Toronto, ON M5V 0S8       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.    
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email. 