The latest news as it happens from Canberra and the surrounding region. Life flows here at YarrahRegister your interest now. Local news from the Canberra region. Vinnies Winter Appeal Your generosity can help give vulnerable people immediate relief News and analysis of APS, ACT public sector and diplomatic corp policy, politics and people. Australian, Trusted, Cleared and ExperiencedCyber Security and Technology Specialists Thought-provoking pieces written by local Canberrans and community leaders. Got a legal issue?We'll get you to the other side.Empower now. Business and technology stories from the Canberra region. The must-attend I.T. event of the year5 September, Hotel Realm, Canberra, Register Now Your one-stop destination for the latest Capital region property and real estate news. DevelopmentDesignConstructionFind out more Sporting news from the ACT and Capital region. History in the making1, 2, 3 & 4 bedroomapartments available.Find out more The people, places, pets and passions that give our city life. Lotus EletreThe electric hyper-SUV with race car DNAFind out more Where to eat, what to drink in the Canberra region. Canberra’s Best Happy HourEnjoy a 49% discounton selected beverages.Find out more. The stories behind the people and places that make Canberra what it is. Restore certainty after separationBook a free legal appointment. Music, festivals, charity events - everything that’s happening in the Canberra region. Book your next function here.All-inclusive packages, live musicand entertainment Crookwell’s Charli Croker doing what she loves best – working outside, with heavy machinery. Photo: Upper Lachlan Shire Council. There was an inspiring tale this week about a young woman from Crookwell who won an award for her “non-traditional” apprenticeship. She helps make dirt roads into tar roads and was, understandably, mighty proud of her achievements. She can drive all manner of large trucks, can’t bear to be cooped up in an office and wore a bright pink ensemble to the award ceremony – and not just because she liked the colour. She reckoned she was lucky to get paid for doing work she loved and not having to pretend to be someone she wasn’t. But, she admitted, working on a local council construction gang, in a country town, was still “a thing” when you’re a woman. These days, we shouldn’t be surprised about women being front-end-loader drivers, world leaders or working jobs where fluro is the uniform. For the first two, absolutely. But when it comes to fluro. No. Not. Ever. Wearing fluro just shows that fashion is completely lost on you. Also, when it comes to visibility, it doesn’t get much lower. READ ALSO From preserving husbands to mastering an emergency casserole, women had it made (Also, here’s a handy hint. Never Google “fluro shirt”. Someone who shall not ever be named did, only to be informed that there was way too much information, including a site devoted to “what colours go best with a yellow fluro shirt”. Seriously? (The right answer is: none. Google’s answer: brown or dark blue “these colours will bring out the beauty of the yellow”. I can think of something else they’re likely to bring up, sorry, out.) Being a woman and doing a job men historically did shouldn’t be a thing, this young woman reckoned. She got stroppy when blokes on the gang told her not to lift the heavy stuff – mainly because she was not only capable of lifting said heavy stuff, but the blokes as well. She just wanted to get on with it. Do what she had been trained to do, safely and properly. Her sex, or anyone else’s, didn’t come into it. Hearing her story makes you wonder how long it’s going to take for words like “non-traditional” to get bulldozed from our vocab. READ ALSO Getting down and dirty and spun out – a fool’s guide Women, like men, have brains, eyes, arms, feet and can, if they must, read instructions in a manual about how to do stuff they’ve not done before. OK, maybe not the bit about reading the manual, we all can find something better to do than read a manual. Like pulling teeth. But seriously, young women have enough to deal with these days, what with young men, ever-multiplying Kardashians, scalping their last hair extensions to pay for Taylor Swift tickets, parents, and more young men. So give ’em a break. If playing with heavy machinery is your thing, go for it. But for high visibility, lose the fluro. These women might be non-traditional, but they’re not yellow. Funny how new traditions often aren’t new at all. I recall the old ABC “This Day Tonight” (7.30 Report predecessor) in Adelaide doing an article on women breaking in to the then male-dominated surveying profession. That was exactly fifty years ago.  I told the ABC then that 2 blokes were pioneering studying kindergarten teaching. A fortnight later the program ran a story on these blokes. One wasn’t happy with me at all, complaining that he had been shown all over Adelaide acting out “I’m a little teapot”. Unlike most, I very much like Alien 3. Thought It was great to see the franchise avoiding… View Martin Budden its become my third favourite flick of the franchise. The first two, with Romulus in… View I loved Prometheus (and the original two) so I'm excited about this one. View According to the Centre for Independent Studies nuclear is cost-competitive with nuclear. The CSIRO… View How is that a barrier? ACT Labor and the greens can't deliver a complete train set for a century and… View The coalition won't be able to deliver a nuclear plant for 20 years even if they got into power. In… View The funny part is, it seems to work, and the dopes keep voting to fund the inner North while getting… View $20M package over next term comes to $5M per year. Footpath maintenance of $5M is $1.25M per year.… View It's ok guys, Andrew knows what Tuggers represents - an electorate with potentially more Labor… View LOL You can attempt to shift the focus all you like, "Jack D", but it won't change the fact that… View Greens received money from the CFMEU, then omitted to say so during this debate. View ALP/LNP received about 70% of votes combined at last Fed Election, Greens about 10% Good to see… View   Should the alcohol excise be slashed?  View Results We're proud to give you a place where friends and family can come together for good food and great entertainment. A passionate team of Canberrans helping other Canberrans secure their home loans. No frills, no commissions, no brainer. BDN has provided legal services to to Canberra, Queanbeyan and the region for over 160 years. SolarHub has helped more than 12,000 customers reduce their energy bills and greenhouse gas emissions by harnessing the power of the sun. The Walking Clinic has perpetuated an attitude of excellence in foot health provision. The experienced Podiatric team provide current and innovative care to all patients. Allinsure has been a trusted insurance advisory to thousands of Australian business owners for almost 20 years. Through a spirit of entrepreneurialism, collaboration, and future-forward thinking, MV Law have earned an industry-leading reputation and a huge base of long-lasting client partnerships that are built on a foundation of trust and respect. Since 2014, True Connection Electrical have been servicing residential and small commercial clients with reliable, trustworthy and top-quality electrical work in Canberra and the surrounding region. Subscribe to receive the latest local voices straight to your inbox. Download the Riotact app to get all the latest news, events and opinions wherever you are. Region Media acknowledges the Traditional Owners of the land on which we work and report. We pay our respects to all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Elders past, present and emerging and commit our company to ongoing acts of reconciliation. You can read our Reconciliation Action Plan here. Copyright © 2024 Region Group Pty Ltd ABN 85 168 887 232. All rights reserved. the-riotact.com | regionmedia.com.cn | regionillawarra.com.au | regionriverina.com.au | aboutregional.com.au | capeyorkweekly.com.au | psnews.com.au | thisiscanberra.com | mygungahlin.com.au Want the best Canberra news delivered daily? Every day we package the most popular Riotact stories and send them straight to your inbox. Sign-up now for trusted local news that will never be behind a paywall.