To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. Products are independently selected by our editors. We may earn an affiliate commission from links. It’s your last day to discover the best Amazon Prime Day clothing deals of 2024! However, there’s no reason to be sad yet. We’ve combed through the lot to make sure no cute top or floaty frock gets left behind in the remaining hours of the two-day sale extravaganza. From fashion trends to wardrobe classics, choice abounds, making these best Amazon Prime Day deals an excellent way to stock up on missing items in your closet before the season comes to an end—and get a little jump start on your fall wish lists while you’re at it! As with past Amazon Prime Day events, the site has been bursting with a near-impossible amount of markdowns ranging from fashion to beauty to home, kitchen, tech and more—exclusive for Amazon Prime members. Spoilt for choice, browsing Amazon can make even the best of us feel overwhelmed—which is why we’ve done the shopping for you. No small feat, we uncovered both seasonal fashion trends actually worth shopping (think new swimwear, crochet, and raffia) and timeless pieces that can round out your capsule wardrobe, like a great white dress or sleek sandal. Sporty essentials were also on our radar—it’s a summer of sports, after all!—and found a pair of Adidas Sambas on sale (not majorly discounted, but still!), plus more practical items like workout bras, sweat-wicking tanks tops, and cute shorts you can style out with a button-down and little ballet flat. Whether you’re living a Brat girl summer or just shopping for basics, there are still plenty of Prime Day fashion deals to be had—and we’ve gathered the ones you don’t want to miss, below. Happy shopping (and see you next year!) The summer season is in full swing, which means there’s no time like the present to test drive some new trends. We’re particularly loving prairie-inspired tie-front tops and crochet mini skirts, perfect for when you’re both near and far from water. Suit vests are a summer tailoring essential, best worn with a matching trouser or sleek denim maxiskirt. Finally, don’t sleep on the menswear inspired boxer short! They’re a summer style staple that come with the Vogue-editor seal of approval. Vince Crew sweater AMAZON Altuzarra Bresson skirt AMAZON Paige Carly pants AMAZON Altuzarra Pan top AMAZON Rails Frances shirt AMAZON Frame crochet tassel skirt AMAZON Free People Kianna lace tank AMAZON Rag & Bone featherweight Avery maxiskirt AMAZON Rails Athena sweater AMAZON Madewell Beckford pull-on shorts AMAZON You deserve a strong capsule wardrobe—and what better time to start crafting your dream edit than on Prime Day 2024? Opt for chic shirting from Rag & Bone, delightful denim from Levi’s, lightweight knitwear, or even a pair of long-line Bermuda shorts to get started. Accessory-wise, a roomy carryall is the ultimate commute-to-cocktail staple; and same goes for a pair of little black Mary Janes. Eyeing The Drop’s classic khaki trench coat? Us too! It’s the ultimate transitional outerwear staple, after all. Stock up now (before it’s too late). Rag & Bone Maxine button down shirt AMAZON Levi’s high-waisted Mom shorts LEVI'S Leset Kelly rib tee AMAZON DeMellier New York tote AMAZON Pistola Denim Arlo sweater AMAZON Rag & Bone Carmen shorts AMAZON Levi’s 501 90s jeans AMAZON Sam Edelman Michaela stud Mary Jane flats AMAZON The Drop Noa trench coat AMAZON Ulla Johnson Emery pants AMAZON When it comes to beating the heat, no solution works better than an easy, breezy dress. Whether you need an evening dress for your next event or a casual sundress for errands on the go, Amazon has your next go-to. Need a shopping suggestion? We love Sea’s romantic lace number or The Drop’s gingham poplin. Both are equally strong suitors! Meanwhile, Veronica Beard’s denim delight is in a league of its own. Sea Anastasia maxi dress AMAZON The Drop Anaya square-neck tiered maxi dress AMAZON Veronica Beard Ruben midi dress AMAZON Rails Selani dress AMAZON Faithfull the Brand Jesolo crochet dress AMAZON Theory short-sleeve volume skirt dress AMAZON Chouyatou linen tank maxi dress AMAZON Vince chiffon layered slip dress AMAZON Apiece Apart porta midi dress AMAZON Rhode Lulani dress AMAZON There’s no better way to spend summer than on the water—and with some chic new swimwear to boot. From trendy bikinis to classic on-pieces, there’s no time like the present to invest in a whole new beach wardrobe to bask in for the rest of the season. Don’t forget about those chic cover-ups or beachy totes, either! We’re talking about the full swimsuit outfit, here. (SPF is also required— shop our favorites, here.) Solid & Striped The Valencia one-piece AMAZON Maygel Coronel Ondina ruffled bikini AMAZON PatBo metallic jacquard one-piece AMAZON  Balboa classic one-piece AMAZON Adriana Degreas New Pois one-shoulder swimsuit AMAZON Mara Hoffman Kia one-piece AMAZON Xirena Fayble one-piece AMAZON Tanya Taylor Paloma bikini top and bottoms AMAZON Once you’re done sifting through some of the best fashion deals Amazon Prime Day has to offer, top off your chic new looks with equally chic accessories. Stay on trend with a pair of fashion flip flops, or opt for a new beach bag to carry all your essentials. A shady sun hat is also always welcome. Meanwhile, Rag & Bone’s python-effect belt is a minimalist must-have. Rag & Bone Jade rollable hat AMAZON Havaianas slim square metallic logo flip-flops AMAZON Superga white trainers AMAZON Sojos rectangle sunglasses AMAZON Kiss Sea small tote bag AMAZON Voris Vina mesh ballet flats AMAZON  Portofino flat sandals AMAZON Poolside Bags The Ibiza mini basket bag AMAZON Castañer espadrilles AMAZON Loeffler Randall Billie flap shoulder bag AMAZON The summer season is the perfect time to get (and stay!) active. And one surefire way to stay motivated? A great piece of activewear. Luckily, Prime Day 2024 has you covered with deals on your favorite brands, like Nike and Adidas, plus pairs of running shoes that can take you from the park loop to the brunch table. Amazon Essentials tech stretch racerback tank top AMAZON Adidas Samba sneaker AMAZON Flydo grippy socks AMAZON Nike Victory compression sports bra AMAZON  Cloudrunner sneakers AMAZON Adidas Squadra 21 shorts AMAZON Sweaty Betty On Your Marks running workout shorts AMAZON Asics GT-1000 12 running shoes AMAZON Sportneer wrist & ankle weights, 2lbs AMAZON Oura Ring Gen3 Horizon AMAZON Amazon Prime Day Is Back! Get Ahead and Shop the Best Prime Day Deals 2024 The Best Prime Day Clothing Deals (That Are Surprisingly Chic) for Amazon Prime Big Deals Days 2024 The Best Prime Day Beauty Deals to Shop This Amazon Prime Big Deals Days 2024 These Are the Amazon Prime Day Picks Vogue Editors Are Hoping For Sign up for Vogue’s shopping newsletter to receive the insider’s guide on what to shop and how to wear it. More from Vogue See More Stories © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty