Music January 28 | 7:30PM - January 29 | 12:30AM Block 22 Nightclub, Hyderabad ₹499 onwards Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events! For Age(s) 21+ Language English Live Performance Enjoy a unique experience Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience Music January 28 | 7:30PM - January 29 | 12:30AM Block 22 Nightclub, Hyderabad ₹499 onwards Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events! For Age(s) 21+ Language English Live Performance Enjoy a unique experience Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience For Age(s) 21+ Language English Live Performance Enjoy a unique experience Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience Lexer is a young man from the eastern part of Germany. It's very tough to present his music in his home area. It's a new style of deep and menlancolic pop music and everyone is touched by his special way to produce and play this music. He is from a new generation of DJ's who grow up with Soundcloud, Facebook and YouTube. With some great Edits and Remixes (Band of Horses or Feist) he started to produce in 2012. Since then he has been getting massive support from big names like Klangkarussell, Alle Farben, Bakermat, Oliver Schories or Tom Novy and he was able fix some cool gigs in Paris, Amsterdam, Zürich and a few big Festivals in 2013. Now he has many EPs and Remixes in the pipeline. Alex aka Lexer is moving very fast and so it's right to say: he is heading for a great future. Lexer is a young man from the eastern part of Germany. It's very tough to present his music in his home area. It's a new style of deep and menlancolic pop music and everyone is touched by his special way to produce and play this music. He is from a new generation of DJ's who grow up with Soundcloud, Facebook and YouTube. With some great Edits and Remixes (Band of Horses or Feist) he started to produce in 2012. Since then he has been getting massive support from big names like Klangkarussell, Alle Farben, Bakermat, Oliver Schories or Tom Novy and he was able fix some cool gigs in Paris, Amsterdam, Zürich and a few big Festivals in 2013. Now he has many EPs and Remixes in the pipeline. Alex aka Lexer is moving very fast and so it's right to say: he is heading for a great future. Survey Number 5, Hitex Exhibition Center - Hitex Hall 1, 6 to 5/12, Shilpa Hills, Hyderabad, Telangana 500084, India Music January 28 | 7:30PM - January 29 | 12:30AM Block 22 Nightclub, Hyderabad ₹499 onwards Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events! For Age(s) 21+ Language English Live Performance Enjoy a unique experience Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now ₹499 onwards Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events!   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now Subscribe to our newsletter There’s a range of amazing experiences; from music and comedy to food and beverage festivals that you probably have nooooooo idea about. Be in the know! HIT PAUSE ON BOREDOM Watch and cheer for your favourite teams, Discover new hobbies with workshops & courses And Groove to the beats of your favourite artists. Download our App now! Curated & Handpicked Events in Online Music Events: Gigs & Festivals  in Online Comedy shows: Standup & Open Mic in Online Cheer Your Favourite Sports Team! Cheer Your Favourite Sports Team! Trekking, Camping & Adventure in Online EXPLORE events in TRENDING cities Paytm Insider is a platform that helps you discover and buy the best in events, travel and food in your city. We strive to curate experiences that are worth your time and money, possibly something you have never tried before. Paytm Insider is built by the same team that created Bacardi NH7 Weekender (us) and we sure know what goes into putting together a great experience. Our technology, marketing and customer support can help you build a community of not just ticket buyers, but also fans. Find us on: