Vietnam is becoming a popular destination for research and development (R&D) among multinationals as the country cements its status as a new global manufacturing hub. Japan’s Panasonic Corp. is in the process of setting up an R&D center and manufacturing hub for indoor air quality (IAQ) products for Asian markets in southern Vietnam's Binh Duong province; and similar hubs for smart washing machines and refrigerators for Asian markets in Hanoi and nearby Hung Yen province. These developments are part of Panasonic’s investment portfolio expansions in the Southeast Asian country, which include building a local product development system for wiring devices and lighting as well as (IAQ) systems. Panasonic is making the investment expansions as part of its long-term commitment to Vietnam, which envisages the Japanese giant as “a major supplier of comprehensive health solutions over the next 50 years” in the country, Panasonic Vietnam CEO Yoichi Marukawa told Vietnamese Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh at a Hanoi business meeting on September 17, 2022. At the meeting, he asked the Vietnamese government to support Panasonic on its journey and in training human resources in information technology and artificial intelligence. In January this year, Hong Kong-based Yadea Technology Group signed a deal to build a $100 million electric motorcycle manufacturing plant and R&D center in Bac Giang province, a gateway to Hanoi. The facility will cover more than 23 hectares in Tan Hung Industrial Park, and have a design capacity of around 2 million units per year, creating 3,500 jobs for locals.   Yadea is a global heavyweight in electric motorbike production with seven manufacturing facilities around the world and an annual capacity of 10 million products. Its products are exported to over 80 countries. It also has three R&D centers. Samsung, LG operate Vietnam R&D centers Vietnam has already become an R&D destination for both Samsung and LG and more than a global production hub for the two Korean tech giants. Samsung has invested about $20 billion in Vietnam to date, and around half of Samsung smartphones are produced in the country. Samsung posted sales of $73.7 billion (almost 95.37 trillion won) in Vietnam in 2022, according to the giant. Its exports from Vietnam were valued at $65 billion last year. Samsung Group sees 2023 as a significant milestone in Vietnam as it is the Korean giant’s 15th year of massive investments in the country, said Samsung Vietnam CEO Choi Joo Ho. He noted that this year marked an elevation of the importance of Vietnam not only as a manufacturing hub but also as a center for research and development. Samsung inaugurated its largest Southeast Asia R&D center in Hanoi last December. The $220 million facility houses 2,200 researchers who will carry out projects for mobile devices, network communication technologies, and software, according to the firm. Its Korean peer LG in 2022 made 15% of its global sets and parts in its Hai Phong cluster, home to manufacturing subsidiaries of LG Electronics, LG Display, and LG Innotek. Hai Phong is about two hours’ drive east of Hanoi.  LG Electronics inaugurated a new R&D facility in Hanoi in March, saying the new facility will further nurture its existing auto parts-focused R&D center, which the Korean tech giant has been running since 2016. LG did not reveal the investment for the new facility. The center is responsible for software development and verifying automotive infotainment systems. The company plans to increase the number of development personnel at the new hub by more than 30% by next year to 1,000 from the current 750. LG has continuously strengthened its R&D capabilities in Vietnam for automotive parts since it established the Hanoi R&D Center under its Vietnam Production Corporation in 2016. With the success of the first center, the company created an additional R&D branch office in central Vietnam’s Danang city in 2020 to enhance its electric vehicle-related business and nurture talent. Vietnam and South Korea have evolved from manufacturing cooperation partners to key research and development partners, South Korea’s President Yoon Suk Yeol said in Hanoi on June 24, the day he wrapped up his three-day state visit to boost economic ties between the two countries. Yoon’s visit was accompanied by a 205-strong economic delegation, the largest under the current administration, because of Vietnam’s significant market value. The two countries upgraded their relationship to a comprehensive strategic partnership last year. Car sector Hyundai Motor Group is also actively carrying out business activities in the growing Vietnamese market, including R&D work. Korean carmakers Hyundai Motor and Kia, which are under Hyundai Motor Group, unveiled their plans on June 21 to solidify their lead in the rapidly growing Vietnamese market through the release of new models and sales of popular vehicles. In order to maintain its lead, Hyundai Motor plans to boost sales of the Accent, Creta and Santa Fe models, while developing new SUVs and minivans. In addition, it will start local production of the IONIQ 5 in July to expand its presence in the Vietnamese electric vehicle market. Kia also plans to boost sales of the Sonet, Carnival, Sportage and K3 models in the Vietnamese market. Hyundai Motor established Hyundai Thanh Cong Manufacturing Vietnam (HTMV) in 2017 as a joint venture with Vietnamese conglomerate Thanh Cong Group. HTMV has since produced the Grand i10, Avante, Tucson and Santa Fe models at its first plant in the northern province of Ninh Binh. Based on the success of the Hyundai brand, the conglomerate built its second factory in early 2022 and inaugurated the $129 million facility last November. Kia started manufacturing in Vietnam in 2004 in collaboration with Vietnamese carmaker Thaco. The Thaco Kia manufacturing facility is inside Thaco Chu Lai, a complex of auto assembly, car part and engineering factories in the central province of Quang Nam. Semiconductor production Germany-based Infineon Technologies AG, a global leader in automotive, power management, energy-efficient technology, and the Internet of Things (IoT), opened a new center for chip development in Hanoi late this May. With Vietnam emerging as a key player in the global electronics value chain, this development center will be a vital contributor for Infineon's Design & Enabling Services (DES) ambitious competency growth plans, according to the company. It will also focus on microcontroller chip verification for automotive applications to support strong growth in the industry. Infineon plans to recruit 25 staff for its Vietnam team this year, focusing on testing and customizing integrated, analog and digital circuits, automotive vehicle apps, battery management, and balance, among others. The firm said last October that it and Vietnamese electric car maker VinFast had expanded their electromobility partnership. The duo jointly announced that they would set up an application competence center focusing on electromobility to accelerate VinFast’s development of solutions for the future of smart mobility. 
Industries
 
Economy
 
Industries
 
Industries
 Vietnam's Party General Secretary and President To Lam and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping conducted official talks at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Monday, following the grand welcome ceremony. 
Southeast Asia - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 10:42 pm  GMT+7
                                 Malaysia is expected to rake in MYR3.6 billion (over $812 million) in revenue from the data centre industry next year, up from the MYR 2.09 billion in 2022 as the rapid growth of data centers, particularly in the Klang Valley and Johor state, is creating new jobs and boosting the development of its manufacturing sector. 
Southeast Asia - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 10:33 pm  GMT+7
                                 Thailand has proposed the establishment of peatland areas in the ASEAN region as haze-free zones by 2030. 
Southeast Asia - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 10:01 pm  GMT+7
                                 Indonesian President Joko Widodo reshuffled his cabinet on Monday just a month before he steps down. 
Southeast Asia - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 10:00 pm  GMT+7
                                 Malaysia’s January-July 2024 trade grew by 9.8% year-on-year to hit RM 1.652 trillion ($373 billion), the highest value recorded for the period, said the Ministry of Investment, Trade and Industry (MITI). 
Southeast Asia - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 9:59 pm  GMT+7
                                 Party General Secretary and President To Lam and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping witnessed the signing of 14 cooperation documents in Beijing on Monday as part of the top Vietnamese leader's state visit to China. 
Politics - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 9:19 pm  GMT+7
                                 Fulbright University Vietnam has received a $1.5 million grant from Google to advance artificial intelligence (AI) research and education in the Southeast Asian country. 
Economy - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 7:47 pm  GMT+7
                                 Vietnam is set to surpass Taiwan to become the fifth-biggest coal importer in the world, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said in its July 2024 edition of the Coal Mid-Year Update report. 
Energy - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 4:45 pm  GMT+7
                                 A 30kg lot of arabica coffee from Pun Coffee Ltd. won the highest bid of VND1.2 million ($48) per kg at an auction in Hanoi last Saturday. 
Economy - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 4:19 pm  GMT+7
                                 State-controlled Vietcombank has withdrawn a long-awaited plan to issue shares in a private placement ahead of today's extraordinary shareholders’ meeting. 
Finance - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 4:12 pm  GMT+7
                                 Shelf Drilling, a UAE-headquartered leading contractor of jack-up rigs, says it has commenced work on a new contract with Petrovietnam Exploration Production Corporation Petroleum Operating Company (PVEP POC). 
Companies - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 4:01 pm  GMT+7
                                 With presence established in 88 countries and notable achievements in ASEAN, BYD sees a "golden opportunity" to develop in the Vietnamese market, says Vo Minh Luc, CEO of BYD Vietnam. 
Executive Talk - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 3:56 pm  GMT+7
                                 Vo Tan Duc, deputy Party chief of Dong Nai - a manufacturing hub in southern Vietnam, was elected Chairman of the province on Monday for the 2021-2026 term. 
Politics - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 2:37 pm  GMT+7
                                 Tra Vinh is looking for 5-star hotel investments in the southern Vietnam province to attract greater numbers of international tourists, said Duong Hoang Sum, director of its Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism. 
Real Estate - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 2:16 pm  GMT+7
                                 U.S. dollar prices in Vietnam, on both official and free markets, have been on the decline over the past month as greenback supplies rise and the Fed is expected to cut rates soon. 
Banking - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 12:05 pm  GMT+7
                                 Japan-based brewing and distilling firm Suntory, a partner in Vietnam-based Suntory PepsiCo Vietnam Beverage Co. Ltd., aims to open a new factory in Vietnam in October 2025. 
Industries - Mon, August 19, 2024 | 10:46 am  GMT+7
                                 0912312954 
                    Licence No.494/GP-BTTTT, dated August 3, 2021.
                 
                    Parent entity:
                    Vietnam’s Association of Foreign Invested Enterprises
                        (VAFIE)
 
                    Editor in Chief:
                    Pham Duc Son
 
                    Standing Deputy Editor in Chief:
                    Nguyen Phong Cam
 
                    Deputy Editor in Chief:
                    Vo Ta Quynh
 
                    Editorial Board Member:
                    Nguyen Thai Son
 
                    Managing Editor:
                    Nguyen Hong Hanh
 
Email: - [email protected]
 
- [email protected]
 
                    Head of HCMC Office:
                    Nguyen Thai Son
 
                        Headquarters: Floor 7, 65 Van Mieu Street, Dong Da
                        District, Hanoi
                     
                        HCMC Office: Floor 6, 289 Dien Bien Phu Street, District
                        3, HCMC
                     
                        Copyright©2021 Theinvestor.vn. All rights reserved.
                     No reproduction without permission 
                Headquarters: Floor 7, 65 Van Mieu Street, Dong Da District,
                Hanoi
             
                HCMC Office: Floor 6, 289 Dien Bien Phu Street, District 3, HCMC
             
                Copyright©2021 Theinvestor.vn. All rights reserved.
             No reproduction without permission CMS by Explus