An “almost-invisible” wordmark and colour gradients based on the Aurora Borealis look to foreground content and reflect the agency’s ability to adapt to client needs. Creative agency Interstate has rebranded sport, adventure and lifestyle video production agency Aurora to allow the agency to “confidently present” its body of work. Interstate worked across brand strategy and positioning, and created a new brand identity and visual refresh, a custom-built website and brand implementation for film content. With a philosophy of Life at full tilt the agency has been working with sports and events for over a decade – creating live, digital, brand and original content for clients such as FIFA, Formula E, The Classic at Silverstone and SailGP. While continuing to produce this work, Aurora is now looking to create original films and documentaries. Interstate founder and partner Jayne Connell describes “an energetic creative impulse and a desire to do things differently” that allows Aurora to adapt to its “clientele, surrounding environment and audience”. For the brand refresh, discussions with the client looked at finding a home to confidently present its ten years of work cohesively “and in all its glory”, Connell says. She adds that a new custom-built website was created, while the project also sought to “realign the visual brand with the new strategical direction”. A key idea behind the design and strategy is “immortalise the moment”. “The light displays of an aurora are never the same”, Connell says, with ever-changing colour, movement and pattern creating “an epic spectacle to experience, perceive and remember”. The use of colour gradients – moving from black to Solar Red, Atomic Green and Ionised Blue – is inspired by the Aurora Borealis. Its colours, Connell explains, “do not appear as flat, but instead as a spectrum in motion”. These are only used in glimpses, however, “to allow for variety, interest and flexibility in composition”. The new Aurora wordmark is a bespoke block that has authoritative weight but is still “human with soft edges and considered and elegant typesetting”, Connell says. It manages to be both bold and understated – appearing “almost invisible” and allowing the content “to speak for itself”, she adds. In terms of typography, Aurora now uses a primary typeface of Riforma from Lineto, while client-based content is given visual distinction using the secondary typeface Archivo Black from Omnibus. “We are proud of the calibre of our clients and the graphic treatment to introduce them should portray that”, says the Aurora team. A further element is the AMW team patches, referencing the company’s former name Aurora Media Worldwide. These are used across internal communications and on staff clothing, designed as a “medal of honour for the Aurora team” as they work on projects around the globe. All images courtesy of Interstate.  Δ It is with great sadness that we heard about the passing of the hugely influential British designer, Sir Kenneth Grange. As we head back into our archives, here’s a gem from March 1990. Jane Lewis looks at the creative ways design firms promoted their services through mail-outs. During our pause, we’re re-publishing the occasional article from deep in our archives. This March 1990 column by our founder, Jeremy Myerson, looks at car design trends. In December 2023, it was announced that Design Week was closing its doors. However – good news! We’re reopening by the end of summer 2024! As the design industry propelled itself forward, we were always there to champion, inform, analyse and guide the way. Have you been paying attention for the last four decades? Only one way to find out. Design Week closes, having championed design excellence for the past 38 years. As part of our series on design in 2024, WeWantMore creative director Ruud Belmans offers his view on what retail and experience design might look like next year. As part of our series on design in 2024, Studio Arc director Lyndsey Bowditch offers her view on what exhibition design might look like next year. As part of our series on design in 2024, Mia Blume – founder of Design Dept. and Designing with AI – tells us that next year will be a “paradigm Taking the form of a ‘vagina-like’ tent, INTER/her by Camille Baker uses cutting edge tech to open up conversations around issues like ovarian and cervical cancer, endometriosis, and menopause. As part of our series on design in 2024, Run for the Hills co-founder Anna Burles offers her view on what hospitality interior design might look like next year. © Design Week, part of the Interconnect group Built by Standfirst Design Week Ltd, registered in England and Wales with number 15681060