Byron Allen’s Allen Media Group has revealed that Princell Hair will serve as the new president of Allen Media Broadcasting. Hair will oversee the broadcast television station division consisting of 27 ABC, NBC, CBS and FOX network affiliate TV stations in 21 markets across the nation. He will also be the executive vp of Allen Media Group, which is the parent company of the broadcasting division, Weather Group and other company platforms. More from The Hollywood Reporter Billy Porter to Play James Baldwin in Upcoming Biopic Missing-Person Pandemic Comedy 'The Disappearance of Toby Blackwood' Lands at Freestyle Digital Media Byron Allen Unveils Inaugural theGrio Awards Honoring Tyler Perry, Dave Chappelle, Jennifer Hudson and More “Local news matters, and the connections these local stations have in their communities cannot be overstated. The owned-and-operated Allen Media stations are a strong broadcast group in growing markets,” Hair said. “I am excited to lead this team of accomplished general managers as we navigate the complexities of local television management while acquiring more broadcast stations and media assets.” Prior to this new role, Hair worked as the president of Black News Channel for two years, which Allen bought in 2022 and re-branded as TheGrio Television Network. He has also worked for NBC Sports Boston, NBC Sports Group, Comcast Sports Group and CNN/Turner Broadcasting. He started his career in local television news, serving in various positions in stations across the U.S., including KCBS-TV in Los Angeles. Allen, the founder and CEO of Allen Media Group, shared in a statement, “Princell Hair is a phenomenal media executive who brings an overwhelming amount of industry experience and excellent leadership skills to our 2,400-employee company. Princell’s seasoned expertise now plays a crucial role in supporting Allen Media Group’s acquisitions and continued expansion across our ever-increasing number of media assets and distribution platforms worldwide.” Best of The Hollywood Reporter The Self-Proclaimed Genius of Lil Dicky 21 of the Most Shocking Character Deaths in Television History The Making of Star-Studded Climate Drama 'Extrapolations': "I Hope People Are Moved, Entertained and Perhaps a Little Bit Scared" Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.