Reinsurance News  6th October 2023 - Author: Jack Willard Insurtech wefox has appointed Jonathan Wismer as its new Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO), while Co-founder and current CFO, Fabian Wesemann, has been named the new Chief Investment Officer (CIO). Wismer joins the company’s executive team, and he will also report to Julian Teicke, founder and CEO of the company. Wismer, an experienced veteran across the industry, brings more than 25 years of expertise towards his new role. In his most recent role, he served as CFO for Resolution Life US. Prior to taking on that role, he served as Deputy CFO and Chief Accounting Officer for AIG.  Moreover, he was previously the Group Controller for Zurich Insurance Group, based in Zurich, having previously spent nine years beforehand at Liberty Mutual, culminating with his appointment as CFO, Liberty International. Wismer has also previously held senior financial and regulatory reporting leadership positions at Allianz Group in Munich. In addition, Wesemann has been with wefox since its inception in 2014. He previously worked at Deutsche Bank, where he worked as an Associate and an Analyst.  At the same time, wefox also confirmed that Christopher Kampshoff, who has successfully headed up the M&A unit since 2019, will also move into a new operational role within the company. Teicke, commented: “Jonathan’s experience and strong track record with a number of Fortune 100 international insurance companies make him the perfect fit for wefox as we successfully transition into a mature scaleup. “This is another significant step for wefox as we focus on driving profitable growth while expanding our international footprint through acquisitions. We have established a strong M&A track record in the last four years. The appointment of Fabian as CIO will ensure we now build on our existing work to drive our global expansion and sustain our consistent growth.” Wismer, addressed his appointment: “I’m thrilled to join the wefox team at this juncture in the company’s journey and to do my part in contributing to its continued growth and focus on profitability, as well as serving its many stakeholders.” Advertise on Reinsurance News We have 200,000+ readers every month & 27,000+ email subscribers. Reach the largest reinsurance audience. We also publish Artemis.bm, the leading publisher of news, data and insight for the catastrophe bond, insurance-linked securities, reinsurance convergence, longevity risk transfer and weather risk management sectors.. We’ve published and operated Artemis since its launch 20 years ago and have a readership of around 60,000 every month. Get in touch directly using our contact form. Or find and follow Reinsurance News on social media.
Get reinsurance news by email here. All content copyright © Steve Evans Ltd. 2024 All rights reserved. Steve Evans Ltd. registered in England No. 07337195
Website Privacy & Cookies and Disclaimer Δ