The latest news and updates from the people and companies around the green industry, including Profile Products, Western Specialty Contractors and more. Profile Products, a developer and manufacturer of engineered specialty  agriscience materials, is set to make some staff adjustments: Jim Tanner will retire from his  position as CEO on March 31. Shane Porzio, who is currently the president  of the company, will succeed Jim as both the president and CEO and as a director  on the board of directors on April 1.  “I want to  thank Jim for all he has done as CEO, growing Profile into the company it is  today and positioning it so well for growth in years to come. I am honored and  excited to have the opportunity to lead this outstanding organization as we  build on a strong foundation,” Porzio said. “My focus will be on continuing to  execute on the strategy we have in place to deliver best in class products  while maintaining our long history of innovation focused on advancing  sustainability. I look forward to working closely with our leadership team and  employees to serve our customers.” Porzio has  been the acting president of Profile Products since 2021. Before he was the president  of Profile Products, he was the senior vice president and global head of the food and performance materials divisions for Vantage Specialty Chemicals. He  also spent 22 years with BASF in positions of increasing responsibility and the  last 11 years of his career there in various senior executive roles. He was responsible  for leading growth in emerging markets and throughout the world. Shane received  his Ph.D. in polymer science from The University of Akron, an MBA from Wake  Forest and his undergraduate degree in chemistry and anthropology from Beloit  College. Western Specialty Contractors hired Jocelyn Russell as a regional business development manager for its Kansas  City branches and divisions. In her new role, Russell will be tasked with supporting  the sales staff and helping to develop business for Western’s roofing and  architectural sheet metal divisions. She will also handle the company’s concrete  and masonry restoration branch in Kansas City.  Prior to working at Western, Russell worked as a senior loan officer for A1 Mortgage Group and as a lead sales agent for Liberty Mutual  Insurance Group. She has a bachelor’s degree in marketing and sales from  Missouri State University and is a member of Kansas City Area Healthcare Engineers.  She is currently pursuing memberships in several industry associations,  including Buildings Owners and Managers Association, Institute of Real Estate  Management and International Facility Management. Project  EverGreen has received a $50,000 matching grant from the Michigan Economic  Development Corporation to help the national nonprofit finish the  renovation of Detroit’s Gmeiner Park and prepare for future green space  restoration projects in the city. The grant will also provide resources to the  community that will help them care for the parks in the future. “Parks play  a vital role in the health and well-being of youth and adults alike. Connecting  people to their parks also enhances social well-being, relationships, safety and  local environmental health,” said Project EverGreen Executive Director Cindy  Code. “Together with the grant from the Michigan Economic Development  Corporation’s Public Spaces Community Places grant program, we were able to  restore Gmeiner Park and set the table to continue to create  healthy,  thriving parks across the city of Detroit for generations to come.”   The 30-day  crowdfunding campaign encouraged Detroit residents, businesses and parks  enthusiasts to raise $50,000 to receive the $50,000 matching grant. The 10-acre  park located in Northwest Detroit received a new 6-foot wide, half-mile  walking path to draw people into the park to play and exercise as well as the  installation of mature trees in and around the perimeter of the park and new  tables and benches. Work will continue this year in conjunction with Detroit’s  Parks & Recreation department when a new playground will be installed among  other plans. 