Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Apple "strongly believes" that companies' corporate climate emissions disclosures should include the emissions that come from their supply chain, or what's called Scope 3 emissions. That's according to a letter sent from Mike Foulkes, Apple's director of state and local government affairs, to Scott Wiener, one of the California state senators who introduced Senate Bill 253, which would require business entities with annual revenues exceeding $1 billion to publicly disclose the greenhouse gas emissions associated with their operations. "To ensure accuracy and transparency, we strongly believe that companies' carbon emissions disclosures should include their Scope 3 emissions," Foulkes wrote. "While these emissions can be challenging to measure, they are essential to understanding the full range of a company's climate impacts." Scope 1 emissions are classified as those released from sources that are owned by an organization, including the emissions associated with burning fuel that goes into boilers, furnaces and vehicles. The Scope 2 grade are the indirect greenhouse gas emissions that a company incurs from such processes as buying electricity, heating and cooling buildings. Scope 3 emissions come from a company's supply chain, or value chain, and are difficult to track. They tend to be the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions associated with a company. Senate Bill 253 would require California to pass regulations by 2025 to require businesses with more than $1 billion in revenue to publicly disclose their Scope 1 and 2 emissions to a reporting organization starting in 2026. Affected companies would then be required to report their Scope 3 data starting in 2027. The bill also requires the state to review these rules in 2029 and update them "as necessary" by 2030. In the letter, Apple acknowledges some amount of uncertainty in reporting Scope 3 emissions due to available data at this time. "Scope 3 emissions, in particular, involve making educated assumptions and complex modeling," Foulkes wrote. "We believe, however, that our reports attest to the feasibility of reasonably modeling, measuring and reporting on all three scopes of emissions, including scope 3 emissions, which represent the overwhelming majority of most companies' carbon footprint and are therefore critical to include." In a post on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter, Wiener thanked Apple for the vote of confidence. In the letter, Apple also backed third party oversight of the emissions reporting. Apple's support of Scope 3 emissions in California, where the company is headquartered, comes at a time when federal regulators are considering requiring some level of corporate climate disclosures. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has proposed rules that would force disclosure of climate-related risks that could have a material affect on businesses. The SEC hasn't confirmed how the rule would be implemented or whether Scope 3 emissions, for example, would be included. Apple said that with the expectation of forthcoming climate disclosures coming from other regulatory agencies besides the one in California, it would be helpful to have parallel standards. "Given the likely proliferation of mandatory disclosures at the international, national, and sub-national level, we would appreciate the provisions for the state board to minimize the need for reporting entities to prepare duplicative reports or engage multiple assurance providers," Foulkes wrote. "We would welcome further efforts to promote convergence at a national and international level." Apple did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by