 The best spotting scopes offer higher magnification than a monocular but much more portability than a telescope 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Our quick list
Best all-round
Best for image quality
Best for beginners
Best for astronomy
Best for travel
Best on a budget
Best for photography
How to choose
How we test The best spotting scopes are perfect for wildlife watchers, sports fans, and even star-gazers. Also known as field scopes or digiscopes, they are like a halfway house between a monocular and a telescope, offering high magnifications while still being compact and portable. The chief advantage of a spotting scope over a monocular is magnification. Monoculars don't generally exceed a magnification of about 10x, and if they do, they will be extremely heavy. Spotting scopes, in contrast, offer powerful magnification but are typically slimmer and more portable. Some of the best spotting scopes have zoom for changing the magnification.  Many spotting scopes can even be used for photography by hooking up a camera, a practice known as 'digiscoping'. But whether you're viewing with the naked eye or a camera, the magnification means it's worth checking out the best spotting scope tripods to get a properly steady image. Spotting scopes are available at all different price points, and in this guide, we've included models for all budgets, from cheap entry-level scopes to high-end optical marvels like the Zeiss Conquest Gavia 85. If you are in the market for a premium scope, you may also want to check out the Leica APO-Televid 82.  Best all-round  It’s no surprise that camera and optical manufacturer Nikon produces scopes with the ability to attach a camera and enjoy the art of digiscoping. Unlike with some other scopes, the eyepiece is sold separately. Best for image quality  Any photographer will recognize the name Zeiss as being the bee’s knees for optical quality, so selecting a Zeiss scope for wildlife and nature photography has got to be a sensible decision. Best for beginners   This is a great mid-priced model for wildlife watchers. It comes kitted up with its own travel tripod, and a mount for using the scope from your car.  Why you can trust Digital Camera World 


Our expert reviewers spend hours testing and comparing products and services so you can choose the best for you. Find out how we test.  Our expert review: It’s no surprise that camera and optical manufacturer Nikon produces scopes with the ability to attach a camera and enjoy the art of digiscoping. Indeed, Nikon has its own digiscoping system.  There’s a lot of choice in this field, but the Nikon Fieldscope ED50 offers a 50mm objective lens (to which a 55mm filter can be attached if desired) and is both relatively compact and lightweight with it.  It also ticks the boxes for the regular must-haves, such as a fog-banishing nitrogen-filled construction and built-in waterproofing (it can even be submerged up to a meter for five minutes) for all those times when the weather doesn't play ball, along with a multilayered lens coating to ensure superb light transmission and, ultimately, high-resolution images.

Read our full Nikon Fieldscope ED50 review for more details  Our expert review: Any photographer will recognize the name Zeiss as being the bee’s knees for optical quality, so selecting a Zeiss scope for wildlife and nature photography has got to be a sensible decision.  Of course, Zeiss doesn’t come cheap, but the Zeiss Conquest Gavia 85 is versatile due to a rapid focus mechanism and a close near-focus setting, so even observing smaller objects or wildlife is claimed to be easier than ever.  Of course, you only have to look at the name of the product to see one great advantage – namely a whopping 85mm-diameter objective lens, useful for low-light observation. Couple this with a zoom-magnification range of up to 60x and a fog-proof, nitrogen-filled construction, and you’ve really got something. Read our full Zeiss Conquest Gavia 85 review for more details  Our expert review: This is a great mid-priced model for wildlife watchers. It comes kitted up with its own travel tripod, and a mount for using the scope from your car. The 20-60x range gives it versatility for use with different animal and bird species, with a decent 65mm aperture that is more than satisfactory for daylight viewing.  This spotting scope offers IPX7-level waterproof construction with O-ring sealed optics, ensuring everything stays reassuringly dry in all weather conditions. Read our full Bushnell 20-60x65 Prime review for more details  Our expert review: Weighing 2kg and sporting a 100mm diameter, this is one of the biggest and bulkiest scopes on our list, so it wouldn't be great for, say, action photography. But for more stationary pursuits like stargazing and watching wildlife from a distance, it's a great option. The largest aperture scope in the Ultima line, the 100mm Ultima offers more than 50 percent brighter images than the 80mm version, so it's a better option for low-light shooting.  The 100mm refractor features a 45° viewing angle and offers excellent multi-coated optics packed into a portable and durable refractor design and comes standard with an angled, 22-66x zoom eyepiece. A soft carrying case is also included. Read our full Celestron Ultima 100 review.  Our expert review: Like the Hummingbird it takes its name from, the Celestron Hummingbird 9-27x56 ED spotting scope is small and mobile, with a very manageable weight of 590g. That means it’s also ideally suited to taking on your travels. It will fit into a roomy jacket pocket, a rucksack, or a shoulder bag, and can be stashed in carry-on luggage.  At its lowest 9x magnification level, it can even substitute for a monocular, giving you, in effect, two products in one, though the angled viewfinder may not be ideal for handheld spotting.  This device is waterproof and nitrogen filled to prevent fogging, and is a tripod, monopod, and window-mount adaptable, giving it an extra degree of versatility. In summary, if you’re looking for a more portable alternative to a full-sized spotting scope, this ‘bird is hard to beat. What’s more, it’s also camera-adaptable for those into digiscoping.  This sleek-looking spotting scope solution comes with a straight eyepiece and won’t break the bank. Despite the budget price, the Bushnell Sentry 18-36x50 is also impressively waterproof, with proper O-ring sealed optics so the internal workings stay fully dry, even when the Bushnell is submerged in water.  In terms of optical performance, multi-coatings help ensure reflections are avoided and all ‘air to glass’ surfaces deliver bright, high-contrast images. The Porro prism system also features twist-up eyecups and a comfortable 16mm eye relief. Weighing 877g despite the moisture-sealed build, this is still a relatively manageable and portable spotting scope.  Our expert review: The Celestron Regal M2 65ED is a premium spotting scope that is nevertheless fair value in its price range, offering suitability for everything from bird watching in the day to watching the heavens at night. Celestron claims that this second-generation unit has reduced the overall weight of the spotting scope by more than 14 percent, while still providing a rugged magnesium alloy body.  Further advantages include the fact that it has an upgraded dual-focus mechanism, which enables users to bring their subject into focus two times faster. You can factor in premium features such as Extra Low Dispersion (ED) glass found in the best camera lenses, and a camera can be attached to the Regal using an included T-adapter for use with DSLRs and mirrorless cameras (although you will still need to buy a compatible T-mount for your camera body). Read our full Celestron Regal M2 65ED review. When you pick a spotting scope, you can choose from either a straight or an angled body. With straight scopes, the body and eyepiece lie on the same optical plane, which allows you to look straight through the eyepiece at your intended subject. Angled-body spotting scopes are more comfortable to use when lying down or sitting and can save having to crane your neck. The magnification for a spotting scope is provided by the viewfinder - and on some scopes this eyepiece is interchangeable, so that you can change the magnification of the subject. Many scopes are supplied with a zoom allowing you to crop into the image closer when you spot something interesting to observe. A higher magnification range will enable you to use the scope for a broader range of subjects. A higher magnification is useful in many situations - but is also more difficult to use. The higher the magnification, the darker the image - and the harder it is to keep the scope steady, so requiring a heavier tripod. It is the main body of the scope that dictates the brightness of the image. A larger lens will provide a better, clearer image, especially in low light, though this will also make the spotting scope bigger, heavier, and more expensive. For a portable, all-purpose scope look for a lens diameter of between 50-65mm. The brightest scopes have diameters of 100mm or more - and are great for use viewing distant galaxies, or for viewing distant wildlife with high magnification eyepieces.  We test spotting scopes within the field on moving subjects and landmarks for our buying guides and look for a scope that combines magnification, good construction, and image clarity, which can be used and withstand a day's bird watching or wildlife spotting. Budget is also an indicator and within this guide, you will find spotting scopes to suit everyone's budget.  Read more: The best binoculars 
10 best monoculars 
Best night vision goggles and binoculars 
The best lenses for bird photography 
The best telescopes for astrophotography  The best camera deals, reviews, product advice, and unmissable photography news, direct to your inbox! For nearly two decades Sebastian's work has been published internationally. Originally specializing in Equestrianism, his visuals have been used by the leading names in the equestrian industry such as The Fédération Equestre Internationale (FEI), The Jockey Club, Horse & Hound, and many more for various advertising campaigns, books, and pre/post-event highlights.  He is a Fellow of The Royal Society of Arts, holds a Foundation Degree in Equitation Science, and is a Master of Arts in Publishing.  He is a member of Nikon NPS and has been a Nikon user since the film days using a Nikon F5 and saw the digital transition with Nikon's D series cameras and is still to this day the youngest member to be elected into BEWA, The British Equestrian Writers' Association.   He is familiar with and shows great interest in street, medium, and large format photography with products by Leica, Phase One, Hasselblad, Alpa, and Sinar. Sebastian has also used many cinema cameras from the likes of Sony, RED, ARRI, and everything in between. He now spends his spare time using his trusted Leica M-E or Leica M2 shooting Street photography or general life as he sees it, usually in Black and White. Digital Camera World is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 