This information applies to England and Wales. You may be entitled to student finance to help pay for university or college tuition fees and to help with living costs. This is called 'student income'. Skip to Even if you choose not to apply or take a student loan, the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) will treat you as having a loan and count this as your income. Disability Rights UK runs an advice and information line for disabled students, trainees and apprentices studying in England. Disabled Students Helpline (Disability Rights UK) The rules around whether you count as a full-time student differ depending on both: You cannot claim Carer’s Allowance if you’re a full-time student. Studying part-time will not usually affect your means-tested benefit. Speak to an adviser from Citizens Advice online to find out if your benefits will change. The rules on when a course counts as part-time vary for different benefits. Part-time students and benefits - who is a part-time student for benefits purposes? (Turn2us) The Department for Work and Pensions classes distance learning courses, such as the Open University, as part-time study. This means that even if you study full-time, you are a part-time student. Claiming loans or grants to live and study should not affect the following benefits: Most grants and loans are disregarded when calculating a student’s income for tax credits. The exception is an Adult Dependants’ Grant. Adult Dependants’ Grant (GOV.UK) Starting to study on its own will not trigger a move from legacy benefits to Universal Credit. If a student has another change of circumstance, this could trigger UC. For example, if a person moves to a new local authority area and applies for help towards rent. Most full-time students are not eligible for Universal Credit. But you can claim Universal Credit as a full-time student if all of the following apply: If you think you may be eligible for PIP or DLA, apply as soon as you can. How to claim PIP Work Capability Assessment Universal Credit: studying full time (GOV.UK) If you do not qualify for Universal Credit, you can apply for New Style Employment and Support Allowance (ESA). If you are still receiving old-style income-related Employment and Support Allowance (ESA), this is affected by student income. But Universal Credit has replaced ESA for most new claims. You cannot claim Carer’s Allowance if you’re a full-time student. You can claim Carer’s Allowance if you’re a part-time student studying for less than 21 hours a week. Means-tested benefits, such as Universal Credit and income-related Employment Support Allowance, are based on income and savings. If you or your partner are in college or university, your student income can affect your means-tested benefits. Examples of how your means-tested benefits can change (Disability Rights UK) Your student income includes: If you apply for a bursary and later decide that you do not want to take it, this will not affect your benefits. You can find out what you're entitled to through: Your student income does not include: If you're a full-time postgraduate student, the following income will count as income for means-tested benefits: If you are disabled or are eligible to claim benefits like DLA or PIP, you may be eligible for a higher amount of maintenance loan as a full-time undergraduate student. If you're entitled to a maintenance loan, take it. Income for means-tested benefits takes into account the maximum loan you are entitled to. This applies even if you do not take it. The special support element of your maintenance loan is worth up to £4,221. This is not treated as income for means-tested benefits. Student Finance will tell you if you can get the special support element when you apply. Last reviewed by Scope on: 26/02/2024 
                Was this page helpful?
             Great! We're sorry to hear that. 
                        Was this page helpful?
                     Great! We're sorry to hear that. Find out what study-related costs that Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) can finance, if you're eligible and how to apply. Where to find money advice as a disabled student and where to get help with study costs and student finance Hello guys! To cut a long story short i have recently started a course with the open uni and it has been going great! I was also able to receive a student grant to assist me but im a just a tad ... 



                                    Discussion in Benefits and financial support - 24 Apr 2024
                                 Hello,  I hope it is ok to post this on here, if not then I will delete it of course. I am a PhD student at the University of Suffolk examining the impact of Universal Credit on people with ... 



                                    Discussion in Research and opportunities - 25 Sep 2023
                                 Open Monday to Friday 9am to 6pm. Saturday, 10am to 6pm