Follow this simple scope change management process Your email has been sent Scope is defined at a high level by describing the
boundaries and deliverables of your project. You add more detail to that
definition through the gathering of your business requirements. Once these
items are agreed to by your sponsor, you can manage overall scope change
through a simple scope change process. Remember that having your scope and business
requirements approved doesn’t mean nothing can change from that point on. It
means instead that you will manage the overall change process from that point
forward using a good scope change management process.  Here’s a simple scope change process that you can use on
your project.  Throughout the process, make sure that you communicate all scope
change status and resolution to project team members and other appropriate
stakeholders. This is usually done by attaching your current Scope Change Log to
your Status Report. This helps manage expectations and shows how approved scope
change requests are impacting the project end date and budget.  
                    From the hottest programming languages to commentary on the Linux OS, get the developer and open source news and tips you need to know. Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays                 
                    From the hottest programming languages to commentary on the Linux OS, get the developer and open source news and tips you need to know. Delivered Tuesdays and Thursdays                 Follow this simple scope change management process Your email has been sent 
            Get the web's best business technology news, tutorials, reviews, trends, and analysis—in 
            your inbox. Let's start with the basics.
         
* - indicates required fields
         
            Lost your password? Request a new password
 
            Please enter your email adress. You will receive an email message with instructions on how to reset your password.
         
            Check your email for a password reset link. If you didn't receive an email don't forgot to check your spam folder, otherwise contact support.
         
            This will help us provide you with customized content.
         
            Thanks for signing up! Keep an eye out for a confirmation email from our team. To ensure any newsletters you subscribed to hit your inbox, make sure to add newsletters@nl.technologyadvice.com to your contacts list.
        