This information applies to England and Wales. A general dentist can be accessible for some people, with the right adjustments. You have a legal right to reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act. Some disabled adults and children need treatment from a specialist dental service. They are usually called a community dentist. You need a referral from a general dentist, GP or other professional to see a community dentist. Skip to You may be eligible for free NHS dental treatment in an NHS general or specialist service. You cannot get help with the costs of private dental treatment. Free NHS dental treatment With the right adjustments, a general dentist might be accessible. The waiting list for general dentists is usually shorter than for specialist dental services. If you cannot read letters because you have a visual impairment you could say: You could ask the surgery to find out if it's accessible to you. For example, if you use a wheelchair you might ask: If you need a British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter, you could say: "I will need a British Sign Language interpreter to support me during my appointment. It is the only way I will be able to understand what surgery staff are saying. Is this something we could arrange?" The surgery must make reasonable adjustments so that it's accessible to you. There is no set definition of what is 'reasonable'. It depends on: Adjusting policies which usually apply to all patients can also be a reasonable adjustment, depending on what you need. For example, the surgery might not allow dogs into appointments. But allowing assistance dogs would be reasonable under the Equality Act 2010. Asking for reasonable adjustments Send an email or letter saying what you need and why. For example: "I understand that you do not normally allow dogs in. But there is a legal requirement for you to make adjustments so that your service is accessible to disabled people. My dog is a guide dog and I need them to access your surgery. Please can you discuss this with the practice owner or manager." If they still refuse, ask to see the practice's complaints procedure. The procedure should say: You can also ask the dental practice to refer you to a specialist dental service. For example: "As you cannot offer me an accessible service, can you refer me somewhere else?" You need a referral to access a specialist dentist service. They may be able to offer home visits, if that's what you need. For example, you may need a specialist dental service if your condition affects your movement. They may be able to give you sedation to help you stay still. Specialist dental services usually have longer waiting lists than general dentists. You can get a referral from a: Contact NHS England if you want to find out more about community dentists. Dental treatment for people with special needs (NHS) You could: Some dental services may be able to give you sedation, depending on your condition. Talk to your dentist if you feel that sedation might help. On the day of your appointment, you could: Before your appointment, you could: Often, talking about what will happen before the appointment can help. You could use visual tools, for example: You could ask to visit the dentist in advance so that you can: Your child will notice how you speak about going to the dentist. Explain what is going to happen in a positive way, even if you might be scared of going to the dentist. You could also ask the dentist to show your child what equipment they will use and how it works. Choose words that you think your child will understand. For example: Last reviewed by Scope on: 29/02/2024 
                Was this page helpful?
             Great! We're sorry to hear that. 
                        Was this page helpful?
                     Great! We're sorry to hear that. Drooling or dribbling is the unintentional loss of saliva from the mouth. Find out how to control drooling and treatments available. Eating difficulties for disabled children including acid reflux, swallowing (dysphagia) and sensory issues. Hi everyone nice to meet you all. I'm in q bit of a pickle. Iv neglected my teeth due to self neglecting them I was taking zopiclone daily for 3 years no review etc these make you forget alot. I'm ... 



                                    Discussion in Benefits and financial support - 14 Sep 2023
                                 my 4 year old son has autism and gets extremely distressed when brushing his teeth which has resulted in decaying he is getting extremely frustrated with the pain and is starting to lash out....... ... 



                                    Discussion in Children, parents, and families - 22 Mar 2016
                                 Open Monday to Friday 9am to 6pm. Saturday, 10am to 6pm