Last October, Mila Kunis shared the truly hilarious story of the first time her husband Ashton Kutcher told her he loved her. And now that a few months have passed, Ashton took it upon himself to share his side of the story. "I remember it," Ashton said during a recent interview on The Kelly Clarkson Show. "I remember it distinctly 'cause I came into her house and I was singing this Kenny Chesney song and I was like, 'You and tequila make me crazy,' cause there had been a little too much tequila consumed and they both make me crazy." Finally, after what I would assume was a pretty, erm, memorable performance, Ashton got to the good part: "And then I told her that I love her and I meant it when I said it." Cute! Mila wasn't quick to buy it immediately though and insisted that he tell her these feelings in the morning, which, fair! Ashton added, "I woke her up and I was like, 'Hey, I love you.' And that's how I woke her up in the morning." @ boys, TAKE SOME NOTES HERE! Ashton has previously recounted the story on his new Peloton running series, Our Future Selves, alongside *the* Kenny Chesney himself, and Mila has also opened up about the night a number of times. "My dad told my mom he was in love with her three months into their relationship fully shammered and my mom went, 'Alright, talk to me in the morning.' Same thing happened to me with my husband," the Bad Moms said on The Kelly Clarkson Show back in October. "Three months into our relationship, he showed up at my house at two o'clock in the morning." After telling her now-husband to go to bed, Ashton pushed against it and insisted, "No, and I love you so much." A refresher: Mila and Ashton first met as costars on That '70s Show in 1998 when they played on-again, off-again couple Jackie and Kelso. It wasn't until over a decade later that they would start dating IRL, moving in together in 2012. By February 2014, the two were engaged, and the rest is history! Someone get these two a tequila sponsorship, seriously! You Might Also Like Here’s What NOT to Wear to a Wedding Meet the Laziest, Easiest Acne Routine You’ll Ever Try New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.