Tuesday, 20 August 03 Jul 2023 NEWS Former Victor Khanye Local Municipality speaker Robert Khaya Segone and one of his two bodyguards are fighting for their lives after they survived a drive-by shooting, suspected to be a hit, in Delmas, Mpumalanga, last weekend. Delmas police spokesperson Carla Hartley said police were called to the scene at around 9pm on June 24 and made aware that the former speaker had been attacked and wounded, adding: Hartley said the police had then gone back to the crime scene in Delpark, Delmas, where they had been told that another bodyguard with a bakkie had been escorting Segone home after attending a ceremony in the area when unknown men in a speeding Toyota Yaris had opened fire at Segone and his bodyguards.  Hartley said police found 23 rifle cartridges where Segone was found at the crime scene. "It could have been a fatal shooting; they were lucky." According to police, the suspects were still at large and the motive for the shooting was still unknown. The controversial speaker has been fighting to stay out of prison after facing charges of assault, intimidation, inciting public violence and firing his handgun in a municipal building two years ago. He has since been out on bail.  READ: Mpumalanga vigilante politician faces more charges Segone's business partner and secretary Sibusiso Mkhawane told City Press that Segone had been admitted at another hospital that couldn't be named because of fear that his attackers might strike again. Mkhawane said the bodyguard who was also wounded was reported to be stable by doctors. READ: Former ANC politician out on bail for vigilantism charges forms own party and says ‘people love me’ "We plead with the community of Delmas and anyone who might know the attacker to contact the Delmas SAPS to assist in the ongoing investigation into the attack." Mkhawane said they have also asked for the intervention of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation in investigating the attack because they did not know who might be next, as even the bodyguards had been hit in the shooting.       19 Aug 15 Apr 05 Apr 27 Feb 30 Jan