It’s hard to miss Brandon Nimmo’s trademark smile, which is constantly present on his face from ear to ear. But he carried a slightly different expression during a key moment Tuesday evening, one that represents the Mets’ recent tribulations. Nimmo hit two home runs and drove in three runs during the Mets’ 7-2 win over the Brewers at Citi Field.  He pumped his fist emphatically as he let out a loud scream halfway between first and second base following his second homer of the night, the result of built-up frustration from the team’s recent free fall. Beyond a rousing moment for the 30-year-old outfielder, the sentiment Nimmo expressed rounding the bases could be felt throughout Citi Field and in the Mets’ clubhouse.  A dead team walking in recent weeks, Nimmo has perhaps injected a semblance of new life into the Mets, at least for one night. “I knew I hit this one well, so definitely was willing it out of the ballpark,” Nimmo said. “I think it just goes to all the work that we’ve been doing. … Got to see a little result of the hard work.” Nimmo’s first home run — to right-center field in the fourth inning — gave the Mets a 1-0 lead, and they never looked back.  Just one inning later, his second blast barely landed over the wall in left-center field to extend the Mets’ lead to 4-0 and provide welcomed breathing room. With the two homers, Nimmo now has 10 on the season.  He didn’t reach that mark until late July last season. “I think it’s just the work with [hitting coach] Jeremy [Barnes], we did it in the offseason, we’ve been doing it during the season to clean up my swing a little bit,” Nimmo said. “Kind of clean the fat out of it, make it a little more direct and make better decisions. Even though I’ve been a good decision-maker, I’ve had room for improvement on that.” Both of Nimmo’s home runs came off Brewers starter Julio Teheran, who has impressed this season with a 1.53 ERA this season entering Tuesday. Largely the Mets’ most consistent performer all season, Nimmo’s energy is often infectious. Now, the Mets hope his performances are as well. “Similar to losing, you have to kind of forget about today and be like, ‘All right, now we gotta focus on tomorrow,’” Nimmo said. “You try and build off this, what you did well, learn from any mistakes that you might’ve made, and try and go 1-0 tomorrow.” 