YOUNG Africans Assistant Coach Cedrick Kaze has admitted they have recently been winning ugly but what is important is they secure maximum points regardless of how big the win is. During the post-match briefing, Coach Kaze made these remarks after his side secured a 1-0 victory over Ruvu Shooting at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam recently. This has been a continuation of the slim victory for Young Africans, where in three consecutive games; they won 1-0 against Ihefu FC and Mtibwa Sugar FC. In the three encounters, Young Africans missed a few of its key players; Khalid Aucho, Feisal Salum, Bernard Morrison and Aziz Ki, who played on Tuesday but came from the bench. Further the Assistant Coach Cedrick Kaze hailed his charges’ brilliance as Ruvu Shooting’s Mbwana Makata also lauded his squad despite the loss adding only the defensive blunder paid the price for their 1-0 loss. Both coaches, however, acknowledged the match was quite tricky as both teams displayed quality footwork and solid defence in all thrilling 90 minutes of the Premier League game at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. After the hard-earned win, Kaze told reporters that it was a slim victory, still, they are happy to secure maximum points as their primary goal is to defend the league title and excel in the CAF Confederation Cup. Young Africans still command authority in the top-flight league after the victory earned them 56 points from a 21-game onslaught. They remain at the top with six points superior to their closest challengers Simba who are glued at the second position with 50 points. After the recent results, the title race has now remained a two-horse race manned by Yanga and Simba. Simba are seven-point superior to their closest pursuers Azam and Singida Big Stars, who have netted 43 points apiece. “It was a tough game and we won. Although we won by 1-0, which is a slim victory, most importantly, we grabbed maximum points. We aim to defend the title; hence winning each game is crucial no matter how many goals we score; the most important is to claim maximum points.” He further acknowledged his opponents for displaying a quality game, especially in the defence. “I credit the opponents because they played well. They had a solid defence and managed to withhold several of our attempts whiles putting a lot of pressure when they attacked.” He added besides defending the Premier League title; they are also keen to do well in the CAF Confederation Cup’s group stage. “The technical bench is working hard to improve the team’s craftsmanship so as  to excel as well in the CAF Confederation Cup which starts early next month. “Generally, we are building a strong team to seal all three silverware; Community Shield, Azam Sports Federation Cup and NBC Premier League.” For his part, Makata stated, “We have lost to a good team, Yanga. We did our best, but the first-half blunder paid us an immense price that we suffered for the rest of the game. We are still building the team, and we will strengthen it.” Currently, Ruvu Shooting stations are at the league’s bottom with fourteen points from 21 games. They have the worst moment after witnessing a winless demon in 15 consecutive games. They have only secured five draws and ten losses. […] ALSO READ: CCM appreciates Samia over effective ma... […] ALSO READ: Farmers told to adopt highyield breedin... […] ALSO READ:  Tanzania sees active economic surge [... […] ALSO READ: Tanzania sees active economic surge [... […] ALSO READ: ‘CCM embraces Mkapa legacy’ […]...