Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Brittany Vincent, 
                              
              Kaylyn McKenna
 
    Edited By
                        
              Leslie Gornstein, 
                              
              Fox Van Allen, 
                              
              Gabriele Shacknai
 
Updated on:  April 12, 2024 / 8:32 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Spring is here! Have you started your annual spring cleaning refresh yet? If not, you should be grabbing a vacuum, a mop and everything else you need to make your home look better than new. That means you might have to move the furniture around, dig in deep and scrub everything down with a scrubber attachment, and make your home look spotless. Too busy for a deep clean? No problem! Let a robot vacuum or mop do all the work for you. There's even a robot window cleaner if you need one.  Whatever you end up doing to tidy up your home this season, don't do it without getting the right tools and supplies. You can save big on some of the best spring cleaning essentials with sales on everything from spin scrubbers to handheld vacuums and everything in between at Walmart right now. Keep reading for some of our favorite picks for must-have cleaning tools to get your house in tip-top condition.  This cordless vacuum is everything you need to power through all the crumbs, pet hair or other deep-set debris. Plus, it comes in a bright purple, which might even make you want to clean. Tough sell, but maybe? It's versatile in all the right ways, with a detangling bar that helps deep clean carpet and hard floors. There are also hair-removal vanes on the brush to help you remove the stubborn stuff. Plus, its whole-machine filtration system traps allergens, dust and other nasty bits floating around, for better overall air quality. Clean quickly and efficiently with this Dyson, which also transforms into a handheld vacuum with a crevice tool, combination brush and a no-touch option for emptying all the dirt. If you've been waiting for a Dyson vacuum to go on sale, this is one you'll definitely want to pony up some cash for. You can find it on sale at Walmart right now for $330, which is down from its usual price of $420. Shark makes a wide variety of powerful vacuums, and this one motors through some of the toughest messes you can throw at it. One of its most important features is its ability to lift away from the chassis and morph into a mobile handheld tool to clean up those hard-to-reach areas. When used as a regular vacuum, it offers deep cleaning on carpets with strong suction on hard floors and a HEPA filter that traps 99.9% of dust and allergens. It's lightweight, easy to maneuver, and it includes extra tools to pair with the lift-away pod for even more precise cleaning.  One caveat: it isn't a cordless vacuum, but that also means it's not going to run out of battery, and it has the control of a much thinner, much more lightweight stick vacuum – so you probably won't notice or care.  If you've been waiting to get a vacuum that has the versatility of a cordless handheld, this is it. It's on sale right now at Walmart for $119, down from its usual price of $239.  Sometimes you've got to enlist the help of a steam mop to get through the grime a regular one can't handle. This one is all about sanitizing as it cleans, so you can get it all done at once.  It uses a unique mop pad that rotates for gentle cleaning that won't scratch, but will cut through grease, dirt, dust, and spills better than a standard mop alone. It also uses steam to sanitize once it's mopped up all the stains and bacteria and whatever else is hiding on your floor.  Choose from two steam modes. You won't always want to release a ton of steam when dealing with smaller messes, so go with the "light" option. That should make impromptu cleaning sessions much more manageable. And once you're done, remove the mop pad for an easy clean with a one-button release.  You can get this mop at Walmart right now for just $109, which is discounted from its usual price of $180.  You may not hear much about iHome in the robot vacuum space, but it's still a competent contender, especially with a discount like this one. This robovac has all the bells and whistles you'd expect from the top brands, and a few other cool features as well. It uses a special home mapping system that works with LiDAR to scan your floor plan and create a custom cleaning route. Use the accompanying app to set virtual boundaries and keep the vacuum from heading into areas it shouldn't be in.  As far as cleaning power, the unit's 2700pa suction means it can hoover up spilled snacks, dust, dirt, pet hair, and more without you having to get anywhere near it. After a methodic clean, it can return to its dock to charge and empty itself. If you need more specialized control, connect to Alexa or Google Assistant and use your voice to issue commands. Bring home this robot vacuum for just $139, which is discounted from its normal price of $400.   If you prefer that your robot vacuum have a mop function as well, a combination system is a great choice.  This sleek and svelte robot vacuum and mop combo is the best of both worlds, with accurate mapping technology and great maneuverability to get it where it needs to go, when you need it there.  It uses 3000pa suction to handle dirt and other messes first, but it can swap over to intelligent mopping to handle wet messes zipping into hard-to-reach spaces and narrow areas to get you the best clean possible. Most importantly, it can vacuum and mop in just one go, so you don't have to wait around for one cycle to complete before beginning another.  Its self-emptying system deposits dirt on its own into a 2.5-liter bag that you don't have to clear out for 60 days, too. With an over-200-minute runtime on one charge, it's easy to see why you'd want to snag one.  Grab this robot vacuum and mop combo for $429, discounted from the usual $500.  We love our pets, but they can make some absolutely massive messes. Don't let them take over your home. Get this handheld vacuum to bust up pet hair on floors and upholstery, and reclaim your home.  This handheld vacuum uses two air streams for better suction as well as a strong, washable filter so you can clean it up when you notice the vacuum not sucking up as as much dirt. It also comes with a special brush for pet hair with fins that make it easier to comb through everything it picks up.  What if you don't have pets? This handheld vacuum is still worth your time with its XL dust cup, powerful suction, and lightweight body. Plus, you can empty the dirt out into the trash with a one-button ejector tool to make things easier. Bring home this vacuum from Walmart right now for $69, which is discounted from its normal price of $90. Have to clean the bathroom? Don't attack it with a roll of paper towels. Bring a power scrubber into the mix and you'll never have a better-looking shower and toilet - or kitchen, for that matter.  This cordless electric cleaning brush has a motor that runs at 435 RPM to effortlessly cut through the most stubborn stains you can bring it. It's great to be used anywhere you have tile, shower glass, hard floor, and patio furniture. Plus, it has five types of brush heads to facilitate better cleaning. If you always get tuckered out too soon during spring cleaning, a machine like this one can cut down on some of the manpower needed to get through bigger cleans. Plus, as you've likely already seen on TikTok, these types of tools are so satisfying to watch as they work.  This one happens to be deeply discounted. You can get it from Walmart for just $35, which is a huge price cut from its original MSRP of $110.  Brittany Vincent has been covering gaming, tech, and all things entertainment for 16 years for a variety of online and print publications. She's been covering the commerce space for nearly a decade. Follow her on Twitter at @MolotovCupcake. 
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          While a new generation of protesters is leading the demonstrations at the 2024 DNC, some who participated in the 1968 protests are returning.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Hillary Clinton brought delegates to their feet highlighting "we are writing a new chapter in American history."
         
          While a new generation of protesters is leading the demonstrations at the 2024 DNC, some who participated in the 1968 protests are returning.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          What appeared to be just shy of 10,000 people were seen on the march route—and the protest remained peaceful as it reached Park 578.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          Former Secretary of State and 2016 presidential contender Hillary Clinton addressed the Democratic National Convention Monday night, speaking in support of Vice President Kamala Harris against former President Donald Trump. See Clinton's full remarks.
         
          New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez made her case for Vice President Kamala Harris' campaign at the Democratic National Convention on Monday. See Ocasio-Cortez's full remarks.
         
          Shawn Fain, president of the United Auto Workers union, addressed the Democratic National Convention Monday night, voicing his support for Vice President Kamala Harris' campaign and calling former President Donald Trump a scab. See Fain's full remarks.
         
          Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr, fresh off leading the USA men's basketball team to gold at the Paris Olympics, voiced his support for Kamala Harris' campaign Monday night during the Democratic National Convention at Chicago's United Center, where Kerr played for three NBA champion Chicago Bulls teams.
         
          Vice President Kamala Harris took the stage to raucous applause Monday during opening night of the Democratic National Convention thanking President Biden for his years of service and telling the crowd, "When we fight, we win."
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.