Star quarterback Jalen Hurts and the Philadelphia Eagles (13-2) face the New Orleans Saints (6-9) on Sunday at 1:00 PM ET at Lincoln Financial Field. In their last outing, the Eagles were knocked off by the Dallas Cowboys 40-34. The Saints’ last game was a 17-10 win over the Cleveland Browns. Gardner Minshew had 355 yards on 24-of-40 passing (60.0%) for the Eagles in that matchup against the Cowboys, with two touchdowns and two interceptions. He also added four carries for 5 yards and one rushing touchdown. Miles Sanders ran for 65 yards on 21 carries (3.1 yards per carry), adding one reception for six yards. DeVonta Smith had 113 yards on eight catches (14.1 per reception) with two touchdowns in that game. Andy Dalton threw for 92 yards for the Saints against the Browns, going 8-for-15 (53.3%) with no touchdowns and one interception. Alvin Kamara put together a 20-carry, 76-yard game (3.8 yards per attempt) with one touchdown, while tacking on two receptions for 34 yards . Rashid Shaheed picked up 41 yards through the air after four catches (on five targets). Here we will dig into all of the details about this contest, including how to watch on fuboTV. National Football League odds courtesy of Tipico Sportsbook. Odds updated Sunday at 1:29 PM ET. For a full list of sports betting odds, access USA TODAY Sports Betting Scores Odds Hub. Catch the excitement and bet with Tipico! Double Down, Ohio! Deposit $200, Get $250. Bet now! In Colorado and New Jersey, claim your 100% Deposit Match up to $250 now! 21+, see Tipico.com for Terms and Conditions. Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. See operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER. Must be 21 or older to gamble. We occasionally recommend interesting products and services. If you make a purchase by clicking one of the links, we may earn an affiliate fee. FTW operates independently, though, and this doesn’t influence our coverage.
 We occasionally recommend interesting products and services. If you make a purchase by clicking one of the links, we may earn an affiliate fee. FTW operates independently, though, and this doesn’t influence our coverage. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy  





 
				© Copyright For The Win 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		