


March 16 (UPI) -- Ford is recalling more than 1.2 million of its vehicles over a potentially serious issue with brakes.
The front brake hoses in Ford Fusions and Lincoln MKZs may rupture and leak brake fluid, according to the recall notice by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration issued earlier this week.
Advertisement
Vehicles with model years between 2013 and 2018 are affected by the recall notice, for a total of 1,280,726 of the midsize sedans. The MKZ is no longer a part of the Detroit automaker's lineup.
"A brake fluid leak will increase brake pedal travel and extend the distance needed to stop the vehicle, increasing the risk of a crash," the NHTSA said in the recall notice.
Dealers will replace the faulty parts free of charge.
Letters to affected owners are being mailed out in mid-April.
This is the latest issue for the company's vehicles.
Ford Motor Co. issued 67 recalls last year, covering more than 8.6 million vehicles for tops among U.S. automakers by a wide margin.
The 67 recalls gave the company more than 1,000 in its 120-year history.
By comparison, its closest competitor General Motors, issued less than half as many recalls affecting less than half as many vehicles, according to 2022 numbers published by the NHTSA in December.
Advertisement
Read More
Pentagon video shows downed U.S. drone's encounter with Russian jets
GM offers early buyouts as part of a cost-cutting measure
Democratic senators propose bill to support first responders to train derailments 


Topics
Ford Motor






Latest Headlines







U.S. News // 18 minutes ago
D.C. council member Trayon White Sr. arrested on $150,000 bribery charge
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- District of Columbia council member Trayon White Sr. has been charged with bribery of $150,000 in contracts kickback case, the Justice Department said Monday.










U.S. News // 52 minutes ago
On first night of Democratic convention, party faithful await appearance by Bidens
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention kicks off in Chicago, the man who previously had hoped to top the Democratic ticket instead will take the stage Monday night and make the case for Vice President Kamala Harris.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
Harvey Weinstein to stay in N.Y. prison pending retrial on sex charges
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein will remain incarcerated in New York as he awaits a new sex crimes trial set for November before being returned to California to serve out his sentence there.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
As Democratic convention gears up, Chicago police already making arrests
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago on Monday, police already have arrested several demonstrators while even more protests are planned for this week.










U.S. News // 3 hours ago
Deal reached to keep road open when Donald Trump not at Mar-a-Lago home
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- A busy road in front of Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in the town of Palm Beach, Fla., will be open when the former president is not at the residence, according to an agreement.










U.S. News // 4 hours ago
GM announces it will lay off more than 1,000 salaried employees
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- General Motors announced on Monday that it will lay off more than 1,000 salaried workers around the world in its software and global division.










U.S. News // 5 hours ago
More rain forecast as more than 100 evacuated in 'historic' Conn., N.Y, N.J flooding
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Severe and "historic" flooding across parts of the northeast U.S. left many stranded or evacuated by Sunday into Monday in Connecticut, New York and New Jersey as weather forecasts say more rain is on the way.










U.S. News // 5 hours ago
Carl Icahn to pay $2M to settle SEC charges he faild to disclose stock pledges
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Prominent activist investor Carl Icahn and his publicly traded company will pay $2 million in civil penalties to settle charges from the SEC announced Monday for violating the SEC Act of 1934.










U.S. News // 8 hours ago
House GOP accuses Joe Biden of impeachable offenses in report
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- House Republicans from three committees argued that President Joe Biden committed impeachable offenses while in office during its 291-page report released on Monday.










U.S. News // 12 hours ago
1 dead, 7 wounded in Baltimore mass shooting
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Multiple gunmen opened fire during a gathering on a East Baltimore street Sunday night, killing one person and injuring seven others, authorities said.






 March 16 (UPI) -- Ford is recalling more than 1.2 million of its vehicles over a potentially serious issue with brakes. The front brake hoses in Ford Fusions and Lincoln MKZs may rupture and leak brake fluid, according to the recall notice by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration issued earlier this week.
Advertisement Vehicles with model years between 2013 and 2018 are affected by the recall notice, for a total of 1,280,726 of the midsize sedans. The MKZ is no longer a part of the Detroit automaker's lineup. "A brake fluid leak will increase brake pedal travel and extend the distance needed to stop the vehicle, increasing the risk of a crash," the NHTSA said in the recall notice. Dealers will replace the faulty parts free of charge. Letters to affected owners are being mailed out in mid-April. This is the latest issue for the company's vehicles. Ford Motor Co. issued 67 recalls last year, covering more than 8.6 million vehicles for tops among U.S. automakers by a wide margin. The 67 recalls gave the company more than 1,000 in its 120-year history. By comparison, its closest competitor General Motors, issued less than half as many recalls affecting less than half as many vehicles, according to 2022 numbers published by the NHTSA in December.
Advertisement