Tue, Aug 20, 2024 | Safar 16, 1446 Published: Fri 18 Aug 2023, 8:06 AM Last updated: Fri 18 Aug 2023, 8:07 AM The US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said on Thursday that it was tracking a new, highly mutated lineage of the virus that causes Covid-19. The lineage is named BA.2.86, and has been detected in the US, Denmark and Israel, the CDC said in a post on messaging platform X. "As we learn more about BA.2.86, CDC's advice on protecting yourself from Covid-19 remains the same," the agency said. The World Health Organisation (WHO) earlier on Thursday said in a post on X that it had classified BA.2.86 as a "variant under monitoring" due to the large number of mutations it carries. The WHO said that, so far, only a few sequences of the variant have been reported from a handful of countries. The new lineage, which has 36 mutations from the currently dominant XXB.1.5 Covid variant, "harkens back to an earlier branch" of the virus, explained Dr S. Wesley Long, medical director of diagnostic microbiology at Houston Methodist. He said it remains to be seen whether BB.2.86 will be able to out-compete other strains of the virus or have any advantage in escaping immune responses from prior infection or vaccination. Early analysis indicates that the new variant "will have equal or greater escape than XXB.1.5 from antibodies elicited by pre-Omicron and first-generation Omicron variants," Jesse Bloom, a virologist at the Fred Hutch Cancer Center said in a slide deck published on Thursday. The Omicron subvariant XBB.1.5 is the strain targeted by vaccines in upcoming Covid booster shots. Bloom's slides note that the most likely scenario is that BA.2.86 is less transmissible than current dominant variants, so never spreads widely, but more sequencing data is needed. "My biggest concern would be that it could cause a bigger spike in cases than what we have seen in recent waves," Dr. Long said. "The boosters will still help you fight off Covid in general." ALSO READ:  Get news and views from the world of golf delivered to your inbox every Wednesday.  coronavirus Medical body advises citizens not to panic and urges them to maintain proper hygiene coronavirus coronavirus More than 1.13 million people in US have died from the disease over last three years, including 1,773 people in the week ending April 5 coronavirus coronavirus Comments by global health body 'offensive and disrespectful', says top Chinese official coronavirus coronavirus Testing to increase as hospitals advised to test all suspected virus cases coronavirus coronavirus Total active cases stand at 16,399 coronavirus coronavirus Total active cases stand at 16,122 coronavirus coronavirus Total active cases stand at 15,880 coronavirus coronavirus Total active cases stand at 15,705 coronavirus