
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/10/09/telematics-revolutionizes-cold-chain-logistics/   Real-time monitoring of perishable shipments a game-changer for inventory control. The cold chain logistics sector, which was valued at estimated $248B when the pandemic began, is poised to double its size by the end of this decade, with industry analysts are projecting the value will exceed $410B by 2028. Temperature-sensitive commodities including frozen food, farm-fresh produce, seafood and pharmaceutical products flow through this refrigerated network, which surged during the pandemic as people stuffed their freezers as they stayed home. Telematics, a blend of telecommunications and informatics that involves the transmission of data over long distances, now has become essential to the expansion of cold chain logistics as the technology is deployed to monitor and manage the transportation of perishable goods, according to a report in Food Logistics. 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Kristen Smithberg |  August 20, 2024 High-earning households are heading out of New York and California. By Erika Morphy |  August 20, 2024 They are located in Pennsylvania and Tennessee. By Erika Morphy |  August 20, 2024 The firm's total warehouse acquisitions have reached nearly six million square feet. 
Trend Report
 
Sponsored by Placer.ai
 Emerging Trends for CRE in 2024 This snapshot examines the evolution of key industries and sectors impacting CRE across the United States in 2024. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
