Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     It's title consolidation and replacement season right now in WWE. Seth Rollins won the new World Title at Night of Champions, and Asuka and Rhea Ripley both had their titles replaced this past week. Roman Reigns also had his two championships replaced with a shiny new one. That has sparked some more lineage questions from fans which have been commonplace lately.
                         Reigns was technically the Universal and WWE Champion prior to his two titles becoming one. He is now simply the Undisputed WWE Universal Champion. A title that didn't exist prior to Reigns holding both belts which has once again got fans asking about lineage. Has Reigns started an entirely new line of champions, or has WWE picked which lineage he continues to add to?
      RELATED: WWE Fans Unclear On Why Asuka Is The "Undisputed" Champion
                     According to Fightful Select (via Cultaholic), it's the latter. Even though Reigns has created a new championship by condensing his two titles into one, once he finally loses the title, only the WWE Championship's lineage will continue. That certainly makes sense. The lineage of WWE's top prize started all the way back in 1963, and even a run as historic as Reigns's won't be enough to break that particular streak.
                         While nothing will be set in stone until Reigns loses, which might still be a long way off, that presumably means the Universal Title's lineage, and perhaps even its name, will be retired. Introduced in 2016, that's technically the belt Reigns has held for more than 1,000 days. He didn't win the WWE Championship until WrestleMania last year with his reign with that particular title currently sitting at 436 days.
                         It will be interesting to see how exactly WWE plays this in terms of records. If it is going to retain the WWE Championship's lineage for the new title, then that waters down Reigns' 1000+ day run somewhat. That may well be why the Universal term has remained for the time being, ensuring the reign can continue and when the term is eventually retired, The Tribal Chief's historic run will remain in the history books without an asterisk.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Seth Rollins is the first and only holder of the new WWE World Heavyweight Championship. How do we know? See what WWE just posted.  TNA has been giving a lot to NXT but what are they getting back from WWE? While WWE as a company has been on fire in 2024, their Friday night show Smackdown has been largely mediocre. Rhea Ripley's physique has evolved over the years as her star has grown in WWE. These photos are an effective way of seeing that transformation. SmackDown takeaways on August 16 include Jacob Fatu's impressive return, a push for the Street Profits, a comedy sketch, and another rematch.  This week SmackDown featured the No. 1 contenders match for the WWE Tag Team Championships and the return of Jacob Fatu, who destroyed Roman Reigns. 