
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- AETOSWire) (business wire ) -- Lineage Foundation for Good (the“Foundation”), the independent philanthropic arm of Lineage Logistics (“Lineage”), today launched its first grant application program for qualified organizations to receive grant awards in 2023.
The program will support organizations and initiatives dedicated to addressing hunger, food waste reduction and community development, including workforce development, educational success, financial literacy and housing stabilization programs, and other efforts focused on the social determinants of health related to hunger and poverty.
“As we approach year two of the Foundation, we are extremely excited to amplify our community impact by supporting organizations that align with our mission to reduce food waste and fight food insecurity,” said Christine Rees-Zecha, Board President for Lineage Foundation for Good.“This grant program will allow us to expand our reach and diversify our partnerships to establish more relationships with organizations from all over who want to reduce food waste and fight food insecurity.”
Beginning April 4 and through May 25, all applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis with award notifications completed by June 19. The grant sizes will vary depending on the needs of the organizations applying, the types of programs and available funding. The funding guidance ranges from $2,500 to $200,000.
To apply for a grant from the Foundation, applicants must:   Submit an application via the online portal   Be a U.S.-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization in good standing with the IRS or an international non-governmental organization (NGO)  Demonstrate a strategy to accomplish its mission, successfully operate programs and evaluate and/or learn from the program's outcome  For more information and to apply for a grant, please visit the foundation's website .
The Foundation creates a safe link between quality food directed from food producers to those in need. During the Foundation's inception, a goal was set to donate the equivalent of 500 million meals to people in need by 2025. To date, it is on track to significantly exceed this goal and has reduced 10 million pounds of food waste. Additionally, the Foundation has invested over $3 million in community based-grants to local food banks, other community-based organizations and program support. The Foundation's network of partnerships continues to grow with 50 strategic partners, including the Global FoodBanking Network, Feeding America, Empowerment Plan, Move for Hunger and the Darden Foundation.
  About Lineage Foundation for Good  
The Lineage Foundation for Good (the“Foundation”) is the independent philanthropic arm of Lineage Logistics (“Lineage”). The Foundation leverages the unique access, influence, experience and expertise of Lineage, one of the world's largest temperature-controlled logistics solutions providers, and its customers and partners to reduce food waste and fight food insecurity – a need that was accelerated by the practical challenges of getting quality food to those in need during the COVID-19 pandemic. Central to the Foundation's mission is to develop a dynamic, real-time and global link between those who commercially produce our food and the individuals, families and communities who need it most. The Foundation creates a system in which food products, including those that might have otherwise gone to waste, can be quickly and easily steered to food pantries and other non-profits combatting food insecurity around the world. The Foundation supports various philanthropic initiatives that have an impact in the communities in which we live and work, and is proud to partner with Feeding America, the Global FoodBanking Network, and other organizations to expand its reach, maximize its impact and help feed the world.
  About Lineage Logistics  
Lineage Logistics is one of the leading temperature-controlled industrial REIT and logistics solutions providers worldwide. It has a global network of over 400 strategically located facilities totaling over 2 billion cubic feet of capacity, which spans 20 countries across North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Lineage has industry-leading expertise in end-to-end logistical solutions, an unrivaled real estate network and develops and deploys innovative technology. This helps increase distribution efficiency, advance sustainability, minimize supply chain waste and, most importantly, as a Visionary Partner of Feeding America, helps feed the world. In recognition of the company's leading innovations and sustainability initiatives, Lineage was listed as No. 3 in the 2022 CNBC Disruptor 50 list, named a Deloitte US Best Managed Company in 2022, the No. 1 Data Science company, and 23rd overall, on Fast Company's 2019 list of The World's Most Innovative Companies, in addition to being included on Fortune's Change the World list in 2020. ( )
 
View source version on businesswire.com:    Permalink  MENAFN05042023004146001356ID1105951320  The program will support organizations and initiatives dedicated to addressing hunger, food waste reduction and community development, including workforce development, educational success, financial literacy and housing stabilization programs, and other efforts focused on the social determinants of health related to hunger and poverty. “As we approach year two of the Foundation, we are extremely excited to amplify our community impact by supporting organizations that align with our mission to reduce food waste and fight food insecurity,” said Christine Rees-Zecha, Board President for Lineage Foundation for Good.“This grant program will allow us to expand our reach and diversify our partnerships to establish more relationships with organizations from all over who want to reduce food waste and fight food insecurity.” Beginning April 4 and through May 25, all applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis with award notifications completed by June 19. The grant sizes will vary depending on the needs of the organizations applying, the types of programs and available funding. The funding guidance ranges from $2,500 to $200,000. To apply for a grant from the Foundation, applicants must: Submit an application via the online portal  Be a U.S.-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization in good standing with the IRS or an international non-governmental organization (NGO) Demonstrate a strategy to accomplish its mission, successfully operate programs and evaluate and/or learn from the program's outcome For more information and to apply for a grant, please visit the foundation's website . The Foundation creates a safe link between quality food directed from food producers to those in need. During the Foundation's inception, a goal was set to donate the equivalent of 500 million meals to people in need by 2025. To date, it is on track to significantly exceed this goal and has reduced 10 million pounds of food waste. Additionally, the Foundation has invested over $3 million in community based-grants to local food banks, other community-based organizations and program support. The Foundation's network of partnerships continues to grow with 50 strategic partners, including the Global FoodBanking Network, Feeding America, Empowerment Plan, Move for Hunger and the Darden Foundation.   About Lineage Foundation for Good   The Lineage Foundation for Good (the“Foundation”) is the independent philanthropic arm of Lineage Logistics (“Lineage”). The Foundation leverages the unique access, influence, experience and expertise of Lineage, one of the world's largest temperature-controlled logistics solutions providers, and its customers and partners to reduce food waste and fight food insecurity – a need that was accelerated by the practical challenges of getting quality food to those in need during the COVID-19 pandemic. Central to the Foundation's mission is to develop a dynamic, real-time and global link between those who commercially produce our food and the individuals, families and communities who need it most. The Foundation creates a system in which food products, including those that might have otherwise gone to waste, can be quickly and easily steered to food pantries and other non-profits combatting food insecurity around the world. The Foundation supports various philanthropic initiatives that have an impact in the communities in which we live and work, and is proud to partner with Feeding America, the Global FoodBanking Network, and other organizations to expand its reach, maximize its impact and help feed the world.   About Lineage Logistics   Lineage Logistics is one of the leading temperature-controlled industrial REIT and logistics solutions providers worldwide. It has a global network of over 400 strategically located facilities totaling over 2 billion cubic feet of capacity, which spans 20 countries across North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Lineage has industry-leading expertise in end-to-end logistical solutions, an unrivaled real estate network and develops and deploys innovative technology. This helps increase distribution efficiency, advance sustainability, minimize supply chain waste and, most importantly, as a Visionary Partner of Feeding America, helps feed the world. In recognition of the company's leading innovations and sustainability initiatives, Lineage was listed as No. 3 in the 2022 CNBC Disruptor 50 list, named a Deloitte US Best Managed Company in 2022, the No. 1 Data Science company, and 23rd overall, on Fast Company's 2019 list of The World's Most Innovative Companies, in addition to being included on Fortune's Change the World list in 2020. ( )   View source version on businesswire.com:   MENAFN05042023004146001356ID1105951320 MENAFN05042023004146001356ID1105951320 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN