Wilmington, Delaware, United States, July  07, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Transparency Market Research Inc. - The global cold chain logistics market is forecast to expand at a 3.9% CAGR from 2023 to 2031, anticipated to reach a valuation of US$ 304.2 billion. The growth of cold chain logistics industry is primarily driven by changing consumer preferences and an increase in demand for fresh and frozen food products. Consumers expect high-quality products with longer shelf life, which necessitates efficient cold chain management. Moreover, rising demand for perishable products such as fresh fruits, vegetables, dairy products, pharmaceuticals, and processed food is anticipated to further augment the cold chain logistics market statistics. Governments and regulatory bodies across the globe have implemented strict food safety and quality regulations. Compliance with these regulations necessitates effective cold chain management to maintain the integrity of temperature-sensitive products. The globalization of the food industry has resulted in an increased trade of perishable products across countries and continents. A well-established cold chain infrastructure is crucial to ensure safe and timely delivery to distant markets. In addition, the pharmaceutical industry heavily relies on cold chain logistics to transport temperature-sensitive drugs and vaccines. The development and distribution of new vaccines, including COVID-19 vaccines, have significantly propelled the demand for cold chain transport. To Remain Ahead of Your Competitors, Request for a Sample: https://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/sample/sample.php?flag=S&rep_id=85688 "Connect with our team of research specialists and unlock the optimal solution for driving your business growth" Market Snapshot: Key Takeaways from the Market Study Cold Chain Logistics Market: Key Growth Drivers Buy this Premium Research Report | Immediate Delivery Available - https://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/checkout.php?rep_id=85688&ltype=S Cold Chain Logistics Market: Regional Profile Competitive Landscape The global cold chain logistics business is highly competitive, with several players operating in the market. Moreover, key players are following the latest cold chain logistics market trends and adopting various strategies to gain a competitive edge and capture a larger share of the market. Some of the prominent entities identified in the cold chain logistics industry are: Key Market Developments Get Customization on this Report for Specific Research Solutions: https://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/sample/sample.php?flag=CR&rep_id=85688 Key Segments Profiled Service Mode of Delivery Temperature Category Storage Technique End Use Application Region About Transparency Market Research Transparency Market Research, a global market research company registered at Wilmington, Delaware, United States, provides custom research and consulting services. Our exclusive blend of quantitative forecasting and trends analysis provides forward-looking insights for thousands of decision makers. Our experienced team of Analysts, Researchers, and Consultants use proprietary data sources and various tools & techniques to gather and analyses information. Our data repository is continuously updated and revised by a team of research experts, so that it always reflects the latest trends and information. With a broad research and analysis capability, Transparency Market Research employs rigorous primary and secondary research techniques in developing distinctive data sets and research material for business reports. Contact: Nikhil SawlaniTransparency Market Research Inc.CORPORATE HEADQUARTER DOWNTOWN,1000 N. West Street,Suite 1200, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 USATel: +1-518-618-1030USA – Canada Toll Free: 866-552-3453Website: https://www.transparencymarketresearch.comBlog: https://tmrblog.comEmail: sales@transparencymarketresearch.com    © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.