United States' Jesus Ferreira (9) is congratulated by teammate Alejandro Zendejas (17) after scoring during the first half of a CONCACAF Gold Cup soccer match against St. Kitts & Nevis Wednesday, June 28, 2023, in St. Louis. (AP Photo/Jeff Roberson) The United States Men’s National Team faces Trinidad and Tobago for the final match of the 2023 CONCACAF Gold Cup Group Stage at Bank of America Stadium in Charlotte, North Carolina on Sunday, July 2 (7/2/2023) at 7 p.m. ET. USA vs. Trinidad and Tobago will air on FOX, and in Spanish on Univision and TUDN. It can be streamed live on fuboTV (free trial) and other live TV services. Stream the 2023 CONCACAF Gold Cup on fuboTV (free trial). The USA bounced back from its opening draw with Jamaica by pummeling St. Kitts and Nevis 6-0 in its second game of the tournament. Jesus Ferreira’s hat trick, plus goals from Djordje Mihailovic and Bryan Reynolds, gave the USA a huge goal differential in the tournament, which could be important if they can’t do better than a draw against Trinidad and Tobago. The Caribbean dual-island nation is the one team that could upset the United States in the tournament, but nothing less than a win will do it. Trinidad and Tobago are 1-0-1 with three points while the USA and Jamaica are each 1-1-0 with four points. If the Soca Warriors manage to beat the USA, the Americans’ fortunes in the tournament would depend on the results of Jamaica vs. St. Kitts and Nevis. Here’s how to tune in. What: CONCACAF Gold Cup Group Stage Who: USA vs. Trinidad and Tobago When: Sunday, July 2 Where: Bank of America Stadium, Charlotte, North Carolina Time: 7 p.m. ET TV: FOX, TUDN, Univision Channel finder: Verizon Fios, Xfinity, Spectrum, Optimum/Altice, Cox, DirecTV Live stream: fuboTV (free trial), DirecTV Stream (free trial), Hulu + Live TV Cord cutters can sign up for fuboTV (free trial) or DirecTV Stream (free trial) to enjoy broadcasts of FOX. Cable subscribers can login on FOX.com with their cable credentials to enjoy a free live stream of the channel. Fanatics.com has a full collection international soccer kits for fans who want to get their hands on officially licensed gear. Can I bet on the game? Yes, you can bet on the Gold Cup from your phone in New York State, and we’ve compiled some of the best introductory offers to help navigate your first bets from BetMGM, FanDuel, DraftKings, PointsBet, Caesars and BetRivers. ** ** ** Story by The Associated Press ST. LOUIS (AP) — Jesús Ferreira scored his second international hat trick, Djordje Mihailovic had two goals and the 13th-ranked United States overwhelmed No. 139 St. Kitts and Nevis 6-0 on Wednesday night in the CONCACAF Gold Cup. Mihailovic, Bryan Reynolds and Ferreira scored in a 3:50 span to build a 3-0 lead by the 16th minute. The U.S. outshot St. Kitts 34-2. “We know that we had to come out here and gain points, gain goals, and I think the team went out there and took care of business,” Ferreira said. Ferreira has 11 goals in 20 appearances and became the fastest American to double-digit goals, accomplishing the feat in three games fewer than Clint Mathis. Seven of Ferreira’s goals have been against St. Kitts and then-No. 170 Grenada. Ferreira became the fifth American with multiple hat tricks behind Landon Donovan with three, and Peter Millar, Jozy Altidore and Clint Dempsey with two each. Ferreira was the only American starter who played at last year’s World Cup, appearing in the first half of the second-round loss to the Netherlands. Mihailovic also had two assists for the defending champion Americans, who matched their largest Gold Cup victory margin, also 6-0 against Cuba in 2015 and Trinidad in 2019. The U.S., which needed a late goal for a 1-1 opening draw against Jamaica, leads Group A with four points. Trinidad and Tobago has three, Jamaica one and St. Kitts none. The top two teams advance and the U.S. needs merely a draw against Trinidad on Sunday at Charlotte, North Carolina. “Tonight was one more step forward for us,” U.S. interim coach B.J. Callaghan said. St. Kitts, which became the U.S.’s 100th international opponent. dropped to 0-2 as the U.S. improved to 39 wins, one loss and five draws in the Gold Cup group stage. Making his first start since June 2019, Mihailovic put the U.S. ahead in the 12th minute before a crowd of 21,216 with a left foot shot from the side of the penalty spot after a cut-back pass from Gianluca Busio. Reynolds, playing on his 22nd birthday, beat Julani Archibald with a 20-yard volley in the 14th after Alejandro Zendejas’ corner kick bounced twice across the penalty area. He became the first American to score an international goal on his birthday since Earnie Stewart against Honduras in 2001. Ferreira dribbled into the penalty area following a Busio pass, scoring on a 12-yard angled shot in the 16th to give the U.S. three competitive goals in the shortest span in team history. Ferreira then got past an offside trap to score between the goalkeeper’s legs from a Mihailovic feed in the 25th. Ferreira added his third from short range in the 50th and Mihailovic added his third international goal in the 79th. Callaghan inserted seven new starters from last weekend’s opener, adding goalkeeper Sean Johnson, Reynolds at right back, central defender Jalen Neal and left back DeJuan Jones along with Busio and Mihailovic in midfield and forward Cale Cowell. The holdovers were defender Matt Miazga and midfielder James Sands along with Ferreira and Alex Zendejas up front. Johnson captained the U.S. for the first time. In the first game, No. 63 Jamaica beat 104th-ranked Trinidad and Tobago 4-1. Demarai Gray, playing on his 26th birthday, scored in the 14th and 30th minutes for his first two international goals. Leon Bailey scored in the 18th and Dujuan Richards got a goal in the second minute of second-half stoppage time. Andre Rampersad scored for the Soca Warriors in the 49th. ** ** ** What is fuboTV? FuboTV is a live TV streaming service focused on live sports, including U.S. and international soccer, the NFL, MLB, NBA, NHL and more. It also includes its own fubo Sports Networks with exclusive programming. It offers 150 channels starting at $74.99, including 1,000 hours of DVR, and streams on most devices. Right now you can try fuboTV free for 7 days. MORE SPORTS MERCH, TICKETS AND STREAMING Where to buy Connor Bedard Chicago Blackhawks jersey online: How to find NHL Draft gear Amen Thompson jersey: Where to buy 2023 NBA Draft gear online for Houston Rockets No. 1 pick Scoot Henderson jersey: Where to buy 2023 NBA Draft gear online for Portland Trail Blazers No. 1 pick Brandon Miller jersey: Where to buy 2023 NBA Draft gear online for Charlotte Hornets No. 1 pick Victor Wembanyama jersey: Where to buy 2023 NBA Draft gear online for San Antonio Spurs No. 1 overall pick If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices