Newark, New Castle, USA, June  14, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The market analysis of the global COVID-19 diagnostic testing market was conducted by Growth Plus Reports in 2022 and is valued at US$ 81.7 billion. The market is expected to hit a revenue CAGR of 2.5% to reach US$ 102.1 billion by 2031. Analysis of the global market for COVID-19 diagnostic testing indicates that during the forecast period, revenue share is likely to increase significantly. To find out if a person is currently infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which produces COVID-19, COVID-19 diagnostic testing is performed.  Key Takeaways:  Request a Free Sample of the Research Report:  https://www.growthplusreports.com/inquiry/request-sample/covid19-diagnostic-testing-market/8927                              COVID-19 Diagnostic Testing Market Scope  Competitive Landscape A list of the companies operating in the global market for COVID-19 diagnostic testing includes:  Market Drivers and Restraints:  The global COVID-19 diagnostic testing market revenue is driven by the rising prevalence of Covid-19, advancements in diagnostic technology, awareness among the population for early detection of disease, and rising government initiatives in precision diagnostics. Furthermore, the increasing R&D activities in the development of a point-of-care detection technique are contributing to the market revenue growth.  However, due to the cost margin pressure on the manufacturer and the limitations such as false positive results, the COVID-19 diagnostic testing market revenue growth is expected to be restrained.  Market Segmentation:  Segmentation By Product & Services Based on the products & services, the reagents and kits segment dominates the global COVID-19 diagnostic testing market with a significant revenue share. This sizable revenue share is attributed to their vast utilization in Covid-19 testing and is required to perform PCR and antigen tests.  Segmentation By Sample Test Based on the sample test, the nasopharyngeal swabs segment dominates the global COVID-19 diagnostic testing market with the largest revenue share. The significant revenue share is attributed to their critical component of COVID-19 diagnostic testing as well as nasopharyngeal swabs are considered a gold standard in COVID-19 disease detection.  Segmentation By Test Type  Based on test type, the molecular (PCR) testing segment accounts for the highest revenue share in the global COVID-19 diagnostic testing market due to its accuracy, cost-effectiveness, lesser chances of a false-positive result, high specificity, and sensitivity. Furthermore, the government's reliability on the molecular diagnostic test (PCR) results for an accurate count of COVID-19 patients is resulting in the segment's revenue growth of Covid-19 diagnostic testing and is expected to drive the segment revenue share significantly during the forecast period as well.  Request for Customization – https://www.growthplusreports.com/inquiry/customization/covid-19-diagnostic-testing-market/8927 Segmentation By Mode Based on mode, the lab-based segment accounts for the largest market revenue share in the global COVID-19 diagnostic testing market due to its specificity, affordability, and accuracy.  Segmentation By End-User Based on end-users, the diagnostic center's segment is dominating the global COVID-19 diagnostic testing market with a sizable revenue share. To assist in the diagnosis and management of medical diseases, diagnostic facilities specialize in administering a variety of medical tests, including COVID-19 testing, attributing to the segment's revenue share.  Regional Growth Dynamics Based on the region, North America, with the largest revenue share, dominates the global COVID-19 diagnostic testing market. This large share of revenue is attributed to the large population, rising awareness of testing, the prevalence of Covid-19, and well-established healthcare infrastructure. Report Coverage  Growth Plus Reports carried out extensive market research on the COVID-19 diagnostic testing market globally. We examined the fundamental market characteristics, significant investment opportunities, regional growth patterns, ten-year revenue estimates, competing market players, and mergers and acquisitions. Table of Content COVID-19 DIAGNOSTIC TESTING MARKET TOC  Buy this Premium Research Report: https://www.growthplusreports.com/checkout-8927 VALUE PROPOSITIONS RELATED TO THE REPORT: CUSTOMIZATION OPTIONS: Schedule a call with our analyst: https://appoint.ly/s/salesZ3Jvd3RocGx1c3JlcG9ydHMuY29t/introduction Visit our report store at - https://www.growthplusreports.com/report-store Browse more latest healthcare reports: Anticholesteremic Agents Market by Drug Class (Bile Acid Resins, Statins), Distribution Channel (Hospital Pharmacies, Retail Pharmacies) – Global Outlook & Forecast 2023-2031 Glucose Elevating Agents Market by Products (Glucagon, Diazoxide), Indication (Hypoglycemia, Insulinoma), Route of Administration (Oral, Parenteral), Distribution Channel (Hospital Pharmacies, Retail Pharmacies), – Global Outlook & Forecast 2023-2031 Expat Health Insurance Market by Service Provider (Private, Public), Indication (Emergency Medical Evacuation, Maternity Coverage, Outpatient Coverage), Term Plan (Short-Term, Long-Term) – Global Outlook & Forecast 2023-2031 Veterinary Euthanasia Drugs Market by Animal Type (Companion Animals and Farm Animals), Route of Administration (Injectable Euthanasia Drugs, Inhalational Euthanasia Drugs) – Global Outlook & Forecast 2023-2031 MISME Syndrome Market by Treatment (Surgery, Radiotherapy, Pharmacotherapy) – Global Outlook & Forecast 2023-2031 About Us: Growth Plus Reports is part of GRG Health, a global healthcare knowledge service company. We are proud members of EPhMRA (European Pharmaceutical Marketing Research Association). Growth Plus portfolio of services draws on our core capabilities of secondary & primary research, market modelling & forecasting, benchmarking, analysis and strategy formulation to help clients create scalable, ground-breaking solutions that prepare them for future growth and success. We were awarded by the prestigious CEO Magazine as "Most Innovative Healthcare Market Research Company in 2020.  © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.