The global gamma probe devices market is worth US$ 86.9 Million as of now and is expected to reach ~US$ 244.3 Million by the year 2033 at a CAGR of 9.8% between 2023 and 2033. Gamma probe devices do facilitate identification of radio-labeled tissue at the time of intra-operation as well as pre-operation for radio guided surgery as well as diagnosis. It’s a known fact that surgeons find location of tissues tough; especially parathyroid glands, tumors, and lymph nodes within human body. Gamma probe helps over here. It helps in making a smaller incision, thereby precisely locating the tissues in question. Sentinel node biopsy is used for determining if the tumor has metastasized or spread to newer places. Such biopsies happen to be common for staging melanoma and breast cancer; and are also turning out to be popular with regards to staging the other forms of cancer. The radionuclide or carrier substance like Nano colloid or technetium-99m or sestamibi are used in the form of tracer for the gamma probe device. Get Full PDF Sample Copy of Latest Reports @ https://www.futuremarketinsights.com/reports/sample/rep-gb-10037 The IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) states that parathyroid detection is growing at an alarming rate with upcoming intraoperative usage of gamma probes for direct detection of tumor. The World Cancer Research Fund International confirms that breast cancer is amongst the most common cancer at the global level in the females and second-seeded of all, with over 2000K novel cases getting diagnosed every single year. These figures are expected to take the gamma probe devices market by storm in the upcoming period. The ongoing trend is that of launching click-on gamma probe; which is seen as a healthy step toward 100% integration of radio guidance on the count of surgery. The DROP-IN (tethered) gamma-probe concept facilitates detector to match levels of freedom of robotic instruments as well as enables autonomous control by operating surgeon. At the same time, higher installation and maintenance costs linked with gamma probe devices are bound to hamper the gamma probe devices market in the forecast period. Future Market Insights has entailed these facts with future perspectives in its latest market study entitled ‘Gamma Probe Devices Market’. It has its team of analysts and consultants to look through, with 360-degree view across macros and micros. “With trolley mounted devices witnessing a rising demand, the global gamma probe devices market is likely to grow inadvertently in the near future”, says an analyst from Future Market Insights. Key Takeaways from Gamma Probe Devices Market Ask Analyst for Report Customization and Explore TOC & List of Figures @ https://www.futuremarketinsights.com/ask-question/rep-gb-10037 Competitive Devices What does the Report probe? Last few days to get reports at discounted prices, offer expires soon! Request Discount@ https://www.futuremarketinsights.com/request-discount/rep-gb-10037 Key Market Segments Covered in Gamma Probe Devices Industry Research Modality: Application: End User: Have a Look at Related Research Reports in the Healthcare Domain: Protein Diagnostics Market Outlook: According to Future Market Insights (FMI) analysis in a recent market survey, the global protein diagnostics market was valued at US$ 4.7 Billion in 2022 and is expected to reach US$ 8.3 Billion by 2033. Venous Stents Market Demand: The global venous stents market held a valuation of US$ 921.4 Million in 2022, and it is anticipated to expand at a CAGR of 8.4% over the forecasted years. Spasticity Treatment Market Sales: According to Future Market Insights (FMI) analysis in a recent market survey, the global spasticity treatment market was valued at US$ 12.2 Billion in 2022 and is set to reach US$ 28.4 Billion by 2033. About FMI: Future Market Insights, Inc. (ESOMAR certified, Stevie Award – recipient market research organization and a member of Greater New York Chamber of Commerce) provides in-depth insights into governing factors elevating the demand in the market. It discloses opportunities that will favor the market growth in various segments on the basis of Source, Application, Sales Channel and End Use over the next 10-years. Contact Us: Future Market Insights Inc.
Christiana Corporate, 200 Continental Drive,
Suite 401, Newark, Delaware – 19713, USA
T: +1-845-579-5705
For Sales Enquiries: sales@futuremarketinsights.com
Website: https://www.futuremarketinsights.com
LinkedIn| Twitter| Blogs 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.