Digital & Trend reports Overview and forecasts on trending topics Industry & Market reports Industry and market insights and forecasts Companies & Products reports Key figures and rankings about companies and products Consumer & Brand reports Consumer and brand insights and preferences in various industries Politics & Society reports Detailed information about political and social topics Country & Region reports All key figures about countries and regions 
                    Market forecast and expert KPIs for 1000+ markets in 190+ countries & territories
                 
                            Insights on consumer attitudes and behavior worldwide
                         
                    Business information on 100m+ public and private companies
                 Explore Company Insights
                         
                        Detailed information for 39,000+ online stores and marketplaces
                     
                    Directly accessible data for 170 industries from 150+ countries
                    and over 1 Mio. facts.
                 Statista+ offers additional, data-driven services, tailored to your specific needs. As your partner for data-driven success, we combine expertise in research, strategy, and marketing communications to deliver comprehensive solutions. Contact us directly for your individual offer. Full-service market research and analytics Strategy and business building for the data-driven economy Transforming data into content marketing and design Statista R identifies and awards industry leaders, top providers, and exceptional brands through exclusive rankings and top lists in collaboration with renowned media brands worldwide. For more details, visit our website. Industry-specific and extensively researched technical data (partially from exclusive partnerships). A paid subscription is required for full access. Blockchain technology is forecast to increase to nearly 1,000 trillion U.S. dollars by 2032, but this was lower than in a previous forecast. This is according to a market research forecast, focusing on blockchain with cloud applications for specific business segments. The numbers do not include decentralized applications such as blockchain gaming. Originally, a forecast from June 2022 predicted "blockchain technology" would reach 1,235 billion U.S. dollars by 2030, at a CAGR of 82.8 percent. A newer forecast from December 2023 predicts a value of 943 billion U.S. dollars in 2032 with a CAGR of 56.1 percent. The source does not explain this difference.  To access all Premium Statistics, you need a paid Statista Account 
                                    Additional Information
                                 
                                Show sources information
                            
                                Show publisher information
                            
                                Use Ask Statista Research Service
                             December 2023 Worldwide June 2022 and December 2023 The figures have been gathered by Statista from different publications; See the "Details" tab for more information about the "blockchain technology" definition The source does not explain its definition of "blockchain technology". Instead, it mentions it focuses on cloud applications and investigates blockchain within end-use markets such as government, healthcare, financial services, media, retail, logistics, and travel. This likely means that blockchain gaming or other decentralized services such as Decentralized Finance (DeFi) are not included in the figures shown. The source does not explain its definition of "blockchain technology". Instead, it mentions it focuses on cloud applications and investigates blockchain within end-use markets such as government, healthcare, financial services, media, retail, logistics, and travel. This likely means that blockchain gaming or other decentralized services such as Decentralized Finance (DeFi) are not included in the figures shown. Financial Instruments & Investments Bitcoin (BTC) blockchain size as of June 2, 2024 Financial Instruments & Investments Countries with the highest Bitcoin (BTC) mining hashrate 2019-2022 Financial Instruments & Investments Bitcoin (BTC) daily network transaction history worldwide as of June 2, 2024 Financial Instruments & Investments Ethereum (ETH) mining difficulty up until November 28, 2022 To download this statistic in XLS format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PNG format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PDF format you need a Statista Account To download this statistic in PPT format you need a Statista Account As a Premium user you get access to the detailed source references and background information about this statistic. As a Premium user you get access to background information and details about the release of this statistic. As soon as this statistic is updated, you will immediately be notified via e-mail. … to incorporate the statistic into your presentation at any time. You need at least a Starter Account to use this feature. * For commercial use only 
                            Basic Account
                         
                            Starter Account
                         
                    The statistic on this page is a Premium Statistic and is included in this account. 
                            Professional Account
                         1
                        All prices do not include sales tax. The account requires an annual contract and will renew after one year to the regular list price.
                     
                Market size
             
                Applications
             
                Patents
             
                Funding
             
                Bitcoin
             
                Ethereum
             Further related statistics * For commercial use only 
                            Basic Account
                         
                            Starter Account
                         
                    The statistic on this page is a Premium Statistic and is included in this account. 
                            Professional Account
                         1
                        All prices do not include sales tax. The account requires an annual contract and will renew after one year to the regular list price.
                    