Alexei Dulub is the founder and CEO of PixelPlex, an R&D company powering meaningful digital transformation across industries.   Blockchain and data analytics are two of the technologies that currently dominate the market. The global blockchain market is expected to grow from $7.18B in 2022 to $163.83B by 2029, at a CAGR of 56.3%. Meanwhile, the global data analytics market size is projected to reach $329.8B by 2030 growing at a CAGR of 29.9% from 2022 to 2030. Both blockchain and data analytics place data at their core. Seeing both technologies in action, I can say that they are capable of significantly enhancing each other. Moreover, their duo can bring multiple benefits to any type of business that has to deal with data. And here are some of the most important ones: • The data stored in blockchain is tamper-proof and cannot be manipulated meaning that it provides companies with more accurate predictions. • Blockchain ensures the authenticity and integrity of data which is cross-checked at each block with multiple signatures on the decentralized ledger records. An exact match should be found for the signature at every step, otherwise, the access will be denied. This provides a basis for more reliable data analytics. • Blockchain-based data is highly structured, meaning that it can be analyzed more deeply. • Blockchain enables real-time data analysis, helping quickly spot irregular behavior and fraud. Like in spreadsheets, blockchain allows multiple users to work with the same information simultaneously. Besides, in contrast to centralized data storage services, blockchain allows businesses to eliminate intermediaries and reduce the need for manual verification processes; thus, helping companies save money while improving business operations. Overall, the combination of blockchain and data analytics ensures better data integrity and more accurate predictions. Since blockchain, data analytics and machine learning lie at the core of my organization, we regularly bridge these technologies to achieve even better results on our projects. Here I’d like to share a few real-world scenarios where blockchain and data analytics combination proved to be most effective. With blockchain, fraudsters cannot manipulate data since any node that starts to act abnormally can be easily identified. Data analytics, in turn, allows businesses to detect fraudulent actions by analyzing large amounts of data. By integrating the two technologies, we receive a secure and transparent system that can quickly spot suspicious transactions and mark them with red flags. For example, recently we were working on the implementation of a blockchain-based solution for analyzing NFT collectibles and detecting fraud. By equipping it with data analytics and data intelligence services, we enabled the platform to be able to quickly analyze tens of millions of tokens and spot fraudulent transactions. However, there are many more real-life scenarios of fraud detection with blockchain analytics. These include: • securing financial transactions and quickly spotting anomalies and fraudulent transactions • analyzing cryptocurrency payments, identifying dark markets and other illicit activities on the blockchain • detecting and preventing money laundering cases • ensuring the accuracy and security of credit data while improving credit risk management processes •¨monitoring network activity, identifying threats and responding to cyber attacks in real time • ensuring transparency of investment data while detecting and preventing insider trading and market manipulation Blockchain allows companies to securely store and trace their data. By integrating blockchain with data analytics, organizations can not only gain real-time visibility into their business processes but also make informed decisions. For example, healthcare providers can apply blockchain to securely store patient data while data analytics can provide them with actionable insights into patient care. By integrating blockchain analytics, transportation and logistics companies can easily track and trace goods through the supply chain, optimize routes and delivery times, as well as make better decisions on inventory management. Financial organizations can benefit from blockchain analytics through real-time visibility into transaction data and the possibility to easily monitor risk exposure. According to IoT Analytics, by 2025, there may be 27B connected IoT devices. Each such device produces vast amounts of data and even though IoT devices function independently, they all require a management server to send and receive data. Current centralized servers have a limited storage capacity, meaning that they significantly hinder the IoT scalability potential. Due to its decentralized nature, blockchain has all the necessary capabilities to resolve scalability issues. By integrating blockchain analytics with IoT, businesses can handle vast amounts of data and make informed decisions, being able to improve their overall performance. As more and more businesses adopt blockchain technology, the integration of blockchain with data analytics will become more widespread in the coming years. Looking to combine key technologies for new, powerful dynamics will be the future of the tech industry. Besides, due to the benefits this combination offers, such as reduced fraud, increased transparency, better decision-making and real-time data analysis, blockchain analytics will likely find practical application in many other real-life scenarios. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 