Josep Borrell, High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, posted a video greeting on the occasion of the Independence Day of Ukraine. Source: Borrell on X (Twitter) Quote: "I congratulate the Ukrainian people on the Independence Day of Ukraine," Borrell said. I congratulate the Ukrainian people on the Independence Day of Ukraine. You fight for your freedom and bravely defend the values we share.Europe stands firmly with you. Our future is together.#StandWithUkraine #SlavaUkraïni pic.twitter.com/6n6hvuOASA — Josep Borrell Fontelles (@JosepBorrellF) August 24, 2023 Borrell said that today marks 32 years since Ukraine regained its independence, but now it has been more than nine years since Russia violated Ukraine's sovereignty and 18 months since it started its war of aggression against Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. "Every day Ukrainians are fighting with courage for their freedom and independency, for democracy, and for the values we all stand for," Borrell said. "At the same time, Ukraine is transforming itself with key reforms and is advancing on its path to become a member of the European Union. This is the future of Ukraine and we, at the European Union, stand with Ukraine. European Union stands with Ukraine, and we will stand as long as it takes. Slava Ukraini [Glory to Ukraine]," stressed the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Background:  The buildings of the European Commission, the European Council, and the European Parliament in Brussels were lit up in blue and yellow colours on the occasion of Ukraine's Independence Day. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken made a statement, congratulating Ukraine on Independence Day. Ukrainska Pravda is the place where you will find the most up-to-date information about everything related to the war in Ukraine. Follow us on Twitter, support us, or become our patron! New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.