Russia is struggling to meet its military recruitment targets, despite offering "increasingly lucrative" salaries to servicemen during the course of the Ukraine war, the UK's Ministry of Defence has said. On 4 February 2022, the day the Kremlin's forces launched their full-scale invasion, Vladimir Putin noted that a lieutenant would receive 81,200 rubles, which would be worth around £675 today. As the war dragged on, Putin said even mobilised private soldiers would receive 195,000 rubles per month, now worth £1,620. Money offered to troops has kept on climbing, with the MoD claiming that "many junior ranks serving in Ukraine are now on over 200,000 rubles (about £1,660 per month). To put this in relative terms, this is over 2.7 times Russia's national average salary of 72,851 rubles. The MoD adds: "By way of comparison, 2.7 times the average UK salary would equate to over £90,000 a year." Read more: Vladimir Putin agrees first foreign trip since arrest warrant issued - report Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine – 29 August 2023Find out more about Defence Intelligence's use of language: https://t.co/nSWXfviLbk🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/I7HUGt2OsV — Ministry of Defence 🇬🇧 (@DefenceHQ) August 29, 2023 The ministry concludes: "It is highly likely that the salary and additional benefits are a strong incentive for personnel to join up, especially to those from the poorer areas of Russia. However, Russia is still unlikely to meet its targets for recruiting volunteers to the ranks." Having lost tens of thousands of men in the war, the Kremlin has been trying to boost its military's numbers, with Russia voting in July to raise the maximum age at which men can be conscripted to 30 years from 27. This increased the number of young men liable for a year of compulsory military service at any one time. Last year, Russia announced a plan to boost its professional and conscripted combat personnel by more than 30% to 1.5 million, an ambitious task made harder by its heavy but undisclosed casualties in Ukraine. Read more: Russian mercenaries bury Prigozhin's logistics chief Conscripts cannot legally be deployed to fight outside Russia and were in theory exempted from a limited mobilisation last autumn that gathered at least 300,000 men with previous military training to fight in Ukraine - although some conscripts were sent to the front in error. However, Russia unilaterally claimed four Ukrainian regions as its own last September - in a move not recognised internationally - fuelling fears that raw conscripts could now legally be sent into battle. Read more: 'Collapse in morale' could trigger another mutiny in Russia, ex-MI6 chief predicts The illegal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine is continuing.The map below is the latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine – 29 August 2023Find out more about Defence Intelligence's use of language: https://t.co/D9kZT12Ypx#StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/8sIUi9hZUi — Ministry of Defence 🇬🇧 (@DefenceHQ) August 29, 2023 In an attempt to tighten its grip over would-be fighters, Putin signed a law in April allowing for electronic draft notices to be sent to conscripts, closing a loophole that allowed people to avoid military service.  Russia has also been running a propaganda campaign, emotionally manipulating men into signing up, with wives of soldiers and other women frequently appealing to their masculinity on TV news interviews, according to the New York Times. Moscow's heavy losses in Ukraine and an uncertain chance of victory could help explain its struggle to recruit enough soldiers, but it could also have something to do with reports of increasing delays to soldiers' payments. Residents of 52 Russian regions, as well as the annexed Crimean peninsula, complained that their relatives fighting in Ukraine had either been receiving delayed or partial payments, according to the Moscow Times, citing a report by independent outlet Verstka Watch: Kremlin says Vladimir Putin not planning to attend Wagner chief Yevgeny Prigozhin's funeral Some said they hadn't been paid at all, with both professional soldiers and conscripts reportedly affected by the mismanagement. Valentina Melnikova, who heads the Committee of Soldiers' Mothers of Russia, blamed Russia's military bureaucracy and its struggle to keep track of the number of additional soldiers dragged into the war. She told Verstka: "We've never had so many people involved in conflicts before... There is no experience of working with such personnel." Writing on Russian social media, one frustrated family member said: "My brother hasn't been paid for two months. Will we start fighting for free, or what?" New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.