
Follow us on
 loading.... loading.... loading.... loading.... loading.... loading.... loading....  19th Mar, 2023. 02:53 pm Share Listen Font size Dark Mode Save Print Taylor Swift sets new record as ‘Speak Now’ debuted at No. 1 Taytay is already shattering records on the first day of the Eras Tour.  Taylor Swift began her Eras Tour at Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona, and the tour has been a big success for the artist. Taytay is already shattering records on the first day of the programme. Back to December vocalist officially becomes the female artist with the most attended concert in the United States of America. The first concert of the Eras Tour was attended by almost 69,000 people in Arizona. Swift’s Eras Tour is a 52-city tour that will take the artist across North America. Madonna previously held the distinction of female artist with the most attended concert in the United States when she played at Anaheim Stadium in Los Angeles with an attendance of around 63,500 people in 1987. Taylor Swift now breaks this record with a crowd of nearly 69,000 in Arizona at the first concert of her Eras Tour.       A post shared by Taylor Swift (@taylorswift)  The event has received rave reviews, with many people describing Taylor Swift as one of the industry’s most “hardworking” musicians. The tour appears to have begun with tremendous enthusiasm, but some people are suing the ticketing site. Taytay’s followers are suing Ticketmaster’s parent business, Live Nation Entertainment. The supporters were dissatisfied with the presale of the tickets, which caused turmoil as they had to wait for hours due to the rise in ticket cost and communications issues. According to reports, the court filing accuses Ticketmaster of breach of contract through willful deception, as well as various antitrust offences, including fraud. The fans are requesting a $2500 fine from Ticketmaster for each infringement. Taylor Swift defended bff Selena Gomez after the release of her song....  Catch all the
Entertainment News, Hollywood News, Breaking News Event and Latest News Updates on The BOL News Download The BOL News App to get the Daily News Update & Follow us on Google News. Copyright ©  - BOL Group Ltd. All rights reserved.