
                                    
                                        Burritos were on the menu at the last 2022 summer movie night in Mattawa. Summer movie nights begin later this month in three local towns.
                                    
                                    
COURTESY PHOTO/CITY OF MATTAWA
                                        
                                    
 
                                    
                                        Children got a chance to test their balance at the July 2022 summer movie night in Mattawa. Summer movies return, in Mattawa and elsewhere, later this month.
                                    
                                        

 
                                    
                                        Sack races were among the activities on 2022 summer movie nights in Mattawa.
                                    
                                        

 EPHRATA — A long summer evening just seems like a good time to be outside. Three local towns will help families make the most of summer evenings with a monthly series of free outdoor movies. In Ephrata there’s also a free summer music series.  Ephrata Parks and Recreation Department is sponsoring movies in June and July, with a special bonus movie at the Splash Zone, the city swimming pool, in August. Parks and Recreation Director Traci Bennett said people will be charged admission to the Splash Zone.  Quincy Parks and Recreation will host one movie in June and two in July. The city of Mattawa is partnering with other organizations to sponsor one movie a month. Attendees should bring their own lawn chairs or a blanket for seating. Mattawa movies will be at Hund Memorial Park, 101 Government Road. They’re not the only event in the park on movie night - city officials are working to get organizations to set up information booths, activities for children are planned, and so is dinner. Each Mattawa movie night is scheduled for 4 to 9:30 p.m.  “The Croods: A New Age” leads off on June 23, with the Washington Growers League as the sponsor. “The Emperor’s New Groove” is scheduled for July 21, sponsored by the Seattle Community Church, and “The Bad Guys” for Aug. 4, sponsored by the Columbia Basin Health Association. “The Bad Guys” is the first movie of the summer in Quincy, scheduled for June 24 at the stage in Lauzier Park. Movies start at dusk. “Ghostbusters: Afterlife” is scheduled for July 8, and “Rumble” for July 22. Concessions will be available from Quincy Youth Action Interact, according to the city website.  Ephrata’s summer movie series begins with “Toy Story” June 30 in Patrick Park, at the intersection of First Avenue NW and Patrick Road. “Top Gun: Maverick” is scheduled for July 8, and “Elf” for July 21. All movies start at dusk. The Splash Zone will host the finale, “Luca,” Aug. 4.  “We always do one water-themed (movie) inside the Splash Zone,” Bennett said.  Ephrata’s summer music series is held from 7 to about 8:30 p.m. in Rock Park, 32 Basin St. NW, and is in partnership with the Ephrata Chamber of Commerce, Bennett said.  “We do bands every other Thursday,” she said.  Most of the lineup is ready, but there’s one more spot, she said. “I’d like one more band,” she said.  Interested musicians can contact Bennett at the Parks and Recreation office, 509-754-4426, or by email at tbennett@ephrata.org. 



 COURTESY PHOTO/CITY OF MATTAWA Children got a chance to test their balance at the July 2022 summer movie night in Mattawa. Summer movies return, in Mattawa and elsewhere, later this month. 



 COURTESY PHOTO/CITY OF MATTAWA Sack races were among the activities on 2022 summer movie nights in Mattawa. twitter facebook LinkedIn Email 

                copyright © 2024 Columbia Basin Herald
            

Terms of Use |
                Privacy Policy


                PO Box 910 Moses
                Lake, WA 98837

                    509-765-4561
                

