Racing will return to Perris Auto Speedway when LKQ Pick Your Part Presents Night of Destruction on September 16th.  One week later on September 23rd, Heimark Distributors Anheuser Busch will present the Amsoil USAC/CRA Sprint Cars in the annual Glenn Howard Classic.  Finishing off the month of September will be the PASSCAR/IMCA Stock Car and Modified show on September 30th. Promoter Don Kazarian has announced four additions to the 2023 racing schedule. The extra dates are October 12, 13, 14, and 15, and all will be in conjunction with the annual Southern California Fair.  On Thursday the 12th, it will be the PASSCAR Street Stocks and American Factory Stocks.  Twenty-four hours later, the PASSCAR Super Stocks will race on the famous half-mile clay oval.  On Saturday the 14th, Figure 8’s and Figure 8 Trailer Races will take place.   Winding up the motorsports events at the fair will be Demo Cross and zany Double Decker racing on Sunday, October 15th.  Each of those races will be free for fans with a ticket into the fair and all shows will begin at 7:00 p.m. Advanced tickets for every race at The PAS are available until noon on race day online at https://www.tix.com/ticket-sales/pas/7 or by calling 1-800-595-4849.  For fans who do not wish to buy advance tickets, there will be plenty available for everyone at the ticket window each race night. Perris Auto Speedway is conveniently located on the Lake Perris Fairgrounds (home of the Southern California Fair), one-hour east of Los Angeles and one-hour North of San Diego. To get to the track, take the 215 freeway, exit on the Ramona Expressway, and go three miles east to the fairgrounds. For directions online, the address to enter is: 18700 Lake Perris Drive and the zip code is 92571.  USAC/CRA races from Perris Auto Speedway are not streamed online. Fans can stay up to date on track and driver news on The PAS social media efforts at the links below.  Facebook:  https://www.facebook.com/pages/Perris-Auto-Speedway/113876798686480?ref=hl  Twitter: Perris Auto Speedway on Twitter  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/perrisautospeedway/  Website: http://perrisautospeedway.com/  Perris Auto Speedway wants to thank the following corporate partners. Ahern Equipment Rentals, Anderson Chevrolet, Battery Systems, Bud’s Tire, Tire Choice Auto Service, Chris’ Hauling, City of Perris, Communication Innovations, Daytona Boat & RV Storage, Ed Moore Bullet Proof Driveshaft, Flowdynamics, HD Industries, Heimark/Anheuser Busch, Hoosier Tires, Inland Rigging, Living Water’s Hospice, LKQ Pick Your Part, Luke’s Transmission, Moose Racing, Pepsi-Cola, Performance Online, Pole Position Raceway, PrintItNow.com,  Rainbow Bolt & Supply, Rene’s Bar & Grill, Rugged Radios, Shaver Specialties, Square H, Sunoco Race Fuels, Trench Shoring, Upland Rock, Varner Construction and Vista Paint.  DVDs of all the PASSCAR/IMCA racing and Nights of Destruction at The PAS are available from Fourvideos.  For more information call (714) 225-9500.  PAS PR