When I came to Congress two years ago and joined the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, I was cautiously optimistic that... "Unfortunately, we have learned from generations of veterans the creeping, silent danger of toxic exposures." While pursuing higher education is appealing to some service members, and remains a strong draw for recruiting through the GI... For at least a month, soldiers have been reporting issues accessing their benefits though Army IgnitED, an online portal that... The service, not typically known for embracing the bleeding edge of new technology, appears to be the first military branch... An AH-1Z Viper crew attached to Marine Medium Tiltrotor Squadron 262 fired the live missile in the Philippine Sea near... Each of “Zero Day’s” 10 episodes depicts an independent aspect of Taiwanese life affected by the fictionalized invasion, as... While the pier would help offload nearly 20 million pounds of aid, a stream of issues, breakdowns, injured service members... North Korea marked the delivery of 250 nuclear-capable missile launchers to frontline military units as leader Kim Jong Un... Get the latest on pay updates, benefit changes and award-winning military content. Right in your inbox. View more newsletters on our Subscriptions page. Verify your free subscription by following the instructions in the email sent to: Command Sgt. Maj. Veronica Knapp was dismissed "due to a loss of trust and confidence in her leadership," a spokesperson for... Command Sgt. Maj. Harold "Ed" Jarrell, the top enlisted leader for the Army's 1st Information Operations Command, was... Capt. Bradley Geary, the then-leader of the command that runs the Navy SEAL BUD/s training program, is now facing a board of... Fort Sill in Oklahoma and Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri will get two additional basic training units each -- able to train an... The attacks, spearheaded by Trump's VP pick Sen. JD Vance, claim Walz ducked a Guard deployment to Iraq and lied about his... Airmen and Guardians will receive the nonfunctioning M4 rifle when they arrive at basic military training and will carry and... The Israeli army released footage Thursday of what it said are airstrikes on Hezbollah targets in Lebanon. (Aug. 8)... The United States, Australia, Canada and the Philippines held air and naval maneuvers on Wednesday in a show of... Vice President Kamala Harris has decided on Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz as her running mate in her bid for... North Korea marked the delivery of 250 nuclear-capable missile launchers to frontline military units at a ceremony where leader... A Military.com investigation into military day care centers revealed that service branch rules generally prioritize... For years, it was an open secret among missileers that the Cold War-era missile alert facilities and launch control centers... Groundwater samples from March at Fort Detrick's Area B showed high concentrations of a cancer-causing chemical along the... Army veteran Amber Zora wonders: "How did the military get so overgrown? How did it become the thing it is today? At what... It's not particularly unusual to find abandoned boats along South Carolina's coast, but then there's the one on Bohicket... Army veteran Amber Zora wonders: "How did the military get so overgrown? How did it become the thing it is today? At what... Army veteran Amber Zora wonders: "How did the military get so overgrown? How did it become the thing it is today? At what... The shooting is being investigated by San Antonio police. Army veteran Amber Zora wonders: "How did the military get so overgrown? How did it become the thing it is today? At what... The Air Force Academy is the youngest service academy in the country and prepares students for commissioning in the U.S. Air... Army veteran Amber Zora wonders: "How did the military get so overgrown? How did it become the thing it is today? At what... Nearly 80 years after Marine Corps Pvt. George Coe Browning went missing in action during the bloody invasion of Iwo Jima, he... It's not particularly unusual to find abandoned boats along South Carolina's coast, but then there's the one on Bohicket... Army veteran Amber Zora wonders: "How did the military get so overgrown? How did it become the thing it is today? At what... Visit our Customer Support center for solutions or to contact us.