Capital Gazette eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Capital Gazette eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 The Caucus of African American Leaders and Anne Arundel County government leaders annually celebrate Women’s History Month. Only by examining American history is one able to appreciate just how marginalized women have been and why we need to spotlight their contributions.Have you ever heard of Julia Chinn? I know most readers have no idea who she was. Chinn was the wife of the ninth vice president of the United States — Richard Mentor Johnson.Johnson served under President Martin Van Buren, and there is a street in Eastport named in Van Buren’s honor. By the way, Chinn, a Black woman, had two daughters with Johnson. I know, you were not aware of that fact, either.Historians will tell you that Van Buren lost reelection because his vice president refused to disown his Black wife and daughters.These are not the history lessons you learn while attending public schools in Anne Arundel County, Anne Arundel Community College, St. John’s College, or the U.S.s Naval Academy. Thati s precisely why we hold events to educate the public about unsung heroines.This is the reason why we must make sure the contributions of women are not written out of history books. Women have a unique role in American history.In Anne Arundel County, there are women holding public office. They include state senators Pam Beidle, Dawn Giles and Sarah Elfreth; delegates Shaneka Henson, Dana Jones, Sandy Bartlett and Heather Bagnall; councilwomen Allison Pickard, Lisa Brangian Rodvien; and alderwomen Elly Tierney, Karma O’Neill, Rhonda Pindell Charles and Shelia Finlayson, to name just a few of the women who hold public office in the county.Last month, we saw the election of Erica Griswold as  the first African American Register of Wills and the reelection of Judge Vickie Gipson, just the second African American woman to serve on the Anne Arundel County Orphan’s Court.

I had the pleasure of serving in the cabinet of former County Executive Janet S. Owens and serving with former Mayor Ellen Moyer.These two women were the first to hold their respective positions as chief executive officers in their respective jurisdictions.Then, of course, there was the late Councilwoman Sarah E. Carter, who became the first and only Black woman to serve on the Anne Arundel County Council.I am a firm believer that if women are not able to tell their own stories, their contributions will be lost to history.On March 14, the Caucus of African American Leaders will be celebrating Women’s History Month at the Wiley H. Bates Legacy Center, 1101 Smithville Street, Annapolis, at 5 p.m. . This event is free and open to the public.On March 29, we will be joining County Executive Steuart Pittman in honoring 14 women who have made significant contributions to the county. These women will receive the 2023 Michelle Obama Award.This catered, free event is open to the public and will take place at the Blue Heron Center, 600 Quiet Waters Park Road, Annapolis, beginning at 6 p.m.These events are being organized by Dee Goodwyn, Tiyana Parker, Asha Smith, Collen Joseph, Vincent Moulden, Juanita Cage Lewis, Claudia DeGrate and Angelina Brown, among others.The theme for this year’s Women’s History Month is “Celebrating Women Who Tell Our Stories.” American history will not be complete until the true role of women is included. There can be no history, that does not include “her story,” which is in fact our story.In the words of Maya Angelou, “Every time a woman stands up for herself, without knowing it possibly, without claiming it, she stands up for all women.”This column is dedicated to my mother, Ora Snowden, who died at 104 years old and who often told me, “women and men, may see the world differently, but, I want you to learn to see it through the eyes of women, because, what they see are often missed by men.”Thank you, mother, which is precisely why we must honor women by listening and hearing them. Please join us as we celebrate women who are making a difference in our community.Carl Snowden is convener of the Caucus of African American Leaders. Have you ever heard of Julia Chinn? I know most readers have no idea who she was. Chinn was the wife of the ninth vice president of the United States — Richard Mentor Johnson. Johnson served under President Martin Van Buren, and there is a street in Eastport named in Van Buren’s honor. By the way, Chinn, a Black woman, had two daughters with Johnson. I know, you were not aware of that fact, either. Historians will tell you that Van Buren lost reelection because his vice president refused to disown his Black wife and daughters. These are not the history lessons you learn while attending public schools in Anne Arundel County, Anne Arundel Community College, St. John’s College, or the U.S.s Naval Academy. Thati s precisely why we hold events to educate the public about unsung heroines. This is the reason why we must make sure the contributions of women are not written out of history books. Women have a unique role in American history. In Anne Arundel County, there are women holding public office. They include state senators Pam Beidle, Dawn Giles and Sarah Elfreth; delegates Shaneka Henson, Dana Jones, Sandy Bartlett and Heather Bagnall; councilwomen Allison Pickard, Lisa Brangian Rodvien; and alderwomen Elly Tierney, Karma O’Neill, Rhonda Pindell Charles and Shelia Finlayson, to name just a few of the women who hold public office in the county. Last month, we saw the election of Erica Griswold as  the first African American Register of Wills and the reelection of Judge Vickie Gipson, just the second African American woman to serve on the Anne Arundel County Orphan’s Court. I had the pleasure of serving in the cabinet of former County Executive Janet S. Owens and serving with former Mayor Ellen Moyer. These two women were the first to hold their respective positions as chief executive officers in their respective jurisdictions. Then, of course, there was the late Councilwoman Sarah E. Carter, who became the first and only Black woman to serve on the Anne Arundel County Council. I am a firm believer that if women are not able to tell their own stories, their contributions will be lost to history. On March 14, the Caucus of African American Leaders will be celebrating Women’s History Month at the Wiley H. Bates Legacy Center, 1101 Smithville Street, Annapolis, at 5 p.m. . This event is free and open to the public. On March 29, we will be joining County Executive Steuart Pittman in honoring 14 women who have made significant contributions to the county. These women will receive the 2023 Michelle Obama Award. This catered, free event is open to the public and will take place at the Blue Heron Center, 600 Quiet Waters Park Road, Annapolis, beginning at 6 p.m. These events are being organized by Dee Goodwyn, Tiyana Parker, Asha Smith, Collen Joseph, Vincent Moulden, Juanita Cage Lewis, Claudia DeGrate and Angelina Brown, among others. The theme for this year’s Women’s History Month is “Celebrating Women Who Tell Our Stories.” American history will not be complete until the true role of women is included. There can be no history, that does not include “her story,” which is in fact our story. In the words of Maya Angelou, “Every time a woman stands up for herself, without knowing it possibly, without claiming it, she stands up for all women.” This column is dedicated to my mother, Ora Snowden, who died at 104 years old and who often told me, “women and men, may see the world differently, but, I want you to learn to see it through the eyes of women, because, what they see are often missed by men.” Thank you, mother, which is precisely why we must honor women by listening and hearing them. Please join us as we celebrate women who are making a difference in our community. Carl Snowden is convener of the Caucus of African American Leaders. Copyright © 2024 Capital Gazette