Around 120 new jobs could be created Never miss Somerset's latest and breaking news again by signing up to our Daily Newsletter We have more newsletters Never miss Somerset's latest and breaking news again by signing up to our Daily Newsletter We have more newsletters Highbridge residents will soon find it easier to grab a burger or a sausage roll after two new drive-thrus were given the green light. Plans were submitted by Loc8 in May 2022 to construct a McDonald's restaurant and a Greggs outlet within the Oaktree Park commercial site off the A38 Bristol Road. A decision was delayed due to National Highways' concerns about the capacity of junction 22 of the M5, with the agency putting the brakes on further housing or commercial development in Highbridge until a solution had been agreed. Sedgemoor District Council's executive committee voted in February to approve a £1.6m package of improvements to the Edithmead roundabout, which links to the town to the M5 - which led National Highways to remove its holding objection. Somerset Council has now green-lit the new drive-thru plans, with construction on both units expected to get under way later in the year. READ MORE: Work begins on new stretch of the Strawberry Line near Mendip Hills The site lies north-east of the Bristol Road roundabout, a stone's throw from Highbridge's Aldi supermarket and Costa Coffee outlet. Other units within the business park have already been occupied by Screwfix, Aerofin Laboratories, Studio Essence, The Scotch Egg Company and local animal charity Secret World Wildlife Rescue. Both the new units will be built near the existing access onto the A38, with each site having its own drive-thru lanes. McDonald's confirmed its interest in the site in May 2022, stating at the time: "We are pleased to be part of these exciting plans in Highbridge. "The scheme will deliver a range of local benefits, including a new McDonald’s restaurant creating around 120 jobs." The agreement of the Edithmead roundabout improvement scheme has unlocked other commercial developments in the Highbridge area, including a new warehouse and distribution centre on Pillmore Lane and potentially a further distribution hub east of Pople's Bow. It has also enabled the complete delivery of the Isleport Grove development of 248 homes, currently being constructed on Isleport Lane by Countryside Homes. The scheme (dubbed "plan B" by councillors) is designed as a backstop in case a wider series of projects, targetting the A38 between Highbridge and Bristol Airport, fails to attract central government funding. In either case, improvements to the Edithmead roundabout must be completely in place by December 31, 2025. Construction on the new McDonald's and Greggs is expected to get under way before the end of the year. READ NEXT: Motorists travelling over Somerset Levels will face delays this summer Somerset GPs could overspend on prescriptions by more than £4m this year Popular tea room on Somerset canal can now serve alcohol on summer evenings Efforts to regenerate historic Somerset factory site praised by government officials Somerset transport bosses decline to reveal how £1.5m active travel funding will be spent 