Former The Project host Peter van Onselen has issued a dire warning about the uncertain future of Network Ten in a candid column. Former The Project host Peter van Onselen has issued a dire warning about the uncertain future of Network Ten, stating that the network is on the verge of a “disaster” and may not be able to survive.  Dr van Onselen, who left his position as political editor at the network earlier this year, expressed concerns about the fate of Ten in a column in The Australian. He criticised Ten, labelling it “the minnow of Australian commercial television” and claiming it had failed to capitalise on the advantage of being backed by a major media player from the United States, Paramount. He brought up a recent downturn for Paramount, which has experienced a drastic decline in its stock price, dropping from over $97 to less than $15 in just two years. The decline in Paramount’s fortunes has been mirrored by a significant decrease in market share in Australia, where Ten’s flagship 5pm news show only managed to capture six per cent of the TV audience this month. Reflecting on his initial optimism when CBS, now Paramount, acquired the network, Dr van Onselen revealed his doubts about its long-term viability. “You could choose to be a little more upbeat about Paramount (and Network 10’s) future if the streaming part of the business was firing, but it’s not,” he wrote. “That’s actually where the losses are centred, but it’s also where the hope for growth has long been too. “Subscription growth hasn’t been strong enough to make streaming profitable yet, and while Paramount+ is big by Australian standards, and growing, it is dwarfed by others in the US, playing catch-up since entering the streaming business later than its major competitors.  “A missed opportunity to be an early adopter by management.” The rise of streaming giants such as Netflix, Disney+, and Amazon Prime has overshadowed Paramount on a global scale, leaving it struggling to compete. The company has reported a staggering loss of US$1 billion in the first quarter of this year, leading to an 80 per cent dividend cut and a hiring freeze. With renowned stock market guru Warren Buffett holding a 15 per cent stake in the company, concerns are growing that he may choose to withdraw his investment, further exacerbating the share price decline.  Dr van Onselen warned that if Buffett were to exit, it would cause panic and be a disaster for the current management of Paramount. “He doesn’t think streaming is the future for Paramount, unless scale can be brought to bear and quickly,” he continued. “If he dumps it, the share price will tank even more than it already has. Buffett exiting a business is a certain way to cause panic, and Paramount is already in panic mode.  “It would be a disaster for current management.” Recent ratings have demonstrated Ten’s declining performance, with only The Project and Ten News First making it into Australia’s top 20 shows on Friday night, ranking at the 18th and 19th spots, respectively. On Monday night, Ten’s news show failed to make the top 20, while ABC, Seven, and Nine’s news shows dominated the top six spots. The dismal results were described by a TV executive from a rival station as the worst he had witnessed in his “30 years in the business”. Dr van Onselen attributed this slump to the network’s brand and management, rather than its hosts. He warned that US management might consider shutting down their Australian outlet to cut costs globally. The optimistic future that Ten appeared to have when CBS/Paramount acquired it now seems like a thing of the past. Ten, however, dismissed the speculation and emphasised its strong performance in local ratings.  According to a spokesman, the network has experienced significant growth across key demographics, ratings, and commercial share, achieving an excellent first half of 2023.  They highlighted the success of 10 Play and Paramount+ as well as the dominance of Network 10 in key advertising demographics.  They also mentioned the popularity of The Project and 10 News First, which reached millions of Australians and recorded their biggest livestream audiences and monthly viewership in May. The television veteran shared the joke to his followers almost 24 hours after winning the top award and getting a special tattoo. A TV insider has alleged that Channel 9 presenter Liz Hayes is facing having have her investigative show axed by the network. The creators of Friends have revealed some shocking insight into Matthew Perry’s struggles while the show was airing on TV. Our Apps