Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Cox Communications is ringing in the new year with the official launch of its mobile business.  The privately held cable and internet operator announced the national launch of Cox Mobile Thursday at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. CNBC earlier reported the announcement would come at CES. Cox has trailed peers like Comcast, Charter Communications and Altice USA, which started offering mobile service to their customers in recent years and have been adding customers at a fast clip. Like Comcast and Charter's services, Cox Mobile will only be available to new and existing customers. Cox has 7 million customers in 18 states, and has started quietly offering mobile service in certain markets in recent months.  Cable operators began offering mobile service with the aim of giving customers another reason not to leave their broadband plans. This holds true now more than ever, as profitability for these business units is in sight.  Cable companies have been losing pay-TV customers that opt for streaming-only services, although that accelerated recently. However, broadband subscriber growth has stalled in recent quarters as competition has ramped up and customers' moving activity stagnates as the housing market slows down.  "I think now they're reusing wireless as a way to reinforce their broadband business. There's not much profitability in it yet, but that's not their concern. The concern is holding on to broadband customers," said John Hodulik, an analyst at UBS.  Although wireless companies like AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile hold the large bulk of wireless customers in the U.S., Comcast and Charter's mobile businesses have been growing at a faster rate due to cheaper and more flexible plans.  Charter's Spectrum Mobile offers a $30 unlimited data plan, or $14 by the gigabyte of internet used in the month plan. Similarly, Comcast's Xfinity Mobile starts at $30 for unlimited data, or $15 by the gigabyte.  The cheaper options stem from their ability to rely heavily on home broadband Wi-Fi and hotspots for data usage. When their mobile customers leave Wi-Fi and rely on a network, they're offloaded to the cable companies' partner operator — Verizon for both Comcast and Charter — still giving the wireless company a piece of the pie.  Cox Mobile will offer similar plans, unlimited at $45 a month or $15 by the gig. Cox confirmed at CES on Thursday that it is also working with Verizon as its network partner. A wrench was thrown in Cox's plans to launch its mobile business when T-Mobile sued the company in 2021, saying Cox was obligated to pursue a partnership with them. Earlier this year, a Delaware court judge reportedly ruled in Cox's favor.  Charter said it had 4.7 million wireless customers as of Sept. 30, while Comcast said it reached 5 million.  "We started off with this reimagined mobile service because we knew customers would spend a significant amount of time on Wi-Fi," said Danny Bowman, chief mobile officer at Charter, adding Spectrum Mobile customers spend about 85% of their time on Wi-Fi.  "By keeping the mobile package simple, we have exponential growth," Bowman added. Charter and Comcast also allow customers to bring their own devices, an option Cox won't yet offer. Currently, customers must purchase Samsung phones through Cox for service.  Smaller cable operators are also seeing the value in offering a mobile plan to customers.  The National Content and Technology Cooperative, or NCTC, an industry group made up of more than 700 cable and broadband providers, has been in discussions to create a mobile offering for its members.  "It's become such a focal point. It's the thing everybody seems to think is what you need to have," NCTC President Lou Borrelli said of mobile offerings. "I've seen it referred to as the new bundle. I don't dispute that."  Since NCTC's membership includes small providers — many in rural areas — the cooperative started discussions with wireless operators last year on behalf of its entire base.  Borrelli said NCTC hadn't been in a rush to offer mobile until it saw how Charter and Comcast did in net additions in 2021. "I remember getting calls from some of our board members saying, 'You know, maybe we should look at this,'" he said. NCTC's negotiations should wrap up this year, Borrelli said. Some have already added mobile. Colorado-based WOW! Internet, Cable & Phone unveiled a mobile plan in July through a partnership with Reach Mobile.  Borrelli said consumer research in certain markets showed companies had no choice in the matter. "Members have told us they don't care what the results are, we need to do this."  Disclosure: Comcast is the parent company of NBCUniversal, which owns CNBC. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by