There is an option to limit the applications that have access to your microphone on Apple and Android phones Get daily headlines and breaking news alerts for FREE by signing up to our newsletter We have more newsletters Get daily headlines and breaking news alerts for FREE by signing up to our newsletter We have more newsletters Those who have felt that their phone is sending them targeted ads after listening to them now have the opportunity to put an end to it. If you are uncomfortable that your conversation about certain items turning into a social media post once you start scrolling, then you aren't alone, The Mirror reported. Phone users have long said that they thought they were being spied on, but social media platforms such as Facebook and Instagram have always said they are not listening in. READ MORE - Teenager dies and man in critical condition after Tipperary road tragedy But according to the DailyStar, some advertisers definitely have been. New research from NordVPN stated that companies are using a discreet type of data monitoring called ultrasonic cross-device tracking, which is making a lot of phone users uncomfortable. They tune into background noise and serve up tailor-made ads, while charging the company for it. According to NordVPN, this cross-device tracking method sees apps use ultrasonic 'audio beacons' which can't be heard by the human ear to 'link all the devices you own to track your behaviour and location', The Mirror reported. These are then hidden from view in TV adverts or online videos. Once your mic picks them up, it allows advertisers to identify what you have been talking about. This is why some apps ask for permission to access your microphone before using. The impact of this tracking method is far and wide. NordVPN's Adrianus Warmenhoven said: "While it's impossible to stop the ultrasonic beacons working, you can reduce the chance of your smartphone listening for them by simply restricting unnecessary permissions you have granted the apps on your device." To change the permissions apps have, you can go to your phone's Settings menu and find the 'Privacy' option.  Here you should be able to see which apps have access to your microphone and select when necessary. Alternatively, you can use a secure browser like Brave, Tor, or DuckDuckGo—or get a VPN, which hides all of your online activity. READ NEXT: Get news updates direct to your inbox by signing up to our daily newsletter here 