
                    Jason marz/Getty Images
                    Stay Connected 
            
              
                
  



  By


Frank Konkel
 The Federal Trade Commission is looking into the impacts of the $500 billion cloud computing market’s power in the U.S. On Wednesday, the independent regulatory agency issued a request for information seeking insight on commercial cloud providers’ business practices, including the market power of companies that include Amazon, Microsoft and Google, as well as competition and potential security risks. Cloud computing companies are increasingly providing the backbone for the world’s internet, hosting the data of nearly 70% of internet users, 60% of corporations and a growing cadre of government customers that includes the Central Intelligence Agency, National Security Agency and Pentagon. The CIA, NSA, and Defense Department have each issued multibillion-dollar cloud contracts to commercial cloud providers in recent years, with Amazon Web Services—considered the market leader in cloud computing—scooping up the vast majority of that business. “Large parts of the economy now rely on cloud computing services for a range of services,” Stephanie T. Nguyen, FTC’s Chief Technology Officer, said in a statement. “The RFI is aimed at better understanding the impact of this reliance, the broader competitive dynamics in cloud computing and potential security risks in the use of cloud.” According to the RFI, the FTC is interest in the impact of cloud computing on the health care, finance, transportation, e-commerce and defense industries. The FTC’s Office of Technology, Bureau of Competition and Bureau of Consumer Protection are collaborating on the RFI. Topics of interest include: The public has until May 22 to submit comments. Submitted comments will be posted on Regulations.gov.

 
NEXT STORY:

              5 Foreign Nationals Tried to Ship U.S. Military Tech to Iran, Per Justice Indictments
            



 Help us tailor content specifically for you: