— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed’s editors. Purchases you make through the links below may earn us and our publishing partners a commission.​​ Whether you're in need of a Father's Day gift, a new summer wardrobe or some pet essentials, we have you covered with the best sales to shop this week. We spotted some of the lowest prices on everything from Lowe's power tools to Macy's clothing and Chewy pet products. Keep scrolling for major discounts at a few of our favorite retailers. If you're looking to get some shopping done, here are the best sales this week that we recommend checking out. With Father's Day just a few days away, it's time to get serious about your gift shopping. If you're not sure where to start we have tons of gift ideas for all types of dads. DIY-obsessed pops will love unwrapping something from Lowe's this weekend and right now you can save up to 40% on tools, up to 30% on select grills and accessories and up to 25% on outdoor power equipment. ➤Father’s Day 2023 gifts:40 best gift ideas dad will love Macy's Friends and Family sale is ending tonight, which means there's only a few hours left to bag bargains on everything from kitchen appliances and bedding to swimsuits and wedding guest dresses. Browse the retailer's extensive collection of discounts and use coupon code FRIEND to snag an extra 10% or 25% off select full-price and sale items right now. Step up your fashion game this summer with the help of Michael Kors' massive Summer sale. Now through Tuesday, June 27, Michael Kors is offering an extra 40% off select already-discounted items for the new season. That means you can save big on tons of Michael Kors purses, watches, shoes and more just in time for summer 2023. Plus, you can become a KORSVIP member for free and enjoy benefits like free shipping and returns, private styling appointments, birthday rewards and early access to sales. ➤Summer savings:Join Sam's Club for 30% off and score bulk savings on groceries, gas, toilet paper and more Update your collection of shorts, tanks, sneakers and more and save on most-wanted styles right now at Nike. The popular retailer is marking down sporty styles right now during its limited time sale and you can save as much as 50% through Saturday, June 17—no coupon necessary! Here's the deal: Subscribe to our Perks and Rec newsletter for daily savings on all the things you want and need. New pet parents will love Chewy's collection of dog and cat deals on everything from toys and treats to pet beds and food bowls. While the popular pet retailer always has an impressive selection of daily deals, right they're letting first-time Chewy shoppers save even more by entering coupon code NEWCHEWY at checkout. When you enter the special discount code you'll unlock $20 off orders of $49 or more. The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more. Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.