Heading to the altar! Sister Wives star Gwendlyn Brown has found love with her fiancée, Beatriz Queiroz. Gwendlyn and Beatriz first went public with their relationship when the TLC personality shared several photos of the pair via Instagram in May 2022. While she didn’t explain the status of their relationship at the time of the post, several of Gwendlyn’s followers took to the comments section to speculate if they were dating. In June 2022, the couple took a major step in their relationship when they went on their first trip together. “Barely two months into dating and we went on our first trip together to Disneyland woot woot,” Christine Brown and Kody Brown’s daughter wrote via Instagram alongside photos from the trip. In the caption, Gwendlyn explained that the getaway included a “seven hour drive,” a stop at the beach, the Los Angeles Pride celebration and a trip to the theme park. “We had our first fight at California Adventure over an intense game of checkers and then I met Loki,” she wrote about the fourth day of their trip. “I lost my mind and would lose it again.” Five months later, Gwendlyn announced their engagement by sharing photos from the proposal in November 2022. In the snapshots, Beatriz got down on one knee as she asked the reality star for her hand in marriage. “I’m engaged!!” she captioned the photos with a diamond ring emoji. Several of her social media followers took to the comments section to congratulate the pair on the happy news. “SO HAPPY FOR YOU BOTH!!!!!” one person wrote. Another added, “Congratulations! Love seeing you all thrive.” The couple celebrated their engagement with friends and family in February 2023. “What an awesome weekend spent with my daughters!” Christine wrote alongside a photo with her five daughters at the party. “We went to Gwen’s & Beas Engagement party and it was so wonderful to celebrate them [sic].” Gwendlyn and Beatriz revealed via YouTube in February 2023 that they plan to tie the knot in July 2023.  Keep scrolling to take a look at Gwendlyn and Beatriz’s whirlwind relationship before they become wives. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.