
 
								By 

	Joe Otterson
 TV Reporter 
	“Daredevil: Born Again” is undergoing a major creative overhaul, Variety has confirmed.  
	The Disney+ series from Marvel Studios has recently parted ways with head writers Chris Ord and Matt Corman and is currently seeking new writers to revamp the show. Ord and Corman will still be credited as executive producers.  
	And with less than half of the series’ 18-episode order shot prior to the beginning of the SAG-AFTRA strike, Marvel has also released the directors for the remaining episodes of the season. Some elements of the already shot material will be used going forward, but Marvel is looking to take the show in a new creative direction. 





	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	















	VIP+
	



	
		
					Life After 'Deadpool': Summer Movies Resurrection Begs Rethink of Long-Term Box Office Outlook		
			














	
		
					Nicolas Cage to Play NFL Icon John Madden in David O. Russell's Biopic		
			






 
	“Daredevil” is still unable to return to full scale production, as the actors remain on strike, though they are currently in negotiations with the studios to return to work. The Writers Guild of America recently reached their own new deal with the studios to end their strike, with 99% of the guild’s membership voting to approve the deal earlier this week. 

	










			Popular on Variety		




 
	Charlie Cox will return as Matt Murdock, aka Daredevil, in the new series along with Vincent D’Onofrio as Wilson “Kingpin” Fisk. The two previously starred together in the Marvel-Netflix “Daredevil” series from 2015-2018.  
	Marvel Studios’ latest television releases include Season 2 of “Loki,” which racked up 10.9 million views in its first three days on Disney+. They also released “Secret Invasion” starring Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury back in June. Shows like “Echo” starring Alaqua Cox and “Agatha: Darkhold Diaries” starring Kathryn Hahn are expected to debut in 2024.  
	The Hollywood Reporter first broke the “Daredevil” news.  
			A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast		 The Business of Entertainment