Some of the finalists in the Best of Vodka and Flavored Vodka Categories in the 2023 San Francisco ... [+] World Spirits Competition The San Francisco World Spirits Competition (SFWSC) has just announced the preliminary results of its 2023 judging. The category winners will be announced at the Top Shelf Awards Gala and Grand Tasting on June 16 and 17 at Resorts World in Las Vegas. Tickets for the event are available at the Top Shelf website or through ReserveBar. A total of 14 vodkas won the coveted Double Gold medal at the 2023 San Francisco World Spirits Competition (SFWSC). They ranged from Australia to France. Roughly half originated in the United States. A further 24 vodkas won a Gold Medal. Five flavored vodkas also took a Double Gold Medal, while 11 took a Gold Medal. Founded in 2000, the SFWSC is the oldest competition in North America and the largest spirits judging in the world. Seventy judges from around the globe evaluated approximately 5,500 spirits over three days in April 2023. The Tasting Alliance, founded by Anthony Dias Blue, organized the competition. In addition to the SFWSC, the Tasting Alliance also organizes spirit competitions in New York and Singapore, wine competitions in San Francisco and New York and competitions for beer and RTDs. Best of Class Vodka finalists are Ramsbury, Single Estate Vodka, 43% ABV; Gamblers Bay Distillery (Florida), Florida Farm Vodka, 40% ABV and Tried & True, Vodka, 44% ABV. Ramsbury, Single Estate Vodka Ramsbury and Tried & True vodka are produced from a mash bill of winter wheat. Florida Farm Vodka is produced from a locally grown mash bill of Florida corn. Ramsbury is a British farm-to-glass distillery set amongst 19,000 acres of land on the Ramsbury estate in the Wiltshire countryside. The vodka is distilled in a 43-plate column still producing what the company calls an “incredibly smooth and delicious Single Estate Spirit.” The SFWSC Judging Panel described the vodka as: Clean, neutral, with pronounced citric notes on the nose. Smooth and viscous on the palate with distinctive lemon notes and hints of tropical fruits. Long sweet finish The vodka is difficult to find in the US but is available from UK internet vendors for around $40/700 ml bottle. Gambler’s Bat Distillery is a grain-to-glass, family-owned craft distiller in Tampa, Fl. The company describes its Florida Farm Vodka as a “clean, crisp vodka with a slightly sweet finish.” The SFWSC Judging Panel described the vodka as exhibiting: Clean, fresh, slightly minerally aromas on the nose. Smooth and sweet on the palate with a long, sweet, lingering finish Tried & True Straight Wheat Vodka is produced from soft winter wheat grown and milled in the province of Picardie. France. The vodka is distilled in a five-column still and reduced to its 44% ABV with demineralized well water from the Cognac region. The SFWSC Judging Panel described the vodka as being: Spirity on the nose with citrus notes and a hint of minerality. Smooth and viscous on the palate with noticeable citric flavors. Long sweet finish with a mild, persistent pepperiness. Among the other Double Gold medalist were: Offshore Vodka, 40% ABV; Banks and Bloom, Ice Vodka, 42% and Headlands, Seacliff Vodka, 40% ABV. All three vodkas are from Australia. The top Canadian vodka was Laneway Distillers, No. 12 Vodka, 43.5%. The highest-rated Polish vodkas were Sobieski, Clear 40 Vodka, 40% ABV and Wielkopolska Manufaktura Wódek, Miracle Vodka Dark Gold, 42.3% ABV. Sobieski s named after Jan Sobieski, the legendary Polish King that broke the Ottoman Second Siege of Vienna in 1683. France has emerged as a vodka powerhouse in recent years. In addition to Tried & True, two other French vodkas received Double Gold Medals: Mont Blanc Vodka, 40% ABV and Blackleaf Organic Vodka, 40% ABV. Both vodkas are produced in Cognac. Six American vodkas won Double Gold medals: Delta Dirt Distilling (Arkansas), Sweet Blend Vodka; High Bank Distillery Co. (Ohio), Vodka; Noble Cut Distillery, Shiphouse Vodka; ANNX Spirits Co,(Missouri) 600 Acre, 44.5% ABV; Simple Spirits (Idaho), Simple Vodka, 40% ABV and Austin Vodka Company (Texas), Goodnight Loving Vodka, 40% ABV. Alamere Spirits, Espelette Chili Vodka Two vodkas made the final round of the Best Flavored Vodka category: Dripping Springs Distilling, Artisan Lemon Vodka, 35% ABV and Alamere Spirits, Espelette Chili Vodka, 40% ABV.  Dripping Springs Distilling is a Texas-based producer of small-batch vodka, started by brothers Gary and Kevin Kelleher. The vodka is distilled 20 times in 50-gallon batches in 18 uniquely designed copper pot stills. Following distillation, it's clarified by a slow filtration through Swedish activated charcoal. According to the company, the result is a vodka that is “lush and balanced with a smooth finish.” The SFWSC Judging panel described the vodka as showing: Pronounced lemon/lime notes on the nose with a hint of minerality. Smooth on the palate with a touch of sweetness. Long, lingering, lemon/lime-laced finish. Alamere Spirits is a California craft distiller specializing in vodka and gin. Founded by Susannah and Oliver Souvestre in 2021 in Marin County. The vodka is produced using an alembic still imported from Bordeaux, France. The Espelette Vodka is made from locally grown espelette chilis. This variety of Chili pepper originates in Central and South America. It is widely grown in France and Northern Spain, becoming a staple in Basque cooking. The peppers themselves are rated at 4,000 Scoville units. That’s relatively mild by hot pepper standards. Habanero pepper is rated at 200,000 Scoville units, and India’s famed Jokia (Ghost) pepper has a Scoville rating of one million. Scoville units measure the amount of capsaicin in a pepper. That determines how hot the pepper tastes. The vodka, while fruity and flavorful, is quite mild. The Judging Panel described it as having: Earthy, chili pepper and red berry notes on the nose. Smooth and viscous on the palate with a long, persistent, fruity chili pepperiness. The finish is long, hot, and peppery. In addition to Dripping Springs and Alemere Spirits, Rosa Vodka, 40% ABV, also won a Double Gold medal. The other Double Gold medalists in the flavored vodka category were: Cape Grim 666 Autumn Butter Vodka, 40% from Tasmania, Australia and Kavka Vodka, Kavka Tokaji Cask Aged, 46% ABV The 2022 SFWSC judging produced another superlative collection of winners. It’s remarkable that many of the big international brands were missing and that the category is increasingly dominated by craft producers in the US and globally. Even more remarkable is that several of these medalists retail for under $20 a bottle. A complete listing of all the medal winners at the 2023 San Francisco World Spirits Competition is available on the Tasting Alliance website. Plenty to explore here! Cheers  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.