Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 3 spoilers follow. As Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy have completed their final quest before parting ways, writer-director James Gunn has been talking about the trilogy's ending. Vol 3 delivers an emotional conclusion by honouring its characters and their individual and collective journeys, without tragedy striking in the form of sudden deaths.  In an interview with The New York Times, Gunn explained having all the Guardians make it through the movies in one piece and finding their purpose was always the plan. Related: James Gunn reflects on Guardians of the Galaxy trilogy ending "Gamora was going to die originally in Vol 2 [2017], and then we talked about it happening in Infinity War and that worked better for the story," the filmmaker said. "But the rest of them, I always knew where they were going. I knew that the whole trilogy is about Rocket, who we think of as a supporting character, becoming the captain of the Guardians." Gunn also gave some more insights into Peter/Star-Lord's arc. As the film draws to a close, Peter decides to return to earth and reunites with his grandfather. "The arc with Peter Quill, in some ways, you can look at as that of many people who have experienced childhood trauma," the director said. "He was by his mother's bedside when she died, and he ran away and went into outer space – which, for other people, could be shutting off from the world – and stayed there for a long time until he came to the realization as an adult that he needed to go back to Earth. That, for me, was always his journey." Related: Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 3 is a brilliant end to a brilliant trilogy Gunn had a clear vision for each of the other Guardians, too. "Nebula becomes a leader, but a different sort of leader from where she was. Mantis goes off on her own and takes care of herself because she lived by others' rules her entire life," Gunn said. "Drax realises that he's a father and that's what he's really good at – he's not a destroyer. All those things, some more clearly than others, were in my mind from the first movie." The final scenes confirm Rocket is at the head of a new gang of Guardians, who may or may not pop up in future movies. As for the others, they all seem to be doing their own thing across the galaxy – just don't expect them to see them back for a fourquel. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 3 is in cinemas now. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 1 and Vol 2 and The Guardians of the Galaxy Holiday Special are streaming on Disney+. You Might Also Like Animal Crossing New Horizons is finally announced on Nintendo Switch How to watch Amazon Prime on your TV, smartphone and tablet – and enjoy Good Omens online Nintendo to release two new Switch consoles this year New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.