Your digital subscription includes access to content from all our websites in your region.
Access unlimited news content and The Canberra Times app. Premium subscribers also enjoy interactive puzzles and access to the digital version of our print edition - Today's Paper. Lexus initially detailed pricing and specifications for its updated UX small crossover last August, and since then the majority of the range has been hit with a price rise. Login or signup to continue reading UPDATE, 28/08/2023 – Lexus has released an updated statement regarding its price protected orders. We have updated this statement and included it below. UPDATE, 27/08/2023 – Lexus Australia has changed the pricing of the majority of the UX line-up, as part of a wider range price adjustment. A Lexus Australia spokesperson told CarExpert new pricing reflects Luxury Car Tax (LCT) adjustments and "general price increases".  "Customer orders taken up until May 31 and built during May are protected from the GPI. Vehicles ordered or built from June 1 are subject to the GPI," a spokesperson from Lexus Australia told CarExpert. The 2023 Lexus UX range now starts at $46,085 before on-road costs for the UX 200 Luxury, and extends to $66,495 before on-roads for the UX 250h F Sport AWD. As previously reported, this latest update to the UX brings a larger 12.3-inch touchscreen infotainment system, replacing the previous 10.3-inch unit. The new infotainment system now supports wireless Apple CarPlay, though you'll still need to plug in to use Android Auto. There's also DAB+ digital radio, satellite navigation, and an "expanded" 10-speaker system that replaces the previous eight-speaker system featured in the Luxury and F Sport grades. Customers can now use a voice command feature, triggered by the phrase "Hey Lexus", that can perform functions like changing the radio station or automatically lower the windows. Using an inbuilt Data Communication Module (DCM), Lexus now offers a complimentary three-year subscription to Lexus Connected Services. This connected services system offers access to features such as cloud-based connected navigation with live traffic, automatic collision notification, SOS emergency calling, stolen vehicle tracking, recent trip information, plus more. Exterior changes for the 2023 model year include a new sharkfin antenna across the range, and body-coloured wheel arch cladding on F Sport models. F Sport models also get a new brace in the steering gear, which together with the standard Adaptive Variable Suspension (AVS) system and rear performance dampers "quickly absorb body flex and minor vibrations to further sharpen handling and improve overall ride comfort and quietness," according to Lexus. Further to the F Sport's technical developments, all UX models now have 20 additional spot-welding points on the body for greater stiffness, which is also claimed to improve road-holding and driver feedback. Lexus says it has also retuned the UX's electric power steering system and shock absorbers "to help provide a seamless transition between braking, steering and acceleration through bends and on a variety of road surfaces". All prices are before on-road costs. 2023 Lexus UX 200 models are powered by a 2.0-litre naturally aspirated four-cylinder petrol engine producing 126kW of power and 205Nm of torque, which now gets fuel-saving idle stop/start technology. It's mated exclusively to a continuously variable transmission (CVT) with drive sent to the front wheels only. UX 250h models also use a 2.0-litre naturally aspirated four-cylinder petrol engine with either one or two electric motors, and a 216V nickel-metal hydride battery pack. It's also mated exclusively to a CVT. The petrol engine in the hybrid powertrain produces 107kW and 188Nm, with the front electric motor producing 80kW and 202Nm. The rear electric motor in E-Four all-wheel drive models produces an additional 5.3kW and 55Nm. Total system outputs for the hybrid powertrain, regardless of whether it has one or two electric motors, is 135kW. The 2023 Lexus UX range has the following claimed combined fuel economy figures: Lexus has added an idle stop/start function to the UX200's 2.0-litre petrol engine for the 2023 model year that's able to interact with Lexus Safety System+ features, such as adaptive cruise control. The UX 200 has a 47L fuel tank and the UX 250h has a 43L fuel tank. The 2023 Lexus UX measures in at 4495mm long, 1840mm wide, and 1520mm tall, with a 2640mmwheelbase. The UX 200 with 17-inch alloy wheels has a boot capacity of 419L, whereas with 18-inch alloy wheels it has a boot capacity of 424L. The UX 250h has a boot capacity of 368L. Models with 17-inch alloy wheels have a tyre repair kit, while those with 18-inch alloy wheels have run-flat tyres. The 2023 Lexus UX is covered by a five-year, unlimited-kilometre warranty, like all new Lexus models. Servicing is required every 12 months or 15,000km, whichever comes first, and the first three services are capped at $495. The Lexus UX has a five-star ANCAP safety rating based on testing conducted in 2019. All models received an adult occupant protection score of 96 per cent, child occupant protection score of 88 per cent, vulnerable road user protection score of 82 per cent and a safety assist score of 83 per cent. Standard safety features include: All bar the base UX 200 also feature blind-spot monitoring and rear cross-traffic alert. All 2023 Lexus UX models now receive a three-year complimentary Lexus Connected Services subscription which offers the following features: The UX also has Lexus Remote Connect which allows owners to remotely start the engine, unlock or lock the boot, and activate the hazard lights and a buzzer. UX 200 Luxury highlights: Enhancement Package 1 adds: UX 200 Luxury and UX 250h Luxury with EP2 add the features of EP1 plus: Enhancement Pack 3 adds: 18-inch alloy wheels are a standalone option on all Luxury models. UX Sports Luxury adds: UX Sports Luxury Enhancement Pack adds: UX F Sport adds: UX F Sport Enhancement Pack 1 adds: UX F Sport Enhancement Pack 2 adds: The UX 250h F Sport Design Special Edition adds: The 2023 Lexus UX is available in the following exterior finishes: The UX is also available in the following interior colour schemes, depending on the variant. The two-tone Cobalt interior from the pre-update range has been discontinued. MORE: Everything Lexus UX Content originally sourced from: CarExpert.com.au DAILY Today's top stories curated by our news team. Also includes evening update. DAILY The latest news, results & expert analysis. WEEKLY Get the editor's insights: what's happening & why it matters. WEEKLY Love footy? We've got all the action covered. DAILY Your exclusive preview of David Pope's latest cartoon. AS IT HAPPENS Don't miss updates on news about the Public Service. WEEKLY Every Sunday explore destinations, deals, tips & travel writing to transport you around Australia and the globe. WEEKLY Get the latest property and development news here. WEEKLY Going out or staying in? Find out what's on. WEEKLY We've selected the best reading for your weekend. WEEKLY Join our weekly poll for Canberra Times readers. WEEKDAYS Sharp. Close to the ground. Digging deep. Your weekday morning newsletter on national affairs, politics and more. TWICE WEEKLY Your essential national news digest: all the big issues on Wednesday and great reading every Saturday. WEEKLY Get news, reviews and expert insights every Thursday from CarExpert, ACM's exclusive motoring partner. TWICE WEEKLY Get real, Australia! Let  the ACM network's editors and journalists bring you news and views from all over. AS IT HAPPENS Be the first to know when news breaks. DAILY Your digital replica of Today's Paper. Ready to read from 5am! DAILY Test your skills with interactive crosswords, sudoku & trivia. Fresh daily! Advertisement Advertisement