   staff writer A rendering of Hyde Park Labs, 5201 S. Harper Ave.  An incubator for startup life science companies is coming to Hyde Park Labs, the $225 million Harper Court expansion. Years in the making, Hyde Park Labs is a 302,000-square-foot, 13-story tower at 52nd Street and Harper Avenue that will host science research, lab, office and retail space. The project is led by private developers Trammell Crow and Beacon Capital Partners in partnership with the University of Chicago.  The second phase of the U. of C.’s decades-long Harper Court expansion, Hyde Park Labs broke ground this winter and has confirmed its first operator: CIC. Formerly the Cambridge Innovation Center, CIC will manage and operate 20,000 square feet of lab and office space in the building. Located on the fifth floor of Hyde Park Labs, the CIC facility will primarily cater to the startup companies of U. of C. faculty, “helping to extend the impact of their research, discoveries, and intellectual property,” according to the university. CIC Labs, an initiative of CIC, was launched in 2014 to support the life sciences — the study of living organisms and life processes, such as biology. The Hyde Park facility will be the company’s third U.S.-based wet lab and its ninth international location. Around the globe, CIC operates more than one million square feet of innovation campuses which have shared workspace, wet labs and event space. Katie Lettie, an associate director on CIC’s expansion team and a U. of C. graduate, described the company’s offerings as an “all-inclusive lab management platform.” “It enables them to take advantage of all this shared equipment that’s on site, the staff that we would have on site, who have extensive experience in research and lab management,” Lettie said. “Often, when you’re at this early stage in your research, one of the challenges around finding the right kind of space is that the act of having to lease space — which is a long-term commitment — build your lab, get it permitted, buy all of the equipment, is hugely costly.” Tenants rent the space month-to-month; it's open to faculty members and the public. “What CIC does is we actually break down some of the barriers to those companies going from the university into commercial space by enabling them to do so on a flexible basis, at a much, much lower cost,” Lettie said. “We have the consumables they need … And they can scale (lab use) up or scale it down as their research is successful or not.” Equipment offerings include ultra-low temperature freezers (reaching minus 80 degrees Celsius), fridges, incubators, vacuum systems, biosafety cabinets, cell counters, centrifuges, microscopes and other basic lab equipment. The equipment will be rated at biosafety level 2, covering all laboratories that work with agents associated with human disease, according to Lettie. Construction crews work on Hyde Park Labs at 52nd Street and Harper Avenue, June 2023. The Hyde Park Labs development comes amid Chicago’s gradually growing life sciences industry. Though employment in the city’s life science sector has remained fairly steady over the last 20 years, per an April report by real estate services firm CBRE, local research institutions have in recent years received an influx of funding in the field. Last year, Chicago institutions received $1 billion in funding from the National Institutes of Health, a 19% increase from 2019, a quarter of which went to the U. of C. In March, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative allocated $250 million to launch a biomedical research hub in partnership with the U. of C., Northwestern University and the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Per the report, Chicago ranked as the nation’s seventh largest life science employment hub. (The San Francisco Bay Area and Boston-Cambridge claimed the top two spots.) Lettie described CIC’s partnership with Hyde Park Labs as a “bet” on the area’s life sciences industry. “The entire development of Hyde Park Labs is meant to really support the life sciences industry and that growth in Chicago,” she said. “We see it as an opportunity and a jumping off point for what we hope will become an even larger presence in the market." “We expect that the clients that we’ll be serving, or the startups and research that we’ll be serving, will largely be from the university, particularly at the start,” Lettie said. “But the goal is actually for this area to become a consensus location for life sciences in the broader Chicago region.” The partnership with CIC is the latest in the U. of C.’s series of science startup incubators. In the last two years, the university has created incubators and “deep-tech” accelerators for quantum technology, biomedical sciences, data science and artificial intelligence. A previous version of this story incorrectly reported that the University of Chicago is leading the Hyde Park Labs development. Private developers Trammell Crow and Beacon Capital Partners are leading the development in partnership with the University of Chicago. The Herald regrets this error. staff writer       
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Sunny. High around 75F. Winds NNE at 10 to 20 mph..
                                 A few passing clouds. Low 63F. Winds NNE at 10 to 20 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 2:39 pm 
                            Please sign up for our Evening Digest and Breaking Newsletters
                         
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
                                     
Error! There was an error processing your request.
                                     
                            * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
                         
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: