


June 26 (UPI) -- IBM announced on Monday it is purchasing business software company Apptio Inc. from its parent Vista Equity Partners for $4.6 billion.
IBM said the deal will allow it to use Apptio's financial and operational IT management and optimization software to accelerate its IT automation capabilities.
Advertisement
"Organizations are digitally transforming their businesses faster than ever, causing IT environments to expand across public and private clouds, with multiple service providers," IBM said in a statement.
"To manage this dramatic increase in complexity, clients are turning to Apptio's solutions for integrated and simplified visibility into technology spent across hybrid and multi-cloud environments, labor and associated resources. Apptio, together with IBM's IT automation software and it's Watsonx AI platform, will help businesses around the world manage and optimize enterprise IT spend and derive tangible financial value and operational improvement."
Related
Applied Materials to build $4B Silicon Valley semiconductor plant
Dell plans to cut more than 6,600 Jobs due to plummeting PC sales
Biden says CHIPS Act critical to national, economic security
Amazon, Google and Microsoft are some of Apptio's 1,500 clients where it provides three core offerings that allow patrons to manage their cloud strategy -- ApptioOne, Apptio Cloudability, and Apptio Targetprocess.
"Technology is changing business at a rate and pace we've never seen before," IBM CEO Arvind Krishna said. "To capitalize on these changes, it is essential to optimize investments which drive better business value, and Apptio does just that."
Advertisement
IBM is one of the leading providers of global hybrid cloud, AI and consulting expertise, with clients in more than 175 countries.
President Joe Biden, in an effort to boost semiconductor production in the United States, last October touted IBM's announcement that it plans to invest $20 billion across the Hudson Valley on research and development initiatives over the next 10 years.



Topics
BusinessJoe BidenGoogleAmazon






Latest Headlines







U.S. News // 7 hours ago
In praising Harris at Democratic convention, Hillary Clinton says 'future is here'
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- The Democratic National Convention opened Monday in Chicago with a surprise cameo from Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris and a standing ovation for former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.










U.S. News // 3 hours ago
Trump tells defense workers he will cut energy costs 'in half' by boosting production
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former President Donald Trump on Monday pledged to cut the "cut the cost of energy in half" with a massive change of energy production and manufacturing if he returns to the White House.










U.S. News // 9 hours ago
Chicago DNC protesters breach security fence near where Bidens set to appear
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago on Monday, police already have arrested several demonstrators, including some who breached a security fence. Four were arrested.










U.S. News // 4 hours ago
Border patrol agents find hundreds of pounds of meth in celery at San Diego crossing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents seized 629.72 pounds of methamphetamine with a street value estimated at $755,00, concealed within a shipment of celery in San Diego, the agency said Monday.










U.S. News // 5 hours ago
Ex-NFL player Gosder Cherilus accused of urinating on elderly woman during flight
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Gosder Cherilus, a former lineman for nine seasons in the NFL, is facing several federal charges after he is accused of urinating on an elderly woman for approximately 20 seconds during a flight from Boston to Ireland.










U.S. News // 5 hours ago
Hyatt hotels settles with D'Vontaye Mitchell's family, same day 4 suspects in court
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Hyatt Regency hotels said Monday it reached a settlement in the recent death of an unarmed Black man in Wisconsin allegedly at the hands of four Hyatt employees.










U.S. News // 5 hours ago
Former Rep. George Santos pleads guilty to federal fraud charges, faces prison time
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former Rep. George Santos, R-N.Y., pleaded guilty Monday to federal fraud charges in a plea deal that will send the former lawmaker to jail and bypass a criminal trial that was scheduled to start next month.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
D.C. council member Trayon White Sr. arrested on $150,000 bribery charge
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- District of Columbia council member Trayon White Sr. has been charged with bribery of $150,000 in contracts kickback case, the Justice Department said Monday.










U.S. News // 8 hours ago
Harvey Weinstein to stay in N.Y. prison pending retrial on sex charges
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein will remain incarcerated in New York as he awaits a new sex crimes trial set for November before being returned to California to serve out his sentence there.










U.S. News // 9 hours ago
Deal reached to keep road open when Donald Trump not at Mar-a-Lago home
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- A busy road in front of Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in the town of Palm Beach, Fla., will be open when the former president is not at the residence, according to an agreement.






 June 26 (UPI) -- IBM announced on Monday it is purchasing business software company Apptio Inc. from its parent Vista Equity Partners for $4.6 billion. IBM said the deal will allow it to use Apptio's financial and operational IT management and optimization software to accelerate its IT automation capabilities.
Advertisement "Organizations are digitally transforming their businesses faster than ever, causing IT environments to expand across public and private clouds, with multiple service providers," IBM said in a statement. "To manage this dramatic increase in complexity, clients are turning to Apptio's solutions for integrated and simplified visibility into technology spent across hybrid and multi-cloud environments, labor and associated resources. Apptio, together with IBM's IT automation software and it's Watsonx AI platform, will help businesses around the world manage and optimize enterprise IT spend and derive tangible financial value and operational improvement."
Related
Applied Materials to build $4B Silicon Valley semiconductor plant
Dell plans to cut more than 6,600 Jobs due to plummeting PC sales
Biden says CHIPS Act critical to national, economic security Amazon, Google and Microsoft are some of Apptio's 1,500 clients where it provides three core offerings that allow patrons to manage their cloud strategy -- ApptioOne, Apptio Cloudability, and Apptio Targetprocess. "Technology is changing business at a rate and pace we've never seen before," IBM CEO Arvind Krishna said. "To capitalize on these changes, it is essential to optimize investments which drive better business value, and Apptio does just that."
Advertisement IBM is one of the leading providers of global hybrid cloud, AI and consulting expertise, with clients in more than 175 countries. President Joe Biden, in an effort to boost semiconductor production in the United States, last October touted IBM's announcement that it plans to invest $20 billion across the Hudson Valley on research and development initiatives over the next 10 years.