Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Biotechnology companies Novozymes and Chr. Hansen agreed to combine in what will be the biggest ever merger between two Danish companies The merger, announced in a joint statement Monday, will see the dissolution of Chr. Hansen and is expected to complete in the fourth quarter of 2023. The new group will have annual revenues of approximately 3.5 billion euros ($3.7 billion), the companies said. Chr. Hansen develops ingredients for the food, pharmaceutical and agricultural industries, while Novozymes describes itself as the world's largest provider of enzyme and microbial technologies. Novozymes CEO Ester Baiget and CFO Lars Green will continue in their positions in the combined group. "Novozymes and Chr. Hansen share the strong conviction that our combined scale, know-how, commercial strengths, and innovation excellence will drive value for our shareholders, customers, and society at large by providing the sustainable solutions the world so urgently needs," Baiget said. Novo Holdings, the largest shareholder in both Novozymes and Chr. Hansen, said the two companies were a "perfect match." It has said it will vote in favor of the merger at upcoming extraordinary general meetings of both Novozymes and Chr. Hansen, set to take place during the first half of 2023. After completion of the merger, Novozymes free float shareholders will own in aggregate 44% of the total share capital of the combined group, Chr. Hansen free float shareholders will own 34% and Novo Holdings will own 22%. The companies said they expect the new group to post organic revenue growth of 6-8% until 2025. "Beyond 2025, ambition is to continue to deliver accelerated sustainable growth from the underlying business coupled with new, and de-risked, innovation and growth opportunities," they added. Novozymes will pay a 49% premium to Chr. Hansen, a figure that raised eyebrows among some analysts and led Novozymes shares sharply lower on Monday. "This is a large premium, and appears to be based on high synergy assumptions, 16% of CHR revenues for revenue synergies and 7% of revenues for cost synergy target," Jefferies analysts remarked in a note. That overall premium shrinks to 38% for Novozymes shareholders, with Novo Holdings transferring its stake at a 1% discount. Baiget told CNBC on Monday that this comes down to 31% if looking at a 60-day average, and voiced confidence that the "cross-fertilization" of both companies' strategic strengths in their respective markets would justify the premium. "We have ... the support of a long-term shareholder, the main long-term shareholder of both companies, and with that support in place we see also the belief and the reassurance of the potential of value generation for these two companies together, short and long term," she said. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by