TikTok was so right about these.  Every item on this page was chosen by an ELLE editor. We may earn commission on some of the items you choose to buy. As fashion editors, we can be highly skeptical about certain trends; namely, the cloud slides that set TikTok ablaze. By now, the casual sandals have made their way into seemingly everyone’s wardrobes, so you’re probably well aware of the obsession—maybe you even own a pair. Made primarily from EVA (a foamy rubber material), the best cloud slides are lightweight and shock-absorbing, easy to clean, and even easier to wear. Although it can’t be classified among our favorite designer shoes or footwear trends, the style does have serious appeal for even the most fashionable shoppers. Whether you want to wear them as cushioned walking shoes or prefer to rock them as recovery slippers, there’s no wrong way to wear these wide feet-friendly slides. And as a bonus, they make an excellent gift for college students because, yes, shower shoes are a very real necessity.  One step into these soft, bouncy shoes, and you’ll be hard-pressed to find a reason not to wear them everywhere you go. Below, we’ve rounded up the best options on Amazon, which means they’re affordable and they’ll get to you fast (thank you, Prime shipping). Scroll on for the 11 best cloud slides on Amazon you can shop right now.  We already know the cloud slide trend is all about comfort, but this pair from Rosyclo takes it a step further with built-in acupoints. They’ll increase circulation and deliver a mini-massage with each step. Sizes: 4.5-14 Colors: 19 options Customer review: “When I noticed people wearing this shoe, I thought I would never… but now that I have a pair, I do understand why everyone is wearing them. They are so comfortable. Especially if your feet swell, these are the shoes for you.” These are some of Amazon’s bestselling cloud slides, and they come backed with more than 36,000 reviews. That’s a lot of happy feet. These do run large though, just an FYI.  Sizes: US 4-16 Colors: 17 options  Customer review: “Seriously like walking on a cloud. Very comfy...My husband is afraid I’m ordering more colours ’cause I like them so much.” An upgraded bedroom slipper, these curved footbed slides from Welltree are perfect to slip into after a long day on your feet.  Sizes: US 4.5-14 Colors: 15 options Customer review: “Great slippers with great foam! They offer a lot of support, great traction, and really take the pressure off your feet. This is especially true on hardwood floors. These are probably the most amazing pair of house slippers I’ve owned.” Contributing writer Ashley Achenbach owns and depends on these bestselling cloud slides, which have almost 30,000 reviews and come in 30 colors (including neutrals and neons).  Sizes: US 5-12 Colors: 30 options Customer review: “Oh my!! I can’t believe how comfortable, lightweight, and squishy these slides are!! They’re the most comfortable slides I have ever owned!” The eternal double-buckle slide, reimagined with 1.75 inches of spongy, squishy-soft cushion. Sizes: US 5-11 Colors: 25 options Customer review: “They shoes are great! Very comfortable, lightweight, and easy to wipe clean.” These super grippy, anti-slip slides have a Velcro top strap, so you can customize the fit and adjust as you please. One reviewer even likened wearing these slides to “walking on clouds.”  Sizes: US 4-14 Colors: 8 options Customer review: “They really do feel like pillows. They are so comfortable. I have been spending $60 on Kenkoh orthopedic slides because I have plantar fasciitis, and my feet hurt. I won’t be spending $60 anymore. These are so comfortable. The price is right.” For extra arch support and relief from orthopedic woes, opt for this more functional recovery slide from OOFOS. It might also be one of the best walking shoes you come across. Sizes: US 5-16 Colors: 8 options Customer review: “It’s like walking on air. I’m going recommend these shoes to anyone with feet problems.” Before seeing this pair, we didn’t think cloud slides were the type of shoe that could be dressed up. But on second thought...  Sizes: US 5-10  Colors: Khaki, Blush, Vanilla, Black  Customer review: “These are so cute and comfortable! I love them so much Im going to buy another pair to leave at our weekend place. They’re an upgrade over my usual summer flip flops. They look more put together. Very nice!” When you need a lightweight, non-bulky option to toss into a pool or beach bag, nothing makes more sense than these Cole Haan slides with criss-cross straps.  Sizes: US 5-11 Colors: 9 options Customer review: “These slides went from beach to dinner with no issues. They have a nice grab and internal arch support. The only issue is that with my wide feet, the slides slightly rubbed, but I had followed advice to buy one size down. I think if you have wide feet and you’re normally a .5 size, go up to the next whole number.” This elevated flip-flop from Crocs doubles as a molded recovery slide for added cushion and support. Side note: These do run large, so consider sizing down. Sizes: US US 5-14 Colors: Bone, White, Black, Mushroom/Cobblestone Customer review: “Honestly, these may be the best flip-flops I have ever owned. Comfortable, cute, and good foot support. I can wear them all day.” Expand your cloud slide inventory with these top-reviewed, ultra-thick slides. They come in 16 different colors and even a few animal prints, if that’s your thing. Sizes: US 4-16 Colors: 15 options Customer review: “Every time I put them on I love them all over again!” Every product featured on ELLE.com is independently researched, tested, or editor-approved. We only recommend products that we stand behind, and the merchandise featured on our site is always driven by editorial and product testing standards, not by affiliate deals or advertising relationships. Any content created in partnership with advertisers is marked as such. Meg (she/her) is the associate fashion commerce editor at ELLE.com, where she specializes in shopping stories spanning the fashion, home, and lifestyle categories. Over the past three years, she has devoted countless hours to researching brands, testing hundreds (maybe even thousands!) of products, and deep-diving into market and consumer trends. Her favorite job responsibilities consist of co-writing the monthly series Same Same But Different and curating the fashion market for ELLE Escapes. Meg graduated magna cum laude from the Missouri School of Journalism with an emphasis on magazine editing. In 2020, one of her feature stories in the service article category was recognized by the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication. The year prior, the Society of Professional Journalists named voxmagazine.com “Best Affiliated Magazine” in its Mark of Excellence Awards, when she was on staff. Meg’s stories have appeared on Cosmopolitan, Town & Country, Harper’s Bazaar, and Good Housekeeping, among many other outlets. Her personal passions include travel, buffalo sauce, and gardening. You can find her in New York, where she lives, or on Instagram, where she also lives. She will never stop hoping for a One Direction reunion tour.  12 Scandi-Cool Jewelry Brands to Know 15 Sneakers Perfect for All Your Fall Outfits What Two ELLE Editors Are Wearing on Vacation 11 Rhinestone Flats to Start Wearing Now Your Fall Wardrobe Needs a Woven Leather Bag The Best Chunky Loafers to Wear Well Into Fall  Cozy, Cute Airport Outfit Ideas to Keep in Mind 21 Luxury Candles for the Ultimate Indulgence Everyone Needs a Pair of These Barrel Jeans  5 Affordable Shoes in Taylor Swift's  Collection Here’s a Sneak Peek at Reformation’s Summer Sale 8 Chic Outfits to Wear to the U.S. Open A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.