Comment Running a multi-cloud strategy where you use different cloud vendors for different workloads helps companies avoid vendor lock-in and lets them use the best-of-breed tools across different platforms. But the downside is that programmers have to write code to make their applications work on AWS, Azure and Google Cloud. That’s because each company connects to its services in different ways, forcing programmers to write three different sets of connectors. It’s expensive and time consuming, but Wing Cloud wants to change that by building an abstraction layer that lets programmers write once and use the same code across all three cloud services. Today, the company came out of stealth and announced a hefty $20 million seed round to build Winglang, a unified programming language for the cloud. Over his decades of experience as an engineer, Wing Cloud co-founder and CEO Elad Ben-Israel, says he has seen companies struggle with managing applications across clouds, and he wanted to build something that helped solve that very challenging problem. “We’re basically creating this API that’s common to all of the providers,” Ben-Israel said. Wing has been able to take advantage of the common elements in things like storage and servers, so that programmers can write once, and use it across these different clouds. The first thing the startup has created is an open source programming language called Winglang. As Ben-Israel describes it, Winglang is abstracting away the details of programming across these platforms for developers, making it easier to deploy wherever they need to. “The Winglang compiler produces a ready-to-deploy package that includes both infrastructure-as-code definitions for Terraform, CloudFormation, or other cloud provisioning engines; as well as Node.js code designed to run on compute platforms such as AWS Lambda, Kubernetes, or edge platforms,” the company said. Ben-Israel says that while this kind of tool has been needed for a long time, it’s a matter of combining being in the right place at the right time with the right set of skills and understanding of the problem. Prior to launching Wing Cloud last year, Ben-Israel was an engineer at AWS, where he helped develop the AWS Cloud Development Kit (CDK), a tool designed to help programmers transition their applications to the cloud more easily. This experience gave him a deeper understanding of what was required to build a tool like Winglang to work not just on AWS, but other clouds as well. The commercial version of the product, which is in private beta, will offer companies a way to manage the operations side of multicloud deployment. Once you’ve deployed your applications across multiple clouds, it helps manage the applications through a unified model. Ben-Israel says it’s early and they are still working at developing a complex set of tools. That’s partly the reason for such a big seed, because it takes some capital to build something like this, but the company is seeing signals of interest in such a tool, like a Slack channel with over 600 members, 1.3K stars on GitHub and 30-40 people from the community working with them on the open source project, which he says is a big number for such a tool at such an early stage. The company currently has 16 employees, but with the money, will probably be adding engineers over the year. Ben-Israel says that the general make-up of the engineering market is such that he has to be intentional if he wants to get a more diverse group of people, and he is trying to do that, even early on. At one point, he noted that the team was distinctly male, and made the conscious choice to find a female engineer with the next opening. “We said we’re just going to look at female engineers as an example of being intentional, and it worked,” he said. He said they weren’t pressed to get another person at the time, and he saw that as an opportunity to prioritize female engineers to make sure that the company has reasonable balance. He admits it’s still not ideal, but he is aware and trying to keep his team balanced as possible. Today’s $20 million announcement is really two tranches of money: The original $15 million seed closed in the third quarter last year and a $5 million extension closed in April. The investment was led by Battery Ventures, Grove Ventures and StageOne Ventures, with participation from Secret Chord Ventures, Cerca Partners, Operator Partners and a host of prominent industry angels. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP