Founder of BAM, a full-service PR and marketing firm for VC-backed startups, and OnePitch, a pitch platform for journalists and publicists.   Every VC-backed startup claims they have data. I’ll be on a call with a potential client on behalf of my agency and a founder will gush that their startup has insights on how customers behave or how consumers are searching for socks because of some AI plug-in. It sounds promising, but when my PR and marketing team digs in, we often find they don’t have the type of data that journalists find interesting. While many companies are sitting on a ton of data, many don’t know what data is useful for PR. I created an acronym—DATA—to help VC-backed startups assess the viability of their data for potential public relations use. Can you absolutely assure that your data is distinct to your startup? Or does the data you tout come from a third party, such as an API, a government agency or a consulting group like Deloitte? Distinct data is the most important aspect we consider. If it’s not your data and yours alone, it’s unlikely to be interesting to journalists. Recently, one of our notable clients in the HR space claimed they had a new report that would be ideal for top-tier media. The report, unfortunately, was nothing more than a repackaging of an annual report from a major industry association. In short, we couldn’t use it for any media stories. The second aspect of data we consider is its potential audience. Is your data worthy of an audience? It’s a subjective question, but a few examples should help distinguish what I mean. Every journalist reports for a media outlet with a defined audience. The larger your data’s audience, the more likely a larger media outlet will be interested in it. For example, a previous client in the security space tracked data on which types of buildings were being accessed during the first months of the pandemic. Their data identified that churches and cannabis shops were often visited throughout the early days of quarantine. Thanks to that data, we had a solid story that showed us that for grass and God, people didn’t seem to be deterred by stay-at-home mandates. Using that data, we secured a lineup of top-tier media opportunities. As a counter-example, consider when Uber allegedly flaunted how it tracks celebrities’ whereabouts. To be certain, this was data only Uber had, but the audience for this sensitive data should have stayed within Uber and was therefore not worthy of any exposure. The privacy of your data always needs to be considered. Time-bound is our third component to assess the viability of a VC-backed startup’s data. Many founders get stuck on this item because all data is measured from one point in time to another, right? True, but some data takes far too long to measure and collect to be viable for press interest. For instance, an edtech startup may claim its baby app helps foster cognitive skills for adulthood, or a climate tech startup announces it can help reduce forest fires across the country. In both cases, it will take years for the merits of either startup to show results and to be of any use to journalists. As an extreme example, consider the happiness study conducted by Harvard University that just reported its results after starting the study 80-plus years ago. No startup wants to be around for 80 years, of course. Work with your PR team to identify relevance on an annual or even quarterly basis. Many of our clients establish yearly reports, which can become consistent news moments journalists ultimately rely on. Finally, how attainable your data is will determine if we can ever present it to journalists. Often in later-stage venture-backed startups, the data teams are large and occupied by deadlines. They don’t want to hear from the comms team for data requests that may or may not be useful to a potential story. In younger startups, founders can help establish the importance of leveraging data for media relations, so routine requests become standard and not cumbersome or annoying. Further, we’ll often get a set of data that looks like a pile of code spaghetti to the untrained eye of a non-data scientist. Only large publications with strong data teams, like The New York Times or Wall Street Journal, will be able to decipher the code. Make sure your data team can package data for the media audience so they can tell a story with the numbers. The mathematician Clive Humby once said: “Data is the new oil. Like oil, data is valuable, but if unrefined it cannot really be used.” This couldn’t be more true for VC-backed startups as they consider how their data would be of interest to media outlets. Follow our DATA approach to assess the feasibility of your data, and you’ll have a decent shot at obtaining earned media coverage. Forbes Agency Council is an invitation-only community for executives in successful public relations, media strategy, creative and advertising agencies. Do I qualify? 