Hundreds of thousands of regional households and businesses will finally have access to the same internet quality as their city counterparts. After years of lagging behind, Australians living in the bush finally have access to the same level of internet as their city counterparts.  Touted as a “game changer” for regional communities, more than 400,000 homes and small businesses will have access to faster internet speeds and uncapped data from Thursday.  The nbn Sky Muster Plus Premium had been trialled by more than 10,000 Australians for the past two months. Having been determined the system could keep up with the demands of regional and rural Australia, it has been expanded.  Nbn said the offering would enable wholesale burst download speeds of up to 100Mbps at a monthly wholesale price of $65.  Previously, Australians in some corners of the country could not access quality internet connection at certain hours of the day and lagged behind when it came to video streaming.  During the trial, nbn found the network remained “robust” despite a significant increase in data usage during peak times.  Nbn said the trial had reinforced the need for regional, rural and remote parts of the country to have access to more data and faster speeds.  Communications Minister Michelle Rowland said without access to good, reliable internet, regional Australia could not keep up with its metropolitan counterparts.  “Whether you live in a capital city or out in the bush, access to fast, reliable and affordable broadband has never been more important,” she said.  “I’m excited to launch this new Sky Muster product today, which will allow thousands of Australians to access unmetered nbn data for the first time in Australia. It’s a game changer for regional communities.  “Across the Sky Muster, fixed wireless and fixed-line networks, the Albanese government is improving the nbn to give Australians access to 21st-century communications infrastructure they need and deserve.” Gavin Williams, nbn chief development officer for regional and remote Australia, said abolishing monthly data allowances would offer greater flexibility for how and when people use their internet.  “With the rapid growth in data usage, people live their digital lives through more connected devices for remote work, online learning, social media, e-commerce and entertainment,” he said.  “Homes and small businesses in even the most remote areas require access to more data and speeds to help cater for their needs now and into the future.  “Faster speeds will enable more people to thrive in the digital age like never before. Not having to worry about a monthly data allowance offers more flexibility in how and when people use their internet, and more time to do the things that matter most.” A staggering number of dodgy investment and crypto sites are being pulled offline in a crackdown by Australia’s corporate watchdog. Amazon executives are being grilled on the company’s murky development of AI and how audio recordings from inside homes are used. A highly anticipated report on social media’s effects on Australian society has been delayed after a ministerial shakeup. Our Apps