e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 When a dispute over parking between three women turned violent last September, 16-year old Dollar Tree employee Ashlynn Priestly didn’t whip out her phone to record a video like other bystanders. Instead, the Loveland High junior intervened on behalf of the elderly victim, saving her from further assault by two younger perpetrators.On Tuesday, the teenager was recognized for her bravery by the Loveland Police Department with an Outstanding Citizen Award.“Thank you for setting the example for all citizens, for stepping in to aid someone when help was needed, and for going far beyond your civic duty,” LPD officer Scott Walker said during the award presentation at Tuesday’s City Council meeting. “We are all proud of you and so grateful for your willingness to help.”For Priestly, the decision to insert herself between the victim and her attackers was an easy one.“Honestly, my family raised me super well,” she said. “And pretty much if you see someone that’s in need, you jump in and you help them. You don’t just stand around and watch because of the golden rule — you do for others what they would for you.”Ashlynn Priestly talks Thursday about an incident where she helped an elderly woman when the woman was being assaulted in Loveland. (Jenny Sparks/Loveland Reporter-Herald)According to Priestly, the encounter started when two customers outside the store became irate over a car taking up more than one parking space. At first, the suspects yelled at employees and other customers, but when they were unable to identify the driver, they proceeded to vandalize the car in question with paint.When the elderly driver eventually returned to the car, the two suspects confronted her physically, shoving her to the ground.That’s when Priestly leapt into action, shouting “that’s not OK,” and inserting herself between the attackers and the victim. She then helped the woman into her car and locked the doors.

As the suspects fled, the teenager snapped a photo of the license plate, and then calmed the victim as they waited for police to arrive. Later, Priestly accompanied her to a meeting with the LPD’s victim services advocate, a gesture Walker called “going above and beyond.”“The woman was very shaken up and nervous to speak to anyone, but clearly felt very comfortable with Ashlynn being there,” he said. “… I don’t know any 16-year-old that shows the compassion that she did to not only just wait there with the victim, wait for the police to arrive, but comfort her during the entire process and then go out of her way to go to this woman’s home.”With Priestly’s assistance, LPD was eventually able to track down the suspects and make an arrest, according to Walker. The case is now pending in the 8th Judicial District Court.Walker knew right away that Priestly’s actions merited more acclaim.“I recognized her awesomeness,” he said. “And I thought that she was highly deserving of an award. So I wrote the award recommendation myself.”For Priestly’s father, Aaron, a veteran and former police officer, Ashlynn’s actions were a “proud parent moment,” but he wouldn’t expect anything less from his “helpful” daughter.“She’s always there to help,” he said. “She helps out the weak when they’re in need, regardless of the issue or the danger. She’s just the type of individual that will put her heart out first to help somebody else.”Though honored by the recognition and praise, Priestly is leery of the label “hero,” especially for actions she considers routine.“This is me doing a normal thing,” she said. “I wasn’t expecting to be awarded and all this stuff.“If you’re a really good citizen,” she continued, “then you shouldn’t need to be rewarded.” On Tuesday, the teenager was recognized for her bravery by the Loveland Police Department with an Outstanding Citizen Award. “Thank you for setting the example for all citizens, for stepping in to aid someone when help was needed, and for going far beyond your civic duty,” LPD officer Scott Walker said during the award presentation at Tuesday’s City Council meeting. “We are all proud of you and so grateful for your willingness to help.” For Priestly, the decision to insert herself between the victim and her attackers was an easy one. “Honestly, my family raised me super well,” she said. “And pretty much if you see someone that’s in need, you jump in and you help them. You don’t just stand around and watch because of the golden rule — you do for others what they would for you.” According to Priestly, the encounter started when two customers outside the store became irate over a car taking up more than one parking space. At first, the suspects yelled at employees and other customers, but when they were unable to identify the driver, they proceeded to vandalize the car in question with paint. When the elderly driver eventually returned to the car, the two suspects confronted her physically, shoving her to the ground. That’s when Priestly leapt into action, shouting “that’s not OK,” and inserting herself between the attackers and the victim. She then helped the woman into her car and locked the doors. As the suspects fled, the teenager snapped a photo of the license plate, and then calmed the victim as they waited for police to arrive. Later, Priestly accompanied her to a meeting with the LPD’s victim services advocate, a gesture Walker called “going above and beyond.” “The woman was very shaken up and nervous to speak to anyone, but clearly felt very comfortable with Ashlynn being there,” he said. “… I don’t know any 16-year-old that shows the compassion that she did to not only just wait there with the victim, wait for the police to arrive, but comfort her during the entire process and then go out of her way to go to this woman’s home.” With Priestly’s assistance, LPD was eventually able to track down the suspects and make an arrest, according to Walker. The case is now pending in the 8th Judicial District Court. Walker knew right away that Priestly’s actions merited more acclaim. “I recognized her awesomeness,” he said. “And I thought that she was highly deserving of an award. So I wrote the award recommendation myself.” For Priestly’s father, Aaron, a veteran and former police officer, Ashlynn’s actions were a “proud parent moment,” but he wouldn’t expect anything less from his “helpful” daughter. “She’s always there to help,” he said. “She helps out the weak when they’re in need, regardless of the issue or the danger. She’s just the type of individual that will put her heart out first to help somebody else.” Though honored by the recognition and praise, Priestly is leery of the label “hero,” especially for actions she considers routine. “This is me doing a normal thing,” she said. “I wasn’t expecting to be awarded and all this stuff. “If you’re a really good citizen,” she continued, “then you shouldn’t need to be rewarded.” Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group