or Remember me or SAN JOSE, Calif., July 31, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Quantum Corporation (NASDAQ: QMCO), today announced that Jamie Lerner, Chairman and CEO of Quantum, and Kenneth Gianella, Chief Financial Officer, will be participating at the Oppenheimer Technology, Internet & Communications Conference on Wednesday, August 9, 2023, which is being held as a virtual event. Management is scheduled to host a fireside chat at 4:35 p.m. ET and will be available throughout the day to meet with participating investors.  Portfolio managers and analysts who would like to request a meeting with management should contact their Oppenheimer representative. A live and archived replay of the Company's fireside chat will be available on the investor relations section of Quantum's website at investors.quantum.com. About Quantum
    
Quantum technology, software, and services provide the solutions that today's organizations need to make video and other unstructured data smarter – so their data works for them and not the other way around. With over 40 years of innovation, Quantum's end-to-end platform is uniquely equipped to orchestrate, protect, and enrich data across its lifecycle, providing enhanced intelligence and actionable insights. Leading organizations in cloud services, entertainment, government, research, education, transportation, and enterprise IT trust Quantum to bring their data to life, because data makes life better, safer, and smarter. Quantum is listed on Nasdaq (QMCO). For more information visit www.quantum.com. Quantum and the Quantum logo are registered trademarks of Quantum Corporation and its affiliates in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Investor Relations Contact:
    
Shelton Group
    
Leanne K. Sievers | Brett L. Perry

    E: sheltonir@sheltongroup.com  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/quantum-to-participate-at-the-oppenheimer-technology-internet--communications-conference-on-august-9-301889497.html SOURCE Quantum Corp. Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today