e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Editor’s Note: This holiday season we are featuring residents nominated by community members as unsung heroes, people who without fanfare make a difference to the Loveland community.Kasie Sampish and her husband, John, moved to Loveland from Texas 16 years ago to be near their children and grandchildren, and the retirees immediately started looking for ways to be of service.“I said we’re not going to be long-distance grandparents, and so we came,” she recounted.They found a new church, All Saints Episcopal Church, and started volunteering there.Kasie Sampish also began working with Girl Scouts, something she’d done before — she said she now has at least 40 years of experience with the scouts — and the former teacher and school administrator also became active as a classroom volunteer.Her work at her church led her to volunteer with the Community Kitchen. With an interest in the arts, she and her husband began volunteering at the Rialto Theater too.When the Reporter-Herald reached out recently asking the community to suggest people who could be profiled, 15 people emailed in about Sampish, people who had worked with her in all her various endeavors.Nancy Scantlin, who worked with her at the Community Kitchen, wrote: “She is compassionate to all clients needing food, a pair of socks, or a kind greeting. As the supervisor over a group of volunteers working there, she makes the work pleasant and everyone wants to do whatever she says needs done. A great inspiration, yet never makes anyone feel pressured or bad by what they can or cannot do.”

“Kasie is active in volunteering in the schools in whatever capacity is needed. And, Kasie is involved with a group of new mothers, helping them by leading a support group,” Suzanne Peterson wrote, adding, “I’m not sure when Kasie has the time, but she has been a Girl Scout leader for years, helping young ladies in Loveland get on a productive and fun path. I feel like I have volunteered a lot in my life, but Kasie runs rings around me in all that she gives back to our community!”“Always has a smile on her face and is very kind to everyone,” Doreen Mowers wrote.Tami Wiltz described Sampish’s efforts at the Community Kitchen and running the hospitality ministry at All Saints Episcopal Church. “In this ministry she makes sure that grieving families do not worry about food and beverage for funerals. She takes care of decorating setup and cleanup for every funeral performed at the church. She does all of this with a smile on her face.”“She is quietly devoted to serving others,” Rick Parker said.Sampish said the recognition surprised her. “I look around and I see so many more people who are more deserving,” she said.She said her interest in volunteer work in the schools and with Mothers of Preschoolers came from her time as a special education teacher and administrator. One of her daughters became a teacher too, so she volunteers in her classroom.She had volunteered as a Girl Scout leader while raising her own daughters, so it was natural to continue that too.Sampish describes her husband as her greatest supporter. “You get two of us for the price of one,” she said.COVID-19 presented challenges for volunteers, and Sampish said at the Community Kitchen she took on the task of helping to coordinate preparation of snack bags, bags with sandwich ingredients to hand out to people in need for times when the kitchen was not open.Volunteer numbers declined during the early days of the pandemic, and it’s been a challenge to build the volunteer base back up, both at the Community Kitchen and at her church, she noted.But Sampish is encouraged to see children as young as 8 or 9 as well as high schoolers coming out to volunteer at the Community Kitchen. There are a lot of jobs they can do there, she noted, and she hopes it lights a lifelong desire to be of service.“To me, that is a huge thing I can facilitate.”We asked Sampish a few questions about volunteering.How long have you been involved in all your efforts, and how did you get started?I have always been active in my church, so when we moved to Loveland in 2006, I picked up where I left off and got involved in both church events, the church’s outreach programs (Community Kitchen) and various community activities.In addition to volunteering, over time it seemed like a natural and normal progression to become involved in both the organization and planning of the various opportunities and events I was already associated with.  Growing up I always watched and greatly admired how much both of my parents volunteered in the community and at church.  I knew that was something I wanted to do.What advice can you give people as they start their volunteer efforts, or to people who are trying to find someplace to donate their time and talents?For those interested in finding a place or opportunity to donate their time and talents, I would recommend that they look into a variety of different options and opportunities. Know that each of us have gifts, skills and talents that can be shared with others.  I am sure there are organizations out there who are desperately looking for someone like you.  Your challenge is to find them.  You should try to find something that is not only of interest to you but is also a place where you enjoy not only what you are doing but also the people doing it with you.  Never be afraid to try something new or even out of your comfort zone.I always keep in mind the saying: “No one cares how much you know until they know how much you care.” Whatever you choose to do – you need to have fun doing it!It sounds like you enjoy the company of the people you meet in all your volunteer efforts. If you could say something to them, what would it be?I have been very fortunate in volunteering, in that the people I have been associated with have become not only co-volunteers but very good friends.  We get together socially, which not only makes us getting together to volunteer even more fun and rewarding.  Volunteering with friends is hard to beat. Kasie Sampish and her husband, John, moved to Loveland from Texas 16 years ago to be near their children and grandchildren, and the retirees immediately started looking for ways to be of service. “I said we’re not going to be long-distance grandparents, and so we came,” she recounted. They found a new church, All Saints Episcopal Church, and started volunteering there. Kasie Sampish also began working with Girl Scouts, something she’d done before — she said she now has at least 40 years of experience with the scouts — and the former teacher and school administrator also became active as a classroom volunteer. Her work at her church led her to volunteer with the Community Kitchen. With an interest in the arts, she and her husband began volunteering at the Rialto Theater too. When the Reporter-Herald reached out recently asking the community to suggest people who could be profiled, 15 people emailed in about Sampish, people who had worked with her in all her various endeavors. Nancy Scantlin, who worked with her at the Community Kitchen, wrote: “She is compassionate to all clients needing food, a pair of socks, or a kind greeting. As the supervisor over a group of volunteers working there, she makes the work pleasant and everyone wants to do whatever she says needs done. A great inspiration, yet never makes anyone feel pressured or bad by what they can or cannot do.” “Kasie is active in volunteering in the schools in whatever capacity is needed. And, Kasie is involved with a group of new mothers, helping them by leading a support group,” Suzanne Peterson wrote, adding, “I’m not sure when Kasie has the time, but she has been a Girl Scout leader for years, helping young ladies in Loveland get on a productive and fun path. I feel like I have volunteered a lot in my life, but Kasie runs rings around me in all that she gives back to our community!” “Always has a smile on her face and is very kind to everyone,” Doreen Mowers wrote. Tami Wiltz described Sampish’s efforts at the Community Kitchen and running the hospitality ministry at All Saints Episcopal Church. “In this ministry she makes sure that grieving families do not worry about food and beverage for funerals. She takes care of decorating setup and cleanup for every funeral performed at the church. She does all of this with a smile on her face.” “She is quietly devoted to serving others,” Rick Parker said. Sampish said the recognition surprised her. “I look around and I see so many more people who are more deserving,” she said. She said her interest in volunteer work in the schools and with Mothers of Preschoolers came from her time as a special education teacher and administrator. One of her daughters became a teacher too, so she volunteers in her classroom. She had volunteered as a Girl Scout leader while raising her own daughters, so it was natural to continue that too. Sampish describes her husband as her greatest supporter. “You get two of us for the price of one,” she said. COVID-19 presented challenges for volunteers, and Sampish said at the Community Kitchen she took on the task of helping to coordinate preparation of snack bags, bags with sandwich ingredients to hand out to people in need for times when the kitchen was not open. Volunteer numbers declined during the early days of the pandemic, and it’s been a challenge to build the volunteer base back up, both at the Community Kitchen and at her church, she noted. But Sampish is encouraged to see children as young as 8 or 9 as well as high schoolers coming out to volunteer at the Community Kitchen. There are a lot of jobs they can do there, she noted, and she hopes it lights a lifelong desire to be of service. “To me, that is a huge thing I can facilitate.” We asked Sampish a few questions about volunteering. I have always been active in my church, so when we moved to Loveland in 2006, I picked up where I left off and got involved in both church events, the church’s outreach programs (Community Kitchen) and various community activities. In addition to volunteering, over time it seemed like a natural and normal progression to become involved in both the organization and planning of the various opportunities and events I was already associated with.  Growing up I always watched and greatly admired how much both of my parents volunteered in the community and at church.  I knew that was something I wanted to do. For those interested in finding a place or opportunity to donate their time and talents, I would recommend that they look into a variety of different options and opportunities. Know that each of us have gifts, skills and talents that can be shared with others.  I am sure there are organizations out there who are desperately looking for someone like you.  Your challenge is to find them.  You should try to find something that is not only of interest to you but is also a place where you enjoy not only what you are doing but also the people doing it with you.  Never be afraid to try something new or even out of your comfort zone. I always keep in mind the saying: “No one cares how much you know until they know how much you care.” Whatever you choose to do – you need to have fun doing it! I have been very fortunate in volunteering, in that the people I have been associated with have become not only co-volunteers but very good friends.  We get together socially, which not only makes us getting together to volunteer even more fun and rewarding.  Volunteering with friends is hard to beat. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group