By clicking a retailer link you consent to third-party cookies that track your onward journey. If you make a purchase, Which? will receive an affiliate commission, which supports our mission to be the UK's consumer champion. In this article Don't just go by your provider's promise on broadband speed. Use the Which? free speed test to investigate. Here we explain how to use the speed checker. If your broadband isn't as fast as it should be, read our advice on how to speed up your connection. For the most accurate results, use an ethernet cable to connect your computer to your router before running the test. If you need to test wirelessly, get as close to your router as possible. You should also make sure nothing else is using your internet connection or running on your computer when you do the test.  Find out whether your connection is as fast as it should be  The tool measures the response time – also known as latency – of your broadband connection, as well as your download and upload speeds. Download speeds are usually of more interest, as most tasks require you to download information, for example searching online for information. Download speeds are also usually what are advertised to you by broadband providers. However, if you use your broadband connection for video calls or online gaming, keep an eye on the upload rate too, as it's essential for both.  To build an accurate picture, run several tests during a single week, in peak-use time (between 8pm and 10pm) and during off-peak times. The results also only show the speeds you're getting on the device you're using for the test. The speed your provider is delivering to your home may be higher, especially if you're performing the test wirelessly at some distance from your router. Tech tips you can trust – get our free Tech newsletter for advice, news, deals and stuff the manuals don’t tell you If your speeds are significantly less than you expected, check our advice on how to speed up slow broadband. If you've done everything you can to speed up your connection and you're still getting a lower speed than you were promised, your broadband provider may be in breach of contract.  Call your internet service provider (ISP) as a first step to see what it can do. Start by providing evidence of your internet speeds (it's a good idea to keep a diary of interruptions and to regularly use the speed checker tool to build up a true picture of your service).  If your broadband contract started after March 2019 and you're with one of the providers that's signed Ofcom’s voluntary code of practice (BT, EE, Plusnet, TalkTalk, Utility Warehouse, Virgin Media and Zen Internet), your provider must give you a minimum guaranteed speed when you take out a new contract.  If your speed drops below this, your provider must improve it within a month. If it can't, it must allow you to exit your contract penalty-free. If you're not happy with your ISP's response, follow our guide on how to complain about your broadband speed. It's always worth checking to see what broadband deals are on offer from other providers, especially if you're out of contract and could stand to make significant savings. Enter your postcode below to see deals in your area, or check our pick of the best broadband deals. Compare broadband deals Use Which? to find a new broadband deal and see which providers hike prices This is a particularly attractive fibre broadband deal given the 69Mbps average speed. Keep in mind that Now Broadband occasionally implements ad-hoc price increases - for example, last July products increased by £3.50 (social tariffs were excluded from the price rise). Read our NOW Broadband review to see how it fares in our survey.  Alternatively check the broadband-only deals below for more packages we think represent good value for money. If you're unhappy with your current broadband provider, consider one of our top-rated providers instead. We can't guarantee they will give you the fastest speeds, but they convincingly beat the other major providers in our unique Which? broadband satisfaction survey.  Zen Internet is currently our only Which? Recommended Provider thanks to its strong customer score and commitment to both Ofcom's voluntary schemes and fixed prices throughout its contracts. Join Which? to reveal the full results of our broadband provider customer satisfaction survey and in-depth provider reviews, or if you're a member simply log in to unlock the detail in the table below: Read our guide to the best and worst broadband providers to see how all the big providers were rated. Latest News In 14 Aug 2024 31 Jul 2024 25 Jul 2024 19 Jul 2024 19 Jun 2024 04 Jun 2024 20 May 2024 09 May 2024 23 Apr 2024 28 Feb 2024 14 Feb 2024 07 Feb 2024 07 Feb 2024 30 Jan 2024 24 Jan 2024 24 Jan 2024 17 Jan 2024 11 Jan 2024 01 Jan 2024 22 Dec 2023 Get the power of Which? in your pocket by downloading our app, giving you on-the-go access to our reviews Chat to a live agent or send us a message © Which? 2024