We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more› By Wirecutter Staff Editor's note: Cyber Monday is toast. Some of the deals in this article may still be available, but we're no longer updating this post. For the latest, visit Wirecutter's deals page. A homeowner’s to-do list is never-ending. Whether you’re trying to make some very necessary fixes or considering a total room makeover, using the right tools will make all the difference. This Cyber Monday, nab what you need for less from retailers like Lowe’s and Home Depot. Here are the best home improvements discounts we’ve found so far.  You can also check out the Wirecutter Deals page, which always has the latest list of discounts on Wirecutter picks that meet our rigorous testing and pricing standards.  Ridgid R87012 18V Brushless SubCompact Cordless Drill Driver Kit — Also GreatHome Depot deal price: $100; street price: $150 What we like: Also-great pick in our guide to the best drills. Offers 18-volt power in a 12-volt size. Performed great in our tests. Has enough power for substantial DIY projects. Other things to know: Had a harder time with continuous drilling than our more powerful 18- and 20-volt recommendations. Read our review of the best drill. Ryobi 40-Piece Drill and Impact Drive Kit — Another Good OptionHome Depot deal price: $10 with store pickup; street price: $16 What we like: A smaller set than we recommend in our guide. Might be nice for a kitchen drawer set, or someone who lives in a small space. Durable. Readily available at Home Depot. Front of the case is transparent, so you can easily see what you have. Other things to know: Free shipping or store pickup. Read our review of the best drill bit set. Ring Stick Up Cam Plug-In — Our PickHome Depot deal price: $70; street price: $90 What we like: The best corded outdoor Wi-Fi camera. Powered by included weather-resistant cord, or optional add-on battery. Captures crisp, 1080p video with a 130-degree view and two-way audio. Adding Ring Protect subscription enables person detection, video previews, and 180-day cloud storage of video recordings. Other things to know: Matches the lowest price we've seen. Ring Protect subscription required for video recordings ($4/month, $40 annual). Read our review of the best outdoor security camera. GE JGB735 Gas Stove — Top PickHome Depot deal price: $800; street price: $850 What we like: Our top-pick gas range. Great looks and construction. Strong front row power burners. Convection and air fry modes. High-heat cleaning. Other things to know: Available in several finishes. Secure and sturdy grates. Only two oven racks. Freestanding. Read our review of the best gas stoves and ranges. GE JB735 Electric Stove — Top PickHome Depot deal price: $800; street price: $900 What we like: Our top pick freestanding electric range. Great looks and construction. Smooth cooktop with strong and versatile front row dual-zone heating elements. 5.3-cubic-foot oven is big enough to fit a large turkey or 15-by-20-inch baking stone. Convection and air fry modes. High-heat and steam self-cleaning modes. Other things to know: Available in several finishes. Only two oven racks. Read our review of the best electric stoves and ranges. Stanley PowerLock Tape Measure 25-Foot — Top PickHome Depot deal price: $8 With store pickup; street price: $11 What we like: Smooth and easy-to-operate; our-pick tape measure. Slim blade resists warping and wrinkling; stays out unsupported 8 feet. Pared down and simple. Other things to know: No rubberized body like our upgrade pick the Stanley FatMax. (Not suitable for a job site beatdown.) Read our review of the best tape measure. Korky 99-4A Max Performance Plunger — Top PickHome Depot deal price: $10 With store pickup; street price: $15 What we like: Far better than any other option we tested. Fits securely on a wide range of toilets. Comfortable, unique T-handle design. Very powerful plunge. Other things to know: Storage can be challenging. Doesn't come with a caddy. Two-foot height. Choose store pickup for the deal price. Read our review of the best toilet plunger. Ring Stick Up Cam Plug-In — Our Pick Lowe's deal price: $70; street price: $90 What we like: The best corded outdoor Wi-Fi camera. Powered by included weather-resistant cord, or optional add-on battery. Captures crisp, 1080p video with a 130-degree view and two-way audio. Adding Ring Protect subscription enables person detection, video previews, and 180-day cloud storage of video recordings. Other things to know: Matches the lowest price we've seen. Ring Protect subscription required for video recordings ($4/month, $40 annual). Read our review of the best outdoor security camera. Worx WG170.2 GT Revolution 20V PowerShare String Trimmer and Edger — Also GreatLowe's deal price: $60; street price: $100 What we like: Lightweight, with a full assortment of ergonomic adjustments. Great on grass and comes with a small set of wheels, which adjust to convert the trimmer into an edger and even a very small mini-mower. Quieter than competitors. Other things to know: Not as powerful as our other picks, but it’s a great fit for small lawns. Read our review of the best string trimmers. Ego LB6504 Power+ 650 CFM Blower plus Battery & Charger — Also GreatLowe's deal price: $200 (price reflects in cart); street price: $300 What we like: Run time (27 minutes) is long for electric blower. Focused airstream is good at lifting dense materials. Best combination of power, portability, and ease of use. Quiet. Emissions-free. Other things to know: Includes a battery and charger. Free shipping from store for Ace Rewards members (free to join). Lacks the strength of corded models. Heavier and more expensive than other picks. Turbo button drains power faster. Read our review of the best leaf blower. GE JGB735 Gas Stove — Top PickLowe's deal price: $800; street price: $850 What we like: Our top-pick gas range. Great looks and construction. Strong front row power burners. Convection and air fry modes. High-heat cleaning. Other things to know: Available in several finishes. Secure and sturdy grates. Only two oven racks. Freestanding. Read our review of the best gas stoves and ranges. Cyber Monday is upon us. Here are the best early deals to take advantage of. These Wirecutter-approved deals are all under $100—perfect if you’re ready to splurge but don’t want to spend too much. You can find tons of Black Friday/Cyber Monday TV “deals” out there. Most stink. Here are the ones actually worth your time and money. Here are the best Cyber Monday deals on Wirecutter-approved vacuums, including cordless, stick, robot, upright, canister, handheld, and more. Wirecutter Staff Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time). 