— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed’s editors. Purchases you make through the links below may earn us and our publishing partners a commission. The most wonderful time of the year is a little over a week away, which means there's little time left to find the best gifts of the year. You don't have to endure endless searching, as we've found the best ongoing holiday sales to shop right now. So if you want to cast a wide bet at Amazon or know exactly what you want at Kate Spade Surprise, we can guide you to anything you need this holiday season. Here’s the deal: Sign up for Reviewed's Perks and Rec newsletter to get the best holiday sales dropped right in your inbox Sunday through Friday. Shop holiday deals on home goods, tech and more Whether you're shopping for yourself or looking for impressive holiday gifts, Amazon is the perfect place to save. Enjoy end-of-year savings on smart tech, Amazon devices, home goods, fashion, kitchen essentials and so much more. Our top pick has to be the Ninja Speedi Air Fryer—our top-rated air fryer—marked down to the lowest price we've ever seen. Shop huge price cuts across all categories Walmart is one of our go-to places to shop and right now you can enjoy holiday markdowns on some of the best deals on home essentials, kitchen gadgets, iPads, Macbooks, laptops, style, beauty and toys. If you're looking to save ahead of the holidays they have an entire section dedicated to rollbacks on toys, including LEGO blocks, playsets, board games and more. If you sign up for Walmart+ you can get exclusive access to discounts and other member benefits.  Save up to 50% This rare Nike sale includes everything from shoes to apparel and accessories. Save on sneakers for every kind of activity, cozy loungewear and all the Nike gear for gifting this holiday season. Shop savings up to 25% off If you're in the market for any home and kitchen essentials this holiday season, Bed Bath & Beyond is the place to shop. Browse tons of gifts under $50 and $100 right now, plus take 25% off any item for a limited time.  Save up to 40% on great gifts Macy's is hosting a huge Gifts You'll Love to Give sale right now with markdowns on everything from toys and kitchen essentials to jewelry and clothing. Shop now and save as much as 40% off tons of full-price and clearance items. Shop major savings on jewelry and more QVC offers up daily deals on electronics, home essentials—including air purifiers and dehumidifiers—and tons more. Right now you can choose from an impressive array of markdowns on tech, home, sleep and fashion items.  Shop discounts on top-rated tech Best Buy is the place to shop for all the best tech on the market and it's ringing in the holiday season with big deals on the best devices. Right now, you can find hefty price cuts on everything from compact Sony headphones, to expansive Vizio smart TVs, to compact Keurig coffee makers.  Save up to 27% on portable power stations and generators That power-stopping snowstorm (or rainstorm, depending on your local climate) is right around the corner, and now is the time to prepare. We tested the Bluetti AC200P and loved it for its long battery life and easy interface. Now you can save $300 on your own, or opt for the AC300 + 1*B300 for more robust backup coverage. Big savings on TV's and home audio Crutchfield is running an array of exciting December deals, from heavily discounted TVs, to deals on speakers, headphones and up to $500 savings on select DSLR cameras. If you're looking for a show-stopping holiday gift for the techie in your life, this is a sale you won't want to miss.  Save up to 66% on laptops, monitors and computer accessories Tech junkies rejoice at HP's Last Chance sale available right now. You can shop for discounts on powerful laptops, expansive computer monitors and other tech accessories.  Up to 70% off select products Keep the holiday carols playing with a new (and discounted) JBL speaker this season. Save big with speaker and headphone deals for a limited time.  Shop exclusive deals on Samsung devices Samsung is one of the most acclaimed names in the world of tech and the developer is offering a bevy of deals on its devices right now. For instance, you can expand your mobile tech arsenal with the Galaxy Z Fold4 for $300 off with up to $900 in enhanced trade-in credit. Whatever you need for your home or your travels, Samsung has you covered. Save 10% sitewide on organic mattresses If you want to sleep soundly knowing you helped save the planet, shop Avocado mattresses for a greener sleeper. The developer is offering 10% off its collection of organic mattresses for kids and adults during its ongoing Biggest Sale Ever event. The Avocado Green is one of the best mattresses we've ever tested for its consistently cool temperature and its springy, responsive surface that responded quickly to pressure or weight. Typically listed for $1,330 for the twin size, you can get the cozy sleeper for $133 off during this special sale. Shop the Avocado Biggest Sale Ever event $300 off any mattress Awara is one of the best mattresses we've ever tested—and right now, you can snag a popular mattress for $300 off—plus you can snag up to $499 in free sleep accessories. The sale includes all mattresses on the site and offers a free cotton sheet set, two latex pillows and a mattress protector at no extra cost with your mattress purchase. Save 15% off sitewide The best overall winner of our favorite bed sheets, Brooklinen is a brand worth splurging on. And now you can treat yourself to high-quality sheets, loungewear and more at a discount, thank to its 15% off Surprise sale. Enter coupon code HOLIDAY15 at checkout to scoop the savings.  Shop the Brooklinen Surprise sale Save 20% on mattresses Brooklyn Bedding is currently hosting its Gift of Sleep sale, which means you can snag 20% off its collection of mattresses. You can get the Reviewed-favorite Brooklyn Bedding Signature hybrid mattress, typically listed for $1,332 in its queen size, for $1,065.60. Use coupon code GIFT20 at checkout through Tuesday, December 20 to scoop the savings.  Save up to $800 on mattresses Score hefty savings on the biggest bedroom essential by shopping the Casper Holiday Sleeptacular sale. This sale is offering shoppers up to $800 off on mattresses. The Casper Original is a solid start: Though not a favorite among our testers, the Original didn't wake them up randomly in the middle of the night thanks to its cushiony feel. Save 35% on the Cocoon by Sealy Chill memory foam mattress with bedding Cocoon by Sealy is offering limited-time markdowns right now with steep savings on the Cocoon by Sealy Chill memory foam mattress. We named the sleeper among the best we've tested, and today the queen size is down from $1,239 to just $799. Shop fast as the sale ends on Friday, December 16. 25% off all mattresses and accessories If you’re hunting for a new mattress, DreamCloud is offering 25% off everything on its site and giving away $599 worth of accessories with every mattress purchase. When you buy a discounted DreamCloud mattress right now you'll also get a $200 set of sheets, $250 worth of pillows and a $149 mattress protector for free. Save up to $820 on select mattresses and get two free pillows with purchases Get the best of both worlds when it comes to sleep with the Leesa Hybrid mattress, on sale right now. As part of the brand's December Delight sale, you can get the bed in the queen size for $1,699—$300 off its list price of $1,999. The Leesa Hybrid is not only the best hybrid mattress we've ever tried, but it's also one of our favorite mattresses overall thanks to its balance of firm and soft feeling, making it comfy no matter what sleep position you prefer. Save 33% on sleep essentials sitewide Nectar mattresses are some of our favorites, and right now, you can get them for 33% off at this limited-time sale. Better still, you can also shop discounts on sheets, pillows and other sleep essentials from this quality brand in the extensive sale section. Save up to $700 on all mattresses Those looking for a soft sleeper should visit Nolah. Not only can you find mattresses up to $700 off, but you can also get two free pillows with your purchase. The best of the bunch is the Nolah Evolution hybrid mattress, typically listed for $2,299 in its queen size but now available for $1,599. We tested the Evolution and found that this sleeper isolated motion well, relieved pressure and expanded to full capacity almost immediately after unboxing. Get $600 worth of free sleep accessories and $750 off mattresses If you're looking to upgrade your whole sleep experience, this is the sale for you. When we tested Puffy's Lux Mattress, we loved how soft, cooling and cradling it was. (But those who prefer tougher mattresses can choose from Puffy's other selections, or take the provided quiz.) Once you find your fit, enjoy free pillows, a mattress protector and sheet set to help you sleep well—through 2023 and beyond. $400 off the Purple Plus mattress and 25% off sleep accessories At Purple, you can get $400 off the Purple Plus mattress and 25% off sleep accessories right now. We haven't tested this particular sleeper, Purple says the mattress features a GelFlex Grid that supports your body while cradling pressure points and a Comfort Plus Core with extra cushioning and a less bouncy feel.   Get $350 off orders of $1,000 or more Dreaming of better sleep? Transform your bedroom into a luxe oasis by picking up a best-selling mattress from Saatva—and get $350 off all orders of $1,000 or more for a limited time only. One great pick is the Saatva Classic, down from $1,795 to just $1,445 for the queen size. Ranking among our favorite hybrid mattresses, this bed impressed us with its edge support and overall comfort.  Save up to $500 off mattresses and 30% off all gifts Save big on your next night's sleep by shopping Tuft & Needle's Gift sale. Right now, you can save up to $500 off select mattresses, plus get 30% off sheets, pillows and more. One essential to score is the Tuft & Needle Original mattress, normally priced at $995 in its queen size but now available for $696.50. The Original is our favorite affordable mattress for its ability to soften and adapt to the pressure of body weight with just enough give to cushion pressure points. Get up to 60% off holiday pajamas You can shop kids' and babies' pajamas available for up to 60% off during this online Carter's sale. The site is offering daily deals on pajamas and children's clothes for the holiday season. Snag the cutest (and tiniest!) outfits for the colder weather, including slippers, dresses and more. Up to 50% off everything Revamp your mini fashionista's closet for the holiday season and save big at Hanna Andersson during the Winter Warm-Up event going on now. Shoppers can get up to 50% off all products during this blowout sale and shop pajamas starting at just $20.  Up to 25% off sitewide If you're trying to get your little one excited to learn, Little Passports has the perfect deal for you. From now until Saturday, December 31, you can save up to 25% off sitewide when you use the coupon code GIFT. With their subscription boxes full of interactive activities, you can help your child learn about the jungle, space and so much more from the comfort of your own home.  Up to 60% off toys, games and more Pottery Barn kids is offering some deep discounts on select items throughout their holiday sales event. 30% off orders of $75 or more with coupon code WONDERDEC22 It is time to save big on all the most legendary toys for your little ones at Melissa & Doug. For a limited time, you can save 30% off orders over $75 with code WONDERDEC22.  50% off sitewide Get ready to cozy up, hit the slopes and host the holidays with pride thanks to over 500 deals at Academy Sports. Shop up to 50% off sitewide with additional discounts off select items, like hundreds off of family games and more. Plus through today, December 14, spending more than $50 gets you a $10 electronic gift card and purchases over $100 get you a $20 electronic gift card. Up to 60% off select styles Take advantage of the biggest sale of the year at Adidas with deals for everyone on your list. Enjoy select shoes under $100, stocking stuffers under $30 and cozy fleece items up to 40% off. Save up to 50% on flannel, jeans and more If you're looking for a cute new outfit to step out in this winter, there's no better time than now to shop. Make a statement this holiday season with discounts of up to 50% off on new arrivals.  Up to 40% off sale Time to get your yoga and pilates game on. Alo Yoga's trendy, tested and approved activewear has been worn by the likes of celebrities like Kendall Jenner and Selena Gomez, and now it's your turn to get in on the action. Enjoy 40% off sale items right now. Save 60% on sale items and 25% off total purchase Athleta has all the styles you need for working out, lounging and packing for holiday vacations. With markdowns starting at 60% off on sale items, you can grab something for yourself and check some gifts off your list. Plus, you can get 25% off your total purchase through Sunday, December 18. Save up to 50% off  Stock up on all the winter gear you need right now at Backcountry. Save up to 50% off popular brands including Backcountry, The North Face and Stoic for a limited time.  20% off with code BB20 Treating your loved one (or yourself) to something sparkly just got easier, thanks to Baublebar's holiday sale. Shop the brand's most popular rings for only $18, and enjoy 20% off everything, including custom gifts. Simply enter coupon code BB20 at checkout to bag the bargains.  Save up to 40% on necklaces, rings and more at this holiday sale The holiday season is all about giving, and Blue Nile wants to help you do just that during this sparkly sale. From now through Sunday, December 25, you can get up to 40% off select necklaces, bracelets, rings and more when you use code HOLIDAY2022. Blue Nile diamonds are high-quality and 100% conflict-free—making them the perfect gifts to wow your loved ones with. Get 20% off your first order with coupon code COMFORT20 Stay cozy this fall by shopping Bombas socks, underwear and more, now available for helpful price cuts. Right now, the brand is offering new shoppers 20% off their first order with coupon code COMFORT20. You can also save up to 15% on orders of sock packs, which can be delivered by Saturday, December 24 if you order by Friday, December 16. Up to 70% off Coach Outlet is boasting the lowest prices of the year ahead of the holidays. You can score Coach bags up to 70% off right now, with price cuts on totes, handbags, crossbodies and more.  Up to 50% off select styles With all that holiday shopping you're going to be doing, you may need a comfy pair of shoes. Luckily, Crocs is offering up to 50% off select styles right now during its holiday sale. Buy one, get one 50% off on select eyeglasses Get a better view of your holidays and beyond by shopping EyeBuyDirect. Right now, the glasses retailer is letting shoppers buy one set of frames and get the second one for 50% off with the promo code BOHOFS.  Save up to 80% off clearance items Right now, you can up to 80% on select categories and styles at Forever 21 for the holidays and beyond. Shop highly-rated sweaters and outerwear just in time for cooler weather. If you need inspiration, check out deals on winter dresses, jumpsuits and more. Shop 50% off frames with free shipping Upgrade your vision with crystal-clear savings on eyewear and frames from GlassesUSA. Right now, you can get frames marked down for 50% off with the code COZY50 at checkout and get free shipping on your order. Up to 30% off sitewide At Jos. A. Bank, you can shop up to 30% off during the Holiday Wrap Up sale. Save on tuxes, sweaters, topcoats and more through today, December 14. Up to 60% off marked down styles Hunting for Kate Spade deals? You can score up to 60% off handbags and leather goods right now when you shop already marked-down items and use the promo code 40OFF at checkout. Get up to 75% off Right now, you can save up to 75% off at Kate Spade Surprise. This includes the brand's iconic purses, shoes, accessories and clothing.  Up to 70% off sitewide With the code CHECK, you can unlock up to 70% off your entire order at Lands’ End today. The deal ends at midnight, so shop quickly if you’re interested. Shop activewear specials  Jumpstart that healthy new year's resolution with the help of lululemon's cult-favorite activewear. Save on popular products including leggings, sweatshirts, joggers and so much more right now.  Save up to 62% on Michael Kors, Adidas, Steve Madden There are plenty of ways to get savings on eye-catching styles when you shop Nordstrom's limited-time sale section. When it comes to discounts on fashion, beauty and household products, Nordstrom has the cream of the crop and there are tons of markdowns available now.  Save up to 60% storewide Save up to 60% off of everything in your cart at Old Navy. Grab select styles starting at just $2. Save up to 50%  REI is known for offering some of the top outdoor gear and sportswear in the business. Right now, you can save up to 50% off of special deals including sleeping pads, hiking boots, jogger pants, base layer tops, hoodies and more.  50% off plus an extra 30% off select styles Get ready to bundle up and get active this winter with 50% off across Under Armour's site, plus an extra 30% off select styles with code EXTRA30 through Sunday, December 25. Everything from popular down jackets to cozy fleece joggers are available at more affordable prices, so you can treat the whole family to high-quality athletic wear. Get 20% off beauty bundles Make your beauty routine complete with Alleyoop makeup bundles. Right now, you can build your own collection of makeup and save 20% at checkout. Get 15% off and free shipping Update your beauty routine while also being environmentally conscious with the help of Axiology. Right now, the vegan beauty brand is offering 15% off orders when you use the code AXIHOLIDAY at checkout. 30% off holiday gifts Stay stylish this holiday season by shopping for beauty essentials at bareMinerals. You can find makeup items for 30% off in time for the holiday season. 25% off orders of $100 or more The beauty guru on your list deserves Rihanna-caliber products. Luckily, beauty sets listed for $100 or more at Fenty Beauty are 25% off during the limited-time Holiday sale running through Friday, December 16. And keep an eye out for extra-discounted items, which can score you savings up to 60%.  20% off toothbrushes Quip's line of aesthetically pleasing, powerful electric toothbrushes are on sale for the holidays. You can save 20% when you use the code GIFTING22, and get free shipping if you spend more than $50 when you check out.  Save up to 42% on holiday packs and 25% on serums  Shop one of our editor’s favorite skincare sites, Tula, for 25% off top-rated serums. Meanwhile, browse select holiday deals on everything from holiday gift sets, starter sets and skincare solutions specific to your own beauty needs available for up to 42% off. Save $40 on our favorite DNA testing kit Looking for a holiday gift for the hard-to-buy-for person in your life? Pick up an AncestryDNA testing kit right now and save a whopping $40. Ancestry makes some of the best DNA testing kits we've ever tested, so this kit is sure to be a winner.  Get 20% off orders over $300 Give your linen closet a big refresh by shopping bedding bundle deals at Boll & Branch, where you can save 20% off orders of $300 off with the promo code WINTER22. Those purchases can also come with a free sweater knit pillow. Boll & Branch commits to making their bedding from 100% organic materials, so you'll sleep soundly knowing that these are high-quality products.  40% off select styles ending soon The temps are dropping and the days are shortening, which means all we want to do is cuddle up under the Big Blanket. When we tried this $150+ blanket for a full year, we were able to confidently confirm this product is worth the hype (and the price tag). Right now, you can shop the iconic blankets and bedding for everyone on your list, and save up to 40% on select styles through Friday, December 16. Save up to 30% off sitewide  For a limited time only, save up to 30% off sitewide on bedding, bath, loungewear and more during the Cozy Earth Holiday sale. Though Sunday, December 25, you can get one of the best comforters that we tested this year, the Cozy Earth Bamboo comforter, for $400.95, marked down from the original price of $729 for a queen size (a $328.05 savings). Save on vacuums and air purifiers Dyson is offering a variety of impressive December deals including reduced prices on cordless vacuums and powerful air purifiers. Save big on the popular Dyson Cyclone V10 Absolute and so much more while supplies last.  Save on select tools and home improvement essentials Snag a Dewalt starter kit for just $199 and save up to 40% on other top-brand tools and home improvement essentials. You can also shop for appliances equipped with Hubspace, the new smart home control app from The Home Depot. Save on select home essentials Save big on select home essentials by shopping extended Black Friday prices at HSN. Shop savings on cookware, sweaters, beauty products and more while supplies last. Plus, save $20 on your first order with code HSN2022 and get free shipping on every order of $75 or more.  Save up to 50% on select tools and holiday items Head to Lowe’s for incredible deals on tons of most-wanted home essentials. Enjoy up to 50% off select tools, home accessories, pre-lit Christmas trees and so much more ahead of the holidays.  Save up to 70% off select items and 30% off regular price purchases Feeling crafty? Now is the time to stock up on crafting and art supplies at Michael's. So much more than just yarn and sewing needles, Michael's is also the place to buy holiday décor, party supplies and more. Shop its Lowest Price of the Season sale for items up to 70% off or find regular-priced items and use the code 30ERPP1212 to get 30% off.  20% off holiday cards, plus free shipping Don't put off those annual holiday greeting cards—now is the best time to place your order. Minted is offering 20% off holiday cards, plus free shipping, with code JOYFUL22 through tonight, December 14. Shop the Overstock Christmas Clearance sale  With the change in seasons comes the need to bring something new into your home. For that, there's the Overstock Christmas Clearance sale. Shop now to save up to 70% off select furniture, rugs, bedding and so much more ahead of the holidays. Shop the Overstock Christmas Clearance sale Up to 70% off on furniture, décor, bedding and more Pottery Barn is running a massive holiday sale that offers up to 70% off furniture, rugs and more. If you're looking to spruce up your home ahead of the holidays, now's the time to shop. Save up to 25% off sitewide Find one-of-a-kind gifts for less at Society6 and save up to 25% off sitewide for a limited time. Better still, enter coupon code MERRY22 at checkout to enjoy free standard shipping on order of $75 or more.  Save up to 40% on select fire pits and up to 45% on select fire pit bundles Solo Stove's cult-favorite fire pits can come with a hefty price tag, but, right now, you can snag the Bonfire + Stand 2.0 bundle for just $254.99—$215 off the full $469.99 list price. Ranking as one of the best fire pits we've ever tested, we found that the Bonfire was quick to start and easy to transfer—making it a great option for camping trips and beach bonfires. Shop daily markdowns on home essentials  Wayfair is a great place to shop for a discount—and it’s even better during the holidays. Shop discounted furniture, couches, interior décor, mattresses, home goods and more with Wayfair's 12 Days of Markdowns event. Get a 30-Ounce Bone-In Tomahawk Steak with new membership Give the gift of a hearty slab of meat by joining Butcher Box today! New members can get a free 30-Ounce Bone-In Tomahawk Steak for free in their first delivery of meat through Sunday, December 18.  Save up to 35% during the Holiday sale We love Crowd Cow's popular meat subscriptions and right now the meal delivery service is offering up to 35% off tailgating and fall cooking essentials, including briskets and roasts, steaks, sausages, chicken wings and more. Get $110 off your first three boxes Make a New Year's resolution to cook more—and save money. Although EveryPlate is one of the most affordable meal kits, it doesn't skimp on flavor. And right now you can enjoy an even lower price. Try EveryPlate today and save $110 across your first three boxes.  Save 60% off your first box Hitting the gym and preparing healthy, protein-packed meals afterward can sometimes be a lot. Luckily, Factor can ship pre-made, diet-conscious meals right to your door (and they taste delicious). Enjoy 60% OFF your first box and 20% OFF the next 4 boxes with code REVIEWED60OFF. Up to 50% off select items From the quirky, direct-to-consumer brand that brought us the best casserole dish, you can now shop Great Jones statement cookware for up to half off through Monday, December 19. Winter comfort food and baked goods will forever be upgraded with products like The Dutchess and Hot Dish. Meals start at $4.99 per serving Make healthy eating a priority by signing up for Green Chef meal deliveries today. The customer-favorite subscription service brings delicious meals made with organic ingredients right to your door, and, right now, new customers can get servings starting as low as $4.99 in their packages.  Up to 60% off sitewide Jumpstart your new year's resolution of healthy home cooking with a brand new cookware set from GreenPan. Right now, cookware sets are available for up to 60% off, like our favorite ceramic nonstick pan, the 11" Valencia Pro. Run, don't walk, to score these deals now. Get 21 meals for free Right now, you can get delicious meals delivered to your door at more wallet-friendly prices when you sign up for HelloFresh. One of the best meal kit delivery services we have tested, HelloFresh features big portions, affordable prices and straightforward recipes. Sign up today to get 21 free meals, three surprise gifts and free shipping.  75% off your first box, 60% off your next two Home Chef is the best meal kit we’ve ever tested, and right now, you can try it for a significantly reduced price for the holidays. You can sign up for your first Home Chef box at 75% off, then your next two boxes at 60% off. Save 15% on pods and get 25% off popular brewers Skip the lines at the coffee shop by having your own brews at home with the help of Keurig. The brand is offering 15% off all pods and 20% off purchases of five or more. Save 25% when you subscribe to pod orders and enjoy the same discount on the developer's popular coffee brewers with the code TINSEL22. Save up to 25% on select appliances It's time to finally invest in that stand mixer you've been eyeing. The KitchenAid Artisan Series 5 Quart Tilt-Head Stand Mixer is now on sale for $100 off. Plus, large appliances like ranges, dishwashers and refrigerators are also discounted by up to 25%. Up to 30% off sitewide Right now, you can shop up to 30% off stainless steel cookware at Made In, who makes some of the best cookware we’ve tested in our labs. You can save on cookware sets, kitchen sets, individual frying pans and more. Save up to $140 on appliances and cookware We've been impressed by a wide range of Ninja Kitchen products—from the Foodi, our favorite multicooker, to the Speedi, our favorite air fryer. If you're ready to take your kitchen tools up a notch, now's the perfect time to invest. Ninja is offering up to $140 off tons of kitchen essentials right now.  Save $46 on the trendy Always Pan Cooking has never been easier (or more stylish) than with the Our Place Always Pan. We're big fans of the Always Pan for its ability to quickly conduct heat and be compatible with all cooktops, making it the perfect cooking tool for those in different-sized kitchens who want less hassle with their meal prep. Typically listed for $145, the all-in-one cookware is on sale for $46 off at $99. Save up to 30% on cookware and accessories Eva Longoria's stunning cookware line is on major sale, with the nonstick, nontoxic pot-and-pan set going for $180 (a $70 savings). You can also save on the brand's charming accessories, like the stackable steamer, splatter screen and pot holders. Get $25 off orders over $99 If you like getting succulent meat delivered to your door, get better chunks with the help of Snake River Farms. Right now, the meat delivery service is offering $25 off all orders of $99 or more with the promo code SRFREVIEWED. Snake River Farms is our pick for the best upgrade meat delivery system for its wide variety of cuts, fast shipping and prime cuts of American wagyu. Save up to 65% on kitchen essentials Sur La Table is offering deep discounts on tons of must-have cookware and kitchen essentials—including iconic products from Le Creuset. You can snag December deals on small appliances, cookware and more for as much as 65% off through tonight, December 14. Save up to 30% at the 2-Up sale Thermoworks is offering up to 30% off during its 2-Up sale, plus several items are selling for up to 50% off. Save big on Reviewed-approved thermometers and more top-rated kitchen essentials today.  Get $200 off the Tovala Smart Oven Tovala, the meal kit delivery service that makes cooking easy with its clever smart oven, is offering a major discount this December. Normally priced at $299, the Tovala Smart Oven is available for just $99 when you sign up for 6 weeks of Tovala meals over the span of six months. Get three streamers for the price of one Disney+ recently added an ad-supported tier to its list of subscription plans, but that doesn't mean its eliminated its savings.  If you were thinking about buying into the Disney bundle, which also features Hulu and ESPN+, you can get it for as low as $12.99 a month. Disney Bundle for $12.99 a month Get two classes for the price of one Give the gift of celebrity-lead lecture classes this season—and get to benefit from a membership of your own—with Masterclass's 2-for-1 holiday deal. Each subscription provides access to over 180 classes for a wide range of interests, and you can choose to personalize your gift with a message and class suggestions. Save 50% off your first year You can save an impressive 50% off your first year's subscription to Paramount+ by signing up before Monday, January 2. Not only does this give you access to your favorite movies and shows, but this package also includes Showtime's massive library of content. Half-off your first month Try Sling for half off your first month, plus get a free Amazon FireTV Stick Lite when you subscribe to Sling. Just $3/month for your first three months If you sign up for a STARZ subscription now, you'll only pay $3 a month for your first three months. Save 60% on a cat DNA test Today only you can save 60% on a Basepaws DNA test for your favorite family feline with coupon code XMAS.  Shop the Basepaws sale Up to 40% off pet essentials Chewy is celebrating the holidays with tons of pet-approved deals on best-selling dog and cat products. For a limited time, you can shop Chewy’s sale section to save as much as 40% off dog and cat toys. You can also save up to 40% on cat and dog treats, perfect for stocking stuffers for your four-legged friends! Save up to 40% on pet toys, treats and more Give your furry friends something fun this holiday season by shopping Petco's collection of holiday deals. You can find discounts of up to 40% on seasonal accessories, plus savings when you buy two or more packs of pet treats. Bookmark this page and check on it daily. We’ll be updating it with more sales information all December long. The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more. Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.