Tivoli Audio Music System Home Gen 2 Tivoli Audio's Music System Home Gen 2 is a blend of retro and modern, which is not so common with speakers. This means you get plethora of ways to stream and play music, including AirPlay 2, Chromecast, Bluetooth, aux, FM, optical input, and an ethernet port. It looks stylish and gives you the flexibility to use it the way you like. All of this is packed into a good-looking package that blends into the home interiors. The Home Gen 2 features a wood finish on the top and back, which looks premium. It has a central circular dial with a display in the middle and a fabric speaker grill on both the sides. You can rotate it to perform various actions depending on the mode. For instance, when on the radio, you can switch between different FMs by rotating the dial. On either side of the dial, there are two knobs. One is used to control volume and source, while the other is for play/pausing/skipping tracks. Plus, you get a remote to control the speaker from a distance. Tivoli Audio Music System Home Gen 2 knob To setup Tivoli Audio’s Home Gen 2 speaker, you need to plug-in the little legs that just pop right in at the four bottom corners. You can connect it to your phone via Google Home or Apple AirPlay 2. Ideally, I’d prefer an app from the company but that’s missing here. However, Chromecast built-in means it let me cast music from my phone with a couple of taps. I didn’t face issues while casting music. The Tivoli Audio Music System Home Gen 2 sports a four-driver construction that includes two 3.5-inch 20-watt woofers and and two 0.75-inch 8-watt tweeters. I listened to music via Spotify, Apple Music and radio. Tivoli Audio Music System Home Gen 2 back In my experience, it caused fatigue in long hours, which isn’t usually the case for me with my Marshall Stanmore 2. That being said, Home Gen 2 sounds good overall. The bass is not thumping but controlled, there’s no distortion at full volume and vocals sound clear. I wish it’d be louder, though. It’s not as room-filling at highest volume as I’d expect an all-in-one speaker system to be. Notably, you can pair it with Tivoli’s Model Sub subwoofer for better bass performance but you’d have to spend more for the setup. The Tivoli Audio Home Gen 2 is a premium all-in-one speaker system that offers good sound quality in a premium design. But it starts falling apart when you consider the price. Currently, it’s available for $900 / 104,000 Indian Rupees in three real wood finishes. Tivoli Audio Music System Home Gen 2 leg I’d rather buy a soundbar or two Marshall Woburn 2 speakers and stack them together if I was in search for room-filling sound with clarity. But none of those two options give me access to radio – which is not important to me. However, if radio is essential to you, and you need an all-in-one speaker system that gives you flexibility in connectivity while looking stylish, the Tivoli Audio Music System Gen 2 is a good buy.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.