You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: Jan 5, 2024, 12:15am Have a question for Amy Fontinelle or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to Amy Fontinelle, Deborah Kearns and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Navy Federal Credit Union was founded nearly 90 years ago in Vienna, Virginia, by seven Navy Department employees with similar financial goals. The company has grown over the years and now serves more than 13.2 million member-owners across all military branches. While the company holds assets above $166 million, it’s a not-for-profit and distributes any extra funds to its members through dividends, lowered interest rates and fees and discounts. Navy Federal is only open to members of the U.S. Armed Forces, veterans, U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) employees and their families. While this might sound restrictive, the credit union estimates that 45% of Americans are eligible for membership. Still, it can be difficult to join as a relative of someone who served unless they are a member or you can provide proof of their military or DoD service. Navy Federal Credit Union offers home equity loans and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs) nationwide. However, it doesn’t offer HELOCs in Texas. You can check the interest rates of Navy Federal’s most common mortgage types on its website. The best available rate on a HELOC was 8.50% (9.50% on an interest-only HELOC), and the best rate on a home equity loan was 6.64% as of June 2023. Navy Federal’s HELOCs have an interest rate floor (minimum) of 3.99% and a ceiling (maximum) of 18%. The rate changes monthly based on the Wall Street Journal prime rate. Navy Federal Credit Union offers the following home equity products: Navy Federal Credit Union’s minimum home equity loan amount is $10,000, which is good news if you need to tap a small amount of your home’s value. Some lenders do not offer small mortgage loans, even for home equity products. For example, Chase’s minimum is $25,000 in most states. You could borrow up to $500,000 on a home equity loan or line of credit through Navy Federal Credit Union. You may be able to borrow more using another lender. How much you can borrow depends on your qualifications and how much equity you have in your home. Unlike many lenders, Navy Federal Credit Union services all the home equity loans it originates. That means if you get your loan from Navy Federal Credit Union, you’ll also make your payments to the credit union. Here are the basic criteria Navy Federal Credit Union requires borrowers to meet to qualify for a home equity loan or line of credit. Navy Federal doesn’t disclose its credit score requirements for home equity loans. Lenders usually require borrowers to have a credit score of at least 620 to get a home loan. On a home equity loan or line of credit, combined loan-to-value (CLTV) is the total of your first and second mortgage balances divided by your home’s value. Navy Federal Credit Union allows a CLTV as high as 100% on fixed-rate loans up to $100,000 with a term of up to 15 years. If you want a variable-rate HELOC, your CLTV can be as high as 95% with a loan up to $250,000. Most home equity lenders cap CLTV at 80% or 90%. Your debt-to-income (DTI) ratio gives lenders an idea of how much additional debt you can comfortably take on, given how much you already have. Navy Federal doesn’t disclose its DTI requirements for home equity loans. Lenders typically like to see a DTI no higher than 50%, and that’s only if other areas of your finances are strong. The lower your DTI, the better your chances are of qualifying for a home equity loan.  





























 
				Compare Local Mortgage Rates
			 Most lenders charge fees, but some charge higher fees than others. Lenders who don’t charge an origination fee or who pay your closing costs often make up for it by charging a higher interest rate. Navy Federal doesn’t charge an application or origination fee for its home equity products, nor does it charge an annual fee or an inactivity fee on its HELOCs. For new fixed-rate home equity loan applications dated on or after June 1, 2023, Navy Federal will cover all closing costs. This offer doesn’t apply to its HELOCs. On a home equity loan up to $250,000, you’d typically pay $300 to $2,000 in closing costs, depending on the property’s location and type and how much you’re borrowing. You can finance most of these costs if you don’t want to pay them out of pocket. Closing costs include third-party services, such as determining if your home is in a special (high-risk) flood hazard area, ordering your credit report, performing a title search and purchasing title insurance. Closing costs also include any taxes your local government charges on the transaction. You may be able to shop for certain closing services (like title insurance) to lower your closing costs. Navy Federal Credit Union doesn’t disclose its rate lock policy on home equity loans. However, it does advertise free rate locks of up to 60 days on conventional and VA purchase and refinance loans. Navy Federal Credit Union does not disclose whether it charges prepayment penalties for paying off a home equity loan or line of credit early. Navy Federal Credit Union allows you to submit a complete mortgage application online, including uploading documents like bank statements and pay stubs, through HomeSquad. You can also connect your bank accounts for asset verification instead of uploading statements. Once the credit union receives your application, a company representative will contact you within three business days to discuss your application. Getting a home equity loan or HELOC from Navy Federal can take up to 35 to 45 days as of June 2023. The wait may be longer if your loan requires an appraisal or additional borrower documentation. Navy Federal allows borrowers to sign some documents electronically. For documents that require an ink signature, borrowers can download, print and sign them, then upload photos of the signed documents. If Navy Federal Credit Union turns down your application for a home equity loan or line of credit, here’s what you can do to increase your chances of getting approved with Navy Federal or another lender: Apply with several home equity lenders to see where you stand and shop for competitive rates. Applying for multiple mortgages within 45 days should not affect your score any more than submitting a single application, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Another reason you might get declined by some home equity lenders is that you don’t have enough equity. This might be less of a problem with Navy Federal because it allows borrowers to have a CLTV ratio as high as 100%. Between your first mortgage and home equity loan, you can borrow against your home’s market value with a home equity loan. With a HELOC, you can borrow against 95% of your home’s value through the credit union. Keep in mind that it’s possible you could get denied a home equity product for the loan size or interest rate you want without enough equity to qualify for your ideal loan. If you are denied a loan, lenders are required to tell you why, so if they don’t offer the information, ask for it. Knowing why your application was rejected will help determine what you need to change. Navy Federal Credit Union’s Better Business Bureau (BBB) rating is 1.44 out of 5 stars based on 150 customer reviews in June 2023. The BBB closed 664 complaints about the company in the last 12 months and 1,345 complaints in the last three years. The BBB has not accredited Navy Federal Credit Union, so it has no BBB rating. Ratings are based on how the company responds to complaints, its time in business, size and other factors. The CFPB’s Consumer Complaint Database shows 46 complaints about Navy Federal Credit Union’s home equity loan products from June 27, 2020, through May 27, 2023. Overall, the credit union had more than 600 complaints in the database for all of its mortgage products (including home equity loans and HELOCs). Most complaints were about applying for a mortgage or refinancing an existing mortgage. The company provided a timely response to all complaints. The CFPB does not verify the accuracy of consumers’ complaints. While these numbers may seem high, they are minimal compared to the number of customers the credit union serves. We graded Navy Federal Credit Union based on features that have a meaningful impact on the cost of a home equity loan and a borrower’s experience, including interest rates, loan options, accessibility, closing time and customer service. We award bonus points if a lender doesn’t require closing costs on its home equity products, offers a specialty rate discount, a fixed-rate HELOC option, customizable terms for its home equity products and/or maintains a fully online application process. Our scoring method is broken down as follows: We chose to focus on these core elements to bring forward lenders that offer the most competitive rates while also providing a satisfactory customer experience accessible to borrowers of all financial backgrounds. We believe this scoring system best reflects consumers’ top priorities when comparison shopping for mortgage lenders. To learn more about our rating and review methodology and editorial process, check out our guide on How Forbes Advisor Reviews Mortgage Lenders. Get the Forbes Advisor newsletter for helpful tips, news, product reviews and offers from a name you can trust.