With 189 member countries, staff from more than 170 countries, and offices in over 130 locations, the World Bank Group is a unique global partnership: five institutions working for sustainable solutions that reduce poverty and build shared prosperity in developing countries.   The World Bank Group works in every major area of development.  We provide a wide array of financial products and technical assistance, and we help countries share and apply innovative knowledge and solutions to the challenges they face. We face big challenges to help the world’s poorest people and ensure that everyone sees benefits from economic growth. Data and research help us understand these challenges and set priorities, share knowledge of what works, and measure progress. The World Bank takes as its starting point that no country, community, or economy can achieve its potential or meet the challenges of the 21st century without the full and equal participation of women and men, girls and boys. A new strategy aims to accelerate gender equality for a sustainable, resilient, and inclusive future On International Women’s Day, we celebrated women’s achievements, while recognizing the urgent need to accelerate gender equality and equal opportunity for all. 68th annual Commission on the Status of Women (CSW68) side event at the United Nations featuring the WE Finance Code. 
The World Bank Group (WBG) works with public- and private-sector clients to accelerate gender equality to end poverty on a livable planet. Growing evidence shows how removing gender barriers unlocks economic productivity, reduces poverty, deepens social cohesion and enhances well-being and prosperity for current and future generations. The WBG supports innovation, financing and collective action to end gender-based violence, elevate human capital, expand and enable economic opportunities and engage women as leaders.  
 The World Bank Group (WBG) works with public- and private-sector clients to accelerate gender equality to end poverty on a livable planet. Growing evidence shows how removing gender barriers unlocks economic productivity, reduces poverty, deepens social cohesion and enhances well-being and prosperity for current and future generations. The WBG supports innovation, financing and collective action to end gender-based violence, elevate human capital, expand and enable economic opportunities and engage women as leaders.   The Sierra Leone Second Inclusive and Sustainable Growth DPF supports several policy reform measures intended to facilitate increased tenure security for women, improve financial account ownership and access to credit, and girls’ secondary school enrolment rate. The Country Gender Landscape briefs provide a snapshot of the state of gender equality by country. Drawing on data from the Gender Data Portal these briefs are available for 192 countries and updated regularly. One in three women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence by an intimate partner or sexual violence by a non-partner over the course of their life. Young women are the most at-risk group. This pattern holds irrespective of country income classification.  Women’s economic prospects remain constrained. Across all regions of the world, women’s labor force participation remains below that of men.  Over the last 25 years, women’s participation in national parliaments has increased but is far from reaching equality.  Global Director, Gender Director of Gender and Economic Inclusion, IFC 
                                World Bank Group president Ajay Banga announced an ambitious plan to support countries in delivering quality, affordable health services to 1.5 billion people by 2030.
                             
                                How does forced displacement affect women and men differently? And how should policy and program design and implementation reflect these differences?  
                             
                                The UFGE is a World Bank multi-donor trust fund financing research, impact evaluations and data to help policy makers and practitioners close gender gaps in countries and sectors. 
                             
                                WePOWER is a professional network in South Asia that supports women's participation in energy projects and institutions and promotes change regarding women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) ...
                             
                                Global thought leaders came together to champion investments in people to build resilience, help mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, and accelerate the green transition
                             This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here. 