We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Ruth Sarreal is a content management specialist covering consumer banking topics at NerdWallet. She has over a decade of experience writing and editing for consumer websites. She previously edited content on personal finance topics at GOBankingRates. Her work has been featured by Nasdaq, MSN, TheStreet and Yahoo Finance.   Tony Armstrong leads the banking team at NerdWallet. He has covered personal finance for nearly a decade. Tony began his NerdWallet career as a writer and worked his way up to assistant assigning editor and then to lead assigning editor. His writing has been featured by the Los Angeles Times, MarketWatch, Mashable, Nasdaq.com, USA Today and VentureBeat. Tony lives in Minneapolis, Minnesota.   Margarette Burnette is a NerdWallet authority on savings, who has been writing about bank accounts since before the Great Recession. Her work has been featured in The Associated Press, USA Today and other major newspapers. Before joining NerdWallet, Margarette was a freelance journalist with bylines in magazines such as Good Housekeeping, Black Enterprise and Parenting. She is based near Atlanta, Georgia.   Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. at American Express National Bank, Member FDIC 4.0 The FDIC-insured American Express National Bank is an online bank that offers competitive accounts. Its savings account has a solid annual percentage yield, and its certificates of deposit are worth considering. The bank also offers a rewards checking account with a strong interest rate, but you have to be an American Express card holder to open one, and you won’t be able to make cash deposits.  Best for: Those who want to earn competitive yields across checking, savings and CD accounts; are comfortable with an online-only banking experience; and won't need to make cash deposits. Pros Cons Savings Member FDIC 4.5 at American Express National Bank At a 4.25% APY (annual percentage yield) as of 04/25/2024, American Express offers an interest rate on savings that is competitive with other online accounts. You won’t have to worry about monthly fees, making a minimum opening deposit or maintaining a high balance in your account to earn the rate. To fund your savings account, you'll have to link your current bank account, set up direct deposit, mail a check to the bank’s Salt Lake City office or deposit a check via the mobile site. American Express doesn't accept cash deposits. » Looking for banks with the highest rates? See our list of the best high-yield online savings accounts CD Member FDIC 3.0 You’ll find solid CD rates for some of the CD terms offered by American Express, including a 3.00% APY for a 60-month term. (To see high rates at other banks, check out our list of the best CD rates.) Banks often require some deposit amount, whether hundreds or even thousands of dollars, to open a certificate of deposit, but that’s not the case at American Express. The bank doesn’t have a minimum balance requirement to open a CD. » Curious about federally insured accounts? Read more about the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and FDIC insurance Checking Member FDIC 5.0 The American Express Rewards Checking Account, also known as Amex Rewards Checking, is available only to consumers who have had an American Express credit card for at least three months. The new American Express checking account earns a 1.00% APY on all balances, which is competitive with what you’ll find with strong rewards checking accounts. It doesn’t require a minimum deposit to open, and there are no minimum balance requirements or monthly fees. Checking account holders get access to ATMs in the MoneyPass and Allpoint networks, but won’t be able to make cash deposits. In addition to interest on balances, you’ll earn a rewards point for every $2 spent on eligible purchases using your debit card. You can redeem those points for a deposit into your checking account. If your existing American Express credit card is linked to the American Express Membership Rewards program, you can redeem debit card points for all the options offered for your credit card. Choices for points redemption include travel bookings, hotel and restaurant gift cards, and purchases from various retailers such as Amazon, Best Buy, Rite Aid and Saks Fifth Avenue. » Want to compare options? See our list of the best online checking accounts 4.5 Rates and fees are clearly displayed on the bank's website, and a robust FAQ section answers many questions that you’ll likely have about the accounts. As an online bank, American Express National Bank doesn't have any branches. If you need to talk to someone, support is available around the clock by phone, and customers can also log in to the site to chat with support. 3.5 American Express Rewards Checking doesn’t offer overdraft protection. However, like many other banks now, it also doesn’t charge overdraft fees. If a transaction will overdraw your account, the bank will likely decline it. If your balance becomes negative (from a subscription auto payment, for example), you’ll need to bring your balance back to positive when the bank notifies you. The bank could close your account if you fail to do so. American Express says: "Editorial Note: This content is not provided by American Express. Any opinions, analyses, reviews or recommendations expressed in this article are those of the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by American Express.” Current Product Member FDIC Member FDIC Member FDIC 4.5 4.5 4.5 APY  4.25%4.25% APY (annual percentage yield) as of 04/25/2024 With $1 min. balance for APY APY  4.60%SoFi members with Direct Deposit or $5,000 or more in Qualifying Deposits during the 30-Day Evaluation Period can earn 4.60% annual percentage yield (APY) on savings balances (including Vaults) and 0.50% APY on checking balances. There is no minimum Direct Deposit amount required to qualify for the stated interest rate. Members without either Direct Deposit or Qualifying Deposits, during the 30-Day Evaluation Period will earn 1.20% APY on savings balances (including Vaults) and 0.50% APY on checking balances. Interest rates are variable and subject to change at any time. These rates are current as of 10/24/2023. There is no minimum balance requirement. Additional information can be found at http://www.sofi.com/legal/banking-rate-sheet. With $0 min. balance for APY APY  5.00% With $5,000 min. balance for APY Bonus  N/A Bonus  $300 Earn up to $300 with direct deposit. Terms apply. Bonus  N/A at American Express National Bank at SoFi Bank, N.A. at CIT Bank NerdWallet’s overall ratings for banks and credit unions are weighted averages of several categories: checking, savings, certificates of deposit or credit union share certificates, banking experience and overdraft fees. Factors we consider, depending on the category, include rates and fees, ATM and branch access, account features and limits, user-facing technology, customer service and innovation. The stars represent ratings from poor (one star) to excellent (five stars). Ratings are rounded to the nearest half-star. How we rate banks, credit unions and other financial service providers. NerdWallet’s overall ratings for banks and credit unions are weighted averages of several categories: checking, savings, certificates of deposit or credit union share certificates, banking experience and overdraft fees. Factors we consider, depending on the category, include rates and fees, ATM and branch access, account features and limits, user-facing technology, customer service and innovation. The stars represent ratings from poor (one star) to excellent (five stars). Ratings are rounded to the nearest half-star. How we rate banks, credit unions and other financial service providers. About the authors Ruth Sarreal is a content management specialist at NerdWallet. She has written and edited content on personal finance topics for more than five years.Read more Margarette Burnette is a NerdWallet authority on savings. Her work has been featured in USA Today and The Associated Press.Read more Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105