Police attended the property on Monday Two men were arrested after police discovered a cannabis farm. Merseyside Police raided a property on St Helens Road, Prescot, shortly before midday on Monday February 6, where they discovered several cannabis plants, scales and a large knife. Cannabis plants could be seen growing across two rooms at the address. Officers claim that there were two "tents" containing twenty mature plants each. READ MORE: Thomas Cashman trial updates as jury told of moment mum realised Olivia Pratt-Korbel had been shot Photographs from the property taken by police also show three mobile phones alongside a passport, scales and large knife. We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info Two 24-year-old men were arrested on suspicion of production of cannabis, possession with intent to supply, abstracting electricity and possession of an offensive weapon. The men from Prescot, have since been released while police continue their investigations. Community Inspector Mark Berry said: “A significant amount of drugs has been removed from our streets which makes the local community a safer place to live, and also from the serious and organised criminals that set up the farms and exploit vulnerable people. “The dangers posed by cannabis farms and extracting electricity illegally in this manner poses a serious dangerous risk of fire and flooding to residents living nearby, especially when criminals tinker with the wiring and overload plugs.“If you spot any signs that cannabis is being grown near where you live and work please let us know so that we can continue to take action. Any information helps residents and the work we do, so make us aware and we will investigate.” What is happening where you live? Find out by adding your postcode or visit InYourArea READ NEXT Schoolchildren arrested after horrific cat attack video emerges Woman 'gave Thomas Cashman new clothes' after Olivia Pratt-Korbel was shot Eurovision Song Contest tickets being resold for £11,000 When and where snow will fall as Met Office issues four day weather warning Home Bargains is selling a £23 keratin shampoo for 99p