Tilray Brands, Inc. (NASDAQ:TLRY) (TSX:TLRY) announced that its medical cannabis division, Tilray Medical and FL Group, the company’s subsidiary in Italy, have received authorization from Italy’s Ministry of Health to distribute three new medical cannabis compounds. These medical cannabis compounds will be distributed by FL Group to pharmacies across Italy further broadening its portfolio of pharmaceutical grade cannabis offerings. Tilray also announced a new strategic partnership with Pharmaidea, a Petrone Group company, to market and educate over 12,000 pharmacies across Italy on the benefits of medical cannabis and medical cannabis patient care. Tilray Medical has an established broad national pharmaceutical distribution network in Italy, where medical cannabis is reimbursed by the healthcare system to eligible patients. Tilray’s new medical cannabis authorizations include three cannabis extracts which through pharmaceutical compounding by pharmacists are made available for patients. Medical doctors may now prescribe Tilray supplied medical cannabis extracts at different concentrations throughout the country. Denise Faltischek, chief strategy officer and head of international, Tilray Brands, stated, “We are pleased to broaden our medical cannabis offering to Italy and support pharmacies with medical cannabis education through our new Pharmaidea partnership. We are extremely humbled by the trust that patients, health care providers and governments have placed in us and our medical cannabis products and take our responsibility very seriously. Our Tilray Medical team remains dedicated to patient advocacy and education across our international markets while providing quality, consistent medicinal cannabis for commercial, compassionate access, and research purposes.” Tilray Medical is supporting ONCOWELLNESS, a cancer and patient care conference. The conference is accredited by Italy’s Ministry of Health and led by Dr. Vittorio A. Guardamagna, national coordinator and director of pain therapy and palliative care at the European Institute of Oncology, Milan. Conference participants will share experiences in daily practice, discuss integrated and multidisciplinary therapeutic strategies, and deepen the guidelines for the results of clinical trials and the introduction of therapy preparations based on medical cannabis. The ONCOWELLNESS conference will be held in Milan on May 27, 2023, in Florence at the Careggi Hospital on September 9, 2023, and in Bari at the University Hospital UNIBA on November 18, 2023.
		  Photo by Tim Foster on Unsplash . HEXO Corp. Advances Arrangement Agreement With Tilray Brands Inc.   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks