With 189 member countries, staff from more than 170 countries, and offices in over 130 locations, the World Bank Group is a unique global partnership: five institutions working for sustainable solutions that reduce poverty and build shared prosperity in developing countries.   The World Bank Group works in every major area of development.  We provide a wide array of financial products and technical assistance, and we help countries share and apply innovative knowledge and solutions to the challenges they face. We face big challenges to help the world’s poorest people and ensure that everyone sees benefits from economic growth. Data and research help us understand these challenges and set priorities, share knowledge of what works, and measure progress. The World Bank takes as its starting point that no country, community, or economy can achieve its potential or meet the challenges of the 21st century without the full and equal participation of women and men, girls and boys. Gender equality is a fundamental human right and essential for a more peaceful, prosperous, and livable world. The World Bank has committed to accelerate gender equality. In 2022, the Bank launched a year-long #AccelerateEquality initiative, to explore progress made and lessons learned over the last 10 years in closing gender gaps and promoting girls’ and women's empowerment.  A series of thematic policy notes and causal evidence briefs, along with data, research, global knowledge, and lessons from experience has informed the forthcoming World Bank Gender Strategy 2024-30 to be launched in 2024. Last Updated: May 24, 2024 Gender equality is an urgent moral and economic imperative. Yet achieving gender equality is uniquely challenging and complex. The draft World Bank Gender Strategy 2024–30 puts forward a bold ambition to accelerate gender equality to end poverty on a livable planet in alignment with the World Bank’s evolution process. Building on implementation of the World Bank Gender Strategy 2016-23, the new strategy proposes to engage with greater ambition—approaching gender equality for all as essential for global development—and to engage differently. The WB Gender Strategy 2024-30 includes three strategic objectives to: The Strategy has been shaped by extensive and inclusive engagement with public and private sector clients, development partners, civil society, and other key stakeholders through formal consultations, and will be formally launched in 2024.  A series of thematic policy notes and causal evidence briefs, along with data, research, global knowledge, and lessons from experience has informed the strategy. Last Updated: May 24, 2024 The World Bank’s key corporate targets on gender equality are on track. Looking forward there is increasing emphasis on replicating and expanding evidence-informed approaches to deliver outcomes at scale. Three recently published retrospectives feature lessons learned from the World Bank’s work on gender equality: The World Bank uses a “gender tag” to track Bank operations that use gender analysis to design actions to advance gender equality and include indicators to measure results. There has been a dramatic rise in the share of operations that are gender tagged, from 50% in 2017 to 92% in 2022. Gender Innovation Labs (GILs) in Africa, East Asia and the Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean, the Middle East and North Africa, and South Asia, generate public goods to promote gender equality. GILs conduct impact evaluations of development interventions seeking to generate evidence on how to close gender gaps in human capital, earnings, productivity, assets, voice, and agency. The GIL research supports evidence-based policy making for governments, development organizations, and the private sector to address the underlying causes of gender inequality. The WB also curates data through the Gender Data Portal, which is a comprehensive source for the latest sex-disaggregated gender statistics providing open access to over 900 indicators compiled from officially recognized international sources covering demography, education, health, economic activities, assets, leadership, gender-based violence, and more. This Portal allows users of all technical backgrounds to easily access and explore the data through interactive data visualizations and compelling narratives with the goal of influencing policy and decision-making. By 2023, the World Bank had increased the percentage of operations that incorporated GBV prevention or response from 38 in 2012 to 390. These operations exist in every sector, every region, and at every level of country income in 97 countries. In the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), a $100 million GBV Prevention and Response Project, was made possible through World Bank support. It sought to boost participation in programs that prevent GBV and to improve access to quality services for GBV survivors across different sectors. Implemented through non-governmental and civil society organizations, the project has reached 7 million people. The Girls Empowerment and Learning for All Project in Angola aims to empower youth, particularly girls, by improving access to education and health services. With support from the World Bank, the project supports NGOs delivering sexual and reproductive health services in safe spaces, including sessions for boys emphasizing positive masculinity. Community leaders support girls to stay in school, delay marriage and pregnancy. Second Chance programs provide opportunities to return to education and acquire basic and life skills with about 250,000 additional physical spaces created. Additionally, the program finances scholarships for 900,000 students and supports the creation of additional physical schooling infrastructure with WASH facilities, improved school management and quality. In Zambia, the World Bank is putting more cash directly into the hands of women through cash transfer programs. These programs help women take control of their own, and their families’ economic destinies. They have helped more than 973,000 families, and sent livelihood packages, including, life and business skills training, mentorship, and support through savings groups, to 75,000 women. In South Asia, the World Bank supports WePOWER, a professional network for women that supports women's participation in energy projects and institutions and promotes normative change regarding women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) education. By 2021, WePOWER had completed 1,400+ gender focused activities, benefitting more than 28,000 women. These initiatives included STEM awareness sessions, study tours, internships, hirings, technical trainings, and building female-friendly facilities. The Takaful and Karama Cash Transfer Program, supported by the World Bank, has rapidly scaled, and expanded since its launch in 2015. With a budget increase from $116 million to $1.2 billion by 2023, mainly funded by the Egyptian government, the program now reaches 5.2 million households, benefitting approximately 22 million individuals.  Notably, 75% of beneficiaries are women, receiving smart cards to enhance financial inclusion and decision-making. Participation in the Takaful program promotes 80% school attendance and health visits for mother and child, as well as avoiding early marriage. Evaluations show significant impacts on women's autonomy and household welfare, while incentives for education and healthcare have also been effective. The Sahel Women’s Empowerment and Economic Dividend (SWEDD) project series tests, adapts, and scales innovations with the support of IDA and the Umbrella Facility for Gender Equality. It addresses the root causes of child marriage, teenage pregnancy, and early school drop-out among adolescent girls, and promotes young women’s economic empowerment. With the involvement of governments, civil society organizations, and international partners such as the United Nations Population Fund, SWEDD mobilizes a wide range of allies, including teachers, religious and community leaders, future husbands, husbands, and fathers, to facilitate change on the ground. It deploys a comprehensive set of activities, such as ‘safe space’ clubs and reproductive health services for girls, community schools for husbands, and vocational training for women to enter male-dominated jobs. In Panama, the World Bank support the National Indigenous Peoples Development Plan Project. This project has helped increase the participation of indigenous women in decision-making spaces such as the National Council for the Integral Development of Indigenous Peoples (CONDIPI). In 2018, only 8% of CONDIPI participants were Indigenous women. In 2023, more than 35% were women, marking a 27% increase in women’s participation over just 5 years. As well, the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative (“We-Fi”): has shown the essential role of women entrepreneurs. Since 2018, We-Fi has worked with hundreds of partners in over 60 countries to support women entrepreneurs, catalyzing billions in funding to provide finance and training, and address systemic data & policy gaps. Last Updated: Apr 05, 2024 
 
 Gender Equality in Development: A Ten-Year Retrospective
Retrospective of IFC’s Implementation of the World Bank Gender Strategy 2016- 2023
Gender-Based Violence Prevention and Response in World Bank Operations: Taking Stock After a Decade of Engagement (2012-2022)
 Gender Equality in Development: A Ten-Year Retrospective Retrospective of IFC’s Implementation of the World Bank Gender Strategy 2016- 2023 Gender-Based Violence Prevention and Response in World Bank Operations: Taking Stock After a Decade of Engagement (2012-2022) 
                                World Bank support to GBV prevention and response activities have increased tenfold over ten years and are now present in over 97 countries
                             Learn about gender and development work across the World Bank.
 Learn about gender and development work across the World Bank. 
                                World Bank Group president Ajay Banga announced an ambitious plan to support countries in delivering quality, affordable health services to 1.5 billion people by 2030.
                             
                                How does forced displacement affect women and men differently? And how should policy and program design and implementation reflect these differences?  
                             
                                The UFGE is a World Bank multi-donor trust fund financing research, impact evaluations and data to help policy makers and practitioners close gender gaps in countries and sectors. 
                             
                                WePOWER is a professional network in South Asia that supports women's participation in energy projects and institutions and promotes change regarding women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) ...
                             
                                Global thought leaders came together to champion investments in people to build resilience, help mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, and accelerate the green transition
                             This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here. 