Sign up to the MySalford newsletter to keep up with what's happening in and around the city We have more newsletters Sign up to the MySalford newsletter to keep up with what's happening in and around the city We have more newsletters Four men have been arrested after the discovery of a large cannabis farm in a house. Salford Neighbourhood police carried out a raid on the Arthur Street house in Swinton this morning (March 23). Intelligence had been gathered that the property was being used to grow cannabis with a search of the building discovering three rooms full of cannabis plants. The plants have now been seized with four men arrested on suspicion of involvement in the production and supply of cannabis. They remain in police custody for questioning. The bust was made after members of the public shared information with police. READ MORE: Air ambulance lands after serious crash shuts road with woman rushed to hospital Sgt Peter MacFarlane said: "Locating a cannabis farm is a great result for the team who are gathering intelligence and working hard to crackdown on drug-related crime across Salford. Farms of this nature are also incredibly dangerous to other occupants in the area.  "The building itself is still being made safe due to the amount of wiring around the plants. Criminals running these types of enterprises have no regard for public safety and in these conditions, an electrical fault from bad wiring could easily start a fire and endanger lives. "The arrests and seizures therefore go someway towards disrupting the supply of illegal drugs and the criminality that comes with it, and will also make our communities safer. "This operation was intelligence led and a huge part of our intelligence comes from members of the public sharing information with us. If you have suspicions about a crime taking place please report it so we can take positive action and bring those responsible to justice." For more of today's top stories click here. READ NEXT: 'Go on, ring the police... see what's going to happen' 'Your house is marked now - you're dead': Trio's sickening attack on brave neighbour who tried to come to rescue of their victim Man yelled 'send me the bill' as he dumped his waste outside recycling centre Police want to identify this man after early hours nightclub attack Man turns up at police station and is arrested after officers storm home