Outnumbered favourite Daniel Roche, who played hyperactive Ben in the BBC comedy, is now 23 and has been spending a few months travelling around South East Asia  Child star Daniel Roche has posed with packets of green leaves that appear to be marijuana on social media.   The former Outnumbered star, who played tricky Ben on hit the BBC comedy, is all grown up and is currently travelling around Asia.  The 23-year-old shows off what seems to be bags of cannabis on a night out with friends. In a number of snaps, the floppy-haired telly favourite pushes the airtight sealed silver package up to the camera and grins away.  He captioned the Instagram post: “No case in the Golden Triangle.”  There is no suggestion that Daniel had taken any drugs. A friend replied to his photos with a number of smoke emojis. Back in 2017, Daniel allegedly sang some about Class B drug Ketamine at the BoomTown Fair festival in Winchester. The lad seems to be enjoying his trip and has kept fans updated with what he's been doing. Other snaps show him having the time of his life in a jungle, riding a motorbike on a mountain and partying with pals. It's more than 15 years since he found fame on the comedy.  The BBC sitcom, which ran for five series from 2007 to 2014, centred on the troublesome Brockman clan - led by dad Pete, Hugh Dennis, and mum Sue, Claire Skinner.   Their children included hyperactive Ben, siblings Jake and Karen were played by Tyger Drew-Honey, now 26, and Ramona Marquez, now 21.   Ben was known on the series - which was last on screen for a Christmas special in 2016 - for his hypothetical questions and wild stories, with him the family's energetic middle child.  Daniel now sporting a tattoo, enjoying time with his friends and having even reunited with his former on-screen siblings back in 2021.  However, he doesn't appear to have pursued acting since the Outnumbered ended in 2016, with the Sun reporting that he went on to study at King's College London.  He's said to have played rugby whilst at university and it's been reported he now plays at a semi-professional level. Mirror Online have approached his reps for comment. Celeb obsessed? Get a daily dose of showbiz gossip direct to your inbox