The female-led, vertically-integrated cannabis company Gold Flora Corporation GRAM launched CURRENT, the California company's newest retail brand. CURRENT was developed to meet market demand for curated flavor-focused craft flower.  The four distinct flavor classes including Rare Gas, Rare Fruit, Rare Haze and Rare Dessert, CURRENT is now available at all 15 Gold Flora retail locations, including Airfield Supply Company, Caliva, Coastal, Calma, King's Crew, Varda, Higher Level and Deli. To celebrate the launch, Gold Flora will be giving away branded swag and hosting in-store activations at select locations. Statewide third-party retail distribution is expected to begin in November 2023. "Current was inspired by the passion of cannabis connoisseurs and their endless search for new and rich flavors," stated Phillip Hague, chief cultivation officer of Gold Flora. "We are committed to growing not only high-quality indoor flower that celebrates flavor and experience but also utilizing our unique capabilities and leveraging our full vertical integration to push boundaries and innovate. This is just the beginning of our exploration into how we maximize the expression of these cultivars and we are incredibly excited about the ability to deliver our most flavorful finds with CURRENT." See Also: Gold Flora And The Parent Company Complete Merger Hague continued, "We are developing a full spectrum of products that can evolve to meet a diversified consumer base. By capitalizing on our balance of scale and craft – combined with our unique ability to understand consumer insights via our growing retail network, we can fully understand and act on what California consumers want, then grow it, package it, and distribute it with speed and confidence." Gold Flora shares closed Thursday market session 1.56% lower at $0.16 per share.  Photo: Courtesy of Gold Flora      © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about. Click on the image for more info. Want to understand what this means for the future of the industry?  Hear directly for top executives, investors and policymakers at the Benzinga Cannabis Capital Conference, coming to Chicago this Oct. 8-9.  Get your tickets now before prices surge by following this link.