
  A child has allegedly been found with cannabis after a stop and search by officers in Orpington.
 
  Police received information regarding a group of three children outside Priory Gardens.
 
  Pictures from officers show a wrap and two cannabis cigarettes.
 
  When they attended one was allegedly found with cannabis, which was seized by police.
 
    Following information received, the Team stopped three children outside Priory Gardens, with one in posession of a quantity of Cannabis @MPSOrpington pic.twitter.com/ATObLyC9Vo
 
  @MPSOrpington tweeted: “Following information received, the Team stopped three children outside Priory Gardens, with one in possession of a quantity of Cannabis.”
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.