High optical performance suits outdoor and industrial environments Luminus Devices announces the launch and immediate availability of a new high efficacy family of 7070 mid-power LEDs designed for high-performance and long-term reliability.  These new MP-7070 LEDs are available in both a 12V (MP-7070-4600 series) and 36V (MP 7070-T200 series) and are made with sulphur-resistance coating technology for long lumen maintenance in outdoor and industrial environments. While nominal drive conditions operate the device around 8W, customers can use these products in a range from 5W to 15W to maximise the lumen/Watt or lumen/$ values, respectively. What makes the MP-7070s stand out from other 7070 LEDs?  Tom Jory, VP of Illumination Marketing said: “Customers have been asking for a powerful, robust SMT emitter with high efficacy, reliability, affordability, and Luminus’ outstanding quality of light.  Our engineers have delivered on all of these requests and further differentiated from the competition by packing it all into a 6.3mm diameter round LES, which delights optical engineers with a small source size for optimal efficiency in narrow-beam directional optical systems.” In a square 7x7mm package, with a 6.3mm diameter round light emitting surface (LES), the MP-7070 delivers excellent optical performance in both narrow beam and wide beam flood light applications.  While competitors’ 7070 products have a square LES, Luminus’ round LES delivers higher optical efficiency and attractive beam shape, especially in narrow beam optical systems. In addition, they are compatible with both automatic placement equipment, and infrared reflow solder processes, and are RoHs and REACH compliant.  The MP-7070 LEDs allow illumination engineers and designers to develop lighting solutions with maximum efficacy, brightness, and overall quality.     Compound Semiconductor™ is an Angel Business Communications publication.               You may choose to subscribe to the Compound Semiconductor Magazine, the Compound Semiconductor Newsletter, or both. You may also request additional information if required, before submitting your application.  Please complete all fields below.These will only be used to evaluate your application, and to ensure your requested subscription reaches you.  We will not share your personal details with anyone else without your permission.  Please see our Privacy Policy if you have any concerns.