CELLINK, a global leader in bioprinting, today announced the release of the third generation of their LUMEN X™ product – the new standard for benchtop DLP bioprinting. This cutting-edge product boasts a significant improvement in printer resolution, and developments in advanced features including the ability to develop multi-stiffness constructs, microfluidic systems, and a design that caters to cell printing.  Image Credit: CELLINK The LUMEN X Gen 3 is designed to meet the needs of researchers and scientists who require high-resolution bioprinting capabilities. The product’s increased resolution in the X, Y and Z-dimensions, allows for precise and accurate printing of detailed biomimetic structures the printing of highly detailed structures with precision and accuracy. Complimented with an updated Photoink™ portfolio, reformulated for optimal printing on CELLINK light-based systems. The LUMEN X provides users the ideal starting point for the DLP bioprinting journey. With industrial grade components, and exceptional control on temperature, the third generation ensures consistent printing of a wide range of materials.   Cecilia Edebo, CEO of CELLINK stated, “The LUMEN X Gen 3 represents a significant advancement in our DLP bioprinting offering. Our team has been working tirelessly to create a product that meets the needs of our customers, and we are excited to bring this groundbreaking technology to the market. With the third generation, we are filling an important gap in the market for entering the DLP bioprinting world, and we are proud to be defining the landscape on both extrusion- and light-based products.”  The LUMEN X is available for purchase immediately. For more information, visit CELLINK’s website.  Posted in: Business / Finance | Device / Technology News Tags: Bioprinting, Cell, Technology Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: APA CELLINK. (2023, May 05). CELLINK Unveils Third Generation LUMEN X – The New Standard for DLP Bioprinting. News-Medical. Retrieved on August 19, 2024 from https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230505/CELLINK-Unveils-Third-Generation-LUMEN-X-e28093-The-New-Standard-for-DLP-Bioprinting.aspx. MLA CELLINK. "CELLINK Unveils Third Generation LUMEN X – The New Standard for DLP Bioprinting". News-Medical. 19 August 2024. <https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230505/CELLINK-Unveils-Third-Generation-LUMEN-X-e28093-The-New-Standard-for-DLP-Bioprinting.aspx>. Chicago CELLINK. "CELLINK Unveils Third Generation LUMEN X – The New Standard for DLP Bioprinting". News-Medical. https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230505/CELLINK-Unveils-Third-Generation-LUMEN-X-e28093-The-New-Standard-for-DLP-Bioprinting.aspx. (accessed August 19, 2024). Harvard CELLINK. 2023. CELLINK Unveils Third Generation LUMEN X – The New Standard for DLP Bioprinting. News-Medical, viewed 19 August 2024, https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230505/CELLINK-Unveils-Third-Generation-LUMEN-X-e28093-The-New-Standard-for-DLP-Bioprinting.aspx. Cancel reply to comment John Yates In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024, we spoke to Professor John Yates about capturing cardiomyocyte cell-to-cell heterogeneity via shotgun top-down proteomics. Tim Simpson Hologic’s Tim Simpson Discusses the Future of Cervical Cancer Screening. Maria Marco In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024 in San Diego, Maria Marco discusses her research on the health benefits, safety, and waste reduction potential of fermented foods, and the microbial processes involved in their production. 

                                                  
                                                        News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                                        with these terms and conditions.
                                                        Please note that medical information found
                                                        on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                                        between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
                                                  
                                                  

                                             Last Updated: Monday 19 Aug 2024  News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site Owned and operated by AZoNetwork, © 2000-2024 
                Your AI Powered Scientific Assistant
             Hi, I'm Azthena, you can trust me to find commercial scientific answers from News-Medical.net. A few things you need to know before we start. Please read and accept to continue. Great. Ask your question. 
                Azthena may occasionally provide inaccurate responses.
Read the full terms.
             Terms 
            While we only use edited and approved content for Azthena
            answers, it may on occasions provide incorrect responses.
            Please confirm any data provided with the related suppliers or
            authors. We do not provide medical advice, if you search for
            medical information you must always consult a medical
            professional before acting on any information provided.
         
            Your questions, but not your email details will be shared with
            OpenAI and retained for 30 days in accordance with their
            privacy principles.
         
            Please do not ask questions that use sensitive or confidential
            information.
         Read the full Terms & Conditions. Provide Feedback