Our professional and creative team here at the Centre for Extended Learning (CEL) supports the design, development and delivery of online credit and non-credit courses for the University of Waterloo and advocates for adult, part-time and online learners. The following are only a few of the areas where we can help you with your virtual teaching: Contact us today to get started. The University of Waterloo’s Online Teaching Awards recognize teaching and course design excellence in fully online undergraduate or graduate-level courses. Please nominate a course author or instructor today. The University of Waterloo’s Online Teaching Awards recognize teaching and course design excellence in fully online courses. A leader in digital teaching and learning, Waterloo has a comprehensive Digital Learning Strategy, and many exceptional people supporting our students in their learning journeys, and it’s time to celebrate two outstanding contributors! The Centre for Extended Learning (CEL) and the Office of the Associate Vice-President, Academic congratulate Daniel Harley and David Ha, winners of the 2023 Online Teaching awards.  The University of Waterloo’s Online Teaching Awards recognize teaching and course design excellence in fully online undergraduate- or graduate-level courses and programs. Every year the Office of the Associate Vice-President, Academic and the Centre for Extended Learning recognize the great work that Waterloo’s instructors are doing in the virtual classroom. Please help us identify these remarkable people by nominating an instructor or an online course author. East Campus 3 (EC3)
519-888-4567, ext 44050extendedlearning@uwaterloo.ca Contact Us For prospective students Why study online What to expect How to apply For current students Find an online course Student resources Exam information For instructors Quality Guidelines See our work Teaching resources The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg, and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is co-ordinated within the Office of Indigenous Relations.