
					Updated: Jun 10, 2024, 5:16pm 
				 Reviewed By Reviewed By It’s hard to imagine two technologies more of the zeitgeist than artificial intelligence (AI) and cryptocurrency, so it’s no surprise that the two fields converged in the form of AI cryptocurrencies. We’ve looked at some of the biggest AI cryptocurrencies by market capitalization, according to CoinMarketCap*. But first, here’s a primer on what they are. Featured Partners 1 Mudrex Legacy Over 2 Million Investors Trust Mudrex for Their Crypto Investments Security Mudrex is Indian Govt. recognized platform with 100% insured deposits stored in encrypted wallets Fees Enjoy zero crypto deposit fees and industry's best fee rates. On Mudrex's secure application 2 BlackBull Markets Multiple Award-Winning Broker Listed On Deloitte Fast 50 index, 2022 Best Global FX Broker - ForexExpo Dubai October 2022 & more Best-In-Class for Offering of Investments Trade 26,000+ assets with no minimum deposit Customer Support 24/7 dedicated support & easy to sign up On BlackBull Market's secure website 3 Uphold Grow Your Passive Income 250+ cryptoassets available Why Uphold Just $1 minimum deposit Fees Enjoy 0% bank deposit & withdrawal fees* On Uphold's Website Please invest carefully, your capital is at risk The cryptocurrency market is largely unregulated in India, so you will have no protection if something goes wrong. Buying cryptocurrency is speculative and your capital is at risk, meaning you may lose some or all of your money. Cryptocurrencies are a form of digital currency. They can be spent or traded, but they’re not issued by central banks or stored in traditional financial institutions. Instead, they’re decentralized. This means records of balances and transactions are’t controlled by banks or payment providers, instead they’re held by people who volunteer to keep track of everything using specialist software. Volunteers participate because in doing so they get the opportunity to earn valuable cryptocurrency without having to pay for it. Huge speculation on cryptocurrencies’ values has led to a boom in both the number and value of assets in the space over the last few years – peaking in November 2021 before crashing in the spring of 2022. Artificial intelligence (AI) is a field of computer science enabling machines to make decisions based on data, increasingly mimicking human intelligence. Recent popular examples include AI-generated artwork – where a program interprets user prompts, written in natural language, to create pieces of digital art, and ChatGPT, an application which is able to ‘write’ according to a brief submitted by the user. In both cases, the outputs are close enough to what a real person might create that they could be mistaken for human creation, and these applications are getting increasingly sophisticated.  Use cases for AI are effectively limitless, and the technology has found its way into the cryptocurrency space. AI cryptocurrencies are tokens that power AI blockchain platforms such as The Graph and SingularityNET. Users spend tokens in order to use the platforms and the benefits of their integrated artificial intelligence. We’ve looked at the 10 biggest AI crypto projects according to their market caps to see how AI is being used within the sector. Market cap: INR 326.27 billion Render is about “GPU computing,” the ability to provide enormous amounts of computing power through graphics processing units (GPUs). Previously, this meant computing power for developers, artists, web studios, and gamers, all needing to “render” graphics for their entertainment projects. But now, it means computing power for AI projects.  RNDR is currently trading at INR 846.25 and is down by 26.76% from its peak in March 2024 at INR 1,135. Market cap: INR 221.41 billion The Graph is a protocol for indexing and querying data from blockchains in a similar way that Google indexes and queries data from websites. Indexing blockchain data can be challenging, but The Graph aims to change that by organizing data into smaller “subgraphs”.  Its native, Ethereum-based cryptocurrency, GRT, is worth INR 23.29 as of May 8, 2024, 90.44% down from its February 2021 peak of INR 240.11. Market cap: INR 101.10 billion  SingularityNET is a blockchain platform that allows anyone to build, share and monetise AI services. It has an internal marketplace where users can browse and pay for AI services in the platform’s native cryptocurrency – AGIX. Developers can make money from AI solutions and models without having to fully build apps for end users. Similarly, developers can buy AI solutions and models to use in their applications. AGIX is worth INR 78.69. Back in January 2018, AGIX peaked at INR 155.24 and is down by 49.36% now. Market cap:  INR 159.77 billion Fetch.ai is an AI and machine learning platform based on the blockchain. Fetch.ai is all about automating business tasks such as data processing and trading. Its native cryptocurrency, FET, is used to pay for transactions on the network. At the time of writing, FET is valued at INR 188.15, 35.08% down from its September 2021 peak of INR 290.14. Market cap: INR 44.53 billion Ocean Protocol is a Ethereum-blockchain-based platform that allows businesses and individuals to exchange and monetise data and data-based services. This might involve making data available to researchers and startups without the data being relinquished by the data holders. OCEAN is currently trading at INR 78.30, 51.46% down from its April 2021 peak of INR 162.12. Market cap: INR 18.91 billion iExec is an AI blockchain platform that allows users to monetise their computing power, and to access on-demand cloud computing resources. RLC is the native cryptocurrency of iExec, and is used to pay for using services on the platform. RLC is currently trading at INR 260.61, 80.86% down from an all-time high of INR 1,357.77.90 in October of 2021. Market cap: INR 14.02 billion Numerai is an AI blockchain network that acts as a hedge fund, using artificial intelligence and machine learning to make investments in stock markets globally. Numeraire (NMR) is the native currency of Numerai, facilitating payments within the network. It’s currently trading at INR 2,236.80, 84.36% down from a peak of INR 14,071.03 in 2017. Market cap: INR 9.29 billion dKargo is a blockchain that uses AI to solve trust issues within the logistics sector. It does this by providing participants with credible data, thanks to the indelible nature of blockchain technology. dKargo’s native toke, DKA, is currently worth around INR 1.97, down from INR 2.54, 95.75% down from its peak of INR 58.96 in the winter of 2021. Market cap: INR 11.43 billion Phala Network is another AI-augmented blockchain platform concerning cloud computing, but with a focus on privacy. It’s positioned as a decentralized alternative to traditional cloud computing services such as Amazon AWS or Google Cloud. PHA is the network’s native currency, and is used to pay for cloud services within Phala Network. It currently trades at INR 15.88, 86.51% down from a peak of INR 117.71 in May 2021. Market cap: INR 10.90 billion Covalent is a network that aggregates data from various blockchains, including Ethereum, Polygon and Avalanche. Developers can then leverage this multi-chain data to develop apps that solve problems in sectors such as finance and retail. CQT is the native token that powers the network. Its current value stands at INR INR 15.88. At its peak in August 2021, CQT was worth INR 175.24 and is now down by 90.38%. *Market cap figures accurate as of May 8, 2024 from CoinMarketCap Many AI cryptocurrencies can be bought crypto exchanges such as WazirX and CoinDCX, just like traditional cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum. To trade, you’ll need to open an account – which often involves some identity verification steps, and deposit some fiat currency. You’ll then be able to navigate to the page of the AI cryptocurrency you want to buy within the exchange, enter the amount you’d like to buy and execute the trade. Most exchanges offer a free crypto wallet facility in which to store your private and public keys – the credentials necessary to spend or trade your crypto assets. If you prefer, you can store your keys in an offline cold wallet.. Cold wallets are arguably more secure than hot wallets, since hackers can’t target them as easily. However, if you lose your login details for your cold wallet, you won’t get the support regaining access to your keys that you’d get with a hot wallet. Whether AI cryptocurrencies are safe – either from hackers or from the volatility of the crypto market – depends on how you store them and your attitude to risk. On the latter, no crypto currency is safe from market instability, and 2022 was the year in which crypto’s volatility was laid bare.  Bitcoin, for example, started the year at around INR 2 million and ended it at around INR 1 million (-56%), but not before rising to roughly INR 3 million in March. Ethereum had a similar fate, starting 2022 in the region of INR 196,928.40 INR 1 lakh and ending the year at just under INR 98,463.29. AI cryptocurrencies are no different. GRT fell from around INR  43.32 in January 2022 to INR 5.90 (-86%) in December, while AGIX fell from around INR 13.78 to around INR 2.95 (-78%). For hackers, crypto wallets and exchanges are likely to remain a target for criminals – leaving people’s assets at the mercy of the security that they and their exchanges implement.  Cold wallets are a hedge against hacks, but they become vulnerable once connected to a web-connected computer.  Featured Partners 1 Mudrex Legacy Over 2 Million Investors Trust Mudrex for Their Crypto Investments Security Mudrex is Indian Govt. recognized platform with 100% insured deposits stored in encrypted wallets Fees Enjoy zero crypto deposit fees and industry's best fee rates. On Mudrex's secure application 2 BlackBull Markets Multiple Award-Winning Broker Listed On Deloitte Fast 50 index, 2022 Best Global FX Broker - ForexExpo Dubai October 2022 & more Best-In-Class for Offering of Investments Trade 26,000+ assets with no minimum deposit Customer Support 24/7 dedicated support & easy to sign up On BlackBull Market's secure website 3 Uphold Grow Your Passive Income 250+ cryptoassets available Why Uphold Just $1 minimum deposit Fees Enjoy 0% bank deposit & withdrawal fees* On Uphold's Website Please invest carefully, your capital is at risk Explore Our Top Cryptocurrency Picks Learn More About Cryptocurrency  
						Staff writer Mark Hooson has been a journalist within the personal finance, consumer affairs and fraud sectors for more than 10 years. He is also Forbes Advisor UK’s resident tech expert. Mark says he thrives on making ‘complicated and dry topics easier to digest’.
					 
						I am the UK editor for Forbes Advisor. I have been writing about all aspects of household finance for over 30 years, aiming to provide information that will help readers make good choices with their money. The financial world can be complex and challenging, so I'm always striving to make it as accessible, manageable and rewarding as possible.
					