In our 2023 e-mountainbike test under € 7,000, the 17.8 kg SCOTT Lumen eRIDE 910 is the only Light-eMTB. Retailing at € 6,999, it comes with a conservative 130 mm of travel (f/r) and lightweight TQHPR 50 motor, which make it the clear outsider in this test. Can it hold its own against its full-fat competitors? The unveiling of SCOTT’s new Lumen eRIDE 900 SL Light-eMTB last year caused a massive stir in the cycling world: € 15,999 for an eMTB? Are you out of your mind?! Now try to imagine our faces when the Swiss manufacturer sent us a brand new, shiny black Lumen eRIDE 910 for our big 2023 e-mountainbike group test under € 7,000. AT € 6,999, it’s about a beer can cheaper than this test’s top price limit and at the same time one of the more affordable variants in the Lumen eRIDE model range. At first glance, you might feel a bit confused, because SCOTT made the shock disappear. Upon closer inspection, however, you’ll realise that it has been hidden inside the carbon frame. The enclosed design has become a signature feature of SCOTT’s mountain bikes, and the Lumen eRIDE is the fourth bike in SCOTT’s portfolio to rely on it, preceded by the Spark, Genius and Patron eMTB. For an overview of the test fleet head to the group test: The best eMTB of 2023 for € 7,000 – 7 budget eMTBs in our eMTB group test Tipping the scales at 17.8 kg, the Lumen eRIDE 910 is the lightest competitor in this test, partly due to the lightweight TQ HPR 50 motor and partly to its conservative 130 mm of travel, which also makes it the shortest-travel contestant, as well as being the only Light-eMTB. The motor was only introduced last year and can already be found on several Light-eMTBs in combination with TQ’s proprietary 360 Wh battery. If you’re happy to give up one of the two water bottles, you can store the optional 160 Wh range extender in one of the bottle cages. The 50 Nm motor is neatly integrated into the frame and almost invisible until you look closely. The drive unit is paired with a minimalist yet comprehensive display in the top tube and a small, bar-mounted remote, which is intuitive to use and provides good haptic feedback. The battery is integrated permanently into the frame, meaning that you’ll have to carry your bike into the house for charging, unless you have a garage or basement with a plug. That said, the lightweight Lumen eRIDE is pretty easy to carry on your shoulders and looks like modern artwork next to your mantlepiece. The SCOTT Lumen eRIDE 910 is one of the big head turners in our 2023 sub € 7,000 group test, with its discreet, black paint finish glistening in direct sunlight. The full carbon frame relies on an elegant design language and looks as if it were cast from a single mould, with the first-class integration underlining the clean, discreet look. SCOTT hide not only the shock but also the cables, which are neatly routed through the stem directly into the frame and only reappear at their respective destinations. Unfortunately, the cockpit is rather crowded, spoiling the otherwise clean look of the bike. In typical SCOTT fashion, both the fork and shock are connected to the proprietary TwinLoc system, which allows you to switch between three suspension settings – Lockout, Traction Control and Descent – using two bar-mounted levers. However, the system adds two cables and three chunky levers to the cockpit, making for a rather busy front end. A service port on the down tube lets you access the enclosed FOX Nude 5T shock, which was developed in close collaboration with FOX. The closing system relies on a twist lock that gets easily jammed, which makes it harder to access and set up the shock. As the XC genes and 130 mm travel already suggest, the SCOTT Lumen eRIDE 910 is trimmed for lightweight performance. Shimano DEORE BR-M6120 brakes do stopping duties and are paired with small 180 mm rotors. We recommend running bigger 200 mm discs to improve the bike’s braking performance without breaking the bank. While you’re at it, you should consider upgrading the standard 29″ Schwalbe Wicked Will tires in paper-thin Super Race casing and hard SpeedSoft rubber compound, which roll fast and help keep the weight down, but are too flimsy for full-whack trail riding. If you want to rip down the trail, you should use more robust tires with a slightly tougher casing and a softer rubber compound for more traction. € 6,999 Motor TQ HPR 50 50 NmBattery TQ HPR Battery V01 360 WhDisplay TQ 0-LEDFork FOX 34 FLOAT Rhythm 130 mmRear Shock FOX Nude 5T Evol 130 mmSeatpost Syncros Duncan 2.0 150 mmBrakes Shimano DEORE BR-M6120 180/180 mmDrivetrain Shimano DEORE XT/DEORE 1x12Stem Syncros DC 2.0 70 mmHandlebar Syncros Fraser 2.0 DC Alloy 760 mmWheelset Syncros X-30SE 29"Tires Schwalbe Wicked Will Super Race Evo Speed Soft/Schwalbe Wicked Will Super Race Evo Speed Grip 2.4/2.4 Size S M L XLWeight 17.8 kgPerm. total weight 128 kgMax. payload (rider/equipment) 110 kgTrailer approval noKickstand mount no Range-Extenderintegrated tools As soon as you swing your leg over the saddle, the SCOTT Lumen eRIDE 910 begs for action, accelerating willingly from the very first crank spin. However, this isn’t due to the TQ HPR50 motor, which has a very natural response, but rather to the efficient suspension of the Lumen, which efficiently converts every pedal stroke into propulsion without absorbing too much of the rider’s input, even with the suspension in Descent mode. The motor delivers its power discreetly without jolting forward abruptly, working discreetly in the background and yet responding with great eagerness when you really need it. On steep climbs, the sporty, slightly front-heavy pedalling position prevents the front wheel from lifting off the ground. However, compared to its full-power competitors, the motor requires noticeably more input and higher cadences to keep the momentum, making a few drops of sweat inevitable. And while it’s a lot more capable on techy climbs than you might think, you’ll have to work relatively hard to get it to deliver. With a little more effort, you’ll be able to negotiate steep climbs, with the low system weight making it easy to lift the bike over bigger steps and ledges. As soon as you point its nose downhill, the SCOTT Lumen slaps a big fat grin on your face, making it extremely easy to generate momentum and pop off ledges. On flowing trails, the Lumen encourages you to play with the terrain and begs you to spend more time in the air than you do on the ground – which is also due to the bike’s low system weight and strong analogue ride feeling. This allows you to generate tons of speed by pumping through rollers but at the same time requires a vigilant riding style, because the shallow-profiled tires could quickly send you flying into the greenery headfirst. On rough, technical trails, you’ll suddenly go from smiling to clenching a knife between your teeth. The precise, agile handling is still fun on moderate tech, but quickly reaches its limits on rough trails, requiring a high level of concentration to hold your line.   The SCOTT Lumen eRIDE 910 requires some commitment to get to the top of the mountain The SCOTT Lumen eRIDE 910 is not a bike for the masses and definitely not a shuttle replacement. Instead, it’s aimed at sporty riders who want a little bit of support while making their way to the top of the mountain under their own steam. It’s also a great tool for athletes who want to avoid power peaks during training, and appreciate a natural ride feeling. If you’re a sporty rider with a penchant for flowing trails, the Lumen eRIDE might be exactly what you’re looking for, but if you’re after a playful shredding machine for the toughest trails, you’re better off looking elsewhere.  Tuning tip: Bigger rotors for more braking power | Tires with tougher Super Trail casing for trail riding With its elegant carbon frame and top-class integration, the SCOTT Lumen eRIDE 910 is a real head turner, both from a distance and up close. The sporty concept and low torque of the 50 Nm TQ HPR motor require some commitment to get to the top of the mountain. The Lumen delivers tremendous fun on flowing trails but bails out quickly in rough sections. You can find out more about at scott-sports.com For an overview of the test fleet head to the group test: The best eMTB of 2023 for € 7,000 – 7 budget eMTBs in our eMTB group test All bikes in test: Bulls Sonic Evo EN-SL 1 Carbon (Click for review) | Haibike Nduro7 (Click for review) | Moustache Samedi 29 Trail 5 (Click for review) | RADON Deft 10.0 750 (Click for review) | SCOTT Lumen eRide 910 | SIMPLON Steamer Pmax (Click for review) | Specialized Turbo Levo Comp Alloy (Click for review) Did you enjoy this article? If so, we would be stoked if you decide to support us with a monthly contribution. By becoming a supporter of E-MOUNTAINBIKE, you will help secure a sustainable future for high-quality cycling journalism. Click here to learn more. Words: Felix Rauch Photos: Mike Hunger							      		 Become an E-MOUNTAINBIKE supporter and let’s shape the bike scene together and make E-MOUNTAINBIKE(n) even better! Are you with us? Become a supporter now! Copyright © 2024  E-MOUNTAINBIKE Magazine