Learn more about the people profession – its wide-ranging roles and expertise, the standards we uphold, and the impact our profession makes. Explore our latest viewpoints, thought leadership and news, offered by our CIPD experts and informed by our professional community. Whatever topic you need to explore, find our latest and most relevant resources, guides, case studies, viewpoints and research evidence. Stay up to date with our survey findings and guidance on people professional and workplace issues with our factsheets, reports, podcasts and more. Whatever stage you are in your career, we have a range of HR and L&D courses and qualifications to help you progress through your career in the people profession. Find the route to CIPD membership that works for you and the membership grade that demonstrates your level of knowledge and experience. Whether you’re a people professional, a people manager, an employer or a policy maker, there are plenty of ways to join our community of champions for better work and working lives. Outlines different learning methods and what to consider when choosing between them Any method of workplace learning must support individuals, teams and the organisation as a whole to build skills, capability and drive performance. As working environments become more complex, greater agility is required in responding to learning needs. It’s more important than ever to apply the breadth of different learning methods available. This factsheet defines 'learning', 'training' and 'development' and examines factors to consider when choosing which learning methods to use. It gives an overview of the various types and looks at blended approaches to learning.   
            Unlock exclusive, tailored content and resources, just for members.
         Not a member yet? Find out how you can become a member today! Discover our practice guidance and recommendations to tackle bullying and harassment in the workplace. Review approaches for evaluating learning and gain insights for consideration Learn how to identify learning and development needs at a range of levels, and leverage the results to enable greater business performance Identify ways to apply coaching and mentoring principles as part of an overall learning and development strategy Explore how to create and implement a learning and development strategy and policy to support organisational performance An introduction to trade unions and how to work with them effectively Understand how strategic HRM works, and its relationship with business strategy, human capital management and business performance Review approaches for evaluating learning and gain insights for consideration Learn how to identify learning and development needs at a range of levels, and leverage the results to enable greater business performance