or Remember me or Los Angeles, California--(Newsfile Corp. - September 26, 2023) - The Schall Law Firm, a national shareholder rights litigation firm, reminds investors of a class action lawsuit against Lumen Technologies, Inc. ("Lumen" or "the Company") (NYSE: LUMN) for violations of §§10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors who purchased the Company's securities between March 11, 2019 and July 14, 2023, inclusive (the ''Class Period''), are encouraged to contact the firm before November 14, 2023.  If you are a shareholder who suffered a loss, click here to participate. We also encourage you to contact Brian Schall of the Schall Law Firm, 2049 Century Park East, Suite 2460, Los Angeles, CA 90067, at 310-301-3335, to discuss your rights free of charge. You can also reach us through the firm's website at www.schallfirm.com, or by email at bschall@schallfirm.com. The class, in this case, has not yet been certified, and until certification occurs, you are not represented by an attorney. If you choose to take no action, you can remain an absent class member.  According to the Complaint, the Company made false and misleading statements to the market. Lumen owns thousands of miles of lead-wrapped cables throughout the United States. These cables represent a hazard to the environment, the Company's employees, and the general public. The Company knew of this danger but did not disclose the cables as a potential threat, nor did it properly train employees on the danger. Based on these facts, the Company's public statements were false and materially misleading throughout the class period. When the market learned the truth about Lumen, investors suffered damages. Join the case to recover your losses. The Schall Law Firm represents investors around the world and specializes in securities class action lawsuits and shareholder rights litigation. This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and rules of ethics. CONTACT: The Schall Law Firm
  
  Brian Schall, Esq.
  
www.schallfirm.com
    
Office: 310-301-3335
  
info@schallfirm.com SOURCE: The Schall Law Firm  To view the source version of this press release, please visit https://www.newsfilecorp.com/release/181901  Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today