Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 Yet another pundit gets more negative on the teetering telecom's prospects. The weekend couldn't come fast enough for telecom stock Lumen Technologies (LUMN -4.32%). The company's shares took a nasty hit of more than 6% on Friday following a significant price-target cut from an influential bank. That decline was notably steeper than that of the S&P 500 index, which dipped by 0.1% on the day.  The cutting party was no less a financial institution than Citigroup. The big bank's analyst Michael Rollins was the man behind the slice. He trimmed his Lumen price target to $2.50 per share, a chop of nearly 30% from his previous level of $3.50. In doing so, he maintained his sell recommendation on the stock.  His reasoning wasn't immediately apparent, but it's in line with general investor and analyst sentiment on the company these days. Lumen kicked off May by reporting first-quarter results many observers and shareholders found wanting -- not least because the telecom saw significant top- and bottom-line declines on a year-over-year basis. It also missed the consensus-analyst estimate for profitability.  Following the earnings release, several researchers trimmed their price targets on Lumen. Among this crowd was Citibank peer Bank of America Securities whose analyst David Barden cut his exactly in half to $2.00 per share from his preceding $4.00. Of the deeply indebted company, Barden wrote that the "stock can't work until the bond market warms to the LUMN fundamental story," which isn't happening just now. Analysts don't always have the most accurate takes on stocks, but in this case they're quite justified in their recent actions. A major problem for Lumen is that it operates what is essentially a legacy telecom business in a world where investors are more impressed with operators that straddle the cutting edge with super-fast broadband and hot wireless technology. Lumen is seen as a business that doesn't (yet) compete well enough in these areas. Citigroup is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Bank of America is an advertising partner of The Ascent, a Motley Fool company. Eric Volkman has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bank of America. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.