
UPDATED 12:33 EDT / DECEMBER 27 2022

 
	                    		                        by 
Alice Gillin

 The workplace has fundamentally changed in recent years. With the rise of remote work and larger workloads from data accumulation, businesses need cost-effective and efficient infrastructure solutions. Lumen Technologies Inc. is positioning its services to support this next generation of workers. “What Lumen invests in is working on the networks that connect workers and workloads both from a visibility and a managed services perspective, to make sure that we’re removing blind spots and then removing potential choke points and capacity issues,” said David Shacochis (pictured), vice president of product strategy and global head of managed services at Lumen.  “But then also being adaptable and dynamic enough to be able to go and reconfigure that network to reach all the different places that workloads are going to evolve into.” Shacochis spoke with theCUBE host Lisa Martin at AWS re:Invent, during an exclusive broadcast on theCUBE, SiliconANGLE Media’s livestreaming studio. They discussed how workloads have changed, how Lumen has rebranded itself, how AWS is helping companies experiment with work structures and more. (* Disclosure below.) The burgeoning cloud has allowed companies to branch out and experiment with what the AWS platform enables. One such example is Major League Baseball, which used Lumen’s technology to transform its work structure. “There was a cool use case we worked on with Major League Baseball, Fox Sports, and AWS with using the Lumen network to essentially virtualize the production truck,” Shacochis said. “They’re always talking about the team and their production truck. Well, that production truck is a truck sitting outside the stadium.” The conversation ended with the pair discussing how Lumen has rebranded in the past few years. Lumen is helping the world enter the fourth industrial revolution, according to Shacochis. “For us, to acquire, analyze and act on all that data and Lumen’s platform for amazing things helps forge that path forward to that fourth industrial revolution, along with great partners like AWS,” he said. Here’s the complete video interview, part of SiliconANGLE’s and theCUBE’s coverage of AWS re:Invent:  (* Disclosure: Lumen Technologies, Inc. sponsored this segment of theCUBE. Neither Lumen nor other sponsors have editorial control over content on theCUBE or SiliconANGLE.) THANK YOU Goodfire AI raises $7M to demystify AI systems using mechanistic interpretability techniques Hermes 3, a super-creative version of open-source Llama 3.1 AI model, even struggles with inner conflict California advances AI regulation bill amid Silicon Valley concerns ALS sufferer 'speaks' for first time in years with groundbreaking brain implant Misconfigured access controls expose sensitive data on Oracle NetSuite websites Russian state-sponsored phishing campaign targets Western NGOs and diplomats Goodfire AI raises $7M to demystify AI systems using mechanistic interpretability techniques AI - BY MIKE WHEATLEY . 10 HOURS AGO Hermes 3, a super-creative version of open-source Llama 3.1 AI model, even struggles with inner conflict AI - BY MIKE WHEATLEY . 11 HOURS AGO California advances AI regulation bill amid Silicon Valley concerns AI - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 11 HOURS AGO ALS sufferer 'speaks' for first time in years with groundbreaking brain implant EMERGING TECH - BY JAMES FARRELL . 11 HOURS AGO Misconfigured access controls expose sensitive data on Oracle NetSuite websites SECURITY - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 12 HOURS AGO Russian state-sponsored phishing campaign targets Western NGOs and diplomats SECURITY - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 13 HOURS AGO Forgot Password? Like Free Content? Subscribe to follow.