
  A MAN caught with crack cocaine on two separate occasions assured Isle of Wight magistrates he had learnt his lesson.
 
  Erkan Lusha, of Old Commercial Road, Portsmouth, appeared before Island magistrates on Tuesday, March 28.
 
  The 19-year-old admitted two counts of possession of crack cocaine, in Brading and Newport, between February 4 and February 14 of this year.
 
  On December 14, the court heard Lusha had been arrested and detained at the police station and he told officers he had the cocaine for personal use.
 
  He was arrested again two months later, caught with the same substance but in a greater quantity.
 
  Oscar Vincent, defending, said Lusha had learnt his lesson and had stopped taking drugs altogether.
 
  He said he had no intention of selling the drugs and it was a straightforward possession matter.
 
  Lusha was fined £120 and ordered to pay costs of £85 and a £48 surcharge.
 
                    We do not moderate comments, but we expect readers to adhere to certain rules in the interests of open and accountable debate.
                 
 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.