
By Glenda Taylor, Evelyn Auer
 Updated on Apr 18, 2024 6:04 PM EDT 19 minute read We may earn revenue from the products available on this page and participate in affiliate programs. Learn More › Having a sprinkler system installed takes the guesswork out of calculating how much water the lawn is receiving per week, and it eliminates the need to drag a hose and sprinkler to different areas of the yard. Maintaining a healthy, lush lawn is contingent upon the turfgrass receiving adequate water regularly. According to HomeAdvisor and Angi, the typical cost range for a professionally installed residential sprinkler system on a ¼-acre lot is $1,679 to $3,541, and the national average runs $2,540. Sprinkler system cost can fluctuate based on yard size and the quality of the materials, in addition to other factors, including the going price of local labor and the type of sprinkler system plus any chosen bells and whistles. There are several factors that can affect sprinkler system cost, though the most significant factor is the type and quality of the installed system. As noted, the best lawn sprinklers can cost $1,714 to $3,520, but homeowners could pay as much as $5,000 at the high end and as little as $400 at the low end. The larger the yard, the higher the sprinkler system cost. While the national average for installing a system on a standard ¼-acre yard is $2,180 to $3,270, as the size of the yard increases, so does the cost. For homes that sit on a full-acre yard, homeowners can expect to pay at least $8,700 to have a sprinkler system professionally installed. The following table shows the average cost to install a sprinkler system by acreage. The following table gives homeowners an idea of how much they can expect to pay for a sprinkler system based on the square footage of their yard. A watering zone is an area of the sprinkler system that comes on at one time. Water pressure at the spigot varies from home to home, but unless it’s a tiny yard, there usually isn’t enough pressure to water the entire lawn at one time. The installer will check the water pressure and then determine how many individual zones are necessary. The more zones, the higher the cost will be—for instance, the cost for a 7-zone sprinkler system is about $3,500 to $7,000, but a 4-zone system is closer to $2,000 to $4,000. The number of sprinkler heads that are needed for the entire yard to get coverage can vary depending on the yard size and the type of sprinkler head. Generally, sprinklers that rotate or have a stronger flow rate will cover the most ground, but they are also more expensive. A single sprinkler head costs anywhere from $2.50 to $30. Depending on the individual yard, it may make sense to buy a large quantity of cheap sprinkler heads with a weaker flow, or it may be more practical to buy a handful of the stronger, pricier variety. A professional installer may have insight into what combination of sprinkler heads will lead to the most efficient watering, and may have some recommendations for the best sprinkler heads on the market. While all sprinkler systems simplify watering the yard, the differences in type and quality will impact the final installation costs. A standard inground sprinkler system ranges in price from $1,679 to $3541 for ¼-acre plot, while an above-ground system can run $1,800 to $2,000 for a 1-acre plot. The addition of one of the best sprinkler controllers will cost an extra $10 to $325. An automatic controller can be added to either an inground or above-ground system. Having a drip irrigation system installed can run from $450 to $650 per ¼ acre. When it comes to sprinkler system parts, higher quality parts are more durable, which means the sprinkler system will also last longer before needing repairs or replacement. The various components used in a typical inground system include valves that control the water flow and sprinkler heads that lift due to the pressure of the water when the system turns on. Depending on the type and quality, the best sprinkler valves range from $12.50 to $40 apiece, while sprinkler heads range from $2.50 to $30 apiece.The controller (or timer) runs $10 to $325. These costs do not reflect the cost of labor to install them or to replace them later. The cost of a sprinkler system will largely depend on the brand, of which there are a wide variety. The choice of brand may ultimately come down to budget, but it’s important to keep in mind that while a cheaper system may cost less initially, it is likely to need replacement sooner. Homeowners will want to look for a brand that balances quality with affordability. Some of the most popular sprinkler brands on the market include Hunter, Hydro-Rain, Nelson, RainBird, and Toro. The easier it is to trench through the soil, the less it will likely cost to install an inground sprinkler system. Most companies will charge up to $0.40 more per linear foot to install a system in hardpan (a dense layer of soil) or in rocky soil because the trenching takes longer. In addition, if special measures are required to ensure the system won’t freeze in some areas, it could add approximately 10 percent more to the cost of installation. The going price of labor varies from community to community, and sprinkler system installers charge the same rate per hour whether they’re installing a new system or replacing a dated system, which is about $50 to $100. Factors that can affect labor costs include whether the employer offers benefits to workers, such as health insurance or retirement savings accounts. Geographic location will also affect this cost. For example, states on the West Coast have relatively high prices of about $3,000, while that price decreases by $1,000 in the Northeast. Searching “sprinkler installation near me” can provide homeowners with an idea of costs in a specific region. Yards vary, and so do sprinkler installation costs. Factors such as the type of soil in the yard, whether the sprinkler system will be part of a larger landscaping project, or whether additional lawn services are needed will all affect the final tally. The type and quality of the installed components (valves and sprinkler heads) also play a significant role. Permits may not be the first cost that comes to mind when homeowners wonder “how much does a sprinkler system cost?” Not all communities require pulling a permit before installing a new sprinkler system, but if they do, it will add to the cost because the company doing the installation will pass the fee on to the customer. Permit costs vary widely, but if one is required, an inspection of the system may also be required. This involves a city inspector coming out and looking at how the installer (or DIYer) has connected the valves and piping before giving final approval. The inspection usually does not cost an additional fee but instead is included in the cost of the permit. A quick call to the local building authority will determine whether or not a permit is required. Typically, a permit will only be necessary for an inground system, not an above-ground system. A permit could run from $50 to as much as $200. If the home is located in a neighborhood with a homeowners association (HOA), it’s important that the homeowner check with the HOA board before hiring an installer. Potential rules about the type of sprinkler system permitted in the HOA may affect the cost. Trenches are a requirement for installing inground sprinkler systems, and depending on the type of equipment used to dig the trenches, this may affect the cost. For DIYers, this may mean digging trenches with a shovel, which can be labor intensive when installing a sprinkler system on a large yard. Professional installers are more likely to use a trenching machine that makes deep, narrow cuts in the lawn. The quality and the initial expense of the contractor’s equipment factor into the cost to dig a trench, which is typically between $400 and $1,200. Installing a sprinkler system is often part of a larger landscaping project. While the type and scope of landscaping services vary in cost, professional landscaping companies charge an average of $50 to $100 per hour. When not part of a larger landscaping project, the cost of sprinkler system installation can vary due to the existing landscaping design. Shrubs and bushes may require high-rise sprinkler heads that can affect the total cost of installation. This is an example of how variations in landscaping design can lead to requiring different sprinkler heads and varying watering patterns. Depending on the type of equipment the sprinkler company uses to install the new system, there’s a chance some lawn repairs will be necessary. For large bare areas, expect to pay between $1 and $2 per square foot to have new sod laid. Alternatively, a simple reseeding may do the trick. Those who intend to overseed their own lawns can expect to pay about $0.09 to $0.18 per square foot for reseeding. In some cases, professional sprinkler installers can put in a new system without removing the old one. However, if old sprinkler removal is necessary, this service costs an additional $50 to $100 per hour for labor. Many homeowners choose to have related service work done simultaneously, which may translate into savings because the company doesn’t have to make a separate trip to the property. Some sprinkler system installers may suggest installing rain sensors, which run $10 to $100 and help determine how much water the lawn is getting from rain and watering. Another common feature for sprinkler systems is a timer, which can cost between $10 and $300. The most basic options allow homeowners to set the system to run during certain hours of the day. Other models may be able to sense when parts of the lawn are getting dry and turn on automatically. A rainwater collection system conserves water, and in regions that see summer watering bans, it may be the best way to keep the grass healthy when a watering ban is in place. A rainwater collection system runs about $1,000 to $3,500, and, depending on the type, it may be possible to connect it to an irrigation system. Sprinklers don’t require much in the way of maintenance—usually one check-up per year will suffice. The annual cost for sprinkler maintenance is around $75 to $85. However, that cost can rise if there is major damage and major sprinkler repairs are needed. In regions with harsh winters, it’s a good idea to winterize the sprinkler system in the fall, which can be a simple DIY task. Homeowners will want to keep an eye out for issues year-round. It’s common for sprinkler heads to become clogged or rusted, or they can be damaged by curious animals or lawn mowers and may compromise the efficiency of the whole system if not repaired in a timely manner. Different types of systems require different types of material, which will factor into the cost of having a system installed. For a 1-acre yard, homeowners can expect to pay about $6,000 to $10,000 for an inground system, $1,800 to $2,000 for an above-ground system, and $1,800 to $2,500 for a drip system. Automating any of these systems will add another $10 to $325. The simplest—and most affordable—of all sprinkler systems is the above-ground system that consists of hoses or tubing placed on the top of the yard that connect to above-ground sprinklers. It can be professionally installed, in which case a homeowner can expect to pay between $1,800 to $2,000 for a 1-acre property. Adding an automatic controller to an inground or above-ground sprinkler system will add approximately $10 to $325 to the cost of the system. The range in cost can be explained by the wide variety in type and quality of the controllers. At the high end of the range are the best smart sprinkler controllers that sync with a home’s Wi-Fi network and can be monitored and programmed via smartphones. Geared more toward gardens, flower beds, and perennial borders as opposed to vast expanses of lawn, drip irrigation features tubing and drip heads located at the base of individual plants. The cost per acre to install a drip irrigation system runs approximately $1,800 to $2,500. This comes out to around $450 to $650 for ¼ acre. Because the water is dispensed at the plant base, the roots receive a maximum amount, rather than some of the spray being blown away or evaporating as is the case when using a garden sprinkler. The most common type of professionally installed sprinkler system is installed beneath the surface of the lawn via pipes and tubing buried in shallow trenches. For many, this type is preferable because it’s virtually invisible until the water comes on and the sprinkler heads pop up. An inground sprinkler system costs approximately $6,000 to $10,000 per acre. There may also be additional costs associated with digging a trench for the system, which may run $400 to $1,200. This task is best left to a professional who knows how to install an underground sprinkler system. Rainwater collection systems store rainwater in large barrels and redistribute it to the lawn as needed. Smaller rainwater collection systems cost about $500 to $2,500 and can hold 5,000 gallons of water. More advanced systems can cost up to $21,000. Regular watering is necessary for maintaining a lush lawn, but with today’s busy lifestyles, who has time to pull a sprinkler around the yard? The larger the yard, the more work it is to keep it manually watered. Inconsistent watering can negatively impact the yard, causing the grass in various areas to grow at different rates. The grass may be tall and green in some spots, but patchy and dry in others. Grass density is also a factor in weed control—when the grass grows thickly, it chokes out weeds, but if the grass is thin and sparse, weeds have a better chance of getting a foothold. Consider the following when deciding whether to have a sprinkler system installed. Good landscaping and a healthy lawn not only improve curb appeal, but if the house is going on the market soon, a lush lawn is also essential for grabbing buyers’ attention and getting them in the front door to take a look. A sprinkler system will ensure the property is uniformly watered, keeping the grass healthy and looking its best. While the average cost of a sprinkler system is $2,538, homeowners can expect an approximate 86 percent return on their investment (ROI) when they go to sell. An installed sprinkler system is a perk for potential homebuyers who may be looking for additional outdoor upgrades. Environmentally conscious homeowners may be interested in systems that conserve water and energy. Smart systems are designed to use water conservatively and can cost $200 to $500. Another option is to replace the sprinkler heads with more energy efficient models for $5 to $15 apiece. An automatic controller, which adds approximately $10 to $325 to the cost of an installed sprinkler system, improves watering efficiency by ensuring each area of the yard receives the same amount of water. Controllers feature a wide range of options. Some of the best ones sync with the local weather data via a home Wi-Fi system to automatically water more or less frequently based on how much rain was recently received. Anyone who’s turned on a sprinkler with the intent of turning it off half an hour later—but forgot—knows to expect a higher water bill for that month. While grass needs a minimum amount of water to grow green and lush, overwatering isn’t helpful and can actually lead to an increased risk of fungal lawn diseases.  Sprinkler systems can be programmed to water early in the morning while temps are still relatively cool to reduce the risk of the water evaporating before it hits the ground. An automatic sprinkler system will prevent accidental overwatering and water at the best time of day, even if no one is home. Regular watering helps grass grow strong, making it more resistant to damage from drought and disease. Reseeding or overseeding a lawn runs between $0.09 and $0.18 per square foot, so it makes good sense for a homeowner to take steps to ensure the grass receives the correct amount of water. The average lawn needs about 1 inch of water per week—too little water and the grass can become thin and patchy. Too much water and grass roots develop just beneath the soil’s surface, rather than digging deep, which weakens the grass. Homeowners can save money by installing their own sprinkler systems, and it may seem simple enough after looking up “how to install a sprinkler system” online. But this is a labor-intensive project that can be difficult to do without the right equipment, such as a trencher to help dig the rows for installing the pipes. The horizontal lines in an underground system are typically installed about 6 to 12 inches below grade. While professional sprinkler system installation costs $50 to $100 per hour, if trouble arises later, such as a leak in the lines, the company may warrant its work and return and make sprinkler system repair without charging. In addition, DIYers aren’t always knowledgeable about the potential need to pull permits or get permission from an HOA. Failure to take these steps may result in hefty fines or the need to remove the system. Having a sprinkler system installed is an investment in the lawn, the curb appeal, and the home’s value, but it’s admittedly not cheap. At the low end, it can run about $400, and at the high end, homeowners can expect to pay up to $5,000 for a ¼-acre lot, so saving money is a top priority. While installing a sprinkler system can be costly, it will ensure regular, uniform watering that will keep the lawn healthy, boost curb appeal, and add value to the home. Still, homeowners often want to know exactly where their dollars are going, and the time to ask questions is before hiring an installer. Sprinkler systems are convenient and produce healthy lawns. For those considering the pros and cons of a sprinkler system, some questions are to be expected. A sprinkler system encourages a uniform and healthy lawn, boosts curb appeal, and increases the home’s value and appeal to buyers. A professional appraiser will usually increase the home’s value if the landscaping and lawn are in top shape. Homeowners will want to check with their local building authority first. Professional installation may be required in some communities because installing valves and fittings comes under the heading of plumbing. In other communities, installing a system is permitted, but digging trenches is labor intensive, and figuring out how many sprinklers can be on a single zone requires knowledge of water-pressure mathematics as well. In general, homeowners can expect to get up to 20 years of useful life out of a sprinkler system, but some maintenance will likely be required during that time. Sprinkler heads may need to be replaced before the rest of the system, which can cost $2.50 to $30 apiece. That depends on both the pressure of the water and the type of sprinkler heads used. An installer will decide the optimal number of heads by factoring in water pressure in gallons per minute (GPM) and the flow rate for each head. Sprinkler heads come in various sizes, but the general rule is to install heads 6 to 12 inches in the soil. Most importantly, they will need to be deep enough that the highest point retracts below the surface of the soil when the system is not watering.  Angi, HomeAdvisor, Thumbtack, Fixr, HomeGuide Glenda Taylor is a BobVila.com staff writer with a background in the residential remodeling, home building, and home improvement industries. She started writing for BobVila.com in 2016 and covers a range of topics, including construction methods, code compliance, tool use, and the latest news in the housing and real estate industries.   Learn more about BobVila.com Editorial Standards Evelyn Auer is an associate editor for the Performance team at BobVila.com. She primarily covers reviews, how-tos, and home maintenance articles for the Performance team. Prior to joining BobVila.com, she contributed to publications in the home, art, and lifestyle spaces. 
By Chase Brush
 
By Tony Carrick
 
By Steffani Cameron, Bob Vila, Gretchen Heber
 
By Bob Vila
 
By Jennifer Noonan, Bob Vila
 
By Deirdre Mundorf, Manasa Reddigari
 
By Jennifer Noonan, Bob Vila
 
By Michael Franco
 
By Bob Vila Staff, Gretchen Heber
 
By Sarah Littleton
 
By Sandi Schwartz
 
By Jeanne Petrizzo, Bob Vila
 
By Glenda Taylor, Bob Vila
 
By Tony Carrick, Bob Vila
 
By Jennifer Noonan, Bob Vila, Teresa Odle
 
By Manasa Reddigari, Bob Vila
 
By Glenda Taylor
 
By Bob Vila
 Subscribe to our newsletters for the best tips, tricks, and ideas to transform your home and yard. By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Articles may contain affiliate links which enable us to share in the revenue of any purchases made. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service. © 2024 Recurrent. All rights reserved. 