
 One candidate stands out in the United Kingdom's upcoming special election for a Parliament seat for his unique campaigning. Independent candidate Andrew Gray is using artificial intelligence (AI) to modify his campaign commitments according to the opinions of the constituents he wishes to serve. Gray's use of AI is attracting attention and igniting debates about the place of technology in politics amid a crowded field of 13 contenders, per AP News. Gray's novel approach leverages AI and machine learning techniques to crowdsource constituents' preferences and views. He does this to express the opinions of the people he aspires to represent more quickly and fairly. He said he can communicate with people in a whole new manner because of technology, which also helps him better understand their requirements. "By combining the power of technology and local voices, we can address real issues, find consensus and achieve true democracy," his website states. Gray interacts with locals on a variety of local problems through his website using the Pol.is, a program that has notably been utilized in Taiwan to break policy impasses. People may comment on specific subjects, while others can agree, disagree, or show uncertainty. Real-time machine learning is used by Pol.is to assess and categorize these utterances, revealing areas of voter agreement and disagreement. The Pol.is software was used by Gray to draft his proposals, which include a request for more taxes, a major revamp of the publicly financed National Health Service, and stronger connections to the European Union, which Britain left three and a half years ago, The Independent reported. Gray attempts to set himself apart from the incumbent Conservatives, the opposing Labour party, and the growing Liberal Democrats, who also run in the special election with his distinctive approach to an AI-backed political program. People of Selby and Ainsty, you cast over 7,500 votes; you wrote our manifesto. Read it here: https://t.co/dztfE2q6N2Promoted by Andrew Gray, 24 St Winifried’s Road, Harrogate#techforgood #tech for democracy #tomorrowsmp #ethicalai #selbyandsainsty #voteindependent pic.twitter.com/UdrJucpORn— Andrew Gray (@andrewgray74) July 19, 2023


 


Read Also: Meta's President Downplays AI Risks, Calls Current Models 'Quite Stupid' 
AI is Changing The Political Landscape
While Gray's use of AI is innovative in the UK, AI technology has also gained traction in other political arenas. The House Chief Administrative Officer's digital services division in the US issued 40 licenses for ChatGPT Plus, an OpenAI-developed generative AI system, on Capitol Hill.
ChatGPT Plus has been used by house offices to create correspondence, study summaries, and even legislation. However, new regulations have been implemented to limit the use of ChatGPT in Congress and ensure that private data is not sent to the chatbot, according to Bloomberg.
The potential effect of AI is being taken more seriously by UK and US lawmakers than it was with earlier disruptive technologies. For instance, it took 10 years before US Congress called Mark Zuckerberg to appear at a hearing, despite the tremendous expansion of social media in politics.
In contrast, less than a year after ChatGPT was made accessible to the general public, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman gave testimony on Capitol Hill. He underlined the necessity for regulation in the AI sector and voiced worry about AI technology's potential for evil.
The ramifications of AI-driven campaigns and the proper use of AI in politics will continue to be a subject of intense attention and scrutiny as the election progresses and technology alters the political environment. Gray's innovative strategy could portend a change in political participation and representation, sparking more questions about the use of technology in democracy.
Related Article: Experts Warn of AI-Generated Misinformation in 2024 US Election Campaigns


(Photo : techtimes)
 People of Selby and Ainsty, you cast over 7,500 votes; you wrote our manifesto. Read it here: https://t.co/dztfE2q6N2Promoted by Andrew Gray, 24 St Winifried’s Road, Harrogate#techforgood #tech for democracy #tomorrowsmp #ethicalai #selbyandsainsty #voteindependent pic.twitter.com/UdrJucpORn  

 Read Also: Meta's President Downplays AI Risks, Calls Current Models 'Quite Stupid'  While Gray's use of AI is innovative in the UK, AI technology has also gained traction in other political arenas. The House Chief Administrative Officer's digital services division in the US issued 40 licenses for ChatGPT Plus, an OpenAI-developed generative AI system, on Capitol Hill. ChatGPT Plus has been used by house offices to create correspondence, study summaries, and even legislation. However, new regulations have been implemented to limit the use of ChatGPT in Congress and ensure that private data is not sent to the chatbot, according to Bloomberg. The potential effect of AI is being taken more seriously by UK and US lawmakers than it was with earlier disruptive technologies. For instance, it took 10 years before US Congress called Mark Zuckerberg to appear at a hearing, despite the tremendous expansion of social media in politics. In contrast, less than a year after ChatGPT was made accessible to the general public, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman gave testimony on Capitol Hill. He underlined the necessity for regulation in the AI sector and voiced worry about AI technology's potential for evil. The ramifications of AI-driven campaigns and the proper use of AI in politics will continue to be a subject of intense attention and scrutiny as the election progresses and technology alters the political environment. Gray's innovative strategy could portend a change in political participation and representation, sparking more questions about the use of technology in democracy. Related Article: Experts Warn of AI-Generated Misinformation in 2024 US Election Campaigns  Sign up for our free newsletter for the Latest coverage!  