To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. This past month, it was announced that Bella Hadid won Lyst’s 2022 “Power Dresser of the Year.” The e-commerce site’s reasoning of why Hadid won the award included stats and facts, including that her outfits sparked a whopping “1,900% increase in searches for similar pieces'' and that she drove searches for specifics, like corsets (70% increase) and cargo pants (56% increase) after she wore them. She also had a hand—or a foot—in making the platform Ugg boots go viral on TikTok, which Lyst reported sold out and had a 152% increase in searches. Next to the description, there was a photo of the model from this past September, eating a lone slice of pizza while sitting on a metal walkway in New York, wearing a leather racing jacket from Opening Ceremony, an ’80s-era Lego T-shirt, a tote bag, shin-high white socks, and the pair of those very much sold-out platform Uggs. Because she was sitting down, not pictured was a pair of what a thin pair of men’s white underwear that she had worn while walking down the street. There are paparazzi’d celebrities every day on the wires. We see a steady rotation of names like Kendall Jenner, Hailey Bieber, and even Hadid’s own older sister, Gigi. But Bella seems to perpetually drive commerce and drive viral trends in an especially rabid way. The Hadid effect is that the 26-year-old model has nailed a street style algorithm that no other celebrity has been able to quite accomplish. She—or possibly her stylist/personal shopper/consultant—knows the art of the laissez-faire haphazardly chic dressing, which ultimately makes her seem approachable and her look feel attainable because it is. In that seemingly last-minute, pizza-chomping look, the sweet spot style recipe is present: There’s the vintage-or-can’t-get-it factor (that ole OC leather jacket and the retro graphic T-shirt), the insouciant, just-threw-this-on addition (tighty-whities), and the red hot big brand piece (those platform Uggs). The whole ensemble is the perfect concoction of both commercial accessibility and the rare items that are reproducible, at least in aesthetic. Anyone can find a great oversized leather jacket and a funky graphic T-shirt; anyone can nab some version of an Ugg, although it might not be the sold-out mini-platform iteration.  Then there is the vintage facet. Like Hadid, the whole world can’t get enough of vintage right now, but there is a difference in how Hadid and other celebrities choose to wear vintage. Plenty of celebrities have been going to great lengths to nail a rare Galliano number or an archival Roberto Cavalli skirt. After all, vintage has become the way du jour for celebrities to announce that they now have a place in the fashion sphere. Now, we are seeing TikTok queen-turned-pop star Addison Rae, a relative newbie to the fashion world, attend a LACMA event where guests are in exclusively Gucci and she is in a vintage Jean-Louis Scherrer couture gown. We’ve seen similar moves from Kylie Jenner, Ariana Grande, Simi Haze, and more. Vintage has become a visual statement that celebrities use to signal “I’m different” and that they have a fashion point of view, when in reality, they are all starting to look the same. Ultimately, when many celebrities try to break into the fashion world via vintage, it feels vacant because they do not have any substantial connection to the clothes that they are wearing. Their vintage grails are starting to feel like everything and anything.  But Hadid doesn’t fall into the aforementioned philosophy of vintage. Sure, she’ll wear a rare piece on the red carpet, but usually, there is a reason why and some nuance. This past October, Hadid donned a rare Azzedine Alaïa hooded dress from 1986 to the Fashion Trust Arabia Awards in Doha, Qatar, a choice that made sense: The event celebrated emerging designers from the Middle East and North Africa and Alaïa hailed from Tunisia. Hadid isn’t simply plucking a rare designer piece because she can—and she definitely can!—but she makes her choices seem as if there is the intention behind them.  The intention is genuine also because Hadid also wears an eclectic mix of vintage daily, which ranges from mall brands with cultural history, like Polo Ralph Lauren or Rocawear, to slept-on It bags of yore like the Prada Militare Tessuto Active Nylon Shoulder Bag or the Fendi Spy Bag, or a sheer top that hails from a small, now-defunct Italian brand. She will call it out, too, whether she publicly announces that she bought a jacket from Depop, note that she loves a pink Jil Sander coat, takes a casual snap of a Yohji Yamamoto top scrawled with text that resonates with her or give her audience a bit of backstory about when she bought a Junya Watanabe denim dress from spring 2002. It’s evident that vintage is simply part of Hadid’s day-to-day life, she truly likes it, and it’s not a publicity stunt.  There are also her outfit combinations, which often teeter on experimental and throwback. Many times it follows a quirky girl vibe like she just threw it on and it magically worked: Leg warmers with pumps or gorp core nylon pants and sleazy tinted sunglasses fit for Ali G. Sometimes, there’s a downtown hot girl aesthetic, a crop top and then another crop top maybe with Uggs or those Sambas. But no matter the styling, there’s always an attainable ethos to how she dresses. We can go onto Depop just like Hadid and nab that vintage tank, or we can get a pair of Hoka Hoparas from Dick’s Sporting Goods for $135. Whatever she chooses, Hadid gives off the impression that she buys clothes because she simply likes them and that she doesn’t curate her looks—even though she very well might.  By signing up you agree to our User Agreement (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions), our Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement and to receive marketing and account-related emails from Vogue. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More from Vogue See More Stories © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty