Subscribe By entering your details, you are agreeing to HELLO! Magazine User Data Protection Policy. You can unsubscribe at any time. For more information, please click here.  Another year passed means another incredible year of fashion trends. This has been a standout year for the industry, after three long years of lockdowns and cancelled shows.  From the world's newfound obsession with all things pink to Bella Hadid's unstoppable rise, there have been plenty of standout sartorial moments. But which ones transcended the fashion world and became part of the cultural landscape? Fashion technology company, and premium shopping app Lyst have revealed their report based on the over 200 million people who browsed their platform to examine their searches, views and sales metrics to reveal the stories that shaped the year in fashion.  Here's what and who was trending in 2022: Kris Jenner works hard but this year the Miu Miu skirt worked harder From the viral mini skirt that launched a thousand memes to the celebrity-approved Wander bag, 2022 was Miu Miu's year. "When an outfit has its own Instagram you know it’s made it," explained Hello! Fashion's Style Editor Laura Weatherburn back in February, "Miu Miu’s unforgivingly short skirt has been seen in every major fashion editorial and of course on Anna Dello Russo, Hailey Bieber and OG Nicole Kidman.”" "The brand's ballet flats quickly became its most popular product on Lyst following their release, having been worn by the likes of Sydney Sweeney, Bella Hadid and Rosalfa," says Lyst, "A simpler, Gen-Z friendly version of its 2016 counterpart, it plays into the balletcore and 'indie-sleaze' trends that have been dominating the year. With the highly anticipated return of menswear for FW22 and a SS23 collection that generated over 23 million views on TikTok, Miu Miu was the brand to watch on the runway, and searches for the label increased 34% year-on-year." Diesel has made an impressive comeback In the year that saw Glenn Martens host his first runway show as Creative Director, Diesel repositioned itself as a luxury brand and revived its cultural relevance; and with sustainable denim at its core and a push on accessories from sneakers to belts, the brand has been benefitting from a commercial renaissance,” explains Lyst. “Worn by the likes of Kylie Jenner, Dua Lipa, Rihanna, Julia Fox and Megan Thee Stallion, Diesel's logo captured the zeitgeist, defining the mood of 2022. Its sellout 1DR bag became the most wanted accessory in fashion and saw a 248% increase in searches according to Lyst. Barbiecore was the standout trend of 2022 Among the star-studded guests at almost every red carpet in 2022, there seemed to be but one unspoken rule: Barbiecore. Pierpaolo Piccioli's AW22 'Pink PP' show for Valentino's could be to blame, but ever since we first saw those leaked images of Margot Robbie dressed as Barbie... could it be that we all secretly want to be Barbie girls? “From the rise of Y2K fashion to the highly anticipated release of Greta Gerwig's Barbie movie, Barbie has become the underlying style muse of the year,” confirms Lyst, “A gateway to 2022's obsession with hot pink, the iconic doll - along with the Barbiecore aesthetic - has developed an uncanny ability to shift retail trends: after pictures of a pink-clad Margot Robbie surfaced in June, searches for all things pink skyrocketed 416%. But the defining pink of the year came courtesy of Valentino. Just a week after the brand's unique shade of hot pink was presented on its FW23 runway, searches increased 152%. Worn by the hottest celebrities worldwide, the collection has since generated more than 76.9M views on TikTok. An unlikely shoe trend emerged in 2022 A favourite among celebrities and influencers, Birkenstock's Boston clogs were the hottest shoe of the year, with searches increasing 593% in the first six months of 2022. The classic, corked-heeled style became a rare commodity after it went viral on TikTok, selling out across multiple retailers and in multiple colorways throughout the year. "Having appeared five times in two years in The Lyst Index, the clog is fast becoming the defining shoe of the post- pandemic fashion era," says Lyst, "Worn by the likes of Kendall Jenner, Kaia Gerber and Dakota Johnson, the hard-to-buy shoe can now be found on some resale platforms for more than double its original price tag." Prada delivered yet another standout accessory The latest entry in the handbag hall of fame, Prada's Re-nylon Re-edition 2000 mini bag is the most popular bag of 2022. “With a simple silhouette that plays into the current noughties fashion trend, the mini bag has been adopted by the likes of Dua Lipa, Kendall Jenner, Bella Hadid and Kaia Gerber, perfectly fitting into their functional, post-lockdown wardrobe thanks to its technical fabric,” says Lyst. Over the summer, searches for the style increased by 131% and its popularity shot up on TikTok thanks to its Gen Z-friendly 90s aesthetic. The hashtag #pradanylonbag generated over 4.2 million views. The dress that launched a thousand memes To end its SS23 presentation, Parisian brand Coperni collaborated with Fabrican to spray paint a dress on Bella Hadid live on the runway, using innovative spray-on fabric technology developed by Spanish scientist and fashion designer Manel Torres. The unexpected move quickly went viral on TikTok, gathering over 1M views for #CoperniDress videos. In the days following the show, Coperni received a staggering 3,000% increase in searches, making it one of the most searched brands of fashion month. Like this story? Sign up to our Hello! Fashion newsletter to get your weekly 'Fashion Fix' delivered straight to your inbox. In partnership with Mappin & Webb