Whether you take casual selfies or work professionally as a photographer, photo editing software lets you get the most out of your images. These are the top photo editing apps we've tested. PC hardware is nice, but it’s not much use without innovative software. I’ve been reviewing software for PCMag since 2008, and I still get a kick out of seeing what's new in video and photo editing software, and how operating systems change over time. I was privileged to byline the cover story of the last print issue of PC Magazine, the Windows 7 review, and I’ve witnessed every Microsoft win and misstep up to the latest Windows 11. 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 More than ever, you need software to organize, optimize, edit, and share your photos. Why? Because today's cameras produce huge files with loads of detail—even the camera on your phone. With so many options, which photo software is best for you? PCMag has been testing photo editing software for more than 30 years. The best photo software lets you do as much or as little editing as you like and gives you convenient ways to share your pictures. Whether you're aiming for ultimate in image accuracy or Kardashian-like levels of retouching, these are the apps you need. Our Editors' Choice winners for photo editing are Adobe Photoshop for professionals, Lightroom and Lightroom Classic for workflow, and Express for hobbyists. We also recommend DxO Photolab for noise reduction and camera profile corrections. But those are hardly your only options. Read on for our full list of recommendations. 
*Deals are selected by our commerce team
 Lightroom Classic is the top workflow software choice of working professional photographers. It shines at letting you import and organize your photo collection, and it has the best tools for correcting and enhancing photos in a raw file process. Lightroom Classic includes features not found in the non-Classic version of Lightroom like printing, soft-proofing, tethered shooting, and plug-in support. Lightroom Classic is primarily for professional photographers. When pros talk about Lightroom, they invariably mean Lightroom Classic. It's also only for those willing to pay a recurring subscription fee. Photoshop is the most powerful image-editing software on the planet. It's often where Adobe puts its latest state-of-the-art features first, including its AI-powered Neural filters. Photoshop includes the complex layer, masking, text and shape tools, gradients, and filters that professional designers and photographers need. You can also bolster it with a wealth of third-party plug-ins for even more power. Photoshop is for professionals and serious image editing enthusiasts. It includes a massive number of tools, but its interface is has gotten more manageable in recent versions, with things like a clear Home screen to get you started, hover-over help tips, and a persistent search box at the top. As with most other Adobe offerings, however, it requires a subscription. Photoshop Elements includes many features found in Photoshop proper, but it wraps that functionality in a friendlier interface that emphasizes hand-holding. It also dispenses with the subscription requirement. The program's Guided Edits ease the process of creating stunning effects with their photos. You still get layers, filters, and a smart Organizer utility to keep track of your photo collection. Adobe describes the audience for Elements as "memory keepers," people who want to create keepsakes from family occasions. Elements nevertheless lets you see the processes behind creating impactful Photoshop effects. It's a good choice for those who can't abide paying a subscription, because it's available for a reasonable one-time purchase price. DxO PhotoLab can automatically make your photos look better, but nevertheless has a full quiver of powerful photo correction and editing tools. The software developer pioneered several technologies that went on to be used by other software products, such as lens-profile-based corrections and geometry fixes. DxO's DeepPrime XD noise reduction is unmatched and can make unusable photos usable—PhotoLab is worth it for that alone. It's also excellent at removing chromatic aberration and automatically fixing lighting with its SmartLighting tool. Finally, its U Point technology gives you unmatched control over local adjustments. DxO PhotoLab is mostly for professionals who need to get the best out of their raw camera files, but it's a great app for engaged amateurs. If you just need noise reduction and lens corrections, the company's (less-expensive) DxO PureRAW app is a good fit. Both can be used as Photoshop and Lightroom plug-ins, as well. PhotoLab is not for those looking for a cheap solution, but its pricing is one-time perpetual, not subscription. Lightroom differs from Adobe's Lightroom Classic application because it has a simpler interface and integrated cloud storage. It's chock-full of powerful image editing tools and at this point matches those in Classic. With great face-organizing tools, cloud syncing, and AI search, Lightroom is one of the best apps for finding any photo in your collection from any device. Its rich set of learning and community features is a boon to any budding photo editor. Lightroom appeals to serious amateurs or pros who don't need printing, plug-ins, or tethered shooting capability. It's for those who don't mind paying a recurring subscription fee and like having all their photos backed up to the cloud for anywhere access, though Adobe recently added the possibility of using local instead of cloud storage with Lightroom. CyberLink makes some of the most powerful and innovative video editing software around, and the company has applied its deep imaging expertise to photo editing in PhotoDirector. The software combines Lightroom-like organization and workflow tools with Photoshop-like layer image editing in a clear, intuitive interface. The company is constantly producing new effects and templates. The software is available as either a single purchase or subscription, which adds online storage and a steady stream of updated tools and content. The subscription also gives you access to stock images from Getty. PhotoDirector is for enthusiasts, rather than professionals, who want an all-in-one workflow and image editing application. It's also a good choice for those who don't want to pay a subscription fee since it's available to purchase for a one-time fee or as a subscription. Skylum Luminar is a well-designed photo application with unique and innovative tools, such as AI-based power-line removal. Another, AI Relight, lets you change lighting for different parts of a photo, based on distance from the camera. Luminar excels at fixing drab skies in your shots, as its name suggests. The interface is clear and simple. Any Mac or Windows user who wants to have a lot of fun enhancing their photos should check out the easy-to-use Luminar, whether pro or amateur. The program is a good value for a reasonable one-time price. Lightroom and Photoshop users can also use Luminar as a plug-in for their main photo application. This longtime Photoshop competitor offers enough tools for many designers and photographers who don't want to make unending subscription payments to Adobe. Corel even updates PaintShop Pro with advanced AI tools like Portrait Mode, Background Replacement, Style Transfer. Designers can work with text, brushes, patterns, and painting tools on both raster and vector images, and hobbyists get a ton of creative effects and filters. Raw camera file support, mask selection, scripts, tone curves, layers, and plug-in support are at your disposal, just like in Photoshop. PaintShop Pro is for designers and photographers, both amateur and professional, who need deep image editing capabilities including layers, raw camera file support, masking, brushes, text, and textures. You even get some AI fixes and effects. It's great for those who don't want to pay a subscription and don't need Adobe's collaboration and other proprietary tools. Capture One is super-powerful professional photo workflow software. It does the best job of interpreting a camera's raw image data to deliver a sharp and accurate photo among software we've tested. It also includes an abundance of adjustments and local edit tools, as well as layers and advanced color grading. A unique Speed Edit feature lets you get to frequently needed tools with a keypress. Capture One still trails Lightroom in some workflow abilities, however, such as face recognition and geotagging. Capture One is squarely aimed at pro photographers, and its interface could be intimidating to those not willing to put in the time to learn it. It has strong support for tethered shooting, collaboration features, and a new iPad app lets you edit on the go. The program is priced like a professional application, too, available as both a subscription (costing more than Lightroom's) and a one-time purchase. Photopea is a surprisingly full-featured Photoshop alternative despite being a purely web-based application. While you can use most of its features for free, a $5-per-month subscription gets you generative AI image-creation tools, more steps in your editing history, and 5GB of online image storage.  Photopea is a good choice for anyone who needs most of Photoshop's basic editing tools but for a lower cost. It's also a great option if you're not at your own computer and need to do some quick photo editing, since you can access it from any device with a web browser. Novice photographers taking vacation pics to post on Instagram need a different photo editor than those who shoot in a studio with a high-end camera that costs as much as a new car. We include all levels of photo editing software here. Nothing says that pros can't occasionally use an entry-level application or that a prosumer won't be running Photoshop, the most powerful photo editor. The issue is that, in general, people at different levels are more comfortable with the products intended for them. If you're just starting to dip your toes into photo editing, the options are getting better all the time. An easy place to get started is with the free, included applications that come with your operating system: Apple Photos for macOS and iOS, Google Photos for Android, and Microsoft Photos for Windows. They give you basic light and color editing tools in simple interfaces.  If you're a more ambitious beginner, Adobe Lightroom, the non-classic version, is worth a look. Lightroom comes with the Discover community, where photographers and editors share their entire process from raw image to final product. You can even submit your photos to the community and let them edit your work. For in-program editing tutorials, Photoshop Elements, with its many Guided Edits that show you how to create arresting effects, is an excellent option.  The latest versions of Photoshop include plentiful help and learning content, though I recommend going through a basic online course for learning Photoshop. If you just want the basics and don't have ambitions to do advanced editing, check out the free options in a section below. In this list of the best photo editing software, we've only included software that you install on a desktop or laptop computer, though some have a mobile app you can use, too. That said, entry-level photographers may be adequately served by online photo-editing options, which are often free. These web apps are often tied to online photo storage and sharing services—Flickr with its integrated photo editor and Google Photos are two examples. Both can spiff up your uploaded pictures and do a lot to help you organize them. Free photo-editing programs tend to lack many tools found in paid software, although Photopea is an exception. It's an online photo editor that duplicates much of the functionality in Photoshop, but if you want to get all its AI features and online storage, you pay $5 per month.  Major programs are now releasing web versions, too. The latest version of Lightroom, for example, has a web app with a good deal of photo-editing capabilities included. And Adobe announced a basic web version of its flagship Photoshop app, currently in beta. Other notable names in web-based photo editing include BeFunky, Fotor, Photofx, and PicMonkey. Most of the products in this list are suited for enthusiast photographers and prosumers, which includes people who genuinely love working with digital photographs. The apps are not free, and they require a few hundred megabytes of disk space. Several, such as Lightroom and CyberLink PhotoDirector, are strong when it comes to workflow—importing, organizing, editing, and outputting the photos from an SLR or mirrorless. Such apps give you nondestructive editing, meaning the original photo files aren't touched. Instead, they maintain a database of edits that you apply and that appear in photos you export from the application. These programs also come with good organization tools, including keyword tagging, color-coding, geo-tagging with maps, and, in some cases, face recognition to organize photos by people who appear in them. At the back end of the workflow is the output. Capable software like Lightroom Classic gives you powerful printing options such as soft-proofing, which shows you whether the printer you use can produce the colors in your photo. (Strangely, the new version of Lightroom does not support local printing, though the latest update lets you send images to a photo printing service.) Lightroom Classic can directly publish photos on sites like Flickr and SmugMug. All good software at this level comes with strong printing and sharing options, and some, like ACDSee Photo Studio and Lightroom, include online photo hosting for presenting a portfolio of your work. If you've outgrown the standard photo editing apps on your phone, such as those preinstalled with the camera or the effects included on Instagram, does that mean you have to pay a ton for high-end software? Absolutely not.  Desktop operating systems typically include photo software that can serve consumers' needs at no extra cost. For example, the Microsoft Photos app included with Windows 10 (and updated for Windows 11) may surprise some users with its capabilities. In a touch-friendly interface, it gives you a good level of image correction, auto-tagging, blemish removal, face recognition, and even raw camera file support. It can automatically create editable albums based on photos' dates and locations.  On macOS, Apple Photos does those things, too. Both programs sync with online storage services: iCloud for Apple and OneDrive for Microsoft. (You can now access iCloud Photos in Windows 11's Photos app, too.) Both included photo apps let you search based on detected object types, like "tree" or "cat" in the application. Apple Photos supports plug-ins like the excellent Perfectly Clear and Topaz DeNoise. Ubuntu Linux users are also covered when it comes to free included photo software. One option for them is the capable-enough Shotwell app. For more sophisticated editing, the venerable GNU Image Manipulation Program, better known as GIMP, is available for Windows and Mac as well as for Linux. It has a ton of Photoshop-style plug-ins and editing capabilities but very little in the way of creature comforts or usability. For free Lightroom-style workflow options, look to Darktable and RawTherapee, both of which are also available for all major desktop platforms. The programs at the enthusiast level and the professional level can import and edit raw files from your digital camera. These are files that include every bit of data from the camera's image sensor. Each camera manufacturer uses its own format and file extension for these. For example, Canon cameras use CR2 or CR3 files, and Nikon uses NEF. Raw here means what it sounds like: a file with the raw sensor data. It's not an acronym or file extension. Working with raw files provides some big advantages when it comes to correcting (often termed adjusting) photos. Since the photo you see on screen is just one interpretation of what's in the raw file, the software can dig into that data to recover more detail in a bright sky, or it can fully fix an improperly rendered white balance. If you set your camera to shoot with JPGs, you're losing those capabilities. Enthusiasts want to do more than just import, organize, and render their photos. They want to do fun stuff, too! Editors' Choice winner Adobe Photoshop Elements includes Guided Edits, which make special effects like motion blur or color splash (where only one color shows on an otherwise black-and-white photo) a simple step-by-step process.  Content-aware tools let you move objects around while maintaining a consistent background. You can also remove objects entirely. Say you want to remove a couple of strangers from a serene beach scene and have the app fill in the background. Adobe continues to improve this technology by leaps and bounds, with new tools for accurate automatic selection and generative AI background filling. Even more of this wizardry is on its way, as Adobe is adding Firefly features in Photoshop through 2023. And Microsoft has added generative AI to both the Photos and Paint utilities in Windows.  These edits don't involve simple filters like you get on Instagram. Rather, they produce highly customized, one-off images. Another good example is CyberLink PhotoDirector's Multiple Exposure effect, which lets you create an image with ten versions of Johnny jumping that curb on his skateboard. Most enthusiast- and pro-level photo software can produce HDR effects and panoramas after you feed them multiple shots, and local edit brushes let you paint adjustments onto only specific areas of an image. Affinity Photo has those features, but its interface isn't the most intuitive. Zoner Photo Studio X and ON1 PhotoRAW combine Lightroom and Photoshop features at a lower price, but they don't match the level of power and ease you get in the Adobe software.  Some of the products in this group have started adding what's sometimes termed AI style transfer—where the style of Picasso, Japanese watercolor, or another art mode is applied to the photo. The effect became a craze with the Prisma app several years ago, and it can still impress. PaintShop Pro, CyberLink PhotoDirector, and now even Photoshop all have this.  At the very top end of the image editing pyramid is Photoshop, which has no real rival. Its layered editing, drawing, text tools, filters, selection capabilities, plug-in support, and color tools make it the industry standard. (Adobe recently removed its 3D editing tools because of the changing graphics hardware landscape; you can find 3D functionality in the company's new Substance 3D line of applications.) The company continues to add unique, state-of-the-art features. Photoshop (and its included companion, Adobe Camera Raw utility) is where you find Adobe's latest and greatest imaging technology, such as the previously mentioned Firefly generative AI features, as well as Neural Filters, Subject Select, Content-Aware Crop, Perspective Warp, Subject Select, and Detail Enhancement. The program has the most tools for professionals in the imaging industry, including Artboards, Design Spaces, and realistic, customizable brushes. Pros need more than this one application, and many use workflow programs like ACDSee Photo Studio, Lightroom, AfterShot Pro, or Photo Mechanic for workflow functions like importing and organization. In addition to its workflow prowess, Lightroom has mobile photo apps so that photographers on the run can get some work done before they even get back to their PCs.  Those who need tethered shooting—controlling the camera in the software from the computer while it's attached—may want Capture One, which gives you a lot of tools for that, along with its top-notch raw-file conversion. Photoshop has the most image editing capabilities, though it doesn't always make producing those effects as simple, and it doesn't have a nondestructive workflow as Lightroom and some of the other products do. Anyone with less intensive needs can get all the Photoshop-type features they need from other programs in this roundup, such as Corel PaintShop Pro or Serif Affinity Photo.  DxO PureRAW is another tool pros may want in their kit because of its excellent lens-profile-based corrections and DeepPrime noise reduction. Topaz DeNoise AI is another top choice for removing camera sensor noise. Skylum Luminar, too, comes with unique AI-powered features like automatic power line removal, which can instantly improve many a landscape or cityscape. It also has unique depth-based lighting options. You can use it as either a stand-alone app or as a Photoshop plug-in. Capture One, DxO PhotoLab, PaintShop Pro, and Lightroom have precise tools for local selections. For example, they let you select everything in a photo within a precise color range and refine the selection of difficult content, such as a model's hair or trees on the horizon. As you might imagine, you get all this in Adobe Photoshop, too. Some users have taken umbrage at Adobe's move to a subscription-only option for Photoshop, but at $9.99 per month, it hardly seems exorbitant for any serious image professional, and it includes a copy of Lightroom, online services like Adobe Stock, an online Portfolio site, and multiple mobile apps. It makes the app more affordable for prosumers, too, when you consider that a full copy of Photoshop's top-end version used to cost a cool $999. That said, we list several apps here that don't require subscriptions.  Other vendors have started following in Adobe's footsteps when it comes to subscriptions. These deals usually include all updates, new templates and effects, and in some cases, such as with CyberLink PhotoDirector, access to stock images from big names like Getty. One more thing to consider when you're making your budget: third-party plug-ins—if you're looking at pro-level software. The excellent Nik Collection by DxO and Editors' Choice winner RNI All Films 5 Professional are good examples of this enormous field. These can add more effects and adjustments than you find in the base software. They often include tools for film looks, black-and-white options, sharpening, and noise reduction. Several of the products here can be installed as Lightroom Classic or Photoshop plug-ins or used as standalone programs. If you're an absolute beginner in digital photography, your first step is to make sure you've got good hardware to shoot with. Otherwise, you're sunk before you start. Consider our roundups of the Best Digital Cameras and the Best Camera Phones for equipment that can fit any budget. Once you've got your hardware sorted out, make sure to educate yourself with our Quick Photography Tips for Beginners and our Beyond-Basic Photography Tips. That done, you'll be ready to shoot great pictures that you can make better with the software featured here.  A final note about the spec table below: It's not a case of "more check marks means better." Rather, the table is designed to give you a quick overview of the products and how they square up. A product with everything checked doesn't necessarily have the best implementation of those features, and one with fewer checks still may be very capable and, in fact, the best photo editing software for you. Whether you even need the checked feature depends on your photo workflow. For example, DxO PhotoLab may not have face recognition, but it has superb noise reduction and camera- and lens-profile-based corrections. Advertisement Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! PC hardware is nice, but it’s not much use without innovative software. I’ve been reviewing software for PCMag since 2008, and I still get a kick out of seeing what's new in video and photo editing software, and how operating systems change over time. I was privileged to byline the cover story of the last print issue of PC Magazine, the Windows 7 review, and I’ve witnessed every Microsoft win and misstep up to the latest Windows 11. Prior to my current role, I covered software and apps for ExtremeTech, and before that I headed up PCMag’s enterprise software team, but I’m happy to be back in the more accessible realm of consumer software. I’ve attended trade shows of Microsoft, Google, and Apple and written about all of them and their products. I’m an avid bird photographer and traveler—I’ve been to 40 countries, many with great birds! Because I’m also a classical fan and former performer, I’ve reviewed streaming services that emphasize classical music. Read Michael's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.