Apple today announced the schedule for its annual developers conference WWDC, which runs from June 5 through June 9. The schedule confirms that Apple's keynote will begin on June 5 at 10 a.m. Pacific Time, with the company expected to announce iOS 17, macOS 14, watchOS 10, its long-awaited AR/VR headset, a 15-inch MacBook Air, and more. Apple's keynote will be followed by the Platforms State of the Union on June 5 at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time. This video is essentially Apple's developer-focused keynote, providing an overview of new tools and technologies across Apple's platforms. The full schedule for the first day of WWDC: Apple KeynoteJune 5, 10 a.m. PDTThe biggest and most exciting WWDC23 to date launches with a first look at exciting updates coming to Apple platforms later this year. The keynote address will be available via apple.com, the Apple Developer app, the Apple TV app, and YouTube, with on-demand playback available after the conclusion of the stream. Platforms State of the UnionJune 5, 1:30 p.m. PDTDevelopers will learn how they can take their apps to the next level with a deeper dive into the new tools, technologies, and advances across Apple platforms. Platforms State of the Union will stream via the Apple Developer app and the Apple Developer website. Apple Design AwardsJune 5, 6:30 p.m. PDTThe Apple Design Awards recognize and celebrate the art, craft, creativity, and technical expertise of Apple’s developer community. This year’s Apple Design Award winners will be unveiled via the Apple Developer app and website. WWDC 2023 will primarily be online, with 175 session videos to be available on the Apple Developer website and in the Apple Developer app for anyone to watch for free. There will also be an in-person component, as randomly selected developers and some media personnel have been invited to attend a special day at Apple Park on June 5 to watch the keynote video together, meet some of Apple's teams, socialize, and more. Get weekly top MacRumors stories in your inbox. Our comprehensive guide highlighting every major new addition in iOS 17, plus how-tos that walk you through using the new features. Update now for a number of important security fixes. Get the most out your iPhone 15 with our complete guide to all the new features. A deep dive into new features in macOS Sonoma, big and small. Updates to Mail, Photos, Messages, and more, with Apple Intelligence features throughout. iPhone Mirroring, Safari improvements, new Passwords app, and Apple Intelligence features throughout. Apple Intelligence features, Smart Script handwriting refinement, Calculator app, and more. New hand gestures, rearrange apps in Home View, larger Mac Virtual Display, and more. 9 hours ago by Tim Hardwick 4 days ago by Juli Clover 4 days ago by Tim Hardwick 5 days ago by Tim Hardwick 6 days ago by Tim Hardwick   MacRumors attracts a broad audience of both consumers and professionals interested in the latest technologies and products. We also boast an active community focused on purchasing decisions and technical aspects of the iPhone, iPad, Mac, and other Apple platforms.