E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
Deadlines:
 
Monday-Friday 8:30am-4:00pm, Call 610-915-2226
 
(Proofs will be provided for accuracy only, they will not be styled/formatted like the finished product)
 
Obituaries submitted on Saturday, Sunday and Holidays are accepted from 8:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. by email only Obit@delcotimes.com
 
(No proofs will be furnished. Pricing will not be available until the next business day after 10:00am by calling Dianne at 610-915-2226)
 
Obituaries received after Deadline will not be published in the following edition of the paper.
 
Sending Procedure:
 
Email is the preferable method for receiving Obituaries (and the only method on Saturday, Sunday and Holidays), they can be sent to Obit@delcotimes.com (Feel free to call and confirm that we’ve received the email)
 
Formatting:
 
Obituaries will continue to visually look the same as they currently do, but you will no longer be restricted in what you can say (ex. As much Family can be listed as you’d like; Wording like “Went to rest with the Lord” is now permissible)
 
Other:
 
There is a cost for each obituary. Pricing and payments are only available Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 4:00 pm. All weekend and holiday submissions will be provided a cost the next business day.
 
Exceptions:
 
All New accounts, Out of State Funeral Homes and Private Parties will require prepayment upon approval of the obituary. Weekend and Holiday staff are not authorized to set up a new account or process payments
 
Deadline for the above is before 4:00 PM Mon – Fri. only (Holiday schedules may vary).
 
Prepayment required submissions will be handled on the very first business day following the weekend and/or holiday schedule. A complete name, address and best contact phone number are required upon submittal of your obituary request to set up your account. A proof will then be emailed for review but placed on hold until payment is received.
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 Dec. 27, 3:53 p.m.: Macy’s security at Springfield Mall reported a 17-year-old male from Collingdale selected clothing merchandise and entered a fitting room where he concealed the merchandise in a bag he was carrying. The male was taken into custody by Macy’s security, and the merchandise was recovered. Macy’s reported they recognized the male from a prior theft at the store which occurred Dec. 26th. The teen was brought to headquarters and later released to family. Charges for Retail Theft will be filed. Dec. 27, 9:57 p.m.: A resident of the 300 block Valley View Rd. reported three inflatable decorations displayed in the front of the property had been damaged by a group walking on the street. Responding officers made contact with several suspects in the area. Investigation is continuing. Dec. 30, 9:01 a.m.: A person who had parked their vehicle in the Church Road Park parking lot between 8 a.m. and 09 a.m. reported the passenger side window had been smashed and a wallet removed from inside. Jan. 1, 1:12. a. m.: Officers investigating a crash on the 300 block E. Springfield Rd. in which a vehicle struck a utility pole found the driver to be intoxicated. During the investigation, they found a loaded firearm inside the vehicle belonging to an unknown person. The 39 year-old driver from Lancaster was treated by medical personnel and transported to a hospital. Charges for DUI and weapons offenses are pending. Dec. 19, 6:49. p. m.: A patron at LAFitness in the 800 block Baltimore Pike reported that while exercising someone removed cash from his wallet. The wallet was later found but the cash was missing from inside. Dec. 19, 7:06. p. m.:  A person walking at the Springfield Mall reported his wallet stolen. The wallet was later turned in to security, but cash was missing from inside. Dec. 20, 12:37 p. m.: A 34-year-old male from Camden was taken into custody after security at Macy’s at the mall reported he stole $480 worth of fragrance. He was processed and released, and charges for Retail Theft will be filed. Dec. 20, 5:45. p. m.: Macy’s security reported a female had stolen men’s furnishings and boots and left the store without paying. She was stopped be security and taken into custody by police. The 30 year-old female from Chester was processed and released, and charges for Retail Theft will be filed. Dec. 20, 7:23. p. m.: A diner at the Olive Garden in the 1000 block Baltimore Pike reported while at the restaurant she was notified that someone was attempting to use her credit cards at nearby stores. She said her purse had been on the back of her chair, and she looked and found her wallet was missing. Dec. 21, 7:33. p. m.: Two males entered the Macy’s store at the mall and proceeded to select various Polo merchandise and fragrance worth over $500 and left through the mall exit. They were stopped by security, and the merchandise was recovered. A 20-year-old male from Upland a 23 year-old from Chester were taken into custody, processed, and later released. They both will be charged with Retail Theft. Dec. 21, 5:09. p. m.: A patron at the YMCA 100 block W. Sproul Rd. reported cash stolen from her gym bag while she worked out. Dec. 23, 3:09. p. m.: An 18 yr. old male from Philadelphia entered the Target Store at the mall and loaded a shopping cart with merchandise. The male then attempted to leave without paying and was stopped by security. The male was taken into custody and over $850 worth of merchandise recovered. Charges for Retail Theft will be filed. Dec. 24, 3:20 p. m.:  A 27-year-old female from Drexel Hill will be charged with Retail Theft after Target in the 800 block Baltimore Pike reported she stole over $1300 worth of toys. She was taken into custody and released. Dec. 24, 3:48. p. m.:  A 62-year-old female from Norwood will be charged with Retail Theft after Macy’s security at the mall reported she stole over $220 worth of men’s clothing. She was taken into custody and released. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group