By James Reinl, Social Affairs Correspondent, For Dailymail.Com   Published:  12:22 EDT, 17 April 2023   |  Updated:  17:03 EDT, 17 April 2023      72 View  comments  New York City police are battling a growing wave of thefts at pharmacies and department stores, and nearly a third of all shoplifting arrests involve the same 327 seasoned criminals, officers said. Police Commissioner Keechant Sewell said those 327 crooks were busted and rearrested more than 6,000 times for retail theft, out of last year's 22,000 such apprehensions. About half of them are convicted felons. 'Numbers such as these illustrate how impactful recidivism really is,' Sewell said at a recent event. 'It is disheartening to the affected businesses. It is inefficient. It is counterproductive to public safety and frankly, it is a perpetual carousel of police resources.' Critics say New York's shoplifting spree another indicator of America's lawless, liberal cities, and that New York's bail reform rules make it harder to keep people accused of nonviolent crimes locked up before trial. By the end of last year, the theft of items valued at less than $1,000 had jumped 53 percent since 2019 at department stores and chains, according to researchers at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice A suspected shoplifter is arrested outside a store in downtown New York. Nearly a third of all shoplifting arrests involved the same 327 seasoned criminals last year, police said Police did not identify the 327 people in the analysis. Some engaged in shoplifting as a trade and as members of shoplifting-to-order rings. Others are driven by drug addiction or mental illness. Among New York's prolific shoplifters are Queens resident Isaac Rodriguez, who's known as the 'Man of Steal' for his long rap sheet, and Jamel Pringle, with more than 160 arrests on his record. Thieves are known to repeatedly target the same stores — 18 department stores and seven chain pharmacy stores accounted for a fifth of all complaints, the police said. In recent months, Walgreens and other drugstores have increased the number of products that are kept locked in transparent plastic displays to stop shoplifters getting their hands on everything from razor blades to toothpaste. This has proven irksome for consumers. Shopping for deodorant, laundry detergent and other everyday items can now require a store assistant with keys. Sales are down by as much as a quarter, according to Indyme, a theft technology company. This is another hit to the city's storefront businesses, which are already struggling with the gradual reopening of the city from the coronavirus pandemic as inflation makes everyday basics like eggs too costly for some householders. Shoplifting and other petty crimes account for the lion's share of crime in the city, even as murders, shootings, and other violent crimes have continued to drop. Last month, shootings were down 26 percent on shootings against the previous year. Police and trade groups highlight the emergence of 'organized retail crime,' in which a large-scale criminal enterprise manages professional shoplifters to nab items that are then resold for profit. Others say many shoplifters are just regular New Yorkers who have turned to petty crime to steal what they need to survive and put food on the table for their families amid high rents and the soaring cost of living. Last year, 41 people were indicted for playing roles in a criminal gang that pilfered clothing and other products from Bloomingdale's, Duane Reade and other stores which were then sold on eBay for a profit. Jamel Pringle, a Queens resident and prolific shoplifter, reportedly has more than 160 arrests on his record Queens resident Isaac Rodriguez became known as the 'Man of Steal' after he was reportedly busted for shoplifting 46 times   Police Commissioner Keechant Sewell said the same 327 crooks were busted and rearrested more than 6,000 times for retail theft, out of last year's 22,000 such apprehensions Convenience stores have become less convenient, now that locked gates and plastic containers are used to protect more expensive items from shoplifters  A Target employee locking doors of personal hygiene items in new security shelving, at a branch of the drugstore chain in Queens, New York By the end of last year, the theft of items valued at less than $1,000 had jumped 53 percent since 2019 at department stores and chains, according to an analysis by researchers at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Drug stores experienced twice as many thefts in 2022 compared with 2019, rising from 6,031 to 12,343 incidents, researchers said. Thefts from chain stores jumped 91 percent over the same period, surging from 11,673 to 22,250. The shoplifting numbers come as House Republicans arrived in New York on Monday to spotlight the city's crime scourge, and criticize Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg for focussing on his criminal case against former President Donald Trump. Critics of New York's controversial, 2019 bail reform law say it generally blocks judges from setting bail in cases involving non-violent felonies and misdemeanors such as shoplifting. Mike Johnson, a Republican representative from Louisiana, posted on social media that the multiple arrest of 327 hardened shoplifters was a sign that the city was too soft on crooks. 'Let criminals roam free and they will wreak havoc on any community,' Johnson posted. New York is not alone in fighting the shoplifting scourge. Major retailers across the US have been forced to shut down stores due to millions of dollars in losses as rampant theft plagues big box stores.  Last week, Walmart announced it will shut down four of its stores in Chicago just weeks after America's biggest employer shuttered its only stores in Portland.  It comes as shoplifting reaches alarming levels and other large retailers, including Target, Macy's and Best Buy,  are now making good on threats to shutter outlets if petty crime was not lowered.  In 2021 retailers lost a combined $94.5billion to shrink, a term used to describe theft and other types of inventory loss. And organized retail crime incidents soared by 26.5 per cent in the same year, according to the 2022 National Retail Security Survey. Along with brazen daylight thefts, self-checkouts have also made it easier for people to walk out without paying for items.  Progressive district attorneys in cities like Chicago, New York, Portland and California have also been blamed for effectively legalizing shoplifing with either not prosecuting thefts under $950, or letting criminals off with a slap on the wrist.  Here DailyMail.com lists all the big box stores which have been forced to close their doors after being savaged by rising theft. Major retailers in the US have been forced to shut down stores due to millions of dollars in losses as rampant theft plagues big box stores across the country Walmart decided to shut 17 of its stores across nine states after CEO Doug McMillon warned in December that theft was the highest it's ever been around the country and if it did not slow down, stores would have to close.  And the company announced on Tuesday it would be shutting half its Chicago stores, mostly located on the crime-ridden city's south and west sides, because they are losing tens of millions each year. CEO Doug McMillon warned in December that theft was the highest it's ever been around the country The stores on Stewart Avenue, South Cottage Grove Avenue, North Broadway and West Cermak Road had 'not been profitable' for several years, even after efforts to turn them around, according to a statement released on their website.  Chicago's closings come just weeks after Walmart closed its last two stores in Portland, Oregon at the Delta Park and Eastport Plaza shopping centers in March, due to significant losses.  Portland is widely-viewed as America's most progressive and permissive city, with crime spiraling out of control there and murders hitting an all-time high in 2022.   Other Walmart stores throughout the U.S. which have closed or are set to close, are in Washington on Highway 99 in Everett, in Minnesota on Shingle Creek Crossing and in Wisconsin on West Silver Spring Drive. A store on Portage Road in Indiana, in Hawaii on Fort Street, San Mateo Boulevard in New Mexico, 99 H Street in D.C. and two stores on Howell Mill Road and M.L.K. Jr Drive in Atlanta.  It also closed a further two in Illinois on South Halsted Street and South Route 59.  The big box chain has been closing a handful of stores annually in recent years, always citing the location 'underperforming.' The retail behemoth is also closing two stores in Illinois and Arkansas that were 'pick-up only' and two 'neighborhood market' concepts in Florida and Texas. Target revealed it lost an extraordinary $400million in profits last November due to organized gangs of shoplifters who had been stealing merchandise from its stores. And its CFO said the company expected retail thefts to reach $600million by the end of the year. Now the retailer has announced it is closing four stores in three cities in the coming months. Stores on Baltimore Ave in Maryland, West Lake Street in Minnesota, Chestnut Street in Pennsylvania and South Washington Street in Virginia are all affected.  All four smaller-format stores were rolled out about 10 years ago as a way to reach customers in more urban areas and will close on May 13.  Although the company cited declining foot traffic as the main reason for the closures and a spokesman for Target said: 'The decision to close one of our stores isn’t something we take lightly.'  Target has announced it is closing four stores in three cities in the coming months after it lost an extraordinary $400million in profits last November due to organized gangs of shoplifters  Walgreens has previously complained about retail shrinkage largely due to organized shop lifting last year and spent money on extra security measures including glass panels and security guards as preventative measures.  But its chief financial officer James Kehoe came out earlier this year and said 'maybe we cried too much last year when we were hitting numbers that were 3.5 per cent of sales' But its chief financial officer James Kehoe came out earlier this year and said 'maybe we cried too much last year when we were hitting numbers that were 3.5 per cent of sales'.  This figure is now down to around 2.5 per cent and they are 'quite happy' with where they are.  High-profile incidents in San Francisco - where thieves were filmed walking out of stores with armfuls of stolen goods while security guards stood helpless - seemed emblematic of the issues facing the retailer.   And there have indeed been a number of closures, with five alone in San Francisco in fall 2021.   Walgreens closed a store in Chicago in January and three last month on Grand Avenue in Texas and South Orange Blossom Trail and South Orange Avenue in Florida.  Walgreens previously complained about retail shrinkage largely due to organized shop lifting and spent money on extra security measures including glass panels and security guards  Shopping mall staple Macy's is closing four stores in the first quarter of 2023, with malls in California, Colorado, Hawaii and Maryland losing out.  It experienced a rise in theft across its stores which was an 'industrywide trend', according to CEO Jeff Gennette The closures are part of Macy's three-year plan to close 125 locations as an increase in organized retail crimes cuts into the profits of businesses.  Its CEO Jeff Gennette said it has experienced a rise in theft across its stores and that it was an 'industrywide trend'. 'These are crime levels we haven’t seen before,' he said.  He announced new anti-theft measures in March to target the thieves and reduce their losses.  The company now uses radio frequency ID tags to accurately track its inventory and  it has hired more security guards and locked high-value products with cables and censors.  Department stores are already struggling due to the boom in internet shopping and Macy's - which also owns upmarket sister rival Bloomingdale's - are keen to slash avoidable losses where possible.   More than a dozen looters (pictured) were captured on surveillance footage stealing about $10,000 in merchandise from Macy's Herald Square store in New York City. Two men, one with a bat and another with a hammer, are seen trying to bust the glass doors of the store Within a matter of seconds, the group of men (pictured) are seen running inside the store Best Buy CEO Corie Barry highlighted the growing problem with theft at its stores back in November 2021. The big box retailer sells very high value gadgets including computers, TVs and phones - many of which are smaller in size but high in value, making them prime targets for shoplifters.  Its CEO Corie Barry highlighted the growing problem with theft at its stores back in November 2021 Barry said organized retail crime groups would steal entire shelves of high-value products like electronics to resell them at a discounted price.  'This is traumatizing for our associates and is unacceptable,' he said.  'We are doing everything we can to try to create [an] as safe as possible environment.'  They implemented measures like locking up products and hiring extra security staff to minimize theft and protect staff and customers. But the outlet revealed it would closing down 20 'large-format' stores this year as consumer spending slowed and losses increased.  And the retailer is planning to close an average of 20 stores each year going forward.  Best Buy revealed it would closing down 20 'large-format' stores this year as consumer spending slowed and losses increased. Bed Bath & Beyond's troubles extend beyond shoplifting, with the ailing retailer set to close hundreds of stores as demand for its homewares evaporate.   The retailer, which once owned more than 1,500 stores across America, has identified at least 416 of its US stores for closure.  The company has suffered through a tumultuous few months in the leadup to its latest decision, including massive losses, the death of its CEO, and an activist investor selling a huge stake in the company.  It struggled as sales plunged and it reported a $358million net loss in the first quarter of 2022.  Despite owning 953 locations across North America just a year ago, by the end of 2023 there will be only 360 flagship Bed Bath & Beyond stores in America alongside 120 Buybuy Baby locations. The state that will be hit the worst is California, which will see 35 stores close, while Florida will lose 21, New York will lose 23, and Illinois will lose 18. 
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have not been moderated. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group