Spanish fashion retailer Mango has landed in the Golden State. After recently launching stores in New York City, Edison and East Rutherford, N.J., and Miami, and opening retail locations in Houston and Atlanta last month, the company is continuing its U.S. expansion with a new store at the Glendale Galleria mall in Glendale, Calif. Mango has also opened a boutique south of Los Angeles at the Los Cerritos Center in Cerritos, Calif., it announced this week. More from Sourcing Journal Burlington CEO: Off Price 'Starting to Pull Away From Traditional Retail' CA Governor Deploys Highway Patrol LA Amid Retail Crime Wave California Ports Getting $1.5 Billion Upgrade The brand has been ramping up its U.S. presence since its initial debut in New York City’s SoHo neighborhood—a store that it refurbished in 2017. Mango also struck agreements with Macy’s and Nordstrom to accelerate its online growth nationally several years ago. This month, the company is inaugurating its two new locations, each measuring more than 4,300 square feet, at two of California’s heavily trafficked shopping centers. The stores will only stock the Mango Woman line, and will feature a neutral, Mediterranean-inspired New Med store concept. The architectural integration will feature handcrafted and sustainable natural materials, like ceramic, volcanic tuff, wood, marble, esparto glass and leather. “After the excellent reception of Mango in New York and Miami and the recent arrival in Texas and Georgia, we are very excited to bring the brand experience physically for the first time in California as part of our ambitious development plan for the coming months in the United States, one of our key markets in the coming years,” Daniel López, the brand’s director of expansion and franchises, said in a statement. The California locations represent a key piece of the company’s U.S. retail plan, which López believes will become a key market for Mango in the next few years. It plans to launch 15 new stores or points of sale this year, including these latest openings, mostly in the western and southern U.S. Several other store openings are already planned for California in the coming months, including San Diego’s Fashion Valley mall, as well as Orange County’s Brea Mall, Victoria Gardens in Rancho Cucamonga, and the Beverly Center in Beverly Hills. While Mango has had a U.S. presence since 2006, its expansion plan ramped up last year when it opened 30 new stores including a flagship on New York City’s Fifth Avenue. The brand aims to reach 40 stores by 2024, through a combination of standalone stores and smaller points of sale, with the goal of developing the U.S. into one of the its top five markets by revenue. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.