All products and services featured are independently chosen by editors. However, StyleCaster may receive a commission on orders placed through its retail links, and the retailer may receive certain auditable data for accounting purposes. It’s been a crazy shopping week for anyone scouring the Internet for amazing deals. If you’re late to the game, you’ve got mere hours before you’ve missed your shot at major discounts, including the ones over at Macy’s Black Friday in July sale. Luckily, it doesn’t officially end until tonight, so you’ve still got time to score tons (and we mean tons) of popular brands for far, far less. Seriously—discounts go as high as 70 percent on anything from luxury sheets to designer fragrances, so fill up your cart fast! Today's Top Deals Run, Don't Walk: This Cuisinart Ice Cream Maker Is Almost Half-Off at Amazon These On-Sale Sandals Are So Comfortable, Shoppers Say It Feels Like They're 'Walking on a Cloud' Shoppers Are 'In Love' With This Hydrating Moisturizer: 'Lather Me In Snail Slime'—Get It For 47% Off The most epic deals that immediately caught our eye are discounts on cult-favorite Sunday Riley’s Good Genes, TikTok-viral NUDESTIX cream blushes, Ralph Lauren perfume sets, and this half-off Tommy Hilfiger summer dress. You’ll find even more deals spanning across beauty, fashion and home that are somehow still in stock. To help you make the most of your ticking time, we rounded up the best deals from top-brands you can snag during Macy’s Black Friday in July sale. This deeply hydrating cream protects against environmental aggressors that can wreak havoc on sensitive skin. Lancome Hydra Zen Anti-Stress Moisturizing Face Cream   $39.90    57    30% Off   $39.90   57   30% Off    Buy Now   You’ve probably seen beauty influencers rave about this setting spray on TikTok. Grab one of your own on sale! MAC Prep + Prime Fix+ Matte   $16.50    33    50% Off   $16.50   33   50% Off    Buy Now   These sheet set is available in multiple bed sizes, from queen to California king, in a range of colors. Score it for $160 off right now. Brookline 1400 Thread Count 6 Pc. Sheet Set   $49.99    210    76% Off   $49.99   210   76% Off    Buy Now   This floral halter dress from Vince Camuto is the perfect fit for any upcoming weddings or summertime formal events. Vince Camuto Halter Dress   $68.99    138    50% Off   $68.99   138   50% Off    Buy Now   This 4-in-1 pressed powder acts as a foundation, powder, concealer and SPF all in one. PÜR 4-In-1 Pressed Mineral Makeup   $17.70    29.50    40% Off   $17.70   29.50   40% Off    Buy Now   On the hunt for a body cream that does more than just hydrate? Consider this option that was specifically formulated to treat age-related concerns. Shiseido Future Solution LX Total Regenerating Body Cream   $98    140    30% Off   $98   140   30% Off    Buy Now   Now’s the best time to snag customer-loved VikTok & Rolf perfumes, particularly this Good Fortune scent that’s $90 off. Good Fortune Eau de Parfum Spray   $90    180    50% Off   $90   180   50% Off    Buy Now   Best of StyleCaster The Best Strand-Saving Products for Protein-Sensitive Hair Just 15 Gray-Haired Celebs Looking Like Gorgeous Silver Sirens 8 Drugstore Dupes That Rival Tarte's Iconic Shape Tape Concealer Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.