UK Edition Challenge yourself with today’s puzzles. Crossword Polygon Sudoku Pantone’s new colour of the year (COTY) hits you between the eyes with a powerful pink punch. The pastel hues that got us through the pandemic were already looking tired and tame. This week, with Viva Magenta named the colour of 2023 by the American colour specialists, blush has been blown out of the water. Bye bye gentle Millennial pink, the shade of the decade. Welcome the pulsating positivity of Pantone’s shocking pink. What took you so long? Viva Magenta is quite the colourquake, after years of mild-mannered naturals and neutrals, blues and greys — but who among us isn’t up for an eruption of gaiety? If Pantone’s optimistic pick leaves you wondering whether the US firm has been reading the room — or watching the news — during the past year, note that the colour-matching company isn’t alone in going for bold. London-based paintmaker Mylands chose a Barbie-inspired Hot Pink, a rich mix of red and magenta, for their COTY for 2023. Benjamin Moore recently unveiled Raspberry Blush, a glorious warm red-orange, as its COTY. It is energising and cheering. It’s a power ballad after ten years of whispery vocalists with acoustic guitars. The big question is, do we want to live with Viva Magenta? Not everyone can cohabit with a COTY, but that’s not the point of the exercise. The annual colour choice is supposed to encapsulate how we feel about the future, not be a guide for decorating our homes. And Viva Magenta is properly bullish. Colour psychology expert Karen Haller, the author of The Little Book of Colour, says: “The blue-based magenta is nothing like the soft pink that invites hugs and cuddles. It exudes the bolder, feistier side of pink, asserting its independence saying, ‘I’m no pushover.’ But is that confrontational quality what you want from your bedroom carpet?” The best way to handle such a bold colour is with attack. Gloves-off colour-blocking, from skirting to ceiling, gives a room decorative impact, while the uniform tone makes for a surprisingly calm scheme. Or try a classic colour clash, with three vibrant shades that lie close together on the colour wheel: magenta, orange and red. In fabrics and papers, wide stripes or large checks work best. If you still pine for blush — and letting go of the past takes time, we do understand — go tonal, and combine Viva Magenta with several other shades of pink, from burgundy to flamingo. The key is to show no fear. The artist and paintmaker Annie Sloan, who has never taken fright at a colour in her life, adores Viva Magenta. It resembles her own Capri Pink, inspired by the hot pink championed by Elsa Schiaparelli. “Viva Magenta is an uplifting, joyful, optimistic shade,” Sloan says. “It’s glamorous, irrepressible and cheerful. Best of all, you only need small doses to make a big statement.” Those microdoses can be delivered via tableware, cushions, throws or candles. Lampshades particularly suit Viva Magenta, casting a deep rose glow, and magically transforming the colour from courageous to comforting. The launch of this mood-boosting COTY feels especially timely at the beginning of the party season, when we are getting out our glad rags. It might even mark an adventurous new direction in home decor — that’s something to celebrate. Alchemist two-seater sofa in Plush Cranberry; £1,599, sofology.co.uk Joules Rainbow Floral striped cushion; £40, bedeckhome.com Above left: Capri Pink wall paint, 2.5 litres; £55.95, anniesloan.com Centre: Marset Dipping pendant light; £308, nest.co.uk Right: Checked jute rug; £200, tateanddarby.com Fuchsia spiral candles; £28 for six, candleflair.com Marlon armchair; £229.99, wayfair.co.uk Above left: Hand-woven napkin in sunset stripe; £12.50, montesandclark.com Centre: Hand-dipped marble pillar candle; £15, rockettstgeorge.co.uk Right: Bloom collection featuring hot pink/blush checkered linen in Chequer pinks (coming in January 2023); £168 per metre, mollymahon.com Pat table lamp in Cosmo Pink; £147, pooky.com Joules Chatsworth stripe cushion; £40, very.co.uk Yanley magenta chesterfield; £959.99, wayfair.co.uk Ododo pouffe; £595, yinkailori.com Glazed candle pot in Jam Sandwich; £9, loaf.com Wilykit merino lambswool baby blanket; £45.99, thebritishblanketcompany.com © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.