click this icon for latest updates 














  

















Updated: January 4, 2023 5:57 PM IST  


 

              By Victor Dasgupta 









 | Edited by  Victor Dasgupta 









  New Delhi: A 130-metre-long underground pedestrian subway connecting the arrival terminal at T-1 of the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport with the Terminal-1 Metro station on the Magenta Line was opened by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday. 

 In DMRC managing director Vikas Kumar’s presence, the newly built subway was opened for the public. 
Here Are Some Of The Key Details of the New Subway

Along with the staircase, each entry and exit gate of the subway has two escalators and two lifts
The elevators that have been installed in the subway are more spacious than the general lifts installed in the Metro station,
The elevators have a capacity of 26 people
The subway has also been decorated with attractive artwork in line with DMRC’s efforts to depict the rich heritage of the region

Earlier, passengers had to make their way to the Metro station by walking along the exit road from T-1, which sees considerable traffic in terms of departing vehicles.










Also Read:  


  


After 18 Months, Delhi's IGI Airport Resumes Flight Operations From Terminal 1 | Key Updates Here


 
  
For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        India News on India.com.
                


Topics
DMRC NewsIGI airport T1 terminalIGI Airport Terminal 1T1 metro station IGI airportT1 metro station subway IGI airport 




More Stories













   Earlier, passengers had to make their way to the Metro station by walking along the exit road from T-1, which sees considerable traffic in terms of departing vehicles.  For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        India News on India.com.
                 'Narendra Modi To Visit Ukraine On August 23', Office Of Volodymyr Zelenskyy Issues Statement Sourav Ganguly Issues Clarification For ‘Bengal Shouldn't Be Judged...’ Remark On Kolkata Rape-Murder Case Post-Backlash Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharman Meets Heads of PSBs, Exhorts Banks To Improve Deposit Growth; Details Shillong Teer Lottery- Today- (19.08.24)- 1st And 2nd Round Results Announced- All Updates Shillong Teer Lottery Results- Monday- August 19, 2024- First And Second Round Winning Numbers OUT- LIVE Updates Open Now: DMRC's New Subway Connecting T-1 Arrivals to IGI Metro Station on Magenta Line After 18 Months, Delhi's IGI Airport Resumes Flight Operations From Terminal 1 | Key Updates Here By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts Cookies Policy. 