Non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace Magic Eden on Monday announced that it would be laying off 22 members of its staff as part of a "companywide restructuring." In a message posted to Twitter, CEO and co-founder Jack Lu explained the company needed to make changes to its team in order to reach new goals in 2023. "Just 15 months ago, we were searching for product-market fit on Solana," Lu wrote. "Since then, our business has grown significantly and the nature of our challenges has evolved. Our focus areas for 2023 include growing traction across chains, developing services for NFT creators, and exploring new use cases like rewards and social experiences. As we established these priorities for the year, we had to take a hard look at what structure and roles are needed. To be clear-eyed, addressing our strategic goals requires making changes to our team. In order to reach our goals, our team must encompass certain types of new skills and expertise without losing momentum." Lu said that many of the platform's products are "entering new stages of growth" and pledged to help affected employees during their transition. The leading Solana-based NFT marketplace has taken a hit as the price of SOL has fallen sharply over the past year. In response, it has expanded support for Ethereum and Polygon-based NFTs to help it stay competitive against marketplaces like OpenSea. Late last year, the company became embroiled in the debate over creator royalties, switching to a royalty-optional model, which led to a temporary dip in trading volumes. Several other NFT platforms have downsized in recent months as the ongoing crypto winter continues to chill market movement. Last month, NFT marketplace SuperRare cut its staff by 30% while OpenSea laid off roughly 20% of its staff in July 2022. Disclosure Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. Rosie Perper was the Deputy Managing Editor for Web3 and Learn, focusing on the metaverse, NFTs, DAOs and emerging technology like VR/AR. She has previously worked across breaking news, global finance, tech, culture and business. She holds a small amount of BTC and ETH and several NFTs. Subscribe to her weekly newsletter, The Airdrop. About Stay Updated Get In Touch The Fine Print Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. ©2024 CoinDesk