MADISON – A weekly look at the Wisconsin women’s hockey team. Wisconsin lost its fourth and fifth straight games to drop its record to 16-7-1 overall and 12-5-1 in the WCHA following a 2-1 overtime loss to top-ranked Ohio State on Friday and a 5-0 setback to the Buckeyes on Saturday. The team remains in the top 10 of both national polls, settling in at No. 8 in both the USCHO and USA Today/USA Hockey Magazine rankings. A season-long three-game scoreless streak ended for Lacey Eden on Friday when she gave the Badgers a 1-0 lead on Ohio State with a goal at the 17-minute mark of the first period. The score, which came off passes from senior Britta Curl and Natalie Buchbinder, moved her into a share of the team scoring lead with Casey O'Brien with 29 points (14 goals, 15 assists). A positive for the Badgers loss at Ohio State was the team’s willingness to put its bodies on the line. The Badgers finished with a season-high 27 blocks, almost three times as many as their season average. “That is about being willing to do a bunch of little things and sacrifice yourself for the team because it’s not an easy thing to do,” Wisconsin coach Mark Johnson said. “People don’t like to block shots, especially if someone is taking a penalty and takes a slap shot and now you’re getting in the way of a 70-, 80-mile (per hour) puck coming at you. That’s commitment. That’s effort.” One aspect of the Badgers play that has been obscured by the team’s scoring struggles has been its work killing penalties. Ohio State, which leads the WCHA (nation) in power plays, went 0 for 7 in power plays last week. During the three-week stretch when UW faced three top-10 teams, the unit allowed just one goal in 14 power plays, a 93% success rate. Ohio State entered play leading the conference with a .37.5% success rate. Conversely to the Badgers' success killing penalties, they have struggled with their power play. Johnson made some tweaks to the unit, putting freshman Laila Edwards in front of the net and flipping Eden’s and senior Sophie Shirley's spots on the two units. UW hasn't scored on 15 straight power plays. “We have to get a little bit different look and try to create some things,” Johnson said. .818 Winning percentage of the Badgers' last three opponents: Quinnipiac, Minnesota-Duluth and Ohio State. 5 The Badgers' current losing streak, which equals the longest run in program history. 5 Overtime games between Wisconsin and Ohio State in the past three years. Plus-30 The league-best plus/minus for Britta Curl. Vs. Minnesota Mankato, 2 p.m. Saturday and Sunday: The Mavericks have won six straight, a streak that started the weekend after they were swept by Wisconsin on Dec. 9-10. The Badgers didn't trail in either game. This week appears to be a good opportunity for UW to get back on track. Both games can be seen on Big Ten-plus. “To me the biggest thing is to clear your mind and not worry about what might happen,” Johnson said. “Just free your mind up. We’re capable of playing at real high level. We’ve shown that the last five, six games and now we have to continue to get to that space.” --30--