Leading Solana-based non-fungible token (NFT) marketplace Magic Eden is rolling out a loyalty rewards program, the company said Wednesday. Called Magic Eden Rewards, the new feature will allow users to create a profile across all wallets and will award users with “Magic Points” based on secondary trading transactions on the platform. For every 1 SOL traded, users earn five “Magic Points,” placing users in one of five loyalty tiers. This ranking system will reward users with unique benefits, including exclusive creator content, partner discounts, and NFT giveaways airdropped directly to their profile. Magic Eden also plans to introduce dynamic fee pricing into the tiering structure. This means that instead of flat fees for trading, the amount that users and creators pay to transact will depend on their marketplace activity and will be be distributed between sellers and buyers. Magic Eden’s effort to introduce loyalty rewards to its marketplace comes after it moved to a royalty optional model in October, which caused its trading volume to dip. Earlier this month, the marketplace rolled back its decision and launched an opt-in tool that will allow creators to enforce royalties on their projects. Magic Eden CEO Jack Lu and head of marketing Tiffany Huang told CoinDesk that the Magic Eden Rewards program will allow collectors and creators to better collaborate through an infrastructure that entices engagement. “We want Magic Eden to be a place where collectors and creators connect beyond the transactional level and instead, a hub where users can more deeply engage with the community,” said Lu and Huang. Disclosure Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. Cam Thompson was a news reporter at CoinDesk. About Stay Updated Get In Touch The Fine Print Please note that our privacy policy, terms of use, cookies, and do not sell my personal information has been updated.CoinDesk is an award-winning media outlet that covers the cryptocurrency industry. Its journalists abide by a strict set of editorial policies. In November 2023, CoinDesk was acquired by the Bullish group, owner of Bullish, a regulated, digital assets exchange. The Bullish group is majority-owned by Block.one; both companies have interests in a variety of blockchain and digital asset businesses and significant holdings of digital assets, including bitcoin. CoinDesk operates as an independent subsidiary with an editorial committee to protect journalistic independence. CoinDesk employees, including journalists, may receive options in the Bullish group as part of their compensation. ©2024 CoinDesk