Parade.com has an extensive editorial partnership with Cleveland Clinic, consistently named as one of the nation's best hospitals in U.S. News & World Report's annual "America's Best Hospitals" survey. Click here to learn more about our health reporting policies. Whether people want to lose weight, get more energy or simply cut back on sugar and carbs, the keto diet remains one of the most popular diets out there for a number of reasons. When we think of eating breakfast on the keto diet, though, a big plate of eggs comes to mind—and while delicious, that can get old. Cue the fantasies of slices of buttered toast, pancakes and of course, cereal. Luckily, because the keto diet is so popular, there are a lot of keto-friendly alternatives to carby foods out there—and that includes breakfast cereal. Here are the healthiest, most delicious keto-friendly cereals on the market, according to nutritionists, so get ready to fill up your shopping cart. View the original article to see embedded media. More of a granola fan than a cereal person? This is the breakfast option for you. “KitchFix Granola is my favorite keto cereal because it's grain and gluten-free, making it more versatile than many other keto cereals," says Trista Best, a registered dietitian at Balance One Supplements. "I love that it doubles as a granola that can easily be added to a high fat, low carb yogurt. It's also naturally paleo and provides 2 grams of fiber that help feed the beneficial gut bacteria." For those who can tolerate dairy, Magic Spoon is a great option. "Where ready-made cereals are concerned, my favorite is Magic Spoon cinnamon-flavored grain-free cereal," says nutritionists Sofia Norton. "It’s made with a milk-protein blend, so it’s not suitable for anyone with dairy allergies and this also means it’s best served with almond milk or coconut milk. The texture and taste are perfect for when you want something sweet and fun in the morning that will support your keto diet." ($39 for a 4-pack, Magicspoon.com) Related: How to Avoid the Dreaded Keto Flu  If you like a nutty base, this muesli is a solid keto cereal option. "The Seven Sundays Rise & Shine Strawberry Banana Nut mix is gluten-free, grain-free and keto-friendly," says Jenna Gorham, RD, LN of Gorham Consulting Group. "It has 0 grams of added sugar and with 4 grams of healthy and filling dietary fiber, it has 5 grams of net carbs total. It uses almonds and unsweetened coconut flakes as the base and offers a natural sweetness from the dried strawberries, bananas and dates without pushing your carb limit. It uses only high-quality whole food ingredients and no artificial sweeteners unlike many other keto-friendly foods. It tastes great with milk, Greek yogurt or cottage cheese." If you're all about short ingredient lists, you'll want to try Catalina Crunch. "I really love how short their ingredient list is and it prevents me from crashing and binging on negative sugars when I have a craving," says Dr. Olivia Audrey. "The low sugar content as well as high fiber also offsets any potential digestive issues that come from the standard keto diet." Holistic nutritionist Melissa Kathryn is all about Julian Bakery's Pro Granola. "I love the crunch, but what I love even more are the numbers," she says. "Being a nutritionist that specializes in weight loss, the ingredients are everything to me. They are the first thing I look at. If I like what I see, then I look at the numbers, starting with sugar and carbs as my warning signs. If they look good and the fiber, fat and calories check out, I make sure to try it and keep my fingers crossed that the taste will be just as good as the nutritional profile. With Julian Bakery, it always is!" Related: 56 High-Fat, Low Carb Keto Recipes “It can be hard for people to follow a keto diet because it means giving up on grain-based foods, like a favorite cereal. There are a lot of brands that offer keto-friendly cereal, but my favorite is Purely Elizabeth because its grain-free cereals (which have 7 g of net carbs) are made with whole food ingredients," says Samantha Cassetty, MS, RD, and advisor to Performance Kitchen. "There is nothing on the label that you couldn't find in a grocery store, but buying a packaged cereal means you don't have to buy all of the ingredients (like nuts and seeds) separately. And on top of being very minimally processed, the main ingredients are nutritional superstars, like pumpkin seeds and cashews." According to certified clinical nutritionist Tiffany Schneider Raff, Low Carb Keto Granola is a reliable option. "The cleanest brand I have come across is Low Karb Keto Granola," she says. "They have several flavors and they're all very clean, just nuts, seeds, erythritol, and monk fruit and sometimes dried berries or cocoa." Related: 17 Keto Snacks to Munch on Between Meals If you want a cereal that "tastes like your childhood," as Raff puts it, it's hard to go wrong with HighKey Protein Cereal. "HighKey Protein cereal could be considered healthier because the ingredients list is short and mostly recognizable ingredients, but it's important to note that includes milk protein which is inflammatory for many and inulin which can cause digestive issues for some as well. But this is quite common in many keto packaged products." Not loving any of the above options? No worries—you can always make your own keto breakfast cereal! "For a simple cereal substitute, sprinkle coconut flakes (1/3 cup) with cinnamon and toast at 350 degrees for about 5 minutes," suggests Gabby Greets, RD at Green Chef. "Add to a bowl of almond milk (1/2 cup) for an alternative to cornflakes. With less than 5 grams of net carbs, full of fat and moderate in protein, it's keto-friendly." Next, try one of these 13 easy keto dessert recipes. View the original article to see embedded media. Jenna Gorham, RD, LN of Gorham Consulting Group Samantha Cassetty, MS, RD, and advisor to Performance Kitchen New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.