Joe Burgess scored his third try of the season for Salford Betfred Super League Salford (10) 26 Tries: Burgess, Sio, Atkin Goals: Sneyd 7 Hull KR (12) 16 Tries: Minchella, King, Hall Goals: Coote 2 Salford made it seven wins from their past eight games with a late flurry of points to pull clear of Hull KR for victory in match one of Magic Weekend. Rovers took the lead through Elliot Minchella before Joe Burgess replied, though George King's try restored a lead going into the half-time break. Marc Sneyd's boot again kept Salford in it, punishing indiscipline, as Rovers added a third try through Ryan Hall. Late scores for ex-Rovers duo Ken Sio and Chris Atkin earned Salford victory. Defeat for Hull KR was compounded by the withdrawal of back-rower James Batchelor following a challenge in the first half, which left him knocked out and motionless on the pitch for 10 minutes. Batchelor was carried off on a stretcher in a neck brace and taken to hospital, but after the match head coach Willie Peters said he is in "good spirits". They also lost Lachlan Coote to a head injury assessment, which, given his previous issues with concussions, could be a genuine concern in his final season at Craven Park. Salford now move two points behind leaders Warrington, who play on Sunday, while Rovers are four points off top spot. This game, though first on the bill, promised much as it pitted two in-form sides and packed with gamebreakers, although the quality level did not quite live up to the drama. An enthusiastic crowd, fringed by partisan factions at both ends of the ground, were treated to a tense affair, see-sawing, that was not decided until late on. Paul Rowley's Salford looked to Sneyd's boot to keep them in the game on a sapping afternoon, and his kicking out of hand and from the tee were again impressive. The rare moments of genuine quality stood out like a sore thumb, such as Batchelor's offload to put Matt Parcell into space for Minchella's score, while Burgess was sent over by Brodie Croft's scorching break. King's try was all raw-boned power while Hall showed acrobatic ability to touch down spectacularly in the corner, but it was not enough for Rovers. Ryan Brierley showed he had plenty of gears to move through against a tiring defence to send Sio over, while Atkin finished off after a beautifully constructed move carved the Robins open up the middle. Hull KR head coach Willie Peters: "It was a tough afternoon and we got what we deserved. "We were lucky to be in front at half-time then in the second half there were too many errors and too much indiscipline." [On James Batchelor's condition]: "From what I know he's in a decent way at the moment. "When I spoke to the medical team they said he was in good spirits but because of the symptoms he gave initially, he needed to go to hospital. Initially he didn't have any feeling but then it started to come back." Salford coach Paul Rowley: "We created a lot of opportunities in the first half and we really needed to capitalise on a lot of them. "If you had a team with a soft underbelly you'd start doubting yourself but we've got a good group that stayed with it and on task, and we got them in the end after some missed opportunities on our part." [On full-back Ryan Brierley's England prospects]: "He's been the best full-back on the pitch in all of our last five or six games. "We've got several people who are quietly letting their actions speak louder than words, but at some point you've got to start looking at the end of the season and some selections there." Salford:  Brierley; Sio, Cross, Lafai, Burgess; Croft, Sneyd; Dupree, Atkin, Vuniyayawa, Watkins, Stone, Partington. Interchanges: Bourouh, Ormondroyd, Sidlow, Hellewell. Hull KR: Coote; Kenny-Dowall, Opacic, C. Hall, R. Hall; Litten, Lewis; Sue, Parcell, Hadley, Batchelor, Linnett, Minchella. Interchanges: King, Storton, Wood, Luckley. Referee: Chris Kendall. Super League Show - watch and catch-up here No small talk, no messages, just one kiss: Dannii Minogue plays Cupid in I Kissed A Boy 'The shorter your sleep, the shorter your life': Joe Wicks learns why sleep is fundamental to our health The Super League Show The Super League Show Facebook Super League Rugby Football League Castleford Catalans Huddersfield Hull FC Hull KR Leeds Salford St Helens Toulouse Wakefield Warrington Wigan 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.