
Follow us on
 loading.... loading.... loading.... loading.... loading.... loading.... loading....  25th Jan, 2023. 02:44 pm Share Listen Font size Dark Mode Save Print For the past week, a father has gone viral on social media. Reason? For giving his son a haircut using nothing more than a spoon. He even videotaped the entire event and posted it on Instagram. As expected, it drew a lot of attention and responses from netizens. While many praised his extraordinary talent, others quipped that they would never buy another razor again. Some even praised the man’s editing abilities. “I cut my boy’s hair with a spoon. Since we are all doing magic on haircuts now,”  said the description shared alongside the video by Instagram user @ari rover. The video begins with a text insert reading, “Barbing with spoon.” His son can be seen sitting in front of the camera with a wide smile as the video progresses. He may then be seen cutting his son’s hair with the edge of a spoon moments later. Toward the end, he dusts the stray hair with a hairbrush and displays the results. View the video below:     A post shared by jSK Vibes (@ari_rover)  Five days ago, the video was uploaded on Instagram. It has since received over 30,000 views. The short but breathtaking video has also gotten a lot of attention. People’s reactions to the video were as follows: “It’s a razor in spoon shape,” wrote someone with a laughing emoticon. ”Spoon made from vibranium,” another user wrote.  said a third. “Show us the blade behind that spoon,” a fourth person suggested.  a fifth said. “Editor of life.” said a sixth. “After watching this for 432 million times. Amazing talent! Is there an entire barber cutlery sharpened as well? inquired a seventh. Top 5 Viral Videos of 'Quick Style'. this dance crew commonly known as... Catch all the
Trending News, Breaking News Event and Latest News Updates on The BOL News Download The BOL News App to get the Daily News Update & Follow us on Google News. Copyright ©  - BOL Group Ltd. All rights reserved.