Our journalism is funded by our readers. Become a subscriber today to help champion our writing, plus enjoy bonus essays, podcasts, playlists and music downloads. The influential Bristol experimentalist shares the story of his astonishing, magic-inspired new album, available exclusively for Quietus subscribers, with Alastair Shuttleworth Photo by Simon Holliday To receive Saint by MXLX become a Quietus Sound + Vision subscriber For over 20 years, Matt Loveridge has been amongst the most inventive, influential figures in Bristol’s experimental music scene. As well as co-founding Beak>, he has created 63 solo records under various aliases signifying different disciplines: from piano-and-vocals pieces as Knife Liibrary to his work without any live or MIDI instruments as Gnar Hest. As MXLX, he combines metal, industrial and noise in impossibly maximalist pieces, with some songs layering as many as 80 audio tracks. While these records are often shaped by a striking interplay of light and extreme darkness, this is taken to new realms by his extraordinary, magic-inspired new album Saint. As he explains, “it’s some of my nicest work, and some of my nastiest.” Recent MXLX albums have had difficult births. 2020’s Serpent followed a bout of severe depression and a brush with homelessness. Nebula Rasa the following year was nearly lost after Loveridge’s laptop was stolen, and only finished after he tracked down the thieves himself. With Saint, Loveridge was slowed by creative challenges. “I banned myself listening to any music for six months,” he explains. “I always find myself getting frustrated that I’m not making what I’m listening to, and that I start trying to put [their ideas] into my writing.” Finding that the arrangements in his head “weren’t coming out of my hands right,” Loveridge set to painstakingly rebuilding every patch on his synthesiser. “I needed to trust my hands again.” Saint presents a chilling, apocalyptic world of “burned out towns” (‘Kitab Siriyun’) and “lifeless corpses” (‘Saturn’): supported through metal-inspired guitars and dark, twisting electronics. More than war or disaster, this destruction appears to reflect Loveridge’s questioning of reality. “I had a visitation last year from a certain deity,” he explains. While he refuses to share many details about this vision, it contributed to an unsettled view of the world around him. He recounts “seven planet-sized orbs: six of them are cleaved in half, and the one that remained is the timeline I exist on now.”  While Loveridge shrugs off analysis of his lyrics, claiming “it’s sound over sense,” this unsettling of reality is referenced throughout Saint. He describes “exiting the structures entirely” in ‘Kitab Siriyun’, and complains of being “shackled to rationality” in ‘The Eternal Roar Of The Howling Static Void’. “Everything we rely on to navigate the real world is a fantasy that has been agreed upon collectively: laws, morality, empathy, money… these things are just constructions” Loveridge explains. “I dropped out of trying to find a place in the real world, when I realised it didn’t exist.” This came with a renewed interest in magic and spirituality. “I’ve been viewing the entire world through a magical lens for a few years.” While Loveridge appreciates this worldview may not be understood, he is proud of its influence on his work. “While I might be completely fucking deluded, at least my delusions are fun.”  These notions of reality and magic reflect the interplay of light and darkness in Saint. MXLX’s signature gritty electronics are met with gorgeous melodies and uncharacteristically warm guitars: the searing noise of ‘Saturn’ gives way to a yearning synth arrangement, while the rousing riff closing ‘Try Dying’ – which Loveridge terms “Hawaiian doom” – is a true MXLX first. Saint also contrasts unusual and conventional song structures: ‘Saturn’ is full of ankle-breaking changes in rhythm and texture, while the more uniform ‘Kitab Siriyun’ features choruses and even a bridge. Loveridge describes these elements of contrast as presenting “full integration,” combining “the magical with the mundane.” Loveridge also explores various ways of using his voice on Saint. MXLX records often use a rich palette of whispers, chants and harmonised singing, which Loveridge accredits to a fondness for sea shanties: the ‘Kitab Siriyun’ lyric “A night with the boys wouldn’t do us any harm” is drawn from the shanty ‘Roll The Old Chariot’. However, he is on especially dynamic form throughout Saint: there’s scatting on ‘Prayer Slips To Mammon’, anguished screaming on ‘Saturn’ and tender crooning on ‘Building One’s House On Sand In the Great Inversion, Or, Man’. Explaining this, he makes a startling revelation: “It’s the first time I’ve ever used a microphone.” Loveridge’s enormous body of solo work has been constantly dogged by problems recording live. “I’d have to record onto a Dictaphone and import that. If I wanted to do overdubs, I’d have to wear two sets of headphones.” Having finally tackled this technology, he was able to explore new vocal ideas with greater ease throughout Saint. The album closes with the dramatic, nearly 15-minute-long highlight ‘Building One’s House On Sand In the Great Inversion, Or, Man’. An inquisitive synth melody builds towards a triumphant post rock outro: evaporated by scorching, high-frequency noise. This illuminates Loveridge’s view of the album as “healing magic.” In its searing and abrasive textures, as well as its images of purging and destruction, Saint is conceived as a tool “to burn away the dead wood; to violently, but beautifully, exfoliate the soul.”  Considering Saint in the context of Loveridge’s catalogue is no straightforward task. He calls it the fifth “canonical” MXLX album, following 2012’s Black Meta, 2015’s ^___^, 2017’s Kicking Away At The Decrepit Walls Til The Beautiful Sunshine Blisters Through The Cracks and 2020’s Serpent. “There’s Nebula Rasa, but that’s more like 4.5 – I don’t make the rules.” The most fluid of his projects, other releases under the name vary from 2007’s 40-minute organ piece MXLX-8 to the vivid electronica of Maximum Amounts Of Extremely Fucking Yes (Vol.1) in 2020. That’s to say nothing of his far-ranging records as Knife Liibrary, Gnar Hest, Klad Hest, Team Brick, Fairhorns and WON’T.  It might be fatuous, then, to simply call Saint ‘the greatest MXLX album to date’. What can certainly be said, is that it is an astonishingly ambitious, expressive work of towering complexity. “I don’t believe in explicit, hand-held meaning” he says. “I believe music is a huge force. It’s a terrifying, overwhelming, awesome form of art, and maybe the most impactful form of art we have – it’s deep magic.” To receive Saint by MXLX, as well as a host of other benefits including exclusive essays, podcasts and playlists, and loads more specially-commissioned music, become a Quietus Sound + Vision subscriber. You can do so here SAINT Matt Loveridge’s 63rds album proves a slow burn but a surefire riff monster for Nick Roseblade Nebula Rasa A towering release from Bristol maximalist Matt Loveridge, finds Noel Gardner Matthew Loveridge was finishing off his new album when his laptop, and by extension all of his music was stolen. He tells Patrick Clarke how he went and stole it back, and the rest of the story behind intense latest record Nebula Rasa With Bandcamp today (May 1) waiving its fees on all sales through the website, tQ's staffers come together to share some of their favourite music from the last month that you can buy Serpent The new MXLX album – their first in two years – matches anything they have previously released, finds Nick Roseblade  Inhabiting myriad identities to build an enormous catalogue of experimental music, Matthew Loveridge’s fascinating career was briefly paralysed by personal hardship. As he returns, Alastair Shuttleworth speaks to the enigmatic composer about anhedonia, abrasiveness, and the difficult birth of his new masterpiece Matt Loveridge's talent spills out of him and pours across many different projects. Matt Evans tries to find ten entry points into the back catalogue of this musical savant Thee Alcoholics' Rhys Llewellyn speaks to Julian Marszalek about their eviscerating new live-in-the-studio session now available for Quietus subscribers, and out on vinyl in November J.R. Moores speaks to Mark Pilkington and DORANBOT-3000 (in place of our own John Doran) of Hitiloma about this month's tQ subscribers release – a collaboration with the mighty Nat Sharp recorded live at this year's Acid Horse We've done something a little different this month and asked William Doyle to accompany his fantastic stripped-down release of three of his own songs and three covers with an essay about how he makes touring work financially – this is free to read to non subscribers too. As they release remixes of each other's work exclusively for tQ subscribers, Alex Rigotti speaks to Catherine Backhouse, aka Xylitol, and Sculpture's Dan Hayhurst As they release a new live recording exclusively to tQ subscribers, Shovel Dance Collective speak to Patrick Clarke about the “density of human culture, death, and life” Rúnesine pen a special text for tQ on the historical and magical currents running through their new release Futhorc: New Sonic Rites For The Old English Rune Poem, released exclusively for tQ subscribers Tim and Roo Farthing speak to Sean Kitching about their latest release as Reigns, Dead Centre, available now exclusively for Quietus Sound + Vision subscribers  Kitty Whitelaw and Tye McGivern of Sealionwoman speak to Alastair Shuttleworth about their crushing, yew tree-inspired second album, available exclusively for Quietus subscribers.
 John Foxx and Ade Fenton speak to Jonathan Wright about new track 'A Million Times', released today exclusively to tQ Sound And Vision subscribers This month, Quietus readers and subscribers decide which Fall album Luke Turner and John Doran should discuss – tune in below or via your podcast feed Thee Alcoholics' Rhys Llewellyn speaks to Julian Marszalek about their eviscerating new live-in-the-studio session now available for Quietus subscribers, and out on vinyl in November In the latest antidote to the algorithm that is the Organic Intelligence newsletter, Miranda Remington guides you through the hectic sounds of Tokyo's wildly diverse and noisy underground  Here's everything we've covered at The Quietus this month, compiled for the listening pleasure of tQ's subscribers In the latest subscriber exclusive Low Culture Essay, John Doran reflects on class, craft and the risk of a flashed or crushed testicle in his life-long relationship with the denim trouser. In this month’s antidote to the algorithm, Jeremy Allen takes us up to the far north of Norway and the emergence of the country’s techno scene We love it when our subscribers send in suggestions of things for us to talk about – but do we love what they’re suggesting? Is Eurythmics’ soundtrack to the 1984 film 1984 doubleplusgood or does it send John Doran into his own personal Room 101? Find out here. Get your ears round hours of music here! J.R. Moores speaks to Mark Pilkington and DORANBOT-3000 (in place of our own John Doran) of Hitiloma about this month's tQ subscribers release – a collaboration with the mighty Nat Sharp recorded live at this year's Acid Horse Here's everything we've covered at The Quietus this month, compiled for the listening pleasure of tQ's subscribers In this month's subscriber essay, Manu Ekanayake revisits the BBC adaptation of John Le Carré's Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy to explore ideas of Englishness and patriotism corrupted by the Establishment and private school system (note – contains spoilers!)  3-step is a new evolution within South African dance music, writes Skye Butchard in the latest instalment of our antidote to the algorithm The influential Bristol experimentalist shares the story of his astonishing, magic-inspired new album, available exclusively for Quietus subscribers, with Alastair Shuttleworth Sign up for our free Friday email newsletter. You have successfully joined our subscriber list. Our journalism is funded by our readers. Become a subscriber today to help champion our writing, plus enjoy bonus essays, podcasts, playlists and music downloads. Sign up for a weekly delve into the tQ archives. You have successfully joined our subscriber list. Sign up for our free Friday email newsletter. You have successfully joined our subscriber list.