A spokesperson for ITV's Love Island said: "It is not possible to show everything that happens in the villa due to time constraints" Love Love Island? Our Factor 50 email brings all the goss direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Love Love Island? Our Factor 50 email brings all the goss direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Lynda Flix, who was one of the girls in Casa Amor, revealed that she had a ‘connection’ with two of the Islanders after being dumped from the villa. Fans of the ITV dating show were quick to ask Lynda questions about her time in the villa after she left, including whether she got close with any of the boys during her short-time in Casa Amor.  On Instagram she confessed that her and Ron Hall, who was adamant he stayed faithful to Lana Jenkins, had a ‘good connection’ and 'kissed'. In a series of social media posts, the 22-year-old also said that she was 'confused' as to why ITV didn't air certain conversations she had with fellow Islanders like Ron and Shaq Muhammad.  Even during the Casa Amor drama fans flooded social media asking where Lynda was, with one stating that she had 'no screen time'. At one stage, viewers even dubbed her as a 'missing' after not seeing her on their screens since entering the villa.  Read more: Love Island's Davide Sanclimenti tells attempted burglars 'don't f*** with Ekinde' Taking to her Instagram story following her exit, the healthcare assistant and singer spoke about her connections. She said: “I did speak to the boys, I spoke to all of the girls as well, not romantically obviously, but I had really good connections there, especially with Ron and Shaq. "I really got on with Ron especially and me and Shaq flirted very well in the beginning, but things happened. “But me and Ron kissed in the challenge, which they didn’t air, we kissed twice, which they didn’t air. So I don’t know, I’m confused, why didn’t they air this stuff.” In a video posted on Tuesday (February 21) she continued: “I did have a connection in there [villa] with the guys. I feel like me, Ron and Shaq definitely had potential there.  "I think me and Shaq flirting should have been aired I think because we really flirted in the beginning and we had a conversation about where his head was at.  “He said he was very stuck on Tanya and that he was attracted and interested in me but he couldn’t get Tanya out of his head- I don’t know why they didn’t air that." She added: “He did pull me for a chat as well. “Me and Ron had really good conversations about Nigerian food, surprisingly, and he said would like to try Nigerian food and all that.”  A spokesperson for ITV's Love Island told Bristol Live: "As we have said before, it is not possible to show everything that happens in the villa due to time constraints. "It is always our intention to produce a show that is a fair and accurate representation of life in the villa." Read now: Love Island fans gobsmacked after Tanya goes on secret visit to Shaq after recoupling 