Justin Leppitsch has responded to speculation over his coaching future as the Magpies prepare to unveil a debutant in Perth. Collingwood assistant coach Justin Leppitsch says he has not been approached by Richmond but would consider returning to his former club as senior coach. The former Brisbane premiership defender endured a tough three-season stint at the Lions as senior coach before serving as an assistant under Damien Hardwick at the Tiger, but said enough time had passed since his 2016 sacking that he did not feel “burnt” by the experience. “I haven’t asked my wife yet, which is a really important hurdle to get over,” Leppitsch said when asked of his interest in the vacant Richmond job. “I’m long enough now from my last appointment and not burnt by the experience. “I think these things, it’s almost like a marriage – you’ve got to commit together for a long period of time.” He said his close relationships with Richmond staff, including football performance boss Tim Livingstone, meant he would not have to undertake a “ridiculous interview process” if he put his hand up for the role. “It’s such a pie-in-the-sky thing for me at the moment, I’m really committed to this club and where it’s going, and I’ve just started this journey, so for me it’s not even on the radar to be honest,” he said. “The difference is I know everyone at Richmond. Tim Livingstone I speak to all the time, we do Powerball together every Thursday night, so they know me pretty well. “Never say never, it’s unlikely at this point in time but never say never … if an opportunity presents and it suits where you are and where you are at your time in life, why wouldn’t all of us take an opportunity like that?” Leppitsch spoke to reporters on Wednesday in Craig McRae’s absence due to illness, but he said the senior coach was certain to make the trip to Perth for Saturday’s clash against the Eagles. The Magpies announced Harvey Harrison would make his debut in WA, with the speedster rewarded for a consistent run of VFL form that has led to regular selections as an emergency this season. He was one of the Magpies’ best in the narrow round 8 loss to GWS with 20 disposals and three goals. The 19-year-old South Australian was taken with pick 52 in the 2021 draft and recorded the fastest 20m sprint time at that year’s combine. Leppitsch confirmed Steele Sidebottom would be unavailable for six to eight weeks with the medial ligament sprain he suffered against the Kangaroos, while he played down the severity of Jamie Elliott’s shoulder injury. “It’s not too bad at all … (Elliott) has been managing it for probably a month, but given the six-day break and the travel, and it hasn’t pulled up as well as it previously has – we’ve decided that this is the week it’s probably best for him not to play,” Leppitsch said. “I guess the positive (for Sidebottom) is he’s back at the right time of the season.” Leppitsch said spring-heeled defender Jeremy Howe was “no chance” to return against the Eagles but was closing in on a comeback after the Magpies’ round 14 bye, having moved from a hard wrist guard to a soft version on his injured arm at training. Melbourne Demons superstar Christian Petracca has reportedly come clean to teammates over rumours he wants to leave the club. Young Richmond superstar Shai Bolton is reportedly set to request a trade home with a frontrunner already emerging. Successive losses are likely to mean the Brisbane Lions are going to have to do it the hard way if they are to win the AFL premiership. Our Apps