Supporters who were hoping for arranged trips to Italy for AC Milan game will now have to come up with their own plans Newcastle United fans hoping to kick off the Champions League fixtures in Milan later this month might find getting there a problem, as travel companies struggle to come up with an affordable option. The game against AC Milan on September 19 at the San Sira Stadium is also the most tricky for independent travellers, with no suitable direct flights on the standard roster from Newcastle International Airport. Details are starting to emerge for chartered flights and coach travel to the Magpies' later Champions League matches in Borussia Dortmund on November 7 and Paris St Germain on November 29 but at the time of publication, there are no travel packages on offer for the Toon Amy to get to the Italian city to watch the match, with local travel companies, the airport and even specialist sports travel companies having nothing to offer to Milan, four days after the fixtures were announced. Read more: Full details as Newcastle release AC Milan ticket info including prices and ballot instructions And Darren Curry, of the newly-formed Newcastle United Supporters' Club, said he thought it was extremely unlikely that there would be any arranged travel on offer at a reasonable price, mainly because of the timescales involved between the fixture being confirmed on September 2 and the match date on September 19 - less than two weeks away. "We will have day trips and coach trips to Dortmund and overnight stays and coach trips to Paris, but we are really struggling with Milan," said Darren, who set up the supporters' club with three friends in May. "We haven't given up yet, but we're going to have to soon. The costs are astronomical - we're talking around £550 for a day trip. And everything we offer is at cost price anyway, so I can't see any other operators coming in cheaper than that. " Newcastle International Airport is yet to announce any packages for Newcastle fans, saying: "We are currently speaking to several airlines and ATOL protected travel companies about operating additional frequencies or dedicated charter flights from Newcastle International Airport to European game locations. We are doing our best as we want to support Newcastle fans to fly from their local airport." Sports travel specialists World Choice Sports are offering flight-only and flight and hotel packages to both Borussia Dortmund and Paris SCG from £425 and £399 respectively, but nothing to Milan. Fans who are still determined to travel to Milan to see their team play have limited choices if they want to arrange independent travel, but tickets are selling fast and prices are high as fans scramble to secure their seats. Although there is a direct Ryanair flight to Milan Malpensa airport twice a week from Newcastle International Airport, the flight on Tuesday, September 19 takes off at 5.05pm, so will land in Milan far too late for the 5.45pm kick-off. If you want to fly from our local airport, you could consider flying to Belfast at 8.20am on September 19 for £30.99 with easyJet and picking up the 10.05am Ryanair flight to Milan, landing in Milan Malpensa at 1.35pm, so plenty of time to get to San Siro in time. The flight home would be on Saturday, September 23, so remember to budget for a longer stay. If you don't mind travelling to Manchester, and don't mind paying well over £500, you will have more flexibility, as Manchester International Airport offers direct flights every day to and from the Italian city. EasyJet has a flight that departs at 6.05am and arrives at Milan Malpensa at 9.20am, so you will be able to drink in the atmosphere before heading off to the ground.  This flight costs £283.99 at the time of publication, but it's selling fast, with only one seat left at this price. Coming home, you currently have a choice of two flights into Manchester on Wednesday, September 20, at 7.10am and 3.15pm and 9.45pm. Prices are £276.56 for 7.10am, and £598.55 for 3.15pm. There is also a 9.45pm flight, but this is now sold out. All prices are booking directly with easyJet. Are you planning on travelling to Milan, Paris or Dortmund to watch NUFC? Join in the conversation below Further afield, there are two suitable direct outbound flights from London Gatwick to Milan. EasyJet operates a 6.55am flight priced currently at £82.99 and Wizz Air operates a 9am flight, costing £125, both giving loads of time to get to the ground. The best return flight is 6.40pm on September 20, again with easyJet. The cost for the return flight is currently £253.85. Our other local airport, Teesside International, offers no direct flights to Milan, and the two other possibilities, Leeds and Glasgow, either have no direct flights or flights that take off too late to get you to the stadium on time. Another option to to fly from London Gatwick to Turin at 8.35am on September 19 for £39.99 and return at 12.20pm for £66.55. Train travel to Milan takes as little as one hour and costs around £10, although the return flight will mean an early start the day after the match. *All prices correct at 4.30pm on September 5. It's quick and easy to join. Just click this link and select 'Join Community' to get started. Plus you can follow our new Newcastle United channel right here - just follow this link Your informational will be hidden, you'll only ever receive messages from the Chronicle Live sports team, and you can leave any time you like. For more information, click here. You can read our Privacy Notice here.