Notts County news from Nottinghamshire Live as we rate the Magpies players following their 2-2 draw at Boundary Park Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Notts County started the new year with a 2-2 draw as a late penalty scored by Joe Nuttall ensured Oldham snatched a point at Boundary Park. The Magpies found themselves in front early in the second half through Macaulay Langstaff on his return to the side, only for Nathan Sheron to level minutes later following a mistake from Sam Slocombe. Cedwyn Scott netted his third goal against the Latics shortly after being introduced from the bench, only for Kyle Cameron to commit a foul inside the area, with Joe Nuttall making it two goals in two games for his new club. READ MORE: Notts County team news vs Oldham as Macaulay Langstaff returns Ahead of kick-off, Notts boss Luke Williams made three changes to the side that beat the Latics six days ago, with Geraldo Bajrami, John Bostock, and Langstaff coming in for Adam Chicksen, Ed Francis, and Scott. The hosts almost replicated their fast start on Boxing Day with Bajrami finding space on the edge of the area following good work from Sam Austin, however, the Albanian's effort was unable to trouble Magnus Norman. Despite creating several chances for Ruben Rodrigues and Aaron Nemane, it was almost the home side that took the lead, with Mark Kitching beating the offside trap but unable to keep his effort on target. However, just six minutes into the second half, the National League's top scorer marked his return to the side with a goal. Nemane's driving run was rewarded as Langstaff poked the ball beyond Norman to net his 22nd goal of the season. But no sooner after taking the lead, the Magpies found themselves level just two minutes later. A ball over the top was brilliantly read by Slocombe but a mix-up in defence saw the 'keeper miles away from his net, providing Sheron with a simple finish into an empty net. Many were surprised to see Scott named amongst the substitutes following his performance on Boxing Day, but the forward was on hand to restore the lead with his first touch of the game after Nemane was found in behind following a brilliant pass from Matty Palmer. But the scores were level 12 minutes from time, with Cameron adjudged to have fouled an Oldham man in the box, with Nuttall stepping up and sending Slocombe the wrong way. Both sides almost found a winner late on, with Cameron's cross just evading Scott inside the area, while Timmy Abraham somehow managed to fire over from close range. The result sees the Magpies remain top of the league but having played two more games than Wrexham, with Phil Parkinson's side in action against Solihull Moors tomorrow afternoon. Following the game, here is how we rated the Notts players.... Sam Slocombe - 5 Rarely involved in the first half but won't want to watch his involvement in the Oldham goal. Provided a few heart-in-mouth situations with the ball at his feet. Geraldo Bajrami - 6 Unusually poor by his standards. Guilty of giving the ball away on too many occasions but produced several important tackles to rally his team. Aden Baldwin - 7  The standout man in defence with his array of passing and one-on-one defending. Richard Brindley - 6 His threat was nullified going forward but remained defensively sound in another composed display at the back. Kyle Cameron - 6 His deliveries from the wide positions was poor given some of the promising positions picked out wide. Poor in the lead-up to Oldham's second of the afternoon conceding the foul. Aaron Nemane - 7.5 Caused a lot of problems down the right-hand side with his directness and pace, evident in both of Notts' goals at Boundary Park. John Bostock - 6.5 A solid performance on his first league start, providing that experience in midfield alongside Palmer and producing several important tackles in the middle of the park. Matty Palmer - 7  Another composed display from the midfielder. Kept possession well and provided the incisive pass in behind for Nemane to cross for Scott. Sam Austin - 6.5 Looked sharp once again, keeping possession well in the attacking third and continually looking to create. Ruben Rodrigues - 6  Unable to make his mark on the game, often crowded out by the Oldham defenders whenever the ball was at his feet. Macaulay Langstaff - 7.5 He just needs one chance. Rarely involved in the first half, but provided the telling touch to net his 22nd goal of the season. SUBS:  Cedwyn Scott - 7 Instant impact from the substitute, netting his third goal in two games against the Latics. Perhaps unlucky not to start. Jim O'Brien - 6 Kept possession well in midfield but was unable to make his mark on proceedings. Quevin Castro - 6 A late change for the Magpies and showed some neat touches. 