Collingwood bad boy Jordan De Goey won’t face any travel restrictions during an extended break away from the AFL club while serving his suspension for rough conduct. De Goey was banned for three matches by the tribunal over the brutal high bump that concussed West Coast midfielder Elijah Hewett. The suspension encompasses the Magpies’ mid-season bye and mandatory player break, meaning De Goey will be out of action for four weeks. Coach Craig McRae said the club will give De Goey additional time off but won’t limit the 27-year-old’s movements, despite controversy over his “disrespectful” behaviour while partying in Bali during his mid-season break last year. “Absolute trust in Jordy,” McRae told reporters on Wednesday. De Goey will complete a training block before his targeted return to action against the Western Bulldogs in round 17, in a bid to fire in the back half of the season. McRae likened the situation to last year, when De Goey took personal leave in the fallout from the Bali saga. The explosive midfielder missed one match but returned to play a key role in the Magpies’ charge to a preliminary final. “A positive out of this ... Jordy’s going to have some time away from the club potentially and then we get back to work,” McRae said. “I saw last year Jordy with a bit of a spell and then a mini pre-season and really spiked come September time, so we’ll be looking for something similar. “We’ll give him some time off to refresh at this time of year, get some energy in, whatever that looks like for him, and then he’ll get back to work.” Jordan McArdle Hamish Brayshaw  At Tuesday’s tribunal hearing, the AFL pushed for De Goey to be suspended for four weeks over the bump on Hewett, who will miss at least one match under concussion protocols. But De Goey’s early guilty plea and show of remorse played in his favour with the tribunal’s verdict. “The rules are the rules. For Jordy to be remorseful, that’s the character he is,” McRae said. “He didn’t mean to harm the young fella and, like I said after the game, our attention goes to young Hewett and hopefully he’s fine. “I don’t think there’s any winners in this. The headlines were a little bit like there’s a win for someone but we don’t look at it that way. “Unfortunately there’s a player going to miss through concussion and then obviously one of our best players is going to be out through suspension.” McRae had no concerns over West Coast’s handling of the bump affair, after the Eagles apologised for social media posts about the case. West Coast midfielder Dom Sheed also apologised to De Goey for saying on radio the Collingwood gun deserved “a good month or two” on the sidelines for his actions. “I don’t get caught up in that,” McRae said. Pat Lipinski shapes as a possible replacement for De Goey in Monday’s blockbuster clash with Melbourne, having recovered from shoulder surgery. McRae declared the hard-running Lipinski ready to return directly to the senior team for his first game the season. Will Hoskin-Elliott is fit to face the Demons but Beau McCreery will be “touch and go”. Both sustained ankle injuries during last week’s win over the Eagles. Off-season recruit Dan McStay (finger) is “definitely available” to return and small forward Jamie Elliott (shoulder) faces a fitness test. Sign up for our emails Find out More © West Australian Newspapers Limited 2024