Live updates from Boundary Park as the Magpies look to start 2023 with a win against David Unsworth's side Notts County will be looking to continue where they left off in 2022 as they travel to Boundary Park to take on Oldham Athletic on New Year's Day.  The Magpies entertained David Unsworth's side on Boxing Day, running away comfortable 4-1 winners courtesy of goals from Cedwyn Scott (2), Kyle Cameron, and Ruben Rodrigues.  Luke Williams' side start a busy month away from Meadow Lane, with three fixtures on the road to come later in January with Notts looking to continue their excellent away form this term.  The Latics will take encouragement from their second half performance after conceding four goals in the opening 45 minutes, but it will take some effort to stop this Notts side.  Ahead of kick-off, Williams confirmed that top scorer Macaulay Langstaff is "ready to play" following his short period on the side-lines, however defender Connell Rawlinson is set to miss the trip despite being ahead of schedule in his own rehabilitation.  As always, our Magpies reporter Oliver King will be live from Boundary Park to provide all the action as it happens, including team news, match updates and reaction following the full-time whistle.  It ends all square here at Boundary Park.  Joe Nuttall's late penalty cancels out Cedwyn Scott and Macaulay Langstaff's second half strikes after Nathan Sheron capitalised on an error by Sam Slocombe.  Oldham find themselves in behind and almost find a winner with Timmy Abraham somehow firing over on the line.  Castro's ball down the left finds Cameron - his cross is a teasing one and just evades Scott at the back post! Nuttall sends Slocombe the wrong way.  Cameron is adjudged to have taken down a player inside the area. Nuttall to take.  Langstaff leaves the pitch to a standing ovation from the travelling Magpies fans with Jim O'Brien coming on in his place.  Rodrigues does well to turn his man on the edge of the area but fires his shot wide.  Rodrigues is fouled and the Magpies have a chance to extend their advantage - Bostock takes aim and fires a shot towards goal which narrowly whistles past the post.  The Oldham defender finds himself in the book following an awful challenge on Cameron. He recieves a yellow along with manager David Unsworth following an altercation with Baldwin.  What a goal from the Magpies. Palmer's incisive pass finds Nemane behind the Oldham defence - his cross is initially cleared but it falls to Scott six yards out who remains composed to finish beyond Norman.  So soon after taking the lead, the Magpies find themselves level. Oldham break after Austin lost the ball on the edge of the area.  Slocombe does well to initially cut out the through ball but gets mixed up with the Notts defender and is miles of his line - giving Nathan Sheron an easy finish.  Following the goal, Austin is replaced by Cedwyn Scott.  Wonderful play from Nemane as he skips beyond Kitching and breaks into the area - his cross finds Langstaff in the area who finds the net from six yards out in front of the travelling fans! The action restarts here at Boundary Park, COYP! The Magpies go in level at the break with Baldwin producing a brilliant piece of defending late on to deny Nuttall a shot on target.  A half of very few big chances, but the Magpies continuing to probe and create.  Notts lose possession from an Oldham corner and the visitors almost found the opener - Mark Kitching beats the offside trap and fires a dangerous ball across goal which just evades the sliding Mike Fondop.  Brilliant ball from Baldwin finds Cameron down the left-hand side - he pulls the back to Rodrigues who takes aim but sees his effort deflected over the bar.  After a sustained spell of possession, the Magpies win a free-kick on the byline - the ball eventually falls to Cameron in the area but his effort is deflected behind.  Notts keep possession well and almost carve open Oldham with their second chance of the game.  Nemane does well to skip between two players and into the area before pulling the ball back to Bajrami - his shot looks on target but Langstaff is in the way to block its path to goal.  Neat play down the right-hand side from Notts sees the ball find the Albanian on the edge of the area, however his shot goes wide of Magnus Norman's net.  The Frenchman goes down following a challenge on the edge of the area and looks in some discomfort. Adam Chicksen is out warming up.  After a minute's applause following the passing of Brazilian legend Pele, Ruben Rodrigues gets us underway at Boundary Park! COYP! The Notts players clap the travelling 1200 fans to their right as they come out from the tunnel ahead of kick-off. The action is underway in a matter of moments!  The Notts players clap the away fans to the right-hand side as they make their way down the tunnel.  Ten minutes until the Magpies are in action for the first time in 2023.  Notts have enjoyed a number of memorable games on the road this season, and they will be hoping to continue their excellent away from at the start of the new year.  Luke Williams' side have taken 27 points from their 12 games away from Meadow Lane, sitting top of the away form table seven points clear of second-placed Wrexham.  According to social media, Notts fans were unable to get into the ground until just after 2pm, with stewards telling those entering Boundary Park to keep their tickets as the game was in doubt.  No chance of the game being called off late on, with both sets of players out warming up ahead of kick-off.  David Unsworth makes two changes to the side that lost at Meadow Lane six days ago.  Joe Nuttall makes his home debut for the Latics, with Jordan Clarke returning to the side.  Oldham starting line-up: Norman, J. Clarke, Hogan, Sheron, Tollitt, Fondop, Kitching, Peck, Chapman, P. Clarke, Nuttall.  Luke Williams has made three changes from the side that beat Oldham on Boxing Day.  In come Geraldo Bajrami, John Bostock, and Macaulay Langstaff in place of Adam Chicksen, Ed Francis, and Cedwyn Scott.  Kyle Cameron is expected to operate in that left-wing back role which proved effective against Gateshead.  Notts starting line-up: Slocombe; Bajrami, Baldwin, Brindley, Cameron, Nemane; Palmer, Bostock; Austin, Rodrigues, Langstaff.  SUBS: Chicksen, Francis, O'Brien, Castro, Scott. The last time the Magpies visited Boundary Park on New Year's Day was four years ago, with defender Christian Oxlade-Chamberlain endured a difficult afternoon against the Latics.  Goals from Tom Hamer and Peter Clarke kept Notts rooted to the bottom of League Two and three points away from safety. How times have changed since! Luke Williams has highlighted the importance of starting the new year with a win following their Boxing Day victory over the Latics.  The Magpies boss has not ruled out the possibility of changes, with the closeness of the two games highlight in his assessment of the tie at Boundary Park.  You can read the pre-match thoughts of the Notts boss here.  Happy New Year and welcome to the first matchday blog of 2023! Notts face Oldham at Boundary Park, hoping for the perfect start to the new year and continue their push for promotion.  Team news is out in just under an hour's time so stay tuned for all the team news!