Live updates from Hayes Lane as Luke Williams' side look to return to winning ways away to Bromley on Saturday afternoon Notts County travel to Hayes Lane in search of a first win at the fourth time of asking as they look to return to winning ways to get their National League title hopes back on track. The Magpies suffered just their second defeat of the season last weekend to Dagenham and Redbridge, allowing Wrexham to take full advantage and move a point clear at the summit with their win over Chesterfield in midweek. And Luke Williams' side face another stern test in their title aspirations this weekend against the Ravens, with Andy Woodman's side frustrating the Magpies in their visit to Meadow Lane earlier in the season. Michael Cheek's equaliser cancelled out Adam Chicksen's opener, with the spoils shared on another evening surrounded by refereeing controversy as Bromley looked to disrupt the flow of the encounter with several injuries and stoppages on the night. The Notts boss is expected to welcome Cedwyn Scott back into the first-team fold this weekend after suffering a shoulder injury, while both Richard Brindley and Frank Vincent are doubts as they continue their recovery from their respective injury troubles. Aden Baldwin will also miss the trip down to Kent after picking up a straight red card following an altercation with referee Lewis Smith following the full-time whistle during the defeat against the Daggers. As always, our Magpies reporter Oliver King will be live from Hayes Lane to provide you with all the action as it happens, including team news, match updates, and reaction. Macaulay Langstaff's late strike salvages a point for the Magpies.  Notts County have done it right at the death! Rodrigues picks out a lovely ball in between the defenders for Langstaff and he slots the ball beyond Charles-Cook! Five minutes to find an equaliser.  Chicksen sees his deflected effort go agonisngly wide of the post.  Louis Dennis finds Forster on the right-hand side and as he cuts inside of Nemane - fires his over well over Brooks' bar.  Nemane does brilliantly to skip beyond Forster and sets a lovely ball into the area, however Lemonheigh-Evans can't quite connect as he sends his effort agonisingly wide of the far post.  Jones' delivery finds Langstaff at the back post but he fires his shot over.  Notts have started brightly in the opening minutes - Lemonheigh-Evans involved again as he feeds Rodrigues in down the right and forces the save from Charles-Cook.  Austin dinks a sublime ball to the back post, but Lemonheigh-Evans heads over.  One change made at the break, with Bajrami replaced by Lemonheigh-Evans.  The Magpies find themselves a goal down at the break, courtesy of Adam Marriott's controversial spot-kick.  Five minutes added here.  The Albanian picks up a booking for a late tackle on Forster.  Palmer's ball in behind finds Nemane who crosses onto the head of Langstaff, but somehow he manages to find the arms of Charles-Cook.  Chicksen's ball into the area is superbly cleared by the Bromley defender with Langstaff lurking.  Jones links well with Austin, with the latter firing an effort towrads goal which produces a fantastic save from Charles-Cook.  Chicksen gets in front of his man and finds Austin - the midfielder puts a dangerous ball into the area but Reice Charles-Cook manages to gather.  Another bizarre decision from Scott Tallis as he gives another spot-kick against Brooks despite winning the ball. Marriott makes no mistake at the second time of asking.  Jones drives down the left and puts a dangerous ball into the area that just evades Langstaff at the back post.  The keeper stands saves with his legs! The hosts get a spot-kick after Bajrami is caught wrong side.  And it's LIVE at Hayes Lane, COYP! Both sets of players out here at Hayes Lane - kick-off just moments away! In the absence of Aden Baldwin, the Notts boss has opted for a change in formation - with Geraldo Bajrami pushed out too right back, with Adam Chicksen out on the left.  Looks like a 4-3-3 formation, with a midfield of Matty Palmer, Ruben Rodrigues, and Sam Austin, and a front three of Jodi Jones, Aaron Nemane, and Macaulay Langstaff.  Of the three visits to Kent, the Magpies have lost all three of those encounters - scoring once that stretches back to September 2019.  Luke Williams has made four changes to the side that lost to Dagenham last weekend, with two of his replacements enforced.  Out comes goalkeeper Sam Slocombe who misses out with an injury, along with Aden Baldwin (suspension), John Bostock, and Jim O'Brien.  In comes Tiernan Brooks for his first league start of the campaign, Geraldo Bajrami, Jodi Jones, and Sam Austin.  Notts County line-up: Brooks, Cameron, Bajrami, Rawlinson; Chicksen, Nemane, Palmer, Austin; Rodrigues, Jones, Langstaff. SUBS: Mair, Taylor, Bostock, O'Brien, Lemonheigh-Evans. Good afternoon everyone and welcome from Kent.  Notts County travel to Bromley in search of their first win at Hayes Lane, having lost their last three encounters against Andy Woodman's side.  The Magpies will be looking to return to winning ways after suffering their second defeat of the season last weekend to Dagenham and Redbridge - and a win will see them momentarily return to the summit of the table ahead of Wrexham's fixture at Maidenhead, which kicks off at 5:20pm. 