All of the latest Newcastle United headlines including updates on Eddie Howe, Anthony Gordon, Yankuba Minteh, Tottenham refunds and more ahead of the trip to Everton Get our FREE Newcastle United newsletter emailed daily to your inbox by subscribing below We have more newsletters Get our FREE Newcastle United newsletter emailed daily to your inbox by subscribing below We have more newsletters Here are your top Newcastle United headlines for April 25. Newcastle United will soon have permanent scouts based in South America, but the Magpies are also looking closer to home for emerging talent for the academy. In fact, in the last year alone, Newcastle have agreed deals for a pair of Ireland under-19 internationals, Alex Murphy and Reece Byrne, and that is not a coincidence. Although Irish youngsters now have to wait until they are 18 to move to England because of Brexit, the Common Travel Area arrangement means they do not need a work permit like a player of the same age from further afield. Byrne, as a result, has been able to follow in Murphy's footsteps as the club's first signing this summer. Given how difficult it is for prospects from elsewhere to claim a GBE - that is one of the reasons why Newcastle are looking at the multi-club model to farm these talents out to a European side to get the required experience - the Emerald Isle is attracting its fair share of Premier League talent spotters. Few know that better than Patrick Conliffe, a Dublin-based FA intermediary with the PLG Group, who represent, among others, Liverpool defenders Trent Alexander-Arnold and Andy Robertson and West Ham star Jarrod Bowen. You can read the full story here. Eddie Howe wants his Newcastle United side to retain the "identity" that has transformed the Magpies from relegation fodder to Champions League contenders in just over 12 months. Chroniclelive understands that Howe will still look to maintain many of the group that has built togetherness in the last 18 months for the 2023/24 season - as he feels the team spirit that has been burning since he arrived can be a real asset next season. It is believed that Howe will still get a competitive transfer kitty if he wants it this summer but there will still be plenty of familiar characters around the place next term. Indeed, Newcastle chiefs are more delighted with the work on the training field that Howe has put in with the players he inherited. The likes of Joe Willock, Joelinton, Sean Longstaff and Fabian Schar will hit the run-in stage of the season in a rich vein of form. You can read the full story here. Newcastle United forward Anthony Gordon is not shying away from a volatile first return to Everton - judging by his latest social media post. The January signing left Goodison Park in acrimonious circumstances after sections of the Toffees fanbase turned on the academy graduate. Gordon enjoyed a breakthrough season last term under Frank Lampard, helping his boyhood club pull clear of relegation danger in the closing weeks. However, summer transfer interest from Chelsea and Newcastle was followed by an indifferent start to the season from the England youth international. Gordon lost his place in the starting eleven in his final months on Merseyside, and was chased down the street by furious fans as he drove away from the stadium following a dismal home defeat to Southampton in January. Little over a fortnight later, the 22-year-old was unveiled as Newcastle's first mid-season arrival in a move worth up to £45 million. You can read the full story here. Yankuba Minteh insists he knows nothing about reports suggesting he is 'very close' to signing for Newcastle United. However, the teenage winger admits he is keen to move to St James' Park amid talk of a deal in the region of £4.7 million. Minteh has enjoyed a breakthrough campaign for Danish outfit Odense Boldklub, registering five goals and seven assists from 17 appearances. In response to recent rumours, the club's sporting director Bjorn Wesstrom admitted a summer exit could be on the cards for the Gambian, who is contracted until 2024. Newcastle are yet to confirm Reece Byrne as their first summer signing, with the Bohemians goalkeeper announcing the move on social media earlier this month. The Irish teenager was in the stands at St James' Park on Sunday as Eddie Howe's side enjoyed a sensational 6-1 victory over top-four rivals Tottenham. You can read the full story here. There are still some pundits and rival supporters who put Newcastle's sudden surge up the Premier League down to transfer spending alone. On the face of it, you can make a small case for why some may still cling on to that defence.  A £200m outlay in 2022 and another £40m spent in January has certainly helped the Magpies disrupt the Premier League 'Big Six' at the first time of asking. Alexander Isak, Kieran Trippier, Sven Botman, Nick Pope and Bruno Guimaraes, among others, are proving shrewd acquisitions who have already won over hearts on Tyneside. But a look at Newcastle's team on Sunday proves why Eddie Howe is a miracle worker - and why those lazy observations about the club's financial advantage are so wrong. The simple fact is nine out of the 16 Newcastle players who featured against Tottenham were players the Toon boss inherited from Steve Bruce. You can read the full story here. Tottenham Hotspur's players will reimburse fans who made the trip to Tyneside to watch the humbling 6-1 defeat to Newcastle United on Sunday. Eddie Howe's side delivered a crushing blow in the race for the top four, with interim boss Cristian Stellini dismissed the following day. While the Magpies have deservedly received plaudits for their performance, much of the post-match discussion has focused on a dismal showing for Tottenham. Spurs now sit six points adrift in the race for the Champions League, with fixtures to come against Manchester United and Liverpool. The first-team squad released a statement on Tuesday afternoon in response to the mauling at St James' Park, insisting they understand the 'anger' at the result and the performance. The players added they would like to pay for the tickets of those in attendance, before urging everyone associated with the club to pull together. You can read the full story here. 