   Generally cloudy. A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible. High near 70F. Winds NW at 10 to 15 mph..
                                 Mostly cloudy. Low 54F. Winds NW at 10 to 15 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 12:25 pm   Markale Davonne Younger Pennsylvania State Police continue to search for a Braddock woman charged with attempted homicide following an investigation into a Unity Township shooting last week. According to information provided Wednesday, Oct. 25, by PSP Greensburg, 27-year-old Markale Davonne Younger was charged Oct. 20 with criminal attempt-criminal homicide and aggravated assault-attempts to cause serious bodily injury or causes injury with extreme indifference, both first-degree felonies; simple assault and recklessly endangering another person, both second-degree misdemeanors, and one third-degree felony charge of carrying a firearm without a license. The charges were filed Oct. 20 and an arrest warrant was issued by Magisterial District Court Judge Tamara J. Mahady. According to information provided by PSP Greensburg, investigators were advised Oct. 19 at 4:27 p.m. of a shooting that was “reported to have occurred earlier that day at approximately 12:45 a.m. in the area of 4371 Lincoln Highway in Unity Township,” east of Smiths Hill Road and west of the Wimmerton development. It is unclear why the alleged incident was reported to law enforcement officials nearly 16 hours after it occurred. Troopers arrived at the location shortly after receiving the report on the evening of Oct. 20 and observed a 2023 Ram 2500 parked outside of the residence. Investigators observed damage to the driver side doorframe “as a result of being struck by a bullet slug,” which was discovered to have “lodged within the cab of the vehicle near where the victim was seated at the time of the incident.” Investigators gathered further evidence and conducted interviews, and allege that Younger fired a single gunshot at her boyfriend – a known 36-year-old Latrobe male – as they were traveling in separate vehicles on Lincoln Highway in Unity Township. No injuries were reported, according to PSP Greensburg. The incident reportedly occurred following a verbal altercation between Younger and the victim at his residence. Younger was later asked to leave the residence, according to information provided earlier this week by the Westmoreland County District Attorney’s Office. Younger is described as a black, non-Hispanic female, approximately 5 feet, 2 inches tall, and weighing 130 pounds. She has black hair and brown eyes. Anyone with information on her whereabouts should call 911. Reference CAD number: PA2023-1365346. Joseph Bell can be reached at jbell@latrobebulletinnews.com or 724-537-3351 Ext. 28. Markale Davonne Younger       
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today!  Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: