Olivia Hawkins has made it onto Love Island despite admitting she failed to declare a health condition to producers A Love Island contestant that could have been 'banned' before even making it into the villa has made the show's line up. Olivia Hawkins has already made a splash on the opening show as she tried to steal someone else's man. However, it seems that she almost didn't make it into the luxury villa at all as she didn't tell producers about a health condition which could have compromised her place. The 27-year-old from Brighton has previously admitted to sleepwalking and sleep-talking. This could have ended in her being banned from going on the show after a health assessment organised by Love Island producers. The brunette spoke about a time that she began to have a shower while she was sleepwalking but hopes this doesn't happen while she is on the hit dating show. Olivia previously told The Sun: "So I haven't told the producers yet, but I do walk and sleep talk. I'm just hoping that I don't [sleepwalk and/or talk in the villa] because that could be quite embarrassing - or entertaining." She added: "I had a shower in my sleep once. Obviously it woke me up, but yeah, my mum said 'what are you doing? It's 2am and you're up getting ready for school?'." Contestants undergo strict health assessments before going on the show and those who suffer extreme nightmares and sleepwalking could not be allowed in. The stars undergo a range of tests, including for drugs and psychological issues and must also fill in a detailed questionnaire about their medical history and agree that their GP can give details of any health issues they have. Olivia has already shaken things up in the villa as she turned up and stole Kai Fagan from Anna-May Robey who said she was "a bit gutted". In iconic Love Island style, the boys in the show stood in a line as the girls came out one by one and chose which boy they wanted to couple up with. Despite Kai already being stood by Anna-May, Olivia thought she would try her luck and choose Kai as well. However, it seems that she then had a taste of her own medicine in the coupling up as Kai then stepped forward for hair stylist Tanyel Revan. This meant Olivia was paired up with 23-year-old farmer Will Young. The girls looking for love in the latest winter series are Tanya Manhenga, Lana, Anna-May Robey, Tanyel Revan and Olivia Hawkins. While the boys are Kai Fagan, Ron, Will Young, Shaq Muhammad and Haris Namani. At the end of the first episode, new boy Tom Clare entered the villa as a bombshell, and was told he will choose a girl in 24 hours time to pair up with. The Mirror have contacted Love Island for comment. Stay up-to-date with all the news from the Love Island villa this summer with our regular newsletter