NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT A new Love Island bombshell is here and she’s certainly going to be making an entrance to remember. The 2023 edition of the juggernaut series has already welcomed bombshells including the likes of Zara Deniz Lackenby-Brown, 25, and David Salako, 24, and now Claudia Fogarty is going to be added to the mix. Claudia’s family is no stranger to reality TV as her dad former motorcycle racer Carl Fogarty, 57, won I’m A Celebrity in 2014. The 28-year-old, from Blackburn, will be introduced to her fellow Islanders in a shock twist at the end of a dance-off challenge in Tuesday’s episode of the series presented by Maya Jama. While the contestants will think the performances are over, instead Claudia, a fashion boutique owner, will rock up sporting a sultry red angel outfit, announcing: ‘Let’s really get them hearts racing.’ Speaking about her famous dad, Claudia said he was supportive of her decision to sign up for the show, adding: ‘He was really for it. My dad said he was really proud and to take the opportunity to find someone that’s not a d***head, that’s exactly what he said to me.’ Sorry, this video isn't available any more. She also said Carl had warned her not to have sex on telly, revealing: ‘[He said] absolutely no sex on TV he said, he hasn’t really watched it before so it’s going to be a bit of a shock.  ‘I just said get a blindfold on, shut your eyes, if you don’t like it, turn it off.’ Carl has also given his daughter a few tips, after being crowned King of the Jungle in 2014. Claudia said: ‘My dad just told me to be myself, he said the one thing you can’t do is hide who you are, he said he loves who I am and everyone else will love me.’ Meanwhile, in the pre-show interview, Claudia revealed she’s got her eye on Tom Clare, 23, because ‘he’s a really down-to-earth guy and he’s family orientated like me’ as well as Casey O’Gorman. ‘Casey’s very good-looking, his eyes are gorgeous and he seems like a down-to-earth genuine guy, too,’ she continued.  ‘However, I’m very open-minded; I could like any of them.’ Molly-Mae Hague fans 'feel sick' after watching Tommy Fury moment Is this why Molly-Mae and Tommy really broke up? Ekin-Su Cülcüloglu 'traumatised' after becoming victim of revenge porn Molly-Mae Hague's mum comes to the rescue after Tommy Fury split and cheating denial Claudia wouldn’t be the first celebrity offspring in the villa, with the likes ofMichael Owen’s daughter Gemma featuring last year and Danny Dyer’s daughter Dani Dyer signing up for the show. The newly-crowned 'best' commuter spot is a city I'll never go back to What I Own: We renovated our £590,000 Tooting three-bed but it's getting too small for us We bought a mouldy narrowboat on Facebook Marketplace — it saves us £10,000 a year in rent Need a guarantor for your new rental home? Here's the lowdown on who to choose Cheapest UK city for first-time buyers revealed — but it's ‘bleak’ for some Love Island continues tonight at 9pm on ITV2. Got a story? If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you. 

	MORE : Love Island’s Zara Lackenby-Brown teases Casa Amor return following brutal dumping: ‘I need to find a man, don’t I?’

 

	MORE : Gemma Owen and family ‘heartbroken and shocked’ after sudden death of Love Island star’s prized horse

 



  Get us in your feed