Love Love Island? Our Factor 50 email brings all the goss direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Love Love Island? Our Factor 50 email brings all the goss direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Thanks to its shock twists, dramatic debates and flirtatious challenges, Love Island is a firm favourite among viewers at home. But despite having viewers at home eager to tune in every night to watch the drama unfold, the 60-minute long episodes mean that fans of the show are only given a small glimpse of life in the villa, with the remaining 23 hours remaining a mystery. But one person who knows exactly what happens minute by minute in the villa is former contestant Amy Day. After joining the 2021 series at the Casa Amor stage, Amy secured a place in the main villa after coupling up with Hugo Hammond. Here, she speaks to OK! about the villa life that cameras don’t show… “I was originally supposed to enter Love Island as a bombshell, but a few weeks into the show I was told that I’d be entering Casa Amor. I was terrified - my first thought was ‘this is going to be a nightmare’. However, it was still such a good opportunity and I was ready to have a summer of fun that I leapt at the chance to join the show. Despite my expectations of having a summer of freedom, the villa was a lot more regimented than I’d imagined. Everything you do has some kind of order or rule to follow. The producers normally woke us up at around lunchtime, which I found very strange because I’m such a morning person. I thought I’d be able to get up at 8am, go for a swim and have a coffee but it wasn’t like that at all. I often woke up early and would take myself to the dressing room or bathroom just to get some alone time, but the producers would quietly whisper over the tannoy ‘Amy get back to bed’ and I’d lie there until the bedroom lights came on. Once we were all up, we’d be instructed to sit in bed and talk about how we slept. Five minutes later we’d be separated into boys and girls and grab some food with the producers. As it was lunchtime at this point, we all tucked into curry or fish and chips for breakfast which took a bit of getting used to. Filming typically started after our breakfast/lunchtime meal when the producers asked us to have our daily debriefs. I was always jealous of the boys because they were told to go to the kitchen to talk while us girls had to gather on the terrace. I think that the boys give the girls coffee each day because the girls are literally not allowed outside - it’s less romantic than you think! The days in the villa were quite long, especially when you weren’t filming a challenge. The thing we all missed the most was music and we all begged to have some music played once a day, but that didn’t happen. I remember the producers telling me that I wasn’t there on a five star holiday because I was just happy to swim and sunbathe. After a few hours of cracking on, we were given an hour and a half to get ready. The worst part about getting ready was showering because there were 18 of us and only two showers. It was so hard to get a slot in the queue that I ended up ditching my workouts in order to wash - if I didn’t grab a spot quickly, I’d never be clean. While I was quick at getting ready, I annoyed the producers a lot because I was always forgetting to put my microphone on. It was frustrating because I’d have had a good conversation with someone and it wouldn’t be picked up because I didn’t have a mic. Once everyone was ready, we then started filming the evening segment, which would typically be a party, recoupling or some kind of game. During my first day in Casa Amor, the producers suggested that I ask everyone if they wanted to play a game of truth or dare to spice things up a bit. I found it so awkward to go along with because I thought it was a childish game. When I was dumped, the Islanders had to decide to keep one girl and one boy in a recoupling that took two hours. While they were making their decisions, I went into the dressing room where Clarisse and I passed the time by talking about how we knew our time was up. As soon as the decision was made, we rushed inside and quickly packed. When you go into the villa, you’re told not to bring anything valuable or branded, so I took lots of cheap clothes, which is good because I left a lot of it behind. Annoyingly, I left three pairs of heels that I really liked and I haven’t seen them since. When it came to being dumped from the villa, I was 50/50 about leaving. It felt like the right time to go, and I was dying to get my nails done, but I also thought that I had a lot more to give. I just wish I was an OG Islander.” READ MORE: 