The 32-year-old was accused of voyeurism, and two counts of disclosing private, sexual photographs and films Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Stephen Bear has been found guilty of sharing a sex tape featuring former Love Island star Georgia Harrison. The 32-year-old was accused of voyeurism, and two counts of disclosing private, sexual photographs and films after sharing footage on the online subscription site OnlyFans. He was found guilty on all three charges, the Mirror reports. During the trial at Chelmsford Crown Court, the jury heard that Bear - who won Celebrity Big Brother in 2016 - had sex with Georgia, his ex-girlfriend, in his garden before sharing CCTV footage of it on OnlyFans. The video could also be seen on website PornHub and was circulated on other forums, the court was told. Wearing a black suit and tie, Bear looked straight ahead as the jury returned the verdicts after more than eight-and-a-half hours of deliberation. He then told the court: "In my opinion from the very beginning, it was never a fair trial, what the press said against me. READ MORE: Woman ashamed to leave house after ex posted revenge porn online "I was fighting a losing battle and it is what it is." Judge Christopher Morgan responded: "Thank you for that observation." Ms Harrison, who waived her anonymity in relation to the case, watched on from the public gallery as the guilty verdicts were returned. She had previously claimed she did not know Bear "had CCTV cameras in his garden that recorded them having sex". During his trial, Bear posted a "50 per cent off" deal for his adult entertainment website on Twitter alongside a photo of him arriving at court with his girlfriend Jessica Smith. The image showed him walking from a hired chauffeur-driven white Rolls Royce to the court building, with the accompanying text reading: "Come see why I'm trending." The judge bailed Bear until January 31 to return to the same court for sentencing. READ NEXT: Hundreds of 'revenge porn' offences made to police - but tiny number lead to charge Revenge porn convictions in West Midlands higher than national average Children as young as 10 accused of revenge porn in West Midlands Revenge porn: Victims as young as 13 reported to West Midlands cops Reports of sextortion double in year and make up biggest issue for helpline 