By Oliver Caffrey And Anna Harrington For Australia Associated Press   Published:  18:01 EDT, 7 July 2023   |  Updated:  18:12 EDT, 7 July 2023      1 View  comments  Sam Kerr will not put the Matildas' World Cup chances at 'risk' in protesting FIFA's decision to ban captains wearing the One Love rainbow armband. The sport's governing body last week unveiled eight armbands with social messages captains are able to wear during the tournament in Australia. Kerr was not expecting to be able to wear the rainbow armband, so FIFA's decision has not come as shock to the Australian captain. 'We would love to wear them,' the Matildas superstar said on Monday. 'Like most of the teams in the whole world, everyone has voiced that they would love to wear it.' However, Kerr believed the risk of picking up a yellow card for wearing the armband was too great. Matilda's captain Sam Kerr said the players would love to wear the One Love armband but do not want to risk getting a yellow card at the World Cup The controversial One Love captain's armband that was banned at the men's World Cup in Qatar and now the Women's World Cup in Australia and New Zealand Kerr and her partner Kristie Mewis were once rivals on the pitch but have now struck up a romance together Meanwhile Kerr knows the heat will come in her fourth World Cup. The Matildas enter their home tournament with high expectations and huge crowds at their backs that will only magnify the spotlight. But superstar striker and captain Kerr has never been more ready to handle it. 'There's always going to be pressure in sport,' Kerr told reporters at Monday's squad announcement. 'Whenever there's a big game, a big moment, if the pressure's not there, it probably means it's not that big of a game to be honest. 'So I think pressure is a privilege and I love pressure. I love being in a moment where one or two moments can change the path, your career really, and I think this World Cup is one of those moments. 'It's exciting, but I think everyone deals with pressure differently and we have some new kids in the team. Follow MailSport on Threads here: https://www.threads.net/@mailsport  'It's just about living in the moment. It's not all going to be roses and butterflies during this World Cup. 'There's going to be tough times and it's how we stick together, stick to our principles, stick to what we believe in and we'll come out on the other side.' Kerr is a far more relaxed character heading into her fourth World Cup. 'For me, it's about staying in the moment and enjoying it,' the 29-year-old said. 'The biggest regret for me out of the last few World Cups I've been to is getting caught up in things, getting caught up in a bad pass, bad touch.' Australia's star striker is bound to be heavily targeted throughout the home tournament, with defences attempting to isolate her and limit opportunities. Kerr can't wait for the World Cup to kick off on home soil and is focused on the task at hand for the Matildas The alternate armbands that captain's will be allowed to wear at the Women's World Cup by FIFA But with Caitlin Foord, Hayley Raso and Cortnee Vine around her, Kerr will welcome extra attention around goal. 'That's the great thing about being a striker,' she said. 'They can isolate me for 90 minutes but I really only need one opportunity, and I think over the past year playing with Chelsea I've really focused in on that. 'I've been really, really isolated but being able to work on being alive for that one moment, and I feel like at Chelsea I've really succeeded. 'I was the kid 12 years ago now going into my first World Cup and knew they were looking at other players - Lisa De Vanna, Sarah Walsh, and I was like, 'Oh, this is my opportunity to do something'. 'If two people are marking me that means someone else is free, so it might be someone else's tournament to shine and that's all part of being in the team. 'Whatever it takes to win, honestly, and if I take away two players then we've got electric speed everywhere else and good luck to them.' Follow MailSport on Threads here: https://www.threads.net/@mailsport  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group