By Matt Hughes For The Daily Mail   Published:  13:26 EDT, 30 March 2023   |  Updated:  07:22 EDT, 3 April 2023      107 View  comments  Mason Greenwood is not expected to return to training at Manchester United until next season at the earliest with the club's international investigation into his arrest on rape charges unlikely to be completed before the summer.  The 21-year-old striker has been suspended by United since January 2022, when allegations first emerged of attempted rape and assault which led to him being arrested and charged, but all charges were dropped by Greater Manchester Police last month. Greenwood is understood to have held extensive talks with United officials in recent weeks in which the player has emphasised his desire to return as soon as possible and stressed his commitment to remaining at Old Trafford, where he is under contract until 2025.  The club are adamant that they will not be rushed into making a decision however, and are continuing to conduct due diligence into the circumstances surrounding his arrest and his off-field conduct. United a grappling with a difficult ethical, human, commercial and financial dilemma regarding Greenwood, whilst there is also an acknowledgement that making a controversial decision in the next two months could disrupt their push for Champions League qualification and campaigns in the FA Cup and Europa League. Mason Greenwood is not expected to return to training until season at the earliest, as the club continue their investigation  United boss Erik ten Hag has refused to comment further on Greenwood's future at the club   The club are understood to be split on the issue, with staff in the football department arguing he should be given a second chance, but commercial executives more wary amidst concerns over the potential damage to United's reputation. Sponsors Nike, EA Sports and Cadbury all dumped Greenwood after the allegations first emerged. His shirt is no longer for sale, although his number 11 squad number has not be reallocated, however. Erik Ten Hag has scrupulously avoided discussing Greenwood's future. He has insisted it is an issue for the club's hierarchy, although the Dutchman has spoken to the player since charges were dropped last month. The former England Under-21 striker has continued to receive his £70,000-a-week wages since being suspended. The remaining value of his contract is understood to be £8.1m, which the club may have to pay off if they choose to dismiss him at the end of the season. United declined to comment. Greenwood is pictured arriving at court in November 2022 over the now dropped charges of attempted rape, assault and controlling and coercive behaviour  
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have been moderated in advance. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group