ITV's Love Island saw two couples dumped in a plot twist with a difference Love Love Island? Our Factor 50 email brings all the goss direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Love Love Island? Our Factor 50 email brings all the goss direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Love Island said goodbye to another four contestants on Tuesday, July 18, as the 2023 final edges closer. The episode saw presenter Maya Jama return to the ITV dating show as the Islanders were partying at a location outside of the villa. Making her presence known, host Maya then asked the Islanders to line-up in their couples. She then explained: "Well Islanders, the public have been voting for their favourite couple. We’re going to do things a little bit differently this time - you know we love a plot twist."  Revealing that Whitney Adebayo and Lochan Nowacki were the public's favourite couple, Maya added: "I have some more news that might not be that great. The three couples with the least amount of votes will be vulnerable and at risk of being dumped from the island tonight."  Read more: Married At First Sight UK bride and groom share baby update as fans react They were Amber Wise and Josh Brocklebank, Mitchel Taylor and Ella Barnes and Kady McDermott and Ouzy See. Revealing that Amber and Josh had received the least votes, the pair were sent home immediately.  However, in a twist, Maya then revealed another couple would be dumped but that their fate lay in the hands of Whitney and Lochan. The remaining couples were then asked to share the reasons they believed they should stay.  Kady said: "When I came in I had the difficult decision, I had to couple up with someone on the same night, then Molly got dumped and it wasn't great with me and Zach, then I came into Casa and didn't even get a chance to speak to Ouzy and then I think our journey just started from when we got in the villa and I think everyone can see we do really like each other."  Ouzy added: "I think it's clear to see that we have built a strong connection and obviously we've started talking about future and outside life which is massive and just proves the connection is real."  Ella then explained: "I came in and I took Mitch on a date, I've always wanted Mitch from day dot, it did get a little bit messy but we are on the right path and he's made his decision and I feel like my journey is only just starting. We do have a genuine connection, it's just a shame we haven't had the time everyone else has had."  As Mitch said: "I mean, I've always said tunnel vision and that's why my head was scrambled when Ella came in because obviously from the day it clicked I panicked, head were gone, and it took a couple of days to clear my head but I've got clarity and I'm happy where things are going for sure."  After taking some time to think, Whitney and Lochan decided to save Mitch and Ella B, believing that Kady and Ouzy were solid enough to work on the outside while Mitch and Ella needed more time in the villa.  Love Island continues tonight at 9pm on ITV2 and ITVX. For more showbiz and television stories get our newsletter here. 