By POLITICO STAFF | Published May 13, 2023 The flip-flop has long been understood as a signature act of political betrayal. A politician says one thing and then says the opposite and tries to persuade their constituents the reversal is not cynical convenience but rational and admirable evolution on a complex issue. Very few politicians pull this off successfully, which is why most have tried to avoid it even when a change of heart might have been the smarter policy. Then came Donald Trump. The former president introduced a level of volatility into American politics unseen in modern history. Nowhere was that volatility more in evidence than in the ways people described Trump himself. Flip-flops became the defining act of the Trump era. His enemies became his allies and vice versa. Gushing encomiums would give way months or weeks or days later to savage denunciations. Nikki Haley, his one-time cabinet member turned primary opponent, has performed a series of gyrations so extended she has created an entirely new category: the flip-flop-flip-flop-flip-flop-flip. All this side-switching, not to mention Trump’s own self-contradicting responses, has devalued words like loyalty and betrayal to the point of meaninglessness. But for those who still care who is on which team, we offer this long but not exhaustive list of prominent figures whose flexible views of Trump have given political observers whiplash trying to follow the action. “I’m the guy who would take a bullet for the president.” “A cheat, a liar, a fraud, a bully, a racist, a predator, a con man.” “Michael is a businessman for his own account/lawyer who I have always liked & respected.” “If anyone is looking for a good lawyer, I would strongly suggest that you don’t retain the services of Michael Cohen!” Advertisement “Right now there is no question that Trump is the better choice.” "We just had a violent mob assault the US Capitol in an attempt to prevent those from carrying out our Constitutional duty," she said in a statement. "There is no question that the President formed the mob, the President incited the mob, the President addressed the mob. He lit the flame…This is what America is not. It has just been absolutely intolerable and unacceptable. The mob will not prevail." "Clearly unfit for future office [and] clearly can never be anywhere near the Oval Office ever again." “If I were in my car and getting ready to reverse and saw Donald in the backup camera, I’m not confident which pedal I’d push.” “A serial philanderer…pathological liar…utterly amoral…a narcissist at a level I don’t think this country’s ever seen.” “After many months of careful consideration, of prayer and searching my own conscience, I have decided that on Election Day, I will vote for the Republican nominee, Donald Trump.” “Lyin’ Ted Cruz even voted against Superstorm Sandy aid and September 11th help. So many New Yorkers devastated. Cruz hates New York!” “To me, he's not Lyin' Ted anymore. He's Beautiful Ted. He's Texas — I call him Texas Ted.” “Enough! Donald Trump should not be President. He should withdraw. As a Republican, I hope to support someone who has the dignity and stature to run for the highest office in the greatest democracy on earth.” “I think some of the Trump policy was better than it sounded.” Advertisement “I don’t believe that Donald Trump has the temperament and judgment to be commander in chief. I think Donald Trump is going to places where very few people have gone and I’m not going with him.” “As to the 2020 presidential race, I believe President @realDonaldTrump will run for reelection and I intend to support him.” “Trump and I, we’ve had a hell of a journey. I hate it being this way. Oh my god, I hate it. All I can say is count me out. Enough is enough.” "If you do not stand up against the impeachment of President Trump after he leaves office, you are an incredibly weak figure in American history. President Trump is trying to heal the nation. Pursuing impeachment after he leaves the office will further divide the country." “Please help President Trump. If you can afford 5 or 10 bucks, if you can’t afford a dollar, fine. Just pray. Make sure you vote as early as you can in your state. Don’t risk anything anymore. Vote as soon as you can. Pray for this country, pray for this president and if you got any money to give, give it.” “I think Lindsey Graham is a disgrace, and I think you have one of the worst representatives of any representative in the United States, and I don’t think he should run…I don’t think he could run for dog catcher in this state and win again. I really don’t. Other than that, I think he’s wonderful.” “No, he’s a progressive, but he’s got some good things, too, OK?” “I find him reprehensible.” “I ask folks not to judge me based on what I said in 2016, because I’ve been very open that I did say those critical things and I regret them, and I regret being wrong about the guy... I think he was a good president, I think he made a lot of good decisions for people, and I think he took a lot of flak.” “I’m not just a flip-flopper, I’m a flip-flop-flipper on Trump.” "Like some others, J.D. Vance may have said some not so great things about me in the past, but he gets it now, and I have seen that in spades…He is our best chance for victory in what could be a very tough race." “J.D. is kissing my ass. He wants my support so bad.” "Donald Trump is a phony, a fraud. … His promises are as worthless as a degree from Trump University. He's playing members of the American public for suckers: He gets a free ride to the White House, and all we get is a lousy hat.” “Thank you Mr. President for the support. I hope that over the course of the campaign I also earn the support and endorsement of the people of Utah.” “On balance, [Trump’s] conduct over the past two years, particularly his actions last month, is evidence that the president has not risen to the mantle of the office.” “I think President Trump is by far the most likely to become our nominee.” “.@MittRomney has announced he is running for the Senate from the wonderful State of Utah. He will make a great Senator and worthy successor to @OrrinHatch, and has my full support and endorsement!” “Had failed presidential candidate @MittRomney devoted the same energy and anger to defeating a faltering Barack Obama as he sanctimoniously does to me, he could have won the election.” Advertisement “Everything a governor doesn’t want in a president.” “In every instance I dealt with him, he was truthful, he listened and he was great to work with.” “We need to acknowledge he let us down. He went down a path he shouldn’t have, and we shouldn’t have followed him, and we shouldn’t have listened to him. And we can’t let that ever happen again.” “At some point, I mean, give the man a break…“I don’t think there is a basis for impeachment.” “I think he’s lost any sort of political viability he was going to have… He’s not going to run for federal office again… I don’t think he’s going to be in the picture. … I don’t think he can. He’s fallen so far.” “We need him in the Republican Party. I don’t want us to go back to the days before Trump.” “I don’t think you need to be 80 years old to go be a leader in D.C.” “Well, every time she criticizes me, she uncriticizes me about 15 minutes later.” “Since Ronald Reagan flew back to California on January 20, 1989, the GOP grass roots had been longing for someone who rejected the old-guard way of doing business and who could speak to their concerns and aspirations. Trump supported policies that appealed to the base in a way that GOP leaders in the DC swamp had been either incapable of doing or unwilling to do.” “I don’t know what goes into paying hush money to a porn star to secure silence over some type of alleged affair,” “Congressman Ron DeSantis, a top student at Yale and Harvard Law School, is running for Governor of the Great State of Florida. Ron is strong on Borders, tough on Crime & big on Cutting Taxes - Loves our Military & our Vets. He will be a Great Governor & has my full Endorsement!” “Remember this: If it weren’t for me, Ron DeSanctimonious would right now be working probably at a law firm, or maybe a Pizza Hut, I don’t know.” “Honored to join @realDonaldTrump and work to make America great again.” “President Trump was wrong. I had no right to overturn the election. And his reckless words endangered my family and everyone at the Capitol that day, and I know history will hold Donald Trump accountable.” Advertisement “You’ve called women you don’t like fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals.” “I went to see him at Trump Tower and we had a great exchange, and everything’s been in a much better place since then.” "You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever. In my opinion, she was off base. … I just don't respect her as a journalist." “Very very nice.” "The fact is, that, yes, while the president has certainly thrown out the traditional beltway playbook and punctilio, he was upfront about what he was going to do and the people decided that he was going to serve as president.” “He does not have the discipline. He does not have the ability for strategic thinking and linear thinking or setting priorities or how to get things done in the system. He will deliver chaos, and if anything lead to a backlash that will set his policies much further back than they otherwise would be.” “He’s an outstanding man. He’s an outstanding legal mind.” “As attorney general he was a complete coward who was absolutely petrified of being impeached, which the democrats threatened to do until he became their virtual “slave” and refused to investigate and prosecute the massive election fraud that took place in the 2020 presidential election, by far the radical left’s greatest concern.” "Ok so, I think I'm ready to admit that I'm going to vote for Donald Trump." "I made a major mistake endorsing toupey-toupee. Womens rights are important and we must protect them." “First off, I would like to apologize to Donald Trump for all the stupid jokes I made. (I was kidding),” she wrote. “Secondly, I would like to apologize for all the other times I was dumb enough to let the liberal media sway my opinion of you. Thirdly I’m fucking proud as F*CK of you. One for being a gemini, two for being from NYC, three for winning the presidency and four for beating the media.” “All right, Trump, you’re just cheapening the presidency now. Now you’re just being sloppy.” Advertisement “A great leader.” “Very crazy,” “low life,” “full-blown racist,” “son of a bitch,” “maniacally narcissistic.” “Anthony is a person I have great respect for, and he will be an important addition to this administration.” “Anthony Scaramucci is a highly unstable “nut job” who was with other candidates in the primary who got shellacked, & then unfortunately wheedled his way into my campaign. I barely knew him until his 11 days of gross incompetence-made a fool of himself, bad on TV.” "Probably the best thing to happen to politics in a long long time...I don't care if he says the wrong thing. He says what's on his mind." “Look, personally I don't have a problem with the guy. Now professionally as the president, I think he's an idiot. You know, I never thought [Trump] was smart in talking to him.” “I know Mark Cuban well. He backed me big-time but I wasn't interested in taking all of his calls. He's not smart enough to run for president!” “I’m so appalled, Spalding ball/ Balding, Donald Trump taking dollars from y’all.” “You don’t have to agree with trump but the mob can’t make me not love him.” “We’ve been friends for a long time.” “A seriously troubled man.” Advertisement "In a country where almost everyone in public life lies reflexively, it’s thrilling to hear someone say what he really thinks, even if you believe he’s wrong. It’s especially exciting when you suspect he’s right. … Republican primary voters should be forgiven for wondering who exactly is on the reckless side of this debate. At the very least, Trump seems like he wants to protect the country." “We are very, very close to being able to ignore Trump most nights. I truly can’t wait. I hate him passionately.” "I'm pretty straightforward. I love Trump, like as a person. I think Trump is funny and insightful." “...He doesn’t hate me, or at least, not anymore!” “There are no words to adequately express my gratitude to President Trump. I wish the president and his administration the very best as he continues to lead our country.” “In one day he ended every future opportunity that doesn’t include speaking engagements at the local proud boys chapter.” “Attacking the VP? Wtf is wrong with him.” “He sits in his jammies in Trump Tower and phones in. You guys don’t let any of the rest of us do that.” “Donald is a leader. He is a successful person that, like me, isn't afraid to tell it like it is.” "I got off the train when he stood up in the West Wing of the White House behind the seal of the president and told us the election was stolen when he didn’t have one fact to back it up. I’m sorry. That’s when I get off. Because the truth matters." “He’s got a big mouth — that’s all he’s got.” Photos by Getty, AP 
Terms of Service |
      Privacy Policy |
      Do not sell my info |
      Notice to California Residents
 © 2023 POLITICO LLC