




Aaryamann Shrivastava

FXStreet


 MakerDAO has been attempting to generate yield for the last couple of months now, and the collapse of FTX ended up being the perfect motivator to focus on the same. Also justifying transparency in doing so, Maker proposed the Maker Improvement Proposal (MIP) 92. Maker, earlier last November, proposed the MIP92, wherein the decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol suggested onboarding $100 million worth of its assets in USD Coin onto Yearn Finance. The $100 million would come from its Peg Stability Module (PSM) that swaps users’ collateral with Maker’s stablecoin DAI. As per the proposal, the money would be deployed into a bespoke non-custodial Yearn vault which will provide Maker a 2.16% APY (annual percentage yield). Justifying this move, Maker stated in its proposal, “The recent collapse of centralized entities such as Celsius, BlockFi, and FTX, among others, has made painfully clear the importance of transparency when depositing funds to generate yield—something that DeFi, and specifically Yearn, are well-equipped to provide.” The proposal was met with slightly mixed opinions from Maker Governance, as over 71% of voters approved the plan while others did not. However, the proposal is set to go through another executive vote, where the Governance Facilitators will confirm its passage on January 26. Yearn Finance price reacted positively to the development as the altcoin shot up by nearly 8.55% in the span of 24 hours, marking the second-highest single-day spike in over a month. This pushed the cryptocurrency’s recovery to almost 52%, bringing YFI to trade at $7712 at the time of writing. Teetering at the resistance level at $7712, YFI is set to breach the barrier. Flipping the same into a support floor would allow Yearn Finance price to bounce off of it and rally toward $8559, marking a two-month high.  YFI/USD 8-hour chart However, a bullish narrative supporting a 10% rise could also meet with selling for profit, which would bring the price down. If YFI loses its support level at $6892, it could continue declining to tag the support level at $6516. A daily close below the same would invalidate the bullish thesis, resulting in the price falling to further lows of $6086. 
Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at the end of links posted on this page. 
If not otherwise explicitly mentioned in the body of the article, at the time of writing, the author has no position in any stock mentioned in this article and no business relationship with any company mentioned. The author has not received compensation for writing this article, other than from FXStreet.
FXStreet and the author do not provide personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. FXStreet and the author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses, injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or use. Errors and omissions excepted.
The author and FXStreet are not registered investment advisors and nothing in this article is intended to be investment advice. 
 Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at the end of links posted on this page.  If not otherwise explicitly mentioned in the body of the article, at the time of writing, the author has no position in any stock mentioned in this article and no business relationship with any company mentioned. The author has not received compensation for writing this article, other than from FXStreet. FXStreet and the author do not provide personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. FXStreet and the author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses, injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or use. Errors and omissions excepted. The author and FXStreet are not registered investment advisors and nothing in this article is intended to be investment advice.  The crypto community reacted to a report on Monday alleging that Kamala Harris will likely nominate Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler as Treasury Secretary if elected. The report accompanies the Democratic National Convention. Ethereum is down over 3% on Monday after posting weak flows across ETH ETFs and record lows in gas fees last week. The decline also coincides with ETH attempting to repeat a historical price move that it experienced in the last two years. Cardano slipped out of the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization on Monday following a bearish signal across several of its on-chain metrics. ADA has largely underperformed in the current cycle compared to other altcoins, considering its price has been on a five-month decline since mid-March.  Ripple trades at $0.5833 on Monday as the altcoin extends gains and recovers from the crypto market crash in early August. The Ripple stablecoin announcement, the Securities & Exchange Commission vs. Ripple lawsuit ruling and recent research reports published by SBI-owned HashHub are the key market movers for the altcoin this week. Bitcoin (BTC) trades above $58,000 on Friday after after testing and failing to overcome the resistance level around $62,000 earlier in the week. The risk-on mood returned to markets this week, Marathon Digital added 4,141 BTC worth $249 million to its holdings and the US SEC approved a MicroStrategy leveraged ETF, potentially giving investors more exposure to Bitcoin.  Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement. Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer. Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts. Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and omissions may occur. Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, clients or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.