
Email *

 
First Name *

 
Last Name

 Please complete the Captcha above 

    Share this page    Follow Ballotpedia    Share this page    Follow Ballotpedia 
Proof-of-vaccination requirements were business or government policies that required people to provide evidence they had been vaccinated against the COVID-19 virus. State governments enacted various rules around the use of proof-of-vaccination requirements in their states during the COVID-19 pandemic, such as banning proof-of-vaccination requirements in some circumstances or implementing policies—sometimes called vaccine passports—that allowed vaccinated people to bypass COVID-19 restrictions or engage in activities unavailable to unvaccinated people.
 This page was updated weekly from the time the COVID-19 vaccines became widely available in 2021 through the end of 2022 and no longer receives regular updates. 
 Overall, 20 states, all with Republican governors, prohibited proof-of-vaccination requirements. In 11 of those states, governors banned proof-of-vaccination requirements through executive orders. In nine of those states, legislators passed laws banning proof-of-vaccination requirements. 
 Six states—California, Illinois, New York, Hawaii, and Oregon, and Washington—facilitated the creation of digital vaccination status applications or passed laws or enacted orders exempting fully vaccinated individuals from some COVID-19 restrictions if they could provide proof of vaccination. All six states had Democratic governors. 
 On this page you will find:
 Ballotpedia’s coverage of COVID-19 included how federal, state, and local governments responded to the pandemic, and how those responses influenced election rules and operations, political campaigns, the economy, schools, and more.
 
  
 Twenty states banned proof-of-vaccination requirements. All 20 states—Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, and Wyoming—had Republican governors. In total, 20 out of the 27 states with Republican governors prohibited proof-of-vaccination requirements through executive orders or legislation. Seven states with Republican governors—Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Nebraska, New Hampshire, Vermont, West Virginia—had not prohibited proof-of-vaccination requirements at any level of government at the time this page was last updated.   
 Six states facilitated the creation of digital vaccination status applications or proof-of-vaccination programs or passed laws or enacted orders allowing fully vaccinated people to bypass some coronavirus restrictions. All six states—California, Hawaii, Illinois, New York, and Oregon, and Washington—had Democratic governors.  Seventeen states with Democratic governors neither prohibited nor facilitated proof-of-vaccination requirements at any level of government at the time this page was last updated in 2022. 
 The following map shows the states that prohibited proof-of-vaccination requirements through executive orders or legislation. It also shows the states that implemented proof-of-vaccination requirements for some activities. 
 
 The following table shows the states that prohibited proof-of-vaccination requirements through executive orders or legislation. It also shows the states that implemented proof-of-vaccination requirements for some activities. 
 This list displayed bills and resolutions related to proof-of-vaccination requirements that were being considered in each state in 2021 and 2022. Click on a bill to read more about it. The information was provided by BillTrack50.com
 
  The timeline below displayed activity involving proof-of-vaccination requirements from March 2021 to April 2022. 
 

 Ballotpedia features 514,509 encyclopedic articles written and curated by our professional staff of editors, writers, and researchers. Click here to contact our editorial staff or report an error. For media inquiries, contact us here. Please donate here to support our continued expansion.
