
        PCMag editors select and review products independently. If you buy through affiliate links, we may earn commissions, which help support our testing.
       To infiltrate the Ukrainian government, a group of hackers resorted to circulating Windows 10 installers over torrents that were secretly rigged to deliver malware.  The findings come from cybersecurity firm Mandiant, which earlier this year discovered the attack ensnaring several devices within Ukrainian government networks. The hackers tailored the malicious Windows 10 installers to use the Ukrainian language pack. They were then circulated over torrents via a Ukrainian website called Toloka.to and over a Russian torrent tracker. A description for the Windows 10 installer indicates it was custom-made to work on single-purpose devices, like medical systems and industrial controllers.  The installer also appears to be free. But according to Mandiant, major changes have been made to the Windows 10 installer, which will also trigger the OS to steal data. The hackers can also use the installed OS to drop additional malicious code onto an infected computer for the purposes of capturing keystrokes, screenshots, and passwords.  In addition, the hackers made sure to disable several features in the Windows 10 installer, which included “blocking IP addresses and domains related to legitimate Microsoft services,” and shutting down automatic updates.  “Mandiant identified multiple installations of a trojanized ISO,” the company wrote in a Thursday report. “We assess that the threat actor distributed these installers publicly, and then used an embedded schedule task to determine whether the victim should have further payloads deployed.” Mandiant wasn’t able to uncover enough evidence to say who's behind the Trojanized Windows 10 installers. But the attackers targeted institutions that have traditionally been attacked by Russian state-sponsored hacking group Fancy Bear. In addition, some of the victims hit by the malicious Windows 10 installers were previously hit with destructive data-wiping attacks during the onset of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.  “Mandiant has not uncovered links to previously tracked activity, but believes the actor behind this operation has a mandate to steal information from the Ukrainian government,” it said. The incident also underscores the risks of downloading pirated software and files from torrents: They can sometimes contain malware. So it's best to be vigilant around such downloads. I've been with PCMag since October 2017, covering a wide range of topics, including consumer electronics, cybersecurity, social media, networking, and gaming. Prior to working at PCMag, I was a foreign correspondent in Beijing for over five years, covering the tech scene in Asia. PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. PCMag is obsessed with culture and tech, offering smart, spirited coverage of the products and innovations that shape our connected lives and the digital trends that keep us talking.