Guest Guest Login | Sign Up Push Square  Guest Login or Sign Up Tons of other improvements, too Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 is looking like a tantalising upgrade on its predecessor, although there are still wrinkles for developer Insomniac Games to iron out. The ever-industrious ElAnalistaDeBits has put the sequel through its paces, showcasing the graphical improvements compared to Marvel’s Spider-Man and stopgap successor Miles Morales. The main thing that stood out to us – and was obvious during the demo – is that the speed of traversal has massively increased, with Miles even possessing some new abilities that enable him to pick up the pace much quicker than he could before. Obviously he has a wing suit this time as well, so it really does look like navigation through New York City will be rapid this time. Of course, this does come with a caveat, as there’s a lot more pop-in than in the previous games. Obviously this build is unfinished, so there’s still time for the developer to iron out any kinks, but it’s a consequence of the quicker overall pace. There also seem to be some downgrades in terms of reflections and some specific details, but again there’s still time for these to be fixed. Overall, though, there are a lot of subtle improvements here. Wind now affects the foliage, and webs even come with their own shadows. There’s a huge upgrade to the lighting in internal environments, and of course much of the demo takes place in Queens, which was an area absent entirely from the original game, so expect a much bigger open world to explore. Insomniac Games is one of the best developers around, so we’re quietly confident it’s going to iron out any kinks and nail all of these improvements come release later in the year. For us, the most important thing is that the gameplay looks denser and more varied than its already excellent predecessors: there are a lot of new abilities on display here, and that’s going to make for a much more dynamic experience. [source youtube.com] About Sammy Barker  As the Editor of Push Square, Sammy has over 15 years of experience analysing the world of PlayStation, from PS3 through PS5 and everything in between. He’s an expert on PS Studios and industry matters, as well as sports games and simulators. He also enjoys RPGs when he has the time to dedicate to them, and is a bit of a gacha whale. Comments 34  I didn't quite get the feeling of a proper, current-gen sequel after that footage; more evolution than revolution I guess. At first glance it looks just like the PS4 original. Still, it'll be a great game no doubt.  Yeah it's still a bit too early to give them grief about pop-in. Still got some time to go before release and on a technical level Insomniac games almost always launch very polished for the most part. I'm definitely not worried about Spider-Man 2 that's for sure.  Can't wait to use those web wings. Also really curious to see if the symbiote will have its own skill tree and if Miles ever wears it. Hoping Venom is an unlockable playable character after finishing the story!  Wow, it’s almost like I haven’t played games like this 100 times now!  Don’t carr about reflection, I just want a 60fps mode because this wasn’t  @Korgon a small part of me can see it getting delayed to early 2024 but whatever was shown is not going to be exactly what the final game will be like. The gameplay reveal missions for both predecessors played slightly different in the final game. And what was shown here is bound to be several months old  @thefourfoldroot1 Has there been 100 open world Spider-man games? I can only think of 7.  @Chaotic_Goat It will have one. Insomniac will most likely give us all kinds of performance modes. Quality: reconstructed 4K @ 30 with Ray tracing
Performance: reconstructed 1440p @ 60 no Ray tracing
Performance RT: reconstructed 1440p with a lower internal resolution @ 60 with toned down ray tracing
40fps quality mode
Unlocked performance mode up to 120hz @ 1080p.  Good, he moves quickly like a spider, man. No more lag between input and activities.( Looking at you RDR 2!). Mhhhhhmm check please.  @AdamNovice
Meh, reskins. Notice I said “like this”. The point being the effective difference with other games, let alone other Spidey games, is minimal.  Hard pass on this one. Will wait for PS5 Pro to experience it in 8k120fps with ray tracing. Anything else and the immersion is gone for me.  The game looks fantastic. My only nitpick would be the gliding. As good and fun as it looked, I fear it will overtake the web-swinging, taking too much flavor away. Hopefully in game, in a less scripted scenario, it will have more limits and require more swinging to build momentum and the like. Really looking forward to play this as soon as it hits an affordable price (unless my partner ends up gifting it to me for Christmas or birthday.)  @Czar_Khastik Trolling more than Branch and Poppy.  @FatalBubbles Not trolling, just staying true to my name  @Czar_Khastik I view them as the same but OK.  @FatalBubbles To be honest, yes, they can be viewed as the same exact thing. The difference is in the execution, since I'm not here to provoke people. I just try to point out all the bad things that the gaming industry is and provoke at most a laugh or two. But enough of me abandoning the character, I'm off following Jim Ryan on every social media possible.  Ah yes, yet another PS4 game.. maybe the pop-in wouldn’t be so prevalent if every developer would just leave last gen in the past.. know what I did back in the day when I (my parents) couldn't afford the latest console? I got over it and replayed my older games.. so sick of PS4/PS5 games  @Tharsman Agreed about concerns over the gliding. The distance Miles covered with one glide seemed way too long. I'm sure it's a fun mechanic, but it's just not Spider-Man; it may detract from the simulation. Reminds me of Prototype. I was hoping Insomniac would add more depth to the web swinging with finer control and more physics; basically more player engagement and less autopilot.  I have no doubt that Insomniac will iron out the pop-in prior to release this fall.  @JB_Whiting same here. Disappointed.  It's incredible to think that these guys will have three PS5 games out before other PS studios even have one! At this rate they have Wolverine out before TLOU Factions  I don't think it looked as smooth as the first game's PS5 remaster that I'm currently playing. It could be just early code but there were some lacking textures, pop in and some basic looking buildings. Ultimately I couldn't care less about these things because I'm sure it will play brilliantly, (even if the formula is wearing a little thin) but it seems odd to have these discrepancies from the show's big hitter.  There was also a ton of pop in, and missing textures in that trailer. In fact there was some serious inconsistencies within the locales in that trailer. My first thought right out of the gate was questioning how old the build must have been (or hoping it was). I actually came away from that thinking they have a tone of polish to do to not release this with some issues in a few short months. This was the highly tailored/scripted slice they chose to debut., and yes it was typical samey cinematic fodder, it hit softly and looked like much for of the same. I wonder if that increased speed was merely a part of the scripted showing and it will be slower like it has been in the final product. It's great for those that loved the generic open world spidey boy game, but I think if you take a step back and examine it as a title headliner and only major first party title unveiled for a platform showcase after two years of silence its hard to see this game as an example of a current gen game finally unchained from the shackles pf cross gen greed  @thefourfoldroot1 no they're not.... but its ok since you're just a low tier troll XD  @WolfyTn this game is a ps5 exclusive buddy XD.....  @LordBakemono “ anyone looking for civility on the internet is delusional.” Yes, you are clearly right about that.  To be honest I really thought this gen was going to be on another level. Really starting to feel its one big disappointment. Sony may as well released ps5 as the ps4 Pro instead. Because no Devs seem bothered about really pushing the tech. It's been nearly three years!! We should be in the third gen cycle games now. Not still seeing launch title quality.  Queens new york represent.yes spiderman 2 gameplay is much faster than the original spiderman.it looks really good.word up son  @LordBakemono so glad to be so wrong.. I must’ve misread something yesterday after the showcase  @thefourfoldroot1well yea duh just look at your fist comment XD  All I know is they better include a native 4K @ 60 FPS option, with ray tracing turned on.  Puddlegate all over again 🙄🙈  Removed - unconstructive; user is banned  @JB_Whiting That's the way it goes in 2023. The pace of tech has dramatically decelerated when compared to the PS1/PS2/PS3 days. With node shrinks inching closer to atomic limits on the hardware side, and games development getting increasingly complex, we won't be playing anything close to that Matrix Awakens demo in 60 fps anytime soon. If you want to get blown away by new games, you really need to look elsewhere. VR is where the real revolution is happening now. Feels like the good old days.  Show Comments Leave A Comment Hold on there, you need to login to post a comment...  Hands On: Black Myth: Wukong Is Brilliant, But We Have PS5 Concerns Monkeying around  15 PS Plus Extra, Premium Games Announced for August 2024 Time to split  Site News: Where's Our Black Myth: Wukong PS5 Review? Monkey business  Never Has a Game Looked So Good Yet So Jank as PS5's Neo Berlin 2087 Cyberdunk 2087  Judge for Yourself with Official PS5 Black Myth: Wukong Gameplay PS5 version is no myth Game Profile Title: Marvel's Spider-Man 2 System: PlayStation 5 Publisher: Sony Interactive Entertainment Developer: Insomniac Games Genre: Action, Adventure Players: 1 Release Date: PlayStation 5 Series: Spider-Man, Marvel's Spider-Man Reviews: Marvel's Spider-Man 2 (PS5) - A Familiar But Fantastic Superhero Sequel Guide: Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Guide: Walkthrough, Best Upgrades, and All Collectibles Official Site: playstation.com Wikipedia: en.wikipedia.org Where to buy: Buy on Amazon 
  71 News Marvel's Spider-Man 2 Swings 11 Million Sales as Sony Calls PS5 Exclusive a 'Great Success'  14 News Spider-Man 2's New Game+ Update Adds Access to Dev Menu That Could Corrupt Your Saves  32 News Spider-Man 2's Massive New Game+ Update Is Finally Here, Mission Replay and More Included  34 News New Spider-Man 2 Suits for Huge 7th March Update Revealed, Will Cost $5 at First  18 News Marvel's Spider-Man 2's PS5 Sales Swing Past 10 Million Units Popular Right Now Show More  Join 427,524 people following Push Square: © 2024 Hookshot Media, partner of IGN Entertainment. Hosted by 44 Bytes.