Another year, another playoff series against the hated Boston Celtics. It sounds like a broken record, but the Philadelphia 76ers will play their archrival for the third time in six years during the Process Era. The annual tradition of a banged up Joel Embiid will also hang over the Sixers heads as the teams match up in the 2023 Eastern Conference Semifinals. The Celtics come into the series as favorites after losing to the Golden State Warriors in last year's NBA Finals. An Embiid knee injury suffered during the Sixers' first-round sweep of the Brooklyn Nets also puts Philly at a disadvantage against a team they've struggled against all season. Will the Sixers make it back to the Eastern Conference Finals for the first time since 2001? Here's what they're up against facing Boston: FORMING A BOND: Sixers star James Harden visits with Michigan State shooting victim John Hao in playoff win Trust the process: 76ers center Joel Embiid named 2022-23 NBA MVP, edging out Jokić, Giannis our weekend was great. hbu? 😏round 2 🔜 | @Toyota pic.twitter.com/pG2vuuMPi8 — Philadelphia 76ers (@sixers) April 24, 2023 BOSTON (AP) — James Harden matched his playoff career high with 45 points and hit a go-ahead, step-back 3-pointer over Al Horford with 8.7 seconds left as the Philadelphia 76ers rallied without Joel Embiid to beat the Boston Celtics 119-115 in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference semifinals. Tyrese Maxey added 26 points and Tobias Harris finished with 18 for the Sixers, who made 17 3-pointers in the absence of MVP finalist Embiid, who sat sat out with a sprained right knee. Jayson Tatum led the Celtics with 39 points and 11 rebounds. Jaylen Brown added 23 points. Boston hosts Game 2 on Wednesday night. off the charts. 📈 pic.twitter.com/eudT9x3jce — Philadelphia 76ers (@sixers) May 2, 2023 BOSTON (AP) —Jaylen Brown scored 25 points and the Celtics rolled past the 76ers 121-87, spoiling the return of reigning league MVP Embiid. The Celtics tied the series at one game apiece as the Eastern Conference semifinals series shifts to Philadelphia for Game 3 on Friday. Malcolm Brogdon added 23 points, connecting on six of Boston’s 20 3-pointers. PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Jayson Tatum scored 27 points, Jaylen Brown had 23 and the Boston Celtics spoiled Joel Embiid’s MVP coronation, beating the Philadelphia 76ers 114-102 on Friday night to take a 2-1 lead in the Eastern Conference semifinal series. Embiid had 30 points and 13 rebounds in his second game back from a sprained right knee. Embiid accepted his MVP trophy before the game. Out of the mud: Delaware has another pro sports champion as NBA G League playoffs end SLAM!: Fans laud NBA slam dunk champ Mac McClung in first game back with Delaware Blue Coats PHILADELPHIA (AP) — James Harden hit the go-ahead 3-pointer with 18 seconds left in overtime and scored 42 points to help the 76ers stave off a wild Celtics comeback in a 116-115 victory on Sunday that evened their playoff series at 2-2. Marcus Smart’s potential winner was a tick too late and the Celtics now head home for Tuesday’s Game 5. Joel Embiid had 34 points and 13 rebounds. Harden added nine assists and eight rebounds. Jayson Tatum struggled to score early but finished with 24 points, 18 rebounds, six assists and four blocks. Since the NBA playoff bracket does not reseed, the Sixers will play the No. 2 seed Celtics even though the lower seeded New York Knicks and Miami Heat advanced in the first round. The Celtics topped the Atlanta Hawks 4-2, clinching a best-of-seven first-round matchup with a 128-120 win in Game 6. During the regular season, Boston went 3-1 against Philly. The Sixers lost the first three games against the Celtics, despite a 41-point effort from Embiid in February. Philly was able to salvage a win with a 103-101 victory in April thanks to 52 points from Embiid. The Sixers last playoff matchup against the Celtics came in 2020, when they were swept in the first round after being without an injured Ben Simmons. Embiid, Simmons and the Sixers also lost to the Celtics in the conference semifinals in 2018. The last time the Sixers defeated the Celtics in the playoffs was in 1981-1982, when they won in Game 7 of the Eastern Conference Finals before losing to the Los Angeles in the NBA Finals. Overall, the C's lead the Sixers 14-7 in their storied playoff history. 2023 NFL Draft tracker: Eagles' trade frenzy; live updates, round-by-round selections, analysis THE PICK IS IN: Philadelphia Eagles and 2023 NFL Draft: Here's everything you need to know After more than a week off waiting to see who they'll play, the Sixers can now prepare to play Boston. Since Trae Young and the Hawks were able to extend the first-round series to six games, the Sixers' schedule against the Celtics will look like this: Game 1: 76ers at Celtics on Monday, May 1, at 7:30 p.m. ET on TNT Game 2: 76ers at Celtics on Wednesday, May 3, at 8 p.m. ET on TNT Game 3: Celtics at 76ers on Friday, May 5, at 7:30 p.m. ET on ESPN Game 4: Celtics at 76ers on Sunday, May 7, at 3:30 p.m. ET on ESPN Game 5: 76ers at Celtics on Tuesday, May 9, at 7:30 p.m. ET on TNT Game 6: Celtics at 76ers on Thursday, May 11, at 7:30 p.m. ET on ESPN Game 7*: 76ers at Celtics on Saturday, May 14, time and channel TBD *If necessary  The biggest uncertainty surrounding the conference semifinals is whether Embiid will play after sustaining a right knee sprain in Game 3 against the Nets. After sitting out Game 1, Embiid's status for Game 2 on Wednesday in Boston is uncertain. During an appearance on TNT on Tuesday, Embiid said he was unsure as to whether he would he play. NBA Insider Shams Charania reported before Game 1 that Embiid underwent platelet-rich plasma treatment on the knee to help the injury heal quicker. From Run It Back on @FanDuelTV: The latest surrounding 76ers star Joel Embiid, who, sources say, underwent platelet-rich plasma treatment on his injured knee as part of his recovery process: pic.twitter.com/EWsEuETHn6 — Shams Charania (@ShamsCharania) May 1, 2023 When Embiid does return, he will likely play with a brace due to the LCL sprain, according to reports. History is repeating for Sixers fans and Embiid, with the star center injured again in the playoffs. Last season, he suffered a fractured orbital bone in the final minutes of a Game 6 clinching, first-round game against the Toronto Raptors while also playing with a thumb injury. The facial fracture forced Embiid to miss the first two games against the top-seeded Miami Heat in round two, torpedoing the team's chances of a long playoff run. Embiid gutted through much of the 2021 playoffs with a small lateral meniscus tear in his right knee before the team's heartbreaking, Game 7 Eastern Conference Seminal loss to the Hawks. Stomach issues plagued him during the 2019 conference semifinals against the Raptors, and another facial fracture limited him against the Celtics in 2018. Despite being without the big man, the Sixers pulled out a decisive 96-88 win in Game 4 in a first-round matchup against the Nets. With the sweep, the Sixers finished the year 8-0 against the Nets, whose season ended in turmoil after being forced to trade stars Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving. The series wasn't without drama, as Game 3 featured Embiid receiving a flagrant foul for kicking Nets center Nic Claxton and Harden getting ejected after hitting the groin of Nets' Royce O'Neale. The victory clinched the Sixers' first playoff sweep since 1991 when Charles Barkley led the team to a first-round 3-0 series win over the Milwaukee Bucks. It's the team's first sweep in a best-of-seven series since they knocked out the Bucks in the conference semifinals in 1985, Barkley's rookie year. Here's a look at the series recap: Game 1: 76ers 121, Nets 101 Game 2: 76ers 96, Nets 84 Game 3: 76ers 102, Nets 97 Game 4: 76ers 96, Nets 88 Boston Celtics (2) vs. Philadelphia 76eres (3): Series tied 2-2 New York Knicks (5) vs. Miami Heat (8): Heat lead 3-1 Denver Nuggets (1) vs. Phoenix Suns (4): Series tied 2-2Golden State Warriors (6) vs. Los Angeles Lakers (7): Lakers lead 3-1 Milwaukee Bucks (1) vs. Miami Heat (8): Heat won 4-1 Boston Celtics (2) vs. Atlanta Hawks: Celtics won 4-2 Philadelphia 76ers (3) vs. Brooklyn Nets (6): 76ers won 4-0 Cleveland Cavaliers (4) vs. New York Knicks: Knicks won 4-1 Denver Nuggets (1) vs. Minnesota Timberwolves (8): Nuggets won 4-1 Memphis Grizzlies (2) vs. Los Angeles Lakers (7): Lakers won 4-1 Sacramento Kings (3) vs. Golden State Warriors (6): Warriors won 4-3 Phoenix Suns (4) vs. Los Angeles Clippers: Suns won 4-1 This article originally appeared on Delaware News Journal: Sixers-Celtics schedule: Game 5 moves to Boston after 76ers tie series Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their kicker rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.