By Joe Bernstein for MailOnline   Published:  08:00 EDT, 2 April 2023   |  Updated:  10:41 EDT, 2 April 2023      26 View  comments  Manchester United have been this season's knockout kings – unbeaten in their last 19 cup ties in three different competitions with the Carabao trophy already in the locker. But it's the Premier League that will fully focus Erik ten Hag's mind on the resumption of club football following the international break. Champions League qualification remains a huge priority for United having missed out on Europe's elite competition in four of the last five seasons and despite their run in the Europa League, their best chance of a return remains a top-four finish. United currently sit third but only three points ahead of Newcastle who are fifth. It makes Sunday's trip to St James' Park hugely important and only the start of what could be a pivotal week for the club. The following Wednesday, in-form Brentford arrive at Old Trafford with Everton next only three days later. Ten Hag is facing a crunch week in the Premier League as United have three games in six days Midfielder Marcel Sabitzer picked up a knee injury while on international duty for Austria - but in the end he was fit enough to start at St James' Park The stakes for the Newcastle game couldn't be higher and Eddie Howe has key individuals in better form now than when they met in the EFL Cup final at Wembley - £60million striker Alexander Isak being a prime example - while the Toon won't have to rely on third-choice 'keeper Loris Karius again. And even if United fans expect maximum points from home games against Brentford and Everton, Ten Hag will be mindful of being held 0-0 by Southampton in their league outing at Old Trafford. They were also thumped 4-0 by Thomas Frank's side earlier in the season and to add to the intrigue, United's squad is seriously creaking for the first time under their Dutch manager. Midfield general Casemiro is suspended for all three league matches after his red card against the Saints. Christian Eriksen hasn't played since January because of an ankle injury while Casemiro's natural replacement Marcel Sabitzer was worryingly withdrawn from Austria's Euro qualifier against Azerbaijan and did not feature in the clash with Estonia on Monday. In a big boost for Ten Hag, however, Sabitzer was able to start at St James' Park alongside Scott McTominay in midfield.   Donny van de Beek is out long-term with a knee injury while Alejandro Garnacho is also ruled out with a damaged ankle. At least while Marcus Rashford missed England's qualifiers to recover from a knock sustained against Fulham and went to America during his time off, Ten Hag will hope he can quickly resume his post-World Cup form, scoring 19 goals in 25 games since Qatar. United will also be without the suspended Casemiro for their next three league matches Marcus Rashford took time off in New York to recover from an injury that kept him out of England duty Rashford has been United's main goalscorer this season and they are short of options up front Newcastle United (A) - Apr 2, 4:30pm Brentford (H) - Apr 5, 8pm Everton (H) - Apr 8, 12:30pm  United are short of scoring options without Rashford. Anthony Martial is out injured too often and Mason Greenwood hasn't been selected this season for off-field reasons. Ten Hag would have settled for United's current position after losing his opening two matches against Brighton and Brentford but will be aware of the importance of this coming week. Having already bagged United's first trophy since 2017 with the prospect of also lifting the FA Cup and Europa League, it won't be considered a great season unless they are in the top four. Louis van Gaal was sacked immediately after winning the FA Cup in 2016 because the team finished fifth. Ten Hag has a lot going for him. David de Gea is in his best form for years as he chases a new contract.  He'll benefit in defence from Raphael Varane's international retirement and Luke Shaw will also be rested having sat out England's win against Ukraine on Sunday because of suspension. David de Gea has returned to his best form in years as he chases a new contract at Old Trafford Scott McTominay scored braces in consecutive matches for Scotland during the internationals Luke Shaw only featured once in the international break after seeing red against Italy With the midfield problems mounting, it was a welcoming sight to see Scott McTominay return to form with two goals in Scotland's 3-0 win against Cyprus and another brace in their 2-0 triumph over Spain. McTominay has been sparingly used this season and could leave Old Trafford in the summer but his athleticism and power will be useful to Ten Hag. United can also qualify for the Champions League by winning the Europa League but with strong opposition like Juventus lying in wait, Ten Hag won't want to rely on that – he'll be expecting to qualify via the Premier League too. In cup games, United have looked irresistible but have failed to score in their last two league games; the 7-0 humiliation at Liverpool followed by frustration against Southampton when they played most of the game with 10 men. That's why the next trilogy of games is so vital. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group