Rochester Derrick Days is expected to serve roughly the first 22 years in prison and the balance on supervised release. By Paul Walsh A Twin Cities man has received a 35½-year sentence for his role in the fatal shooting of a 28-year-old man in downtown Rochester during a fight over a dice game. Derrick T. Days, 29, of South St. Paul, was sentenced Monday in Olmsted County District Court after pleading guilty to second-degree murder and second-degree assault in connection with the 2021 killing of Todd L. Banks Jr. of Rochester. With credit for time served since his arrest, Days is expected to spend roughly the first 22 years in prison and the balance on supervised release. Days' criminal history in Minnesota also includes convictions for burglary and illegal possession of a gun. An alleged accomplice, Nautica D. Cox, 24, of Minneapolis, remains jailed on charges of second-degree murder and illegal possession of a gun. Cox's next court date is May 25. He previously was convicted in Minnesota for assault, robbery and illegal gun possession. According to the criminal complaints: A officer on patrol saw Cox shooting toward people at SW. 1st Avenue and 3rd Street  shortly before 2:30 a.m. on June 6, 2021. He spotted Cox ducking into a nearby alley behind what was once Dooley's Pub and discovered a handgun in the immediate vicinity. Police found Banks at the intersection with at least five gunshot wounds. He was put in an ambulance and declared dead. A police review of downtown video surveillance showed people playing dice at the intersection where the shooting occurred. The video then showed Banks and a 26-year-old man on the ground fighting, and Days moved the 26-year-old man out of the way and shot Banks several times. Cox was arrested at the scene. Days was arrested elsewhere in Rochester that same morning. Paul Walsh is a general assignment reporter at the Star Tribune. He wants your news tips, especially in and near Minnesota. The Chicago hip-hop star is offering his fellow Midwesterners at the grandstand a preview of his bold new “Star Line” project. Molly Dennis seeks re-election while suing the city of Rochester amid continuing tensions with her colleagues. “Everybody couldn’t understand how we could do this in a flat county, but some city officials got it.” The Chicago hip-hop star is offering his fellow Midwesterners at the grandstand a preview of his bold new “Star Line” project. © 2024 StarTribune.
All rights reserved.