Express Employment Professionals once again tops the list for the staffing/recruiting category of the Entrepreneur Franchise 500 and ranks 45th overall. OKLAHOMA CITY, Jan. 10, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Staffing giant Express Employment Professionals held onto the distinction of top U.S. staffing/recruiting franchise for the 12th consecutive year and 45th franchised company overall as announced today in Entrepreneur's annual 2023 Franchise 500® ranking. "Being chosen as the preferred franchise concept for the staffing/recruiting industry is a great honor to everyone in the Express network who works tirelessly to connect quality job seekers with reputable companies," Express Employment International CEO Bill Stoller said. "Our goal has always been to support entrepreneurs who are primed to create not only a successful business venture but one that is invested in the local communities they serve and built to last for years to come." According to Jason Feifer, Entrepreneur editor-in-chief, the past year underscores the extraordinary opportunities that the franchise industry presents for entrepreneurs of all levels. "The companies named to our 44th annual Franchise 500 list represent some of the most innovative, creative and trusted brands across many industries and highlight what it takes to build the kind of momentum that drives long-lasting success," he said. Key factors that go into the evaluation include costs and fees, size and growth, support, brand strength and financial strength and stability. Each franchise is given a cumulative score based on an analysis of more than 150 data points, and the 500 franchises with the highest cumulative scores become the Franchise 500® in ranking order. With more than 850 franchises internationally, in 2022, Entrepreneur further recognized Express as a Top Global Franchise, a Fastest Growing Franchise Worldwide, a Top Franchise for Veterans and gave the company a Best of the Best ranking. Forbes added to the recognition with awards for one of America's Best Temp Staffing Firms and Best Large Employers, as well as one of America's Best Professional Recruiting Firms. From Staffing Industry Analysts, Express was named among the largest U.S. staffing firms, largest U.S. industrial staffing firms, largest U.S. office/clerical staffing firms, largest U.S. direct hire firms and largest global staffing firms. "As we prepare to celebrate our 40th anniversary year, Express is stronger than ever with lofty goals for the new year," Stoller said." *** If you would like to arrange for an interview with Bill Stoller to discuss this topic, please contact Sheena Hollander, Director of Corporate Communications and PR, at (405) 717-5966. About Bill Stoller William H. "Bill" Stoller is chairman and chief executive officer of Express Employment International. Founded in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, the international staffing franchisor supports the Express Employment Professionals franchise and related brands. The Express franchise brand is an industry-leading, international staffing company with franchise locations in the U.S., Canada, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand. About Express Employment Professionals At Express Employment Professionals, we're in the business of people. From job seekers to client companies, Express helps people thrive and businesses grow. Our international network of franchises offers localized staffing solutions to the communities they serve across the U.S., Canada, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand, employing 586,000 people globally in 2021 and more than 10 million since its inception. For more information, visit ExpressPros.com. Media Contact Sheena Hollander, Express Employment Professionals, (405) 840-5000, Sheena.Hollander@ExpressPros.com Twitter, Facebook   SOURCE  Express Employment Professionals © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.