MORE Premier Newspaper for Vietnamese Worldwide Suggestion During the past 15 years, ManpowerGroup Vietnam has supported some 500 companies and corporations of all sizes and industries in Vietnam, connecting thousands of people with decent and meaningful jobs. From the first days of operation with only 30-40 staff and 100 associates, ManpowerGroup Vietnam is now home to a team of 200 staff and a network of thousands of associates nationwide. With its offices and recruitment hubs established in seven cities and provinces, including Hanoi, HCMC, Binh Duong, Vinh Phuc, Haiphong, Ha Nam and Hung Yen, ManpowerGroup Vietnam offers diverse and innovative workforce solutions, including headhunting/executive search, labor-subleasing & outsourcing, recruitment process outsourcing, mass recruitment, payroll service, and HR consulting. The company has also continuously contributed to improving the local labor market via its frequent workshops and market updates in partnership with various organizations, foreign chambers of commerce and educational centers in Vietnam. It regularly introduces valuable research and reports on the labor market to help businesses and workers stay updated on employment trends and have appropriate strategies in talent acquisition and retention. Simon Matthews, regional manager of ManpowerGroup in Southeast Asia, said, “ManpowerGroup Vietnam was the first foreign-invested company licensed for the sub-leasing agreement by the Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs in 2008. This allows us to bring added value to Vietnamese and foreign companies that need professional HR services. Reflecting on our achievements in the past 15 years, we are truly honored and thankful.” Andree Mangels, general manager of ManpowerGroup Vietnam, spoke about the future of the company. “Following our achievements and contributions to the development of Vietnam’s labor market over the past 15 years, we will strive harder to take ManpowerGroup Vietnam to the next level. ManpowerGroup Vietnam aims to provide more support and value to the business community and the local workforce. I believe that together, we can achieve a sustainable future for the local labor market in the long term.” HCMC – ManpowerGroup has launched the What Women Want At Work Research on International Women’s Day (March  HCMC – ManpowerGroup has launched the three-part “The Future of Work” series, in partnership with Everest HCMC – Half of the green job demand since 2022 has come from the manufacturing sector, followed by the HCMC – The World Bank has said that if Vietnam’s pool of skilled workers falls short of what is required by 
English daily with news, views, sports and entertainment coverage.
 Address
Alley 162/29 Le Trong Tan Street, Khuong Mai Ward, 
Thanh Xuan District, Hanoi City, Vietnam Email
vietreaderdotcom@gmail.com © 2023, VietReader | All rights reserved 