Elon Musk is the richest person in the world with a wealth of more than $200 billion thanks to being a co-founder and investor in companies like Tesla Inc TSLA, SpaceX, Twitter and more. Not widely recognized for his acting skills, Musk has been featured on several shows and movies and voiced himself in several animated comedies. Here’s a look at one memorable appearance and the potential returns for investors who tuned in. What Happened: Over the years, Musk has appeared in movies like “Iron Man” and “Machete Kills” and also voiced himself on “The Simpsons” and “South Park.” Benzinga previously shared the possible outcomes of investing in Tesla after Musk's stints on “The Simpsons” and “South Park.” Today, we take a look at an appearance by Musk on the hit comedy “The Big Bang Theory.” The hit show aired from 2007 to 2019 and had 279 episodes across 12 seasons, all broadcast on CBS, a unit of Paramount Global Inc PARAPARAA. Musk appeared as himself in the episode titled “The Platonic Permutation,” which aired on Nov. 19, 2015. The episode was the ninth in season nine. In the episode, Howard Wolowitz, played by actor Simon Helberg, is mad that he has to go to a soup kitchen to serve food to the homeless. Wolowitz is also mad that he is stuck doing dishes instead of being where the action is. While doing dishes, Howard encounters Musk and asks what he’s doing at the soup kitchen. “I’m washing dishes," Musk replied. "Well, I was on the turkey line, but I got demoted for being too generous with the gravy.” Howard appears starstruck at the moment. “What an honor to meet you, I’m such a fan of Tesla and SpaceX, all your companies,” Howard says. Howard also jokingly adds that he wants Musk to adopt him. He then shares with Musk his passion for space and his desire to visit Mars. “We’re not quite there,” Musk answers on Mars. Musk tells Howard he’ll give him his email, so they can stay in touch. The billionaire then asks Howard if he wants to share a piece of pumpkin pie that was “hardly touched” by someone before it found its way into the dish room. Musk later appeared in a 2017 episode of "The Big Bang Theory" spinoff "Young Sheldon."   Related Link: Did The Simpsons Predict Elon Musk Buying Twitter? This 2015 Episode May Have Been Prophetic Investing $1,000 in Tesla Stock: The episode of “The Bing Bang Theory” could have been another moment that people found out who Musk was or learned that he was involved with both Tesla and SpaceX. Tesla completed its IPO in 2010 and by the time this episode aired in 2015 had released the Roadster, Model S and Model X. The episode of the comedy show aired at night and was watched by 15.19 million viewers. Investors could have bought shares of Tesla at the open the morning after the episode aired. A $1,000 investment in Tesla stock the morning after the episode aired could have purchased 67.11 shares based on a split-adjusted price of $14.90. The $1,000 investment would be worth $17,354.65 today, based on a price of $258.60 for Tesla shares at the time of writing. This represents a return of 1,635.5% over the last nearly eight years. For comparison, the same $1,000 invested in the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust SPY, which tracks the broad market S&P 500 Index, would be worth $2,017.14 today. This represents a return of 106.7% Not a bad return in Tesla stock for watching “The Big Bang Theory.” BAZINGA Indeed! Read Next: Elon Musk Was The Inspiration For 'Don't Look Up' Character In Netflix Movie  Photo: Shutterstock © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.