Kerry A guard of honour was held in Killorglin for Jack O'Grady, former ISK student, whose funeral took place in St Mary's Church, Killorglin, on Friday morning. Photo by Michael G Kenny Jack O'Grady 22-year-old Jack O’Grady lived his short life to the full, filling his family and friends with laughter and leaving them with ‘precious memories’ of their time with him. The congregation gathered in St James’ Church, Killorglin, for Jack’s Funeral Mass where they heard stories of wonder and inspiration in tribute to his witty personality and wonderful caring nature. Family and friends shared stories of the young mid Kerry man, including his mother, Ruth, who summed up the feeling of all who knew him: "You were the funniest, bravest boy and we will love you forever,” she said. She said her family had heard ‘hilarious’ stories since Jack’s death last week, including how he had found a bike and cycled into various apartments in Trinity Halls. In another story, Jack had once dressed up as a clown and frightened the participants of a school fun run and such was his nature to annoy his mother that she would chase with a frying pan. Jack’s sister Ella in her eulogy said her late brother had a hyper personality and lit up in any room he walked into: “He was a messer and I would be here for 22 years if I listed all the stories,” she said. Jack O'Grady She said her big brother was her number one fan, always supporting and encouraging her, not least when she did her Leaving Cert just when he was beginning his cancer battle. Jack had undergone stem cell treatment but when told that no further treatment was available he bravely faced the news. One of his wishes was to write a novel, Ruth said, and she reminded him he had done so when he was just seven and that will now live on. So too will his podcasts from his Radio Show in Trinity ‘The Jack Off Show’ – in his final weeks he managed to edit them all into a Podcast on YouTube. “We are lucky to have these lovely mementos of our lovely boy,” said Ruth. The congregation was urged to listen to them. Headphones were brought to the alter as a symbol of Jack's life and his podcast. "He knew he wouldn’t be able to broadcast anymore but he wanted to leave them [the podcast shows] for prosperity. A warning, they are not suitable for work but very enjoyable!” the congregation heard. Other symbols brought to the alter by Jack’s cousins included a little toy car which he would call ‘Polly’. Jack's mother Ruth would never know when Jack would be home until she heard the car and the beat of the music. Mourners were told that during his time in Trinity, where he studied psychology, Jack became involved with the Saint Vincent De Paul Society and one of the highlights of his work for the charity was when he directed a pantomime for them. "It was his greatest and proudest achievement,” said Ruth, adding that he wrote the script while going through treatment. "He was always smiling even when he was going through hell,” said Ruth. A rucksack was also brought to the altar to represent Jack’s love of travel and just two months after his operation in 2021 he travelled to Canada. Jack’s also loved soccer and trained to be a coach with Killorglin AFC and a Chelsea jersey was presented as a symbol of this passion. Mourners heard how Jack’s determination to live was to the fore during his illness but “there are no words for the cruel irony that the Lord has called Jack away at such a young age”. Jack passed away on Sunday, August 20. His Funeral cortege stopped outside the gates of his former school, Intermediate School Killorglin, where a guard of honour gathered. Several local clubs also stood guard of honour outside the church. He was the beloved son of Dermot and Ruth, a treasured brother of Ella and Ned and loving boyfriend of Naoise D'Arcy. The u13 Southern Gael football team were treated to a very special camp in Cahersiveeen last week to encourage them to remain involved in sport. 