Update: This article was updated with additional information from the Marion County Coroner's Office on Gary Harrell's cause of death on Aug. 24, 2023. Indianapolis police released body camera footage Tuesday showing an officer fatally shooting a fleeing armed man in the back after a traffic stop, prompting Black clergy to call for the policeman’s termination.  The Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department posted an edited video narrating and depicting the Aug. 3 shooting of 49-year-old Gary Harrell, a Black man, after officials said he was fleeing a traffic stop with a gun in his hand.   The Black Church Coalition expressed outrage over the footage in a statement and said it shows what they suspected: that Harrell was shot with his back turned.   “It is clear from the bodycam footage that the officer broke the training policy,” said Pastor Peris Lester of Phillips Temple CME Church. “Why is he still being paid? ... Why is the taking of a human life not a concern of the chief of police in Indianapolis?”  The Marion County Coroner’s Office ruled Harrell’s cause of death as a "gunshot wound of chest" and declared it a homicide. "Injury and damage to organs" were in Harrell's "chest/chest cavity," the coroner's office later clarified. Harrell's family in a statement through their attorney, Stephen Wagner, said the "heavily edited" video showed the shooting was unjustified and called for police and prosecutors to investigate the case to the fullest extent, including weighing criminal charges against the officer. "Gary Harrell made a poor choice on Aug. 3, 2023 shortly after he was pulled over by IMPD Officer Douglas Correll on suspicion of reckless driving, a misdemeanor," the statement began. "Although Gary made a poor choice that morning, it should not have cost him his life." Harrell's family has also retained national civil rights attorney Ben Crump to assist in the shooting investigation. The Concerned Clergy of Indianapolis also lamented Harrell’s death and called for justice reform to stop violent acts against Black residents form taking place. "In Indianapolis, the African American community continues to be failed by systems that appear to be in place to placate the community and not help the community," said the Rev. David W. Greene, pastor of Purpose of Life Ministries. In a statement, Indianapolis Police Chief Randal Taylor said a "thorough and complete" investigation must be done before the public can come to conclusions on the shooting. "I am asking for the public’s patience and trust as we investigate this thoroughly. My prayers remain with all involved,” Taylor said.   The video indicates the investigation could take "a year or longer." The 7-minute video by Indianapolis police shows officer Douglas Correll stopping a black Chevy sedan driven by Harrell for suspicion of reckless driving in the 3400 block of North Parker Avenue. Police in the video said Harrell got out of the sedan before Correll left his patrol vehicle, and the pair had a brief interaction.   "What are you doing?" Correll asked as he exited his vehicle. Harrell explained he was trying to avoid hitting something with the vehicle. When asked about his driver's license, Harrell returned to his car stating he "just got home from prison." Harrell got in his car despite being told not to by the officer, then reemerged holding a handgun in his right hand and a cellphone in his left. He then ran and a brief foot pursuit ensued. As Harrell ran from officer Correll and past a nearby driveway, Correll told Harrell to "Stop it, drop it," then fired his gun twice, striking Harrell as his back was turned. The video shows Harrell dropping the firearm and falling in the grass.    The video never clearly shows Harrell pointing the firearm at the officer, and the narration doesn't indicate he did.  A .357 revolver was retrieved from the driveway and carried five live rounds, police said in the video.   Additional officers arrived at the scene and Harrell was taken to a hospital, where he died.   The police shooting is under investigation by the IMPD’s Critical Incident Response Team, and a separate investigation is underway by Internal Affairs.   Police have also corresponded with the Marion County Prosecutor’s Office as the shooting investigation continues. IndyStar has reached out to the prosecutor’s office for comment after the release of the video.   The Black Church Coalition called for U.S. District Attorney Zachary Myers to launch a civil rights investigation into excessive force on Black citizens by the IMPD. They also called for an independent investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice into Harrell’s death, echoing calls in recent months for similar inquiries into a series of deaths at the hands of Indianapolis police.   Harrell's family in their statement said the shooting violated the U.S. Constitution and the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department's Use of Force policy, which was revised in 2020 to say officers are prohibited from using deadly force unless under certain circumstances. One circumstance in the policy says officers can use deadly force if they believe the person is fleeing "for any felony that threatened or resulted in death or serious bodily injury, if the officer reasonably believes that the person will cause death or serious bodily injury to another unless immediately apprehended." The second circumstance says officers may use deadly force if they feel it's necessary to "prevent or defend against an imminent threat of death or serious bodily injury to the officer or another person." In their attorney's statement, Harrell's family said neither circumstance applied in the shooting. "Gary's mother, four sisters, and six adult children are still in shock," the statement said. Reporter John Tufts contributed to this report. Send him a news tip at JTufts@Gannett.com. Contact reporter Sarah Nelson at 317-503-7514 or sarah.nelson@indystar.com