In Defiance, Iowa, one man has spent decades beautifying the local cemetery. His family hopes this simple story of commitment to one’s community shows that we are never too young, nor too old, to give back. In Defiance, Iowa, one man has spent decades beautifying the local cemetery. His family hopes this simple story of commitment to one’s community shows that we are never too young, nor too old, to give back. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. In Defiance, Iowa, one man has spent decades beautifying the local cemetery. His family hopes this simple story of commitment to one’s community shows that we are never too young, nor too old, to give back. It may seem like an odd place to choose to spend one's later years in life, but 90-year-old Bill Ahrenholtz dedicates his free time to mowing and manicuring the Union Township Cemetery in Defiance, Iowa, which has a tiny population of 250. "We want it to look nice. I guess that's the reason we started taking care of it 30-something years ago," said Ahrenholtz, who, alongside his wife and kids, pulls weeds, cuts grass and raises flags to honor fallen countrymen.  "He does a lot of things without getting any attention or getting any -- you don't really get a lot of thanks for mowing a cemetery," said Paulette Rasmussen, Bill’s daughter.  Maintaining the cemetery is more than family business; it is family history. "Our parents, grandparents, great grandparents, friends, aunts, uncles are buried here," said Ahrenholtz.  Far from haunted, the graveyard celebrates the living, a destination on Memorial Day, while commemorating those who have passed. "We came here as kids, and then our kids come," said Nancy Kloewer, Bill’s daughter. "We'll visit a stone of maybe grandma and grandpa, and then stories start. And you share things that you remember about your grandma and grandpa." The family hopes Bill’s simple generosity lifts all our spirits, no matter our walk of life. A man and his mower, cutting out a little patch of heaven on Earth, in honor of those beyond.  "I think a little cemetery out in the middle of nowhere is kind of unique and surprising," said Ahrenholtz.   Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.