"Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse" is a tangled web of so many references, cameos and hidden Easter eggs that even hardcore Marvel fans may struggle to keep up. There are far too many to count and likely plenty yet to be discovered, but below, we've rounded up a few of the best. "The Boys" star Jack Quaid briefly voices the Peter Parker from Gwen Stacy's world in the opening sequence.     Miguel O'Hara complains about the chaos caused by "Doctor Strange and that little nerd back on Earth-199999," referencing "Spider-Man: No Way Home." Later, when Miguel explains the Spider-Verse to Miles, we see the same sort of branching timelines from the MCU, including in "Loki." Miles' roommate Ganke appears to be playing Insomniac's PlayStation 4 "Spider-Man" game early in the film. Later, this game's Spider-Man appears at the Spider-Society headquarters. After Lyla introduces Miles to video game characters, the PS4 Spider-Man, identified on screen as "Insomniac Spider-Man," asks, "Are you talking to me?" Ganke tells Miles he isn't his "guy in the chair," a reversal from when Peter's friend Ned wanted to be his "guy in the chair" in "Spider-Man: Homecoming." Spot pops into a live-action dimension and encounters ​​Mrs. Chen, the shopkeeper from "Venom." Spot proclaims he has the "power of the multiverse in the palm of my hand," echoing Doctor Octopus' line from "Spider-Man 2": "The power of the sun in the palm of my hand." The villain Miles swiftly defeats on the subway tracks is Armadillo, whose genes are combined with an armadillo's genetic material in the comics. Donald Glover makes a surprise appearance as the Prowler, likely from the MCU. Glover played Aaron Davis, who references a nephew implied to be Miles Morales, in "Spider-Man: Homecoming," but this is the first time we've seen him in the Prowler costume. The creation of Miles Morales was also inspired in part by a scene from "Community" where Glover wore Spider-Man pajamas, making this a full-circle moment. Many versions of Spider-Man from various media make cameos in the film, including the lead of the "Spectacular Spider-Man," who tells Miles, "We know it's hard, but it's the truth." The Uncle Ben from this animated series is also shown. Soon after, the Spider-Man from the 1960s animated series swings in to take down Miles before exclaiming he "pulled something!" Keep an eye out for the Spider-Man from the "Spider-Man Unlimited" animated series, as well. The Spider-Man who can't talk because he's thinking about his past is Ben Reilly, a.k.a. the Scarlet Spider, a Peter Parker clone in the comics. Andy Samberg voices him in the film. J.K. Simmons again voices ​​J. Jonah Jameson in news broadcasts, and when Miles runs from the Spider-People, Alfred Molina's Doctor Octopus can be heard saying, "Hello, Peter." This audio appears to have been lifted from "Spider-Man: No Way Home." When Miguel shows Miles various events from the multiverse, Andrew Garfield's Spider-Man appears via footage taken from Captain Stacy's death in "The Amazing Spider-Man." We also see Tobey Maguire's Spider-Man via footage of Uncle Ben's death from 2002's "Spider-Man," as well as a clip of his upside-down kiss with Mary Jane. Viewers are also shown a clip of Uncle Ben dying in Andrew Garfield's universe, though weirdly not from the movie. Instead, it seems to be taken from the "The Amazing Spider-Man 2" video game. Miguel calls the canon event where a police captain close to Spider-Man dies "ASM 90." In the comics, Gwen Stacy's father, Captain Stacy, died in issue 90 of "The Amazing Spider-Man." Julia Carpenter and the Superior Spider-Man are among the many other Spider-People who show up in the film. But one of the funniest cameos is a Spider-Man with a paper bag over his head, a reference to a moment from the comics when Peter didn't have his suit and had to wear a Fantastic Four outfit with a bag for a mask. He's known as the Bombastic Bag-Man. A newscast in the final scene on Earth-42 mentions the "Sinister Six cartel," referencing the group of supervillains from the comics — and hinting that Miles has his work cut out for him next time. Is Trump's wall working? The legal ramifications of Trump's classified documents tape 10 states sue FEMA over flood insurance rate hike New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.