Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices  Oil Prices Fall As Middle East Worries Ease 
Find us on:







  Kazakhstan suspends wheat exports to… The City of London's expertise… Charles Kennedy Charles is a writer for Oilprice.com More Info Chevron has evacuated three oil and gas platforms in the Gulf of Mexico ahead of tropical storm Idalia which is strengthening to a hurricane and expected to make landfall in Florida on Wednesday. The U.S. supermajor said on Tuesday that it had evacuated non-essential personnel from its Blind Faith and Petronius platforms, and all staff had been removed from its Genesis platform in the Gulf of Mexico.


 Oil and gas production continued on Tuesday at Chevron’s operated platforms and other facilities in the Gulf of Mexico, a spokesperson told Reuters.    In the 7 a.m. CDT Tuesday update on Hurricane Idalia, the National Hurricane Center said that Idalia is strengthening as it moves northward over the southeastern Gulf of Mexico. “There is a danger of life-threatening storm surge along portions of the Florida Gulf coast. Heavy rainfall has the potential to produce flash and urban flooding across portions of the west coast of Florida, the Florida Panhandle, and southern Georgia,” the National Hurricane Center said. Idalia is expected to make landfall in Florida on Wednesday and create chaos and gasoline shortages just ahead of the Labor Day weekend, when more drivers are expected to hit the road, analysts say. As of Tuesday morning, the percentage of gas stations in Florida without gasoline remains low but is constantly rising, GasBuddy's head of petroleum analysis, Patrick De Haan, said.


 Gasoline demand in Florida ahead of Idalia could lead to shortages but they will be temporary, AAA Auto Club spokesman Mark Jenkins told Florida’s WUSF Public Media. “As long as the Tampa Port remains open then gasoline will continue sailing into the region. And deliveries will be made until the actual storm itself is passing through, and then that's considered to be unsafe to transport fuel, and most people wouldn't be on the road at that time anyway,” Jenkins said. Moreover, Hurricane Idalia is not expected to impact refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast supplying Florida as these are on the Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi coasts, he added. By Charles Kennedy for Oilprice.com More Top Reads From Oilprice.com: Join the discussion | Back to homepage Previous Post European Majors Look To Expand Venezuela Oil Deals Next Post U.S. Treasury Increases Flexibility For Energy Tax Credit Program 
	            Charles is a writer for Oilprice.com	           More Info SunPower Declares Bankruptcy Nigeria Loses $1,000 per Barrel of Crude Oil It Exports U.S. Crude Oil Inventories Continue to Fall U.S. Gasoline Prices Continue to Drop U.S. To Buy 4.65 Million Barrels for The SPR, But There’s A Problem ADVERTISEMENT Oil Prices Tank on Fears China’s Rate Cuts Herald Demand Weakness Texas Earthquakes: Uncovering the Link to Oil and Gas Extraction Chevron Ditches California for Texas Global Demand for Renewable Energy Is Set to Surge 





 © OilPrice.com The materials provided on this Web site are for informational and educational purposes only and are not intended to provide tax, legal, or investment advice. Nothing contained on the Web site shall be considered a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to buy or sell a security to any person in any jurisdiction. Merchant of Record: A Media Solutions trading as Oilprice.com