There is often mystery around what creatures lurk in the ocean, but Curtin University scientists and WA Museum researchers have discovered that the seafloor of Cockburn Sound is home to an unexpectedly abundant array of marine life. During a survey for the WAM Science Institution, the team found more than 2500 individual specimens across 12 sites along the Kwinana shelf where the new Westport container port is eventually expected to be built. Curtin University associate professor and WA Museum marine invertebrate curator Dr Zoe Richards said the discovery of so many new species was both “extraordinary and unexpected”. “There hasn’t been a thorough assessment of the marine benthos in Cockburn Sound for quite some time, probably around 20 or 30 years,” Dr Richards said. “We all know that it’s an important location for recreational fishing and there’s a large pink snapper breeding aggregation there, as well as lots of squid and herring and blue swimming crabs — but there were just all these knowledge gaps about what’s occurring on the benthos. “So we’ve gone in and done these visual surveys and determined that there’s a heap of stuff living in there. There are all these different types of sponges, hard and soft corals, tunicates and bryozoans. “And then living on all those animals are molluscs and different types of crustaceans which are a food source for all the fish that are so important for the recreational fishing industry.” Work on the specimens is ongoing, but currently more than 200 species across eight major marine invertebrate groups have been identified. In keeping with the saying ‘good things come in small packages’, Dr Richards said some of their most exciting discoveries came in the smallest of samples. “There are these things called micro molluscs, which are tiny, tiny little snails that are less than half a millimetre in size that live in the sediment,” she said. “And one of the experts here from the WA Museum examined just one teaspoon of sand ... and in that one teaspoon they found 21 different types of these micro molluscs.” The research was part of the WAMSI Westport Marine Science Program, which will help the development of WA’s future container terminal. “We can only hope the end result is that there’ll be some sustainable decisions going on and the impact of the development will be mitigated,” she said. “Whether that be some opportunities to bolster the health and the resilience of Cockburn Sound through some additional measures, like an artificial reef development or that some other opportunities will arise from all this research.” It is anticipated that all the data will be presented to Westport and the State Government in the first half of 2023.