
                            By
                                Mika Pangilinan
 Markel Corporation has appointed Amandeep Dhillon (pictured above) as managing director, global head of catastrophe and exposure management. Dhillon has over 15 years of experience in the insurance industry, with expertise in catastrophe risk management and ceded reinsurance. He joins Markel after nearly eight years with AIG, where he most recently held the role of senior ceded reinsurance officer - property & credit lines. In his new role at Markel, Dhillon will be responsible for leading the company’s approach to catastrophe and exposure management across its global insurance and reinsurance platform, covering all lines of coverage including property and marine, casualty, cyber, and professional liability. He will be based in Markel’s Glen Allen office in Virginia and will report to Guenter Kryszon, global executive underwriting officer, property. “Accelerating Markel’s catastrophe and exposure management capabilities across the platform is a strategic priority, and Amandeep Dhillon’s extensive experience will bring tremendous value to the organization,” said Kryszon. Dhillon’s appointment comes within the same month that Markel named Richie Henry as the new leader of its North American claims operations. Henry, who assumed the role of chief operating officer, claims, joined Markel in 2013 and has held numerous positions managing the partnership between North America insurance and IT within the company. Earlier this year, Markel also released its full-year results for 2022, posting a comprehensive loss to shareholders that amounted to US$1.3 billion (approximately CA$1.75 billion). It also reported net investment losses worth US$1.6 billion. “Comprehensive loss to shareholders in 2022 resulted from net investment losses and unrealized losses on our fixed maturity portfolio, which more than offset operating income from our insurance and Markel Ventures operations,” the company said in a press release detailing its 2022 figures. What are your thoughts on this story? Feel free to comment below.