
                            By
                                Roxanne Libatique
 Markel has announced two senior appointments as it aims to enhance the insurer’s strategic broker partnerships and drive its growth strategy. Francesca Darvill has joined Markel as an account director, reporting to Suz Diemer, head of strategic partnerships. In her new role, she will be responsible for three of Markel’s most significant broker partnerships to support the company’s expansion goals. Darvill joined Markel UK from Hiscox, where she had spent seven years. During her time with Hiscox, she began the company’s e-trade operations, transferring to schemes before moving into a strategic partner role where she worked closely with networks and a broad range of brokers nationally to understand their e-trade requirements. “I am delighted to be joining Markel at such a significant point in its growth journey, and I believe Markel is the perfect environment to continue my personal development,” Darvill said. “Having successfully created strong ties with brokers across the UK during my career, I am looking forward to doing the same with some of Markel’s most significant broker partners.” Samantha Evans joins Markel as a development underwriter focusing on professional indemnity-led business. She will report to Mark Lowther, head of financial lines sales UK. In her new role, Evans will write professional indemnity-led business for brokers across the UK and be responsible for building and managing relationships with new and existing broking partners, increasing awareness of Markel UK’s appetite and identifying new opportunities for the business. Evans has 20 years of industry experience. Like Darvill, she joined Markel from Hiscox, where she underwrote predominantly tech professional lines-led business brokered out of London. Additionally, she has underwritten various classes, including employers’ liability, public liability, management liability, cyber, legal expenses, terror, property, and business interruption. “The investment in growth, recruitment, and learning and development – along with the outstanding quality of the new joiners, the refresh of some of our products, the deals that have recently been won, and the limitless opportunities available – make this a hugely exciting time to be joining the business,” Evans said. “I have been encouraged to think outside the box and push appetite on the right risks.”   Nic Brown, divisional director (broker) at Markel, added: “Francesca and Samantha are two strong additions to a team that is already delivering market-leading propositions. These appointments reaffirm our commitment to recruiting the best talent in the market to support the outstanding growth we have experienced over the last few years.” The addition of Darvill and Evans follows Markel International’s appointment of a senior underwriter for its warranty and indemnity (W&I) underwriting team and an underwriter and senior credit analyst.