Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Adobe shares rose 5% in extended trading on Wednesday after software maker announced fiscal first-quarter results that topped Wall Street estimates and lifted its full-year forecast. Here's how the company did: Revenue rose 9% year over year in the quarter that ended March 3, according to a statement. Net income fell slightly to $1.25 billion, or $2.71 per share, from $1.27 billion, or $2.66 per share, a year ago. The company's Digital Media segment, which includes the Creative Cloud design software bundle, generated $3.4 billion in revenue, up 9% from a year and above the $3.36 billion consensus among analysts polled by StreetAccount. Adobe's Digital Experience segment, which features Marketo marketing software, contributed $1.18 billion in revenue, just above the $1.17 billion StreetAccount consensus. For the second quarter, Adobe expects earnings per share of $3.75 to $3.80 on an adjusted basis and $4.75 billion to $4.78 billion in revenue. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv had been expecting $3.76 per share in adjusted earnings and $4.76 billion in revenue. Adobe bumped up its profit forecast for the 2023 fiscal year, and now sees $15.30 to $15.60 in adjusted earnings per share, with $1.7 billion in net new annualized recurring revenue from Digital Media. In December Adobe said it was looking for $15.15 to $15.45 in adjusted earnings per share for the full year, with $1.65 billion in net-new Digital Media ARR. Analysts polled by Refinitiv were looking for $15.31 in adjusted earnings per share. One recent acquisition is bearing fruit at Adobe. The company is getting existing video clients to pay for Frame.io, a tool for reviewing and approving videos that it acquired for $1.24 billion in 2021, Dan Durn, Adobe's finance chief, said on a conference call with analysts. And in the quarter Adobe beat out "single-product competitors" in categories such as analytics and content management for some deals, said Anil Chakravarthy, president of the Digital Experience unit. During the quarter, Microsoft said it was embedding Adobe's Acrobat PDF engine into Edge, the default browser in Windows 10 and 11, and Adobe said it's been engaging with regulators in the U.S., U.K. and EU on its pending $20 billion acquisition of design software startup Figma. "We have completed the discovery phase of the U.S. DOJ second request and are prepared for next steps, whether that is an approval or a challenge," Adobe CEO Shantanu Narayen said on the conference call. Excluding the after-hours move, Adobe shares have declined 1% so far this year, while the S&P 500 index has risen 1%. WATCH: Adobe is a company we have admired for a really long time, says Oakmark's Bill Nygren Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by