Adobe has announced two new AI-powered features coming to Photoshop that aim to enhance creative ... [+] workflows and provide more intuitive image generation capabilities. Adobe announced two new AI-powered features coming to Photoshop that aim to enhance creative workflows and provide more intuitive image generation capabilities. The first is Generative Expand, which allows users to seamlessly expand the boundaries of an image by simply clicking and dragging Photoshop's Crop tool. The new blank canvas is then intelligently filled in by Adobe's AI engine, with generated content that blends naturally with the original image. This new capability builds on Photoshop's existing Generative Fill feature, which was released in beta two months ago and has already been used to create over 900 million AI-generated images. Generative Expand provides a more streamlined workflow focused specifically on expanding images faster and more intuitively. Adobe has also revealed that Photoshop's AI features will now support text prompts in over 100 languages. This global language support provides more users worldwide with the ability to bring their creative vision to life through text prompts in their native language. "With Generative Expand, you can spend less time editing and more time experimenting and adapting your images for your own creative needs," the company wrote in the press release. The new workflows are powered by Adobe's Firefly AI engine, which is trained on a diverse dataset to produce high-quality, commercially usable results. Firefly builds on Adobe's experience developing AI capabilities across its Creative Cloud, Document Cloud, and Experience Cloud products over the past decade. Photoshop's new generative features aim to save creators time and provide more flexibility by automating rote tasks. By expanding images and filling blank areas with relevant visual content, Photoshop allows users to ideate and iterate more quickly. The global language support also makes these cutting-edge AI tools more accessible to Photoshop's worldwide user base. Both updates point to Adobe's strategy of integrating AI deeper into its flagship creative software to enhance workflows for professionals and amateurs alike. Photoshop's Generative Expand is available in beta immediately, while the expanded language support is rolling out now. The features hint at more AI-focused updates coming to Photoshop and other Adobe products later this year as the company leans further into generative AI.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.