If you want a competitive edge in the latest FPS game, you’ll want the best CPU for XDefiant. There’s a new free-to-play first-person shooter in town, and it’s already proving popular. The last thing you’ll want after loading it up is to find your CPU bottlenecking the other crucial components in your gaming rig. Having […] The system requirements for XDefiant should interest you now that the game is so close. Ubisoft’s Call of Duty competitor has seen some very successful early access periods, alongside beta tests, and the game is gearing up for its eventual launch. It’s It’s surprisingly quite lightweight to run, with the lowest graphics settings encouraging system […] We’re here to help you find the best gaming laptop for Hades 2. You can thank us later. When Hades 2 was announced, it came as something of a surprise, being the first time developer Supergiant Games has ever made a sequel. From what we’ve seen of the early access of the game so far, […] Here are the Gray Zone Warfare system requirements if you’re considering dropping into the new tactical shooter. While it’s not the most demanding title, the Early Access game needs more polish and stability fixes to make the most of your hardware. Gray Zone Warfare system requirements for PC Developer Madfinger Games has revealed two sets […] With the best gaming laptop for Gray Zone Warfare, you’ll be able to overcome performance issues and enjoy a smoother and more immersive gaming experience. There’s a new extraction shooter in town. Launching recently in early access, Grey Zone Warfare has topped Steam’s best seller list, with its focus on realism and immersion turning heads. […] The best racing wheel will grant you an incredibly realistic simulation experience. Racing wheel technology is progressing in leaps and bounds and the latest tech, included in this list, comes armed with enough force feedback to rattle your bones. Simulation games are all about realism and the immersion it brings. You want to feel like […] Since the announcement of a next-gen version of Fallout 4, there has been a renewed interest in the game. If you fancy getting back into the world of the Commonwealth but don’t fancy forking out for a new version you might well be looking to reboot the 2015 game for the first time in a […] Players are flocking back to an old classic. If you want the best gaming experience possible you’ll want the best GPU for Fallout 4 that you can get your hands on. There’s a next-gen version of Fall Out 4 right around the corner. By the time you are reading this, it may well already be […] You’ve probably heard of Manor Lords by now, it’s the impossibly detailed medieval city sim that’s blowing up the internet. It’s been in development for years now, with Early Access likely to skyrocket the game to success imminently. Oh, add on the fact that it’s been created entirely by a single developer: Slavic Magic, the […] Getting your hands on the best gaming laptop for Manor Lords can have a huge impact on your gameplay, immersion and enjoyment. Manor Lords is finally about to hit the Steam store. For some, this has been a long time coming, while others only starting hearing about and getting hyped for this new strategic game […]