Burnout is something professionals feel in all kinds of industries. Burnout is the result of "chronic workplace stress that has not been successfully managed," according to the World Health Organization (WHO). Those who work remotely can fall victim to burnout, too. Perhaps you have experienced some of these yourself: There are various causes that lead to remote worker burnout: The good news is that software developers who work remotely can prevent falling victim to burnout. All it takes is a little management. Here are four techniques to help you avoid software developer burnout: If you feel distant from (or even bored with) your work, try to learn something new. What are the hottest programming languages that you don't yet know how to use? Are there any frameworks that you're not familiar with? Developing new skills can lead to interesting challenges -- and as you progress, new opportunities -- that can lift you out of the doldrums. Working remotely has the potential to spill over into one's home environment. Software developers must be vigilant to draw a line in the sand between their work and their life. Some examples include the following: For people who work from home, boundaries also apply to others who share the house. Inform family members, roommates, friends and neighbors not to disturb you during your work hours unless there is a true emergency. If interruptions are inevitable, try to book time for them as much as you can. For example, if your child comes home from school for lunch, block out an hour or so to prepare their meal and eat with them. As mentioned, if you feel your workload is getting out of control, talk to your manager about it. Ask for their advice on how you can make things more manageable, and confirm which specific tasks are the highest priority. Sometimes when we feel less in control of our work, we tend to lose perspective. Also, it's possible your boss may not realize that they've dumped too much on you, and when they do hopefully they'll seek out others to share the burden. If it's impossible for someone else to pitch in, ask for more time to complete the projects. This will help to ease some of the pressure and give you some room to breathe. One of the positive outcomes of the pandemic is that companies are more focused on their employees' health and well-being. Organizations that wish to attract and retain top talent are investing in their teams' mental health. Managers are encouraged to give employees more time and space for wellness, and offer resources that can help prevent their employees from burning out. If this isn't the case at your organization yet, be proactive and try to make burnout part of the discussion. This is especially important during peak periods when the pressure mounts to meet key deadlines. Here are several suggestions: Of course, the success of any of these exercises depends on the company's culture. Some within an organization might still consider it weak and lazy to voice concerns about feeling stressed out, overworked or overwhelmed. However, it may be worth your effort to bring greater attention to the issue of employee burnout. You may discover that HR very much wants to engage with employees on the topic but hadn't determined how to go about it or with whom to engage. With the proverbial wave of your hand, you could get things moving in a direction that will not only be of benefit to you, but to the company as a whole. Rust or Ruby? Go or Groovy? As the competitive IT landscape evolves, developers can enhance their skills and career potential by ... Authorization is a critical security component of a microservices architecture. Follow these five guiding principles to deploy ... Managing microservices without API gateways might be uncommon, but not unheard of. Consider the benefits, downsides and available... Kernel mode exists to keep user applications from disrupting critical system functions. Learn how each state works and what can ... After the recent CrowdStrike outage, organizations are keen to prevent and prepare for potential future disruptions. These key ... Many organizations begin their DevOps journey with a continuous integration and delivery pipeline. Before getting started, ... HPE is buying Morpheus Data, its second hybrid cloud management acquisition for GreenLake in less than two years following the ... The better your cloud-native development process is, the more efficient and reliable your application is likely to be. Follow ... The different types of private cloud offer varying levels of control, customization and convenience. These factors affect the ... Data is one of the most important assets in any organization. To truly protect it, you need a DDR strategy. Here's what you need ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... Compare Datadog vs. New Relic capabilities including alerts, log management, incident management and more. Learn which tool is ... Many organizations struggle to manage their vast collection of AWS accounts, but Control Tower can help. The service automates ... There are several important variables within the Amazon EKS pricing model. Dig into the numbers to ensure you deploy the service ... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
