Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	July 12, 2023   	
				         Marqeta, a global card issuing platform, announced its expansion into Brazil. The company has partnered with Latin American banking-as-a-service platform Fitbank and network certification with Visa
As part of Marqeta’s partnership with Fitbank, the company will be a Marqeta customer, using it as a payment processor, and serve as a BIN sponsor for Marqeta’s customers looking to launch in the region.
“We have followed Marqeta’s growth and global expansion for some time now, and given we are also expanding globally, there couldn’t be a more natural card issuing partner for Fitbank in Brazil,” said Otávio Farah, co-founder and CEO at Fitbank. “Through our partnership, I believe we can enable global companies and local innovators to bring amazing payment products to market, amplifying the strengths of each of our companies.”
Fitbank provides a custom-built, cloud-native, complete banking and credit infrastructure to thousands of customers and is one of the modern platforms licensed by the Central Bank and directly integrated with PIX, the Brazilian Real-Time Payments system.
They are currently a principal member of Visa with plans for network expansion. Marqeta will serve as Fitbank’s tech platform to support Brazil’s local card issuance and payment processing. It will also use Marqeta’s Real-Time Decisioning engine to boost its fraud management capabilities. Fitbank will also serve as Marqeta’s local BIN sponsor and banking service provider.
“We are thrilled to be announcing our launch in Brazil to bring the Marqeta platform to one of the most exciting FinTech markets in the world,” said Todd Pollak, Chief Revenue Officer at Marqeta. “Our new partnership with Fitbank puts us on a great footing in Brazil. The two companies have great DNA fit. Fitbank is a tech-forward platform interested in building innovative payment solutions.”
 Marqeta, a global card issuing platform, announced its expansion into Brazil. The company has partnered with Latin American banking-as-a-service platform Fitbank and network certification with Visa As part of Marqeta’s partnership with Fitbank, the company will be a Marqeta customer, using it as a payment processor, and serve as a BIN sponsor for Marqeta’s customers looking to launch in the region. “We have followed Marqeta’s growth and global expansion for some time now, and given we are also expanding globally, there couldn’t be a more natural card issuing partner for Fitbank in Brazil,” said Otávio Farah, co-founder and CEO at Fitbank. “Through our partnership, I believe we can enable global companies and local innovators to bring amazing payment products to market, amplifying the strengths of each of our companies.” Fitbank provides a custom-built, cloud-native, complete banking and credit infrastructure to thousands of customers and is one of the modern platforms licensed by the Central Bank and directly integrated with PIX, the Brazilian Real-Time Payments system. They are currently a principal member of Visa with plans for network expansion. Marqeta will serve as Fitbank’s tech platform to support Brazil’s local card issuance and payment processing. It will also use Marqeta’s Real-Time Decisioning engine to boost its fraud management capabilities. Fitbank will also serve as Marqeta’s local BIN sponsor and banking service provider. “We are thrilled to be announcing our launch in Brazil to bring the Marqeta platform to one of the most exciting FinTech markets in the world,” said Todd Pollak, Chief Revenue Officer at Marqeta. “Our new partnership with Fitbank puts us on a great footing in Brazil. The two companies have great DNA fit. Fitbank is a tech-forward platform interested in building innovative payment solutions.” July 12, 2023 July 12, 2023 July 19, 2024 Banking August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
