There’s a lot to be optimistic about in the Services sector as 3 analysts just weighed in on Planet Fitness (PLNT – Research Report), Hyatt Hotels (H – Research Report) and Direct Digital Holdings (DRCT – Research Report) with bullish sentiments. Planet Fitness (PLNT) Jefferies analyst Randal Konik  maintained a Buy rating on Planet Fitness today and set a price target of $100.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $69.29. According to TipRanks.com, Konik is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 3.5% and a 50.1% success rate. Konik covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Lulu’s Fashion Lounge Holdings, Ollie’s Bargain Outlet Holding, and aka Brands Holding Corp. Planet Fitness has an analyst consensus of Strong Buy, with a price target consensus of $86.46, implying a 25.7% upside from current levels. In a report issued on May 4, Stifel Nicolaus also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $78.00 price target.
		  See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Hyatt Hotels (H) In a report released today, Stephen Grambling  from Morgan Stanley maintained a Buy rating on Hyatt Hotels, with a price target of $142.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $112.50. According to TipRanks.com, Grambling is a 2-star analyst with an average return of -0.5% and a 51.7% success rate. Grambling covers the Services sector, focusing on stocks such as Hilton Worldwide Holdings, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, and Marriott International. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Hyatt Hotels with a $128.10 average price target, representing an 11.9% upside. In a report issued on May 5, Bernstein also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $135.00 price target.
		  Direct Digital Holdings (DRCT) Roth MKM analyst Darren Aftahi  maintained a Buy rating on Direct Digital Holdings today and set a price target of $5.25. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $3.03. According to TipRanks.com, Aftahi is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 7.8% and a 35.1% success rate. Aftahi covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Fathom Holdings, Argo Blockchain, and Real Brokerage. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for Direct Digital Holdings with a $5.58 average price target. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on PLNT:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks