Editor's note: This is part of our Best Hikes on Cape Cod series, which will highlight trails across Cape Cod all summer. Read our recommendations for hikes in Chatham, Wellfleet, Truro, Provincetown, Orleans, Yarmouth, Brewster, Barnstable and Harwich. Sandwich has a lot of great hiking to offer, and it's a convenient trip from most parts of the Cape. The Sandwich Department of Natural Resources has a very handy conservation land web page, with some great maps. More information about land conservation in town is available at the Sandwich Conservation Trust website. As you start planning your Sandwich adventures, make sure to take ticks into consideration. You may want to look into treating your clothing with permethrin, an insecticide that keeps ticks from clinging to your apparel. The spray form is available at many Cape hardware stores. Several clothing companies (including Insect Shield and L.L. Bean) sell clothing that is pre-treated with permethrin — the protection lasts for about 70 washes. As always, sunscreen and water should be part of your tool kit. So, lace up the hiking shoes and let's take a look at some of the top trails in Sandwich: This combo platter of the adjoining East Sandwich Game Farm and Talbot’s Point Conservation Area offers a total of about 245 acres to explore. There are huge marsh views, cool forest trails and you can sidle right up to Scorton Creek. I think the easiest place to park for this hike is the parking area at the end of Talbot's Point Road in Sandwich. One of the Talbot's Point trails winds around an island-like upland that projects out into the huge marsh, past intriguing trees and rhododendrons. But that's just the start of the charm here. You'll cross bridges, an open meadow area and even see bat boxes. It might make sense to plan this hike around the time of high tide, when the marshes are filled in with water. It just adds to the blue dreamscape of the entire experience. I drove by the Murkwood Conservation Lands on Route 6A in East Sandwich a million times before curiosity got the best of me. I think it was the name that finally made me stop: "Murkwood" sounds like an Edward Gorey story. I pulled into the little parking area on the east side of Route 6A (roughly 480 Route 6A for a Google Map search) and had a blast. It's one of my favorite walks on Cape Cod, mainly because there’s rarely anyone else there and you have a 129-acre kingdom to yourself. The trail loops past bogs, marshes, big trees and provides a distant view of Cape Cod Bay. The foliage can be excellent here in the fall. This is a relatively short hike, but it takes you to an amazingly beautiful place. According to the Sandwich Conservation Trust website: "Recently used to farm vegetables, strawberries, raspberries, and for forage by cows and horses, the one-and-a-half acre Toolas Preserve located along the Cape Cod railroad track in East Sandwich was an ancient site of native Wampanoag American activity." Now this sounds like a small place, and it is. It is scenic and peaceful, however, and one part of the trail, a bit overgrown, leads to a bench with a lovely marsh view. But it was this sentence on the Sandwich Conservation Trust website that fired my imagination: "Walks of this area often start at Toolas Preserve, pass through Little Island, and end up on Great Island." The walk out to Great Island takes you through a breathtaking marsh landscape that makes this worth the trip. Exploring Great Island is fun, too! There is a small parking area on the north side of the railroad tracks next to Great Island Road. Eric Williams, when not solving Curious Cape Cod mysteries, writes about a variety of ways to enjoy the Cape, the weather, wildlife and other subjects. Contact him at ewilliams@capecodonline.com. Follow him on Twitter: @capecast. Thanks to our subscribers, who help make this coverage possible. If you are not a subscriber, please consider supporting quality local journalism with a Cape Cod Times subscription. Here are our subscription plans. This article originally appeared on Cape Cod Times: Great hiking trails in Sandwich on Cape Cod New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.