Apr 28, 2023 Fredonia’s Jordan Lucas delivers to the plate during Thursday’s CCAA Division 1 West game at Southwestern. Lucas threw a perfect game with 18 strikeouts as the Hillbillies beat the Trojans 3-0.
P-J photo by Christian Storms Jordan Lucas could do no wrong Thursday. In fact, she was perfect. The Fredonia junior struck out 18 and induced three groundouts for a perfect game in the Hillbillies’ 3-0 Chautauqua-Cattaraugus Athletic Association Division 1 West shutout of Southwestern. Lucas struck out the first 12 Trojans (3-4, 2-3) she faced. In the fifth inning, she got an out with a comebacker to the circle and another out on a grounder to second baseman Leah Marsh. Then, with two outs in the seventh inning, Lucas got a grounder to third baseman Gaby Matos, who threw across the diamond for the final out. Southwestern left fielder Payton Swartz tracks down a fly ball during Thursday's game against Fredonia.
P-J photo by Christian Storms “We’re still tweaking some things,” Fredonia head coach Jesse Beers said. “We’re talking about her delivery and some changes with her grip, but today it looked like the Jordan from last year.” Arianna Silakowski threw 5 1/3 innings, scattering seven hits while striking out one for Southwestern.  Madelyn Burnett got the final five outs, allowing two hits and striking out one. Neither team issued a walk. Fredonia (4-3, 4-1) took a 1-0 lead in the first as Marsh hit an RBI single to score Jaelyn Davis, who had doubled. In the Hillbillies’ fifth inning, Maddie Ambrose led off with a single and went to second on a Callie Draggett bunt before Lucas hit an RBI single. Danielle Palisin reached on an error and scored on an RBI double by Marsh in the sixth inning. Fredonia's Callie Draggett steals second base, knocking the ball from Southwestern shortstop Ashlynn Swan in Thursday's CCAA Division 2 West game.
P-J photo by Christian Storms Lucas was 3 for 4, Marsh was 2 for 3 and Davis was 2 for 4 for the Hillbillies. “We didn’t sting a lot of balls today, but the balls we did hit, they made a lot of plays,” Beers said. “We only struck out twice so they made 19 putouts. There were five or six balls that were rockets and they made plays.” SZYMCZAK HITS FIRST HR DUNKIRK — An 8-2 lead after four innings allowed Dunkirk to beat Jamestown 11-6 in Division 1 West action. The Marauders (3-3, 2-3) scored four runs in their half of the third inning when Courtney Zatorski plated Angelina Piede, Aaliyah Morales and Alyssa Salerno. Late in the inning, sophomore Brooke Szymczak hit the first home run of her career. Southwestern second baseman McKenna Bogdanowicz catches a pop fly during Thursday's game against Fredonia.
P-J photo by Christian Storms In the bottom of the fourth, Gracey Kenner drove in Salerno and Emily Pacheco with a drive to right field. Kylee Williamson, Kylie O’Brien, Raegan Powers and Aubrey Reynolds all scored for Jamestown (1-5, 1-5) in the top of the fifth inning to make it 8-6. Dunkirk added its final three runs in the bottom of the sixth inning when Salerno, Zatorski and Pacheco scored again. Piede struck out seven to earn the win in the circle. Kaylee Keppel took the loss for the Red Raiders. NORTH COLLINS WINS WILD ONE NORTH COLLINS — Ellicottville and North Collins combined for 26 hits and 27 runs before homestanding North Collins won with a walk-off single in a 14-13 Division 2 East victory. Tied at 13 entering the bottom of the seventh inning, North Collins’ Novalee Schlenker was hit by a pitch to open the frame, stole second on the first pitch to Sophia Vanstrom and went to third when the throw got away from Ellicottville’s fielder. Vanstrom continued her at-bat and hit a game-winning RBI single to right field. Ellicottville (5-3, 3-2) trailed 13-10 entering the top of the seventh inning before tying the game with three runs off North Collins reliever Cate Ayers, who had throw scoreless fourth, fifth and sixth innings. The bases remained loaded after Ellicottville’s three runs, but Vanstrom — North Collins’ starting pitcher — re-entered to face Ellicottville’s Nos. 3-5 hitters and set them down with a strikeout, a fielder’s choice for an out at home plate, and another strikeout.  Ellicottville scored eight runs in the top of the third inning to take a 10-3 lead before North Collins (4-4, 3-1) answered with a 10-run bottom of the fifth inning. Schlenker was hit by a pitch to open the inning before Grace Montaldi doubled. Jaylee Jimerson followed with an RBI single and Hailey Jasinski walked to load the bases before Milani Maciejewski hit a two-run single. Lily Montaldi then hit another two-run single and Cate Ayers hit an RBI single. After back-to-back groundouts, Schlenker singled, Vanstrom hit an RBI double and Jimerson hit a two-run single. Jasinski capped the outburst with an RBI triple. North Collins finished with 16 hits. Jasinski was 3 for 3 with a double, a triple and a two-run home run; Jimerson was 3 for 4 with a triple; Ayers was 3 for 4 with two RBIs; Maciejewski was 2 for 4 with three RBIs; Schlenker was 2 for 3 with three runs scored; and Lily Montaldi was 2 for 4 with two RBIs. Ellicottville had 10 hits. Jaida Mendell was 4 for 5 with three RBIs and two runs scored, including a first-inning home run. Allison Rowland was 2 for 5 with a third-inning home run. JOHNSON SHINES FOR T’BIRDS MAYVILLE — Cayzlee Johnson threw a two-hitter with 11 strikeouts as Chautauqua Lake beat Cassadaga Valley 14-2. At the plate, Johnson was a double shy of the cycle with a single, a triple and a home run while also scoring three runs. Olivia Herrington was 4 for 4 with two triples and a double while also scoring four runs. Jenna Waters had two hits, including a triple, and four RBIs; Lucy Gates had two hits, including a double, and two runs scored; and Alexis Delcamp had a double for the Thunderbirds (5-1, 5-0). Hayley Anderson and Emiley Anderson each singled for the Cougars (1-7, 1-5). Today's breaking news and more in your inbox CHICAGO — Caleb Williams looked downfield and saw nobody open. He spun and hit Rome Odunze deep on the run, one ... FREDONIA — Robert Calph shot a 33 to pace the A Division and Jaime Galarza, Doug Kaltenbach, Rich Ryan and Tim ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Post Journal | https://www.post-journal.com | PO Box 3386, Jamestown, NY 14702 | 716-487-1111 