The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Expert Reviewed
									 Have a question for Leigh Weingus or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Leigh Weingus,
                                                    Holli Careswell, D.D.S.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. While braces and plastic aligners can be helpful for fixing crooked teeth and misaligned bites, they can’t change the actual shape of your teeth. Veneers—thin caps or coverings placed over the front of the tooth—can be a great option for cosmetic concerns. The application of veneers is usually a simple, straightforward procedure. However, there’s a lot to consider when it comes to choosing the type of veneer you’re after (composite or porcelain), as well as durability and cost. Here’s everything you need to know about composite veneers, including the different types, cost and how long they may last, as well as what to expect during application and how they compare to porcelain veneers. Composite veneers are a thin shell of material made of resin, designed to improve the appearance of someone’s teeth, explains Fatima Khan, D.D.S., dentist at Altus Dental and co-founder of Riven Oral Care based in Houston, Texas. They can be a good option for someone who is unhappy with the shape, size, spacing or color of their teeth, because they can be molded into specific shapes or colors based on the patient’s specific desires, she explains. There are two subtypes: Direct composite veneers and indirect composite veneers. Direct composite veneers can be applied in one day, explains Dr. Khan. “The dentist will use composite resin and bond it to your tooth and shape and design it themselves to meet your aesthetic goals,” she says. However, Dr. Khan adds that composite resin may be a weaker material compared to those used in other types of veneers, and may be more prone to fracture and staining. There also is a lack of translucency and natural appearance compared to the other options, she says. “The upside to this option is [that] if the composite fractures, you can always add more composite resin to resolve the issue. Direct composite veneers are generally the cheapest option on the market.” The process of getting indirect composite veneers is a bit lengthier as these are fabricated in a lab setting, adds Dr. Khan. “The process is similar [to] porcelain veneers and involves multiple visits,” she adds. “In the initial visit, the dentist may decide to remove a thin amount of enamel, take an impression for the lab, have the lab process the composite veneer and bring the patient back to bond the veneer.” While composite resin may not be as high of quality of a material as porcelain, Dr. Khan notes that because it’s created in a lab, shade matching and translucency results may provide a better outcome. The main difference between composite and porcelain veneers is the material, explains Khouloud Sobh, D.M.D., a dentist based in Phoenix, Arizona. “Composite veneers are made out of resin material, which is the same material used in dental fillings. It is build-able and adjustable,” she says. On the other hand, porcelain veneers are made out of porcelain. While composite veneers are prone to wear and discoloration over time, Dr. Sobh adds that porcelain veneers are made from a stronger material that lasts longer. “Porcelain veneers are expected to last between seven-to-10 years with proper care, and I have personally seen patients with porcelain veneers lasting [more than] 15 years,” she says. “They do not discolor over time or become dull, and are designed in a lab with the help of the dentist and patient’s input.” People tend to be happier with porcelain veneers overall, according to research: A 2018 study found that porcelain veneers show higher patient satisfaction when it comes to aesthetics and longevity, but composite veneers are still a reliable option[1]Dental Fees: Results from the 2020 Survey of Dental Fees. American Dental Association Center for Professional Success. Accessed 7/10/2023. . Because veneers are typically considered cosmetic, it’s unlikely that dental insurance will cover all or even some of the cost. You can expect to pay between $250 and $1,500 per tooth, says Dr. Khan, and a 2020 survey from the American Dental Association (ADA) found that the average cost of a resin labial veneer (meaning a resin veneer covering the front part of a single tooth) was $1,013.10[2]Alothman, Y. Bamasoud, M. The Success of Dental Veneers According to Preparation Design and Material Type. Open Access Maced J Med Sci. 2018; 6(12): 2402-2408. . “Cost will depend on a few factors—indirect will cost more than direct,” says Dr. Khan. Higher lab fees for indirect composite veneers result in a higher cost, and if you’re visiting an office in a high-price market, it’s likely that your cost will be higher as well. If you want to pay a bit less, Dr. Khan says it may be worthwhile to look into local dental schools where students are still learning. “It will [likely] take longer to have the treatment done, but it will be supervised under a licensed dentist.” Dr. Khan adds that porcelain veneers typically cost more, as the material is higher quality. The process of placing composite veneers is simple, but it can be lengthy. “Depending on the case, minimal preparation or shaving of the tooth will be needed,” she adds, noting that your dentist may clean the teeth onto which the composite veneer will be placed, and in some cases, a local anesthetic will be applied. However, the use of a local anesthetic is rare. The actual application of composite bonding will be a time-intensive part of the procedure, since everything needs to be dry and isolated to stop saliva from interfering with the actual bonding process, explains Dr. Sobh. Then, the composite is placed onto the teeth and shaped using different tools. “Additional appointments may be required until the patient is happy with the shape, form and size of the teeth,” she says. On average, the procedure typically lasts from one hour to a few hours, says Dr. Sobh. Transform Your Smile With Smileie Straighten your teeth with affordable clear braces delivered to the comfort of your home and start seeing the results within 6 to 8 weeks. On Smileie's Website You can expect composite veneers to last between five and seven years, but within this time frame, some staining or discoloration may develop on the material, notes Dr. Sobh. If you’re willing to invest in porcelain veneers, however, they will likely last longer with minimal staining—typically between seven and 10 years, and up to 15 years or more. How long composite veneers last can also depend on the type of composite used, a particular dentist’s experience and skillset, as well as an individual’s personal maintenance of the veneers. Proper care for your composite veneers may include refraining from using your teeth as tools, (like employing them to remove a bottle cap, for example) and wearing a nightguard to prevent them from chipping. If you’re thinking about getting composite veneers, it’s worth weighing all of the available options and discussing with your dentist. They can help you find a treatment that fits your price range, timeline and desired look—and if necessary, refer you to a cosmetic dentist. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Leigh Weingus is a New York-based freelance writer and former senior editor at HuffPost, Elite Daily and Mindbodygreen. Her work has been featured in Well+Good, Glamour, Parade, Bustle, NBC News and more. When she's not writing, Leigh can be found taking a (virtual) yoga class, running in Central Park or whipping up her latest smoothie creation.
			 
				Dr. Holli Careswell is a board-certified general and cosmetic dentist with a private practice in Lee’s Summit, Missouri. She has taken hundreds of hours of continuing education, focusing on cosmetic dentistry, implant dentistry and facial esthetic procedures. She enjoys all aspects of general dentistry and has a special interest in cosmetic dentistry.
 
Dr. Careswell was recently featured on the Emmy award winning Netflix original series Queer Eye, and has been recognized as one of Kansas City’s Top Dentists by the Kansas City 435 magazine for the past five years. She is known for her beautiful cosmetic dentistry and has patients regularly travel across the U.S. to see her for their dental work.
 
Dr. Careswell is married to Vinny and together they have two wonderful boys, Camden and Boston, and two mini-goldendoodles. She enjoys watching her boys’ sporting events, boating, skiing, photography and working out.

			