(Bloomberg) -- US President Joe Biden announced a series of semiconductor, aerospace and infrastructure deals with business leaders in Vietnam, part of a push by the White House to deepen economic integration with Indo-Pacific nations that can provide a bulwark to China. Most Read from Bloomberg Trudeau Is Stuck in India With Faulty Aircraft After Hearing Criticism From Modi The Mighty American Consumer Is About to Hit a Wall, Investors Say Tesla and China Risk Leaving Volkswagen on a Road to Nowhere Tech Giants Power Stock Gains as Tesla Jumps 10%: Markets Wrap Meloni Tells China That Italy Plans to Exit Belt and Road Biden touted a “new stage” in the ties between the two countries to a meeting of officials and with executives from Vietnam and top US firms including Boeing Co., Intel Corp. and Marvell Technology Inc. in Hanoi. “My message today is quite simple: Let’s keep it up,” he said. The announcements are intended to solidify Vietnam’s decision a day earlier to upgrade its relationship with the US to a “comprehensive strategic partnership,” the same designation it uses for China and India. The hope in Washington is that by boosting ties with nations in Southeast Asia, the US can increase its influence in a region that sometimes chafes at Beijing’s assertiveness. Headlining the deal announcements was a memorandum of understanding between Vietnam Airlines JSC and Boeing to purchase 50 737-MAX aircraft, a tentative agreement that would be valued around $7.88 billion and allow the carrier to eventually replace aging Airbus AE-A321 planes. Any delivery could be years off, however, as Boeing has sold out most of its production slots through the end of the decade. Read more: Vietnam Air, Boeing Near $10 Billion Deal for 737 Max Jets Vietnam had previously announced plans by US-based Amkor Technology Inc. to build a $1.6 billion factory in Bac Ninh province, while Synopsis Inc. and Marvell Technology are both working to establish semiconductor design centers in Vietnam. The Biden Administration has prioritized improving the semiconductor supply chain over concern the US has become too closely reliant on Taiwan’s semiconductor industry. Technology firms including Microsoft Corp. and Nvidia Corp. announced new programs to make emerging artificial intelligence programs more accessible to Vietnamese businesses, while Meta Platforms Inc. unveiled a new effort to help small and medium businesses in the country use digital tools. Apple Inc. has also expanded its footprint in Vietnam as it diversifies its supply chain beyond China. Read More: Vietnam PM Fighting for Future as Economy Lags Growth Target Other announcements focused on traditional infrastructure. The US president has increasingly sought to promote US financing for projects in the developing world to counter China’s Belt and Road Initiative, including a new rail, natural gas and fiber corridor announced earlier this week at the G-20 summit in New Delhi that would link India to Europe through the Middle East. Read More: India’s G-20 Win Shows US Learning How to Counter China Rise In Vietnam, SSA Marine Inc. announced it would partner with Vietnam’s Gemadept Corp. on a proposal for a $6.7 billion port and logistics center in southern Vietnam. Massachusetts-based Australis Aquaculture LLC signed a memorandum of understanding to spend $100 million to expand its operations in Van Phong Bay. And one announcement was focused on the future of Vietnamese money – literally. Crane NXT Co. announced its plans to partner with Vietnam’s Hi-Tech Polymer Co. Ltd. to develop the next generation of bank notes for the State Bank of Vietnam. Future commercial deals with Vietnam may become even more possible after the US pledged to review Vietnam’s formal request to review its market economy status. A favorable review by US authorities could decrease duties on some imports from Vietnam. Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek Google’s Ties With Apple Under Spotlight in Antitrust Trial Huawei’s Surprise Phone Gives Ammo to Biden Doubters on China Lyme Disease Has Exploded, and a New Vaccine Is (Almost) Here ©2023 Bloomberg L.P. But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. "We still have hope and will never give up" The celebrations of Team GB's incredible medal haul was aired on BBC One last night (Saturday, August 18), but viewers all thought the same thing when they saw Emma Willis and Vernon Kay Louise Redknapp looked incredible on Instagram wearing a black blazer dress which the former wife of Jamie Redknapp teamed with a pair of over the knee boots. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … A mum has divided opinions after admitting she purposely excluded one boy from her daughter's birthday party - even she isn't sure whether or not she did the right thing The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." As King Charles and Prince Andrew reportedly still disagree over the younger royal's living arrangements, he has been offered the exclusive use of the Queen's old Balmoral cottage