The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Reviewed By
									 There’s nothing quite as relaxing as taking in the summer sun and a gentle breeze from the comfort of an outdoor deck. If you’re considering building a new deck, you’ll typically have two main material options: composite decking or wood. Each material has its unique qualities and pros and cons. This guide will compare and contrast composite decking vs. wood decks to help you choose the best option for endless warm-weather entertainment and relaxation. Composite decking is made from a mixture of organic and synthetic materials, such as plastic and chemical additives. The most common types of composite include wood-plastic composite, PVC decking and mineral-based decking. Build Your Ideal Outdoor Deck Improve your home’s value and curb appeal by building or renovating your outdoor space using services from top-rated deck or porch builders on Angi. Wood plastic composite (WPC) combines wood particle fibers with polypropylene or polyethylene plastic. Manufacturers use wood chips, sawdust, tree bark and wood pulp during production for deck construction. Wood-plastic composite is eco-friendly with organic fibers derived from recycled materials. Composite deck boards are grinded down and reprocessed into new products at the end of their lifecycle, which makes WPC sustainable. Wood-plastic composite has multiple more color variations than its real wood counterpart. Like wood planks, WPC can also be repainted. Want to change the color of your house? With WPC, you can coordinate the color of your deck to match. You can also saw the WPC boards, drill holes into them, pound nails and screw fasteners into the surface as well. On the downside, because it contains wood fiber, WPC doesn’t resist weather as well as composite decking materials do. Mineral-based composite (MBC) decking provides stability and strength by replacing wood fibers with minerals. The composition makes it resistant to temperature fluctuations and water and impervious to insects. Mineral-based composite decking doesn’t warp or stretch, which increases its longevity. MBC is one of the newest technologies in decking construction. During manufacturing, boards are made by heating multiple minerals and plastics together and applying high pressure to mold the boards. Although highly durable, mineral-based composite doesn’t contain organic materials, making it less eco-friendly than other composite decking options that are made with wood fibers. However, manufacturers can duplicate the appearance of wood by applying texture and coloring effects. Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) is a type of faux wood with boards that contain a thick honeycomb cellular structure. PVC resists rot, water as well as insects and rodents, unlike wood that allows pests to enter. When you look at most PVC deck boards, you can’t help but notice the grain patterns that resemble the appearance of real wood. Grain patterns are added during the manufacturing. Although PVC decking isn’t made from natural fibers, it’s more eco-friendly than petro-based chemicals such as propylene, butylenes, ethylene, benzene, toluene and xylene. PVC decking is made from recycled plastic that you can paint after installation. Compare Quotes From Top-Rated Deck Or Porch Builders Contractors Free, No-commitment Estimates The three common wood species from the United States used for building decks include redwood, cedar and pressure-treated wood that come from various wood species such as spruce, fir and pine. You can also find imported wood species such as cumaru, ipe, teak and mahogany, which cost more than domestic wood. Pressure-treated (PT) wood is still a popular deck choice for many homeowners. You can find PT lumber in retail stores all over the country. In fact, many deck contractors use pressure-treated lumber to construct deck support systems because the treated lumber holds up over time. One of the most significant benefits of pressure-treated wood is its low cost. Pressure-treated wood is less expensive than cedar, redwood and other wood species.This makes the lumber an affordable option for homeowners working with limited budgets. So how is it made? During manufacturing, technicians use vacuum technology and high pressure to infuse chemical preservatives into ordinary woods such as fir, spruce and pine. The bonding of preservatives strengthen the wood and serve as a barrier to entry, making the wood less vulnerable to rot, decay, mold and insect infestation. The issue with pressure-treated lumber is that the cheaper options, such as pine, give way to warping as well as shrinkage and can lose its shape, so always choose a high grade pressure treated lumber. Like other woods, PT lumber can also splinter and fade. When sawing and cutting the wood, always wear a mask and goggles for protection from the toxic chemicals in pressure-treated wood. Cedar is high-grade premium softwood that protects decking against decay, sun, rain and temperature fluctuations. Cedar is a beautiful wood that displays various tones of color and consistency. Cedar can be sawed, sanded and stained to create an exquisite finish. Red cedar begins as reddish brown in color. Over time, red cedar ages to a silvery-gray, much like teak wood. Homeowners looking to amp up their deck’s beauty and durability should apply a penetrating stain. You can find cedar in various textures, dimensions and grades. Because cedar is resin- and pitch-free, the wood absorbs stains and finishes nicely. A drawback of cedar is that it is a softwood that scratches more easily than hardwoods. Although cedar costs more than cheap treated lumber, it is more affordable. Environmentally conscious homeowners will like that cedar is an eco-friendly, sustainable, biodegradable and a renewable building material that doesn’t produce any greenhouse gas emissions. Cedar also grows in sustainable and responsibly managed forests, and doesn’t contribute to deforestation. Redwood is an excellent natural deck material. Like cedar, it has no resin, making the wood absorb stain finishes well. The wood resists warping, weathering and insect damage without the use of preservatives.The tree grows on the west coast of the United States but has a limited supply in the rest of the country, which can drive up the price. Redwood has a reddish tone that can gradually turn to a silvery-gray if left untreated. When sanded, redwood absorbs stain beautifully. To minimize splitting, DIYers might find they need to pre-drill holes at the end of deck boards. Redwood is one of the most fire-resistant decking woods available. The wood can last up to 30 years when decking is well-maintained. To enhance its lifespan, apply a water-repellent finish, a biocide to protect against mold and mildew and a sealer with UV protection. Imported woods, such as mahogany, ipe and cumaru, offer excellent durability for a backyard deck. However, since these wood species are exported to the U.S., they come with a significantly higher price tag than domestic woods. You might wonder if these sought-after imported woods are worth the high cost. Let’s examine the benefits and drawbacks of imported woods. Mahogany makes a great choice for outdoor decks due to its excellent durability and resistance to the elements. It’s credited for providing exceptional stability and is deemed to be one of the strongest hardwoods on the market. This exotic wood primarily grows in South America and Mexico. Mahogany has an open grain, maintains its shape and rarely shrinks after drying. But while attractive with a long lifespan, mahogany is extremely expensive. In addition, U.S. environment advocates question the responsibility and legitimacy of mahogany logging and shipping practices. Ipe
Ipe, also called Brazilian walnut, is an exotic hardwood grown in South America. Pronounced “EE-pay,” this wood is heralded as one of the toughest in the world. Ipe was used on the Coney Island boardwalk in New York and lasted 70 years. This imported hardwood comes in various colors, including dark brown, reddish brown, olive and tan. It resists moisture, mildew and termites. Ipe’s dense grains prevent the wood from splintering. The problem with Ipe is that the lumber is often over-logged illegally around the globe. Growing in the tropical rainforests of South America, Ipe supports one of the world’s richest ecosystems, which makes one wonder whether the production of Ipe adds to deforestation. Cumaru
Cumaru, also known as Brazilian teak, is a hardwood lumber with an interlocking grain pattern. Its high density makes the wood highly resistant to decay. Lasting up to 50 years, cumaru displays a rich golden and warm reddish brown color that looks lovely on a deck. It costs less than ipe and is easier to access in the U.S. However, this option contains a lot of oil which can create issues during the installation. Additionally, sometimes unscrupulous retailers market Brazilian teak as regular teak which is more difficult to find and in higher demand than cumaru. Looking For A Quality & Affordable Company For Your Outdoor Project? Find Asphalt Paving Contractors that specializes in paving and repairs on Angi. The cost to install a 200-square-foot composite deck ranges from $5,300 to $11, 300. The average cost for a 200 square foot deck is $4,150. The exact price you’ll pay for a composite deck depends on several factors, including the cost of the materials, shipping costs, the size and design of the deck and the builder’s rate in your location, as building prices are higher in cities than rural areas. Other factors include excavation and permit costs. Since composite decks require little maintenance, they cost less to maintain than wooden decks. The cost to install a 200-square-foot wood deck ranges between $3,050 to $7,650. The national average for a wooden deck is around $5,350. Pricing depends on several factors. Domestic woods such as pine, fir and spruce cost less than redwood or cedar. For pressure-treated lumber, the price you’ll pay will also depend on the grade of the wood. Some pressure-treated lumber is expensive, while high-grade pressure-treated lumber costs more. If you have your heart set on imported wood, such as mahogany, cumaru or ipe, you’ll spend much more. Other pricing factors include the cost of the foundation, deck size and shape, location, any excavation required and permits. Wood needs to be maintained annually which adds to the cost of wood decking. To arrive at the average costs in this article, editorial team members surveyed four providers and three cost databases on national and local levels. All averaged figures were correct at the time of publication and may be subject to change. 
				Stacy is a journalist and content creator with a decade of experience. Besides Forbes Home she has contributed her work and expertise to publications such as Angi, HomeAdvisor, Bob Vila, Hunker, Shelfology, HomeLight, Apartment Therapy and more.
			 
				Lowe is a lead editor, covering all things related to home improvement and good design. She previously worked in the decor and lifestyle spaces for digital publishers such as Hunker, First Media and Ranker and has multiple years of experience creating design and DIY content.
			