Key iPhone maker and the world's largest contract manufacturer Foxconn is set to sign a deal with the Southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu to set up a plant for electronic components. Foxconn's subsidiary, Foxconn Industrial Internet (FII), is mulling to invest Rs 1,600 crore in the state to set up a campus in Tamil Nadu's Kancheepuram district, near state capital Chennai, the media has reported. The Foxconn subsidiary makes communication, mobile network and cloud computing equipment. The facility would create 6,000 new jobs, a senior state government source with direct knowledge of the matter said. According to a report by news agency Reuters, Brand Cheng, CEO of Foxconn Industrial Internet and other company representatives met with Tamil Nadu officials including its chief minister to discuss investments in the state last week. FII has already shared a plan with state officials to initially invest $180 million to $200 million in the facility, said the report, citing sources. Also read: OnePlus' First Foldable Will Be Called 'OnePlus Open' This manufacturing unit in Tamil Nadu will be separate from the current sprawling campus near Chennai where Foxconn assembles iPhone models and employs more than 35,000 people, the report added. Foxconn and a spokesperson for Tamil Nadu's industries department declined to comment, as per the report. The iPhone contract manufacturer is also in talks with chip-making giant Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC) and Japan's TMH Group for a joint venture (JV) technology partnership to set up semiconductor fab units in India, said a recent report by The Economic Times (ET), citing people aware of the matter. Also read: AMD To Expand R&D And Engineering Operations, Invest $400 Million In India As per the report, Foxconn is likely to finalise the details of the partnership to manufacture both advanced and legacy node chips soon. The company has been in discussions with TSMC and TMH Group for a considerable period. Taiwan's TSMC is one of the largest chip foundries globally, while TMH specialises in offering semiconductor-related solutions and the operation and maintenance of manufacturing equipment. TSMC's chips are widely utilised by numerous prominent semiconductor companies, including AMD, Apple, ARM, Broadcom, Marvell, MediaTek, and Nvidia.