Navin Bishnoi, India country manager, Marvell Technology. Credit: Marvell Technology In line with India's current ambitions to develop a semiconductor ecosystem in the country, many global companies have been increasing investments and expanding presence here. Recently, AMD announced plans to set up its largest design center in the South Indian city, Bangalore. Intel has also underscored India's rapid growth as a once-in-a-generation occurrence. Now, US-based Marvell Technology is planning to boost their presence with a new office in the city of Pune, along with new initiatives. In a recent conversation with Digitimes Asia, Navin Bishnoi, India country manager at Marvell, explained that the move would double the workforce, add more labs and servers. "What we're planning for the next five years is significant. Today, we are in the process of constructing a new 100,000-square-foot office, which we plan to move into by the fourth quarter," said Navin Bishnoi, India Country Manager at the company. "This new facility will have the capacity to double our current workforce. We're talking about scaling from a few hundred to nearly 500 employees. Additionally, we will have two large labs with 300 servers. All end-to-end product development for our storage portfolio will be conducted at this new R&D center." The firm already has presence in Pune, along with locations in Bangalore, Hyderabad, and Chennai, employing nearly 1800 individuals across over a dozen product categories in India. This recent development marks a major shift for the company, which only had between 100 and 300 Indian employees roughly five years ago, primarily serving as an auxiliary unit for headquarters in tasks like verification and overflow work. Bishnoi highlighted that Marvell has steadily expanded its Indian workforce over the past half-decade, growing it to a substantial size while transforming these centers into hubs of excellence in various sectors. Innovation and R&D strategy In addition to establishing multiple Centers of Excellence, the company has centralized numerous operations in India, including enterprise IT development, software development, and cybersecurity. These activities are not only conducted for local initiatives but have a global impact. A significant portion of the company's Research and Development efforts, instrumental in building intellectual property for future generations, is also being executed from India. "We're not only tackling current design challenges, but we're also developing methodologies for future ones," Bishnoi said. "The cutting-edge design work we're doing spans multiple technologies and domains, and it's all being carried out here. As we continue to make an impact, the value we offer is also growing. This growth isn't just in terms of size and headcount; it extends to having a state-of-the-art lab, a comprehensive end-to-end design ecosystem, and a shared services model. We are also continually expanding our research, development, and Centers of Excellence." Opportunities in transport to power and more  The company sees numerous opportunities in leveraging technology to address domestic issues, particularly those unique to developing countries. While advanced solutions like autonomous vehicles are being developed for the industrialized world, there are untapped markets in developing nations. "We recognize a wealth of opportunities in using technology to solve specific challenges that are often more prevalent in developing countries," Bishnoi said. "While the developed world is focused on advancements like autonomous vehicles, there's a whole realm of untapped potential in emerging markets. For example, the transition to electric vehicles alone could be a significant driver for semiconductor technologies and open up new business avenues. And it's not just about transportation - we're also looking at issues related to power grids and the development of smart city infrastructure. These are challenges that we believe can be effectively addressed from our operations in India, with solutions that have the potential for global application." However, opportunities also give way for challenges. Standardizing technology is crucial for business viability, as custom solutions may not scale well. Furthermore, if the government mandates the exclusive use of locally-sourced intellectual property, it could limit design possibilities. Cost sensitivity, especially in developing markets, is another challenge. Balancing these factors with a dynamic talent pool and evolving skill sets will be essential for delivering successful solutions. Endnote Marvell Technology's expansion plans in India align with the country's broader ambitions to become a hub for semiconductor and technology development. The company aims to double its workforce and enhance its R&D capabilities, reflecting a long-term commitment to India as a strategic location for both talent and market opportunities. However, alongside the growth potential, Marvell also acknowledges the challenges that come with scaling operations in developing markets, such as the need for standardization and cost sensitivity. As global companies like Marvell continue to invest in India, the interplay between opportunities and challenges will be a crucial factor shaping the future of the technology landscape in the country.