
		By Lugeretzia Kooper, The Namibian  
29 June 2023  Six suspects accused of stealing building materials from the construction site at Liselo Combined School will remain in custody after their first appearance in the Katima Mulilo Magistrates Court on Thursday. This while five other suspects were charged with possession and granted bail of N$5 000 each, and a 16-year-old boy was released into the care of his guardian. It’s alleged that Alfeus Matias (45), Gift Pilingani (35), Elingaus Michael (33), Webster Mubake (45), Mubiyana Linyando (32) and Peter Mushiko (39) stole various building materials between December 2022 and June 2023 from the construction site where they were employed.



They then sold some of these stolen items to Serio Kalwale (41), and stored others at the houses of Best Kalwale (29), Gibson Naini (32), Milunga Ngalaule (73) and Kalwale Manyuka (19).
The suspects were arrested on Tuesday following a police operation after the police received a tip-off from community members.
The value of the stolen building materials is N$330 160.
The case was postponed to 26 October for further investigations.
The suspects appeared before magistrate Clara Mwilima, and the state was represented by Cynthia Matiti.
The construction of additional facilities, such as a hostel, teacher houses, a dining hall, classrooms, a computer lab, a library, and ablution facilities, among others, which is currently underway at Liselo Combined School commenced last April and is being sponsored by the Chinese government.







				Stay informed with The Namibian – your source for credible journalism. Get in-depth reporting and opinions for
				only N$85 a month. Invest in journalism, invest in democracy – 
Subscribe Now!


 


 They then sold some of these stolen items to Serio Kalwale (41), and stored others at the houses of Best Kalwale (29), Gibson Naini (32), Milunga Ngalaule (73) and Kalwale Manyuka (19). The suspects were arrested on Tuesday following a police operation after the police received a tip-off from community members. The value of the stolen building materials is N$330 160. The case was postponed to 26 October for further investigations. The suspects appeared before magistrate Clara Mwilima, and the state was represented by Cynthia Matiti. The construction of additional facilities, such as a hostel, teacher houses, a dining hall, classrooms, a computer lab, a library, and ablution facilities, among others, which is currently underway at Liselo Combined School commenced last April and is being sponsored by the Chinese government. 
				Stay informed with The Namibian – your source for credible journalism. Get in-depth reporting and opinions for
				only N$85 a month. Invest in journalism, invest in democracy – 
Subscribe Now!
 42 John Meinert Street,
				Windhoek,Namibia, +264 61 279 600 The Namibian © All rights reserved. Unless otherwise indicated, copyright in the content of this website vest in The Free Press of Namibia (Proprietary) Limited (Registration No 85/058). The unauthorized making of copies or use of this material constitutes a copyright infringment under the Namibian Copyright and Neighbouring Rights Protection Act, 1994 (Act No 6 of 1994). Powered by PageSuite © 2024 The Namibian. All rights reserved.