We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Statistics and analysis on the construction sector for December 2022. MS Excel Spreadsheet, 350 KB This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. ODS, 282 KB 
          This file is in an OpenDocument format
 This file may not be suitable for users of assistive technology. PDF, 841 KB, 23 pages Presents information on selected building materials, including monthly data on price indices, bricks, cement and concrete blocks. It also provides quarterly data on sand and gravel, slate, concrete roofing tiles, ready-mixed concrete and imports and exports of construction products. Due to processing errors, table 3 and table 12 figures were incorrect when originally published. We have republished the corrected tables. Due to processing errors, table 3 and table 12 figures were incorrect when originally published. We have republished the corrected tables. The January release date has changed from 1st February 2023 to 8th February 2023. Due to delays in the release of the Producer Price Indices (PPI) by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) which affect the timing in processing data inputs. First published. Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      