Take care of your health and your pantry in one visit. Through June 30, any customer who gets two of a wide range of available vaccinations at Winn-Dixie, Harveys and Fresco y Mas stores will receive a voucher for $20 in free groceries. With the rise in food prices, it comes at a good time. The "One Stop Shots" vaccine incentive in all in-store pharmacies was intended to "further encourage customers and their families to get up to date on routine vaccinations," according to Southeastern Grocers, which owns the three grocery chains. "We are committed to caring for and supporting our … communities," said Meredith Hurley, Southeastern Grocers' senior director of communications and community. "As the summer months approach, more individuals will be traveling with friends and loved ones so now is the time for customers, and their families, to receive routine vaccinations to stay healthy throughout the season." Healthful news: What are Jacksonville-area health systems up to? RSV, flu and COVID-19:What you need to know about the viruses menacing Jacksonville area Guest column:Respiratory illness in children can lead to hospitalization, death Vaccines benefit not only the individuals getting them but entire communities, according to Chad Neilsen, director of accreditation and infection prevention at UF Health Jacksonville. "The obvious benefit of accepting a vaccine is to reduce one’s chance of getting ill or dying from any number of diseases. This is especially true for children," he said. "Every vaccine currently on market in the United States has been rigorously researched and tested to ensure that they are safe and effective." Multiple diseases that had been conquered with the advent of vaccines, such as measles and chicken pox, returned as the number of people vaccinated against them decreased, he said. "Vaccine rates for a number of diseases … have been falling over the last several years, largely due to anti-vaccine misinformation campaigns that are without merit and frankly, dangerous to the public’s health," Neilsen said. "The ultimate result of less vaccine uptake is the re-emergence of rare and often deadly or debilitating diseases and increased burden on people and the health care systems they depend on. This is evidenced by the U.S.'s increasing pediatric measles and chickenpox cases over the last several years." COVID vaccines:Duval Schools offered its employees $200 vaccine incentives — 56% of employees cashed in Store pharmacists are trained to administer a variety of vaccines. In Florida, Winn-Dixie, Harveys and Fresco y Mas pharmacies have the following vaccines: Vaccines are free with most insurance plans. Customers can walk up to any local Winn-Dixie, Harveys or Fresco y Mas pharmacy or make an appointment online. Each customer must receive two vaccines at the same pharmacy visit and is limited to one $20 voucher per visit. For more information about each chain's vaccine program, go to winndixie.com/pharmacy/vaccines, harveyssupermarkets.com/pharmacy/vaccines or frescoymas.com/vaccines. Winn-Dixie has stores in Florida, as well as Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana and Mississippi, while Harveys are in Florida and Georgia. Fresco y Mas, which serves Hispanic and Caribbean communities, are located throughout South, Central and Southwest Florida. To find Winn-Dixie, Harveys or Fresco y Mas stores that have pharmacies, go to winndixie.com/locator, harveyssupermarkets.com/locator or frescoymas.com/locator. bcravey@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4109