We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Medical News Today only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. At-home food sensitivity tests, specifically IgG tests, do not reliably identify triggers for food-induced conditions. Allergy societies recommend against their use for food sensitivities and allergies. At-home food sensitivity tests claim to help a person gain insight into which foods may be causing a person’s uncomfortable digestive symptoms. However, there is no scientific evidence that suggests these tests have clinical value. As such, an at-home food sensitivity test does not replace diagnosis or treatment from a doctor or other healthcare professional. This article discusses food sensitivities, when to take a test, and how they work. It also lists three of the best at-home allergy tests to consider. Three common terms to describe reactions to food are: It is important to note that the term “food sensitivity” has no clear definition in medical literature. The generally accepted and well-defined term is “food intolerance.” However, people often use the terms “food sensitivity,” “food allergy,” and “food intolerance” interchangeably, although they are not the same. Below, we explain the difference between these terms. At-home food sensitivity testing kits usually require a person to submit a sample, which could be: Typically, people should collect this sample after exposure to food antigens. Different tests will provide specific instructions. For most at-home food sensitivity tests, the user must send this sample to a lab for testing. Many kits test specifically for levels of antigens such as IgG that may alter after exposure to certain foods. The companies will then provide the results within a few days or weeks, sometimes via an online portal or smartphone app. There is no definitive evidence that at-home food sensitivity tests can identify food triggers for any condition. The American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (AAAAI) writes that the scientific studies looking into the effectiveness of the commonly used IgG tests are often older and in non-reputable journals. The AAAAI states that the presence of antibodies such as IgG, which home kits typically test for, does not reliably identify food triggers for any food-induced condition. In fact, it writes that raised IgG levels are likely to be a normal immune response to food exposure. Additionally, research suggests that food sensitivity tests that rely on genetic testing are not accurate enough for diagnostic use. In older but official organizational statements, the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI), the Canadian Society of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (CSACI), and the AAAAI advise against the use of at-home food sensitivity kits as a diagnostic tool. Food sensitivities and at-home testing kits are continuing subjects of research. At-home kits for food sensitivity have not been studied extensively enough in up-to-date and reliable journals to prove their accuracy. This may mean people receive inaccurate results from at-home food sensitivity tests, which may cause health anxiety and lead to unnecessary dietary changes or restrictions. For example, a false positive result for gluten sensitivity may cause a person to avoid gluten. If they do not replace foods containing gluten, such as bread or pasta, with healthy alternatives, they may be omitting important nutrients from their diet, which can contribute to malnutrition.  Aside from potential nutritional deficiencies, avoiding certain foods unnecessarily may contribute to disordered eating and anxiety around food. It is also possible that a person attributes symptoms to food sensitivity when an undiagnosed condition may be the true cause of perceived symptoms. For example, conditions such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) or Crohn’s disease may cause gastrointestinal symptoms similar to food sensitivity. Seeing a doctor about suspected food sensitivity ensures that a person receives a thorough assessment of their symptoms that may help rule out or identify other potential causes. The cost of testing kits is often lower than visiting a dietitian or an allergist. However, insurance plans do not cover at-home tests. Studies have not proven the reliability of at-home food sensitivity tests. A 2018 review states that they should not receive medical endorsement until scientific studies support their use. People may take an at-home test as a precursor to visiting a healthcare professional. However, they may save time and money by going directly to a professional for diagnosis. A professional may recommend a person keep a food diary to document foods eaten and their symptoms. They can then assess any potential links between symptoms and food exposure. They may also recommend an elimination diet. This is best performed under the direction of a qualified professional to ensure a person still meets their nutritional requirements, even when avoiding certain foods. Learn more about elimination diets. If people believe they are having allergic reactions to certain foods, they should speak with a doctor. A doctor will conduct tests and look for immune responses to the foods. As people’s allergic reactions can be severe, it is important to test for allergies under the supervision of a doctor or other healthcare professional. Anyone experiencing the following symptoms after eating a certain food should seek emergency medical attention: Anaphylaxis is a medical emergency, and people must get immediate treatment with epinephrine (adrenaline). The most common allergy tests involve having a small drop of a potential allergen put onto the skin via a prick or scratch. People can also have blood tests. The ACAAI notes that testing alone is not enough to diagnose an allergy. Doctors must take into account a person’s medical history and physical exams to make a diagnosis. Scientific research does not back up the use of food sensitivity tests, which typically look for IgG antibodies. Medical News Today follows a strict product selection and vetting process. Learn more here. The AAAI currently does not endorse the use of at-home allergy testing. Additionally, at-home food allergy tests cannot officially diagnose a food allergy. Instead, they can help identify foods that you have the potential to be allergic to. If your results indicate that you may have a potential allergy, it’s important to make an appointment with an allergist to ensure accurate interpretation and establish a follow-up plan. Use code “HEALTHLINE25” for 25% off. *Price may vary. Everlywell’s allergy test looks for reactions to nine foods: almond, cow’s milk, egg white and yolk, peanuts, shrimp, soy, tuna, and wheat. The test picks up on increased immunoglobulin (IgE) reactivity, which can indicate a food allergy. People must provide a finger-prick blood test sample at home and mail it to the company’s Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)-certified labs. If the results show that they may have allergy-associated reactivity, an Everlywell nurse will get in touch. People should share their results with a healthcare professional. Everlywell warns that this test may be unsuitable for people who have had a severe allergic reaction to the foods it includes on the panel. Everlywell cannot ship tests to New York state. *Price may vary. This allergy test checks for allergies to peanuts, milk, wheat, clams, shrimp, scallops, codfish, egg white, walnut, soybean, sesame seed, and corn. It tests IgE antibodies. A person first purchases the Food Allergy Test and then goes to a Labcorp OnDemand patient service center to get their blood drawn. Labcorp OnDemand uses a network of more than 2,000 centers across the United States, where a person can book or take a walk-in appointment. The patient service center sends samples to Certified Analytics Professional (CAP)- and CLIA-certified labs. The labs send results 3 to 4 days after they receive the samples. Company representatives will contact a person by phone or mail if their results require prompt attention. The test is unsuitable for people under 18 or individuals who have had serious allergic reactions to the foods the test screens. *Price may vary. This food allergy test measures the IgE antibody response to 15 foods. These include: A person must order the test online and schedule an appointment for their blood test at a Quest Diagnostics Patient Service Center. The company reportedly has more than 2,000 centers across the United States, and its testing labs have CLIA certification. If the test detects abnormal readings for peanut, milk, or egg allergies, the company conducts additional tests to provide information on specific proteins. The person undergoing testing can then share this information with a medical professional. There is no charge for this extra test. The company warns that the test result cannot confirm the presence of an allergy. Quest Diagnostics has affiliations with PWNHealth. PWNHealth reviews test results and contacts customers if their results require immediate attention. PWNHealth staff are available to discuss test results. A person needs to consult a doctor if they suspect they have a food allergy or are experiencing severe and ongoing symptoms, as medical attention is necessary. A person should consult a doctor if they regularly experience: A doctor might be able to diagnose the problem from a person’s symptoms and medical history. If not, they can order further tests to investigate the cause. An at-home test is not a replacement for a clinical diagnosis and doctor-recommended treatments. “Digestive symptoms like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea can also be caused by more severe conditions, such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and colon cancer. It’s best to see a doctor if you experience these symptoms for more than a few days.” — Amy Richter, MS, RDN The most accurate food sensitivity test may be one that a person receives from their doctor. However, there is limited scientific evidence proving their accuracy. A person needs to speak with their doctor about potential food sensitivities to ensure their symptoms and test results receive a thorough, professional, and personalized evaluation from a trained healthcare professional. The most accurate food sensitivity test may be one that a person receives from their doctor. However, there is limited scientific evidence proving their accuracy. A person needs to speak with their doctor about potential food sensitivities to ensure their symptoms and test results receive a thorough, professional, and personalized evaluation from a trained healthcare professional. A skin prick test is the best method for testing food sensitivities. However, limited scientific evidence shows that food sensitivity tests are accurate. People can speak with a doctor about testing to help ensure they get the best and most accurate test possible. A skin prick test is the best method for testing food sensitivities. However, limited scientific evidence shows that food sensitivity tests are accurate. People can speak with a doctor about testing to help ensure they get the best and most accurate test possible. Allergy societies do not recommend food sensitivity tests for food sensitivities and allergies. Although the tests claim they can offer people insight into which foods are causing their digestive symptoms, no scientific evidence shows they are effective or accurate. Allergy societies do not recommend food sensitivity tests for food sensitivities and allergies. Although the tests claim they can offer people insight into which foods are causing their digestive symptoms, no scientific evidence shows they are effective or accurate. At-home food sensitivity tests are not scientifically proven to pinpoint food sensitivities. A person should not change their diet in line with at-home food sensitivity results without seeking medical advice first, as they may be cutting out food groups that keep their diet balanced. Share this article A person with a food allergy must avoid all contact with a specific food, or they may have a severe, even life-threatening reaction soon afterward… What are the nine most common food allergies? Find out here about them, including the causes and symptoms. myLAB Box offers at-home tests for conditions affecting sexual health and fertility, among other things. Learn more here. Researchers are reporting that food allergies such as eosinophilic esophagitis can "march" through some children OUR BRANDS