  A group of 11 restaurant workers say they walked off the job at Mucho Mas Nola on Oak Street in New Orleans after not receiving a paycheck in July.  After a month without pay, the staff at Mucho Mas decided to collectively draw a line in the sand. If their boss didn’t come up with money by the time the banks closed for the day, they would walk out and shut down the restaurant. That’s what happened on July 21, shuttering the Oak Street Mexican restaurant that had opened just a few months before. “We served the last guest, we locked the doors, shut everything down and quit,” said Madeleine Dixon, the former bar manager for Mucho Mas. The restaurant has been closed since, as WWL-TV reported earlier in August. Now another Mexican restaurant is stepping up to host a fundraiser for the former Mucho Mas staff in an effort to make up for their lost pay. Espiritu Mezcaleria (520 Capdeville St., 504-267-4975) will hold an event called Mucho Solidaridad on Labor Day, Sept. 4, from 6 p.m. to midnight, with music, food and drinks.  The former staff will take over Espiritu Mezcaleria for the night, making the drinks and food. Proceeds from the night will benefit the former Mucho Mas staff. Former staff from Mucho Mas also have an online fundraiser ongoing via GoFundme.com. Mucho Mas opened on Oak Street early in 2023 but closed in July of that year. (Staff photo by Ian McNulty, NOLA.com | The Times-Picayune) The short-lived restaurant was opened by chef Julio Machado and Shawn Toups, though staff say Machado left a few months in. Toups also runs the well-known burger spot Lakeview Harbor across town. Toups told WWL-TV earlier that he was trying to get a loan and would pay all the wages owed to the former Mucho Mas staff. But today Dixon said that still hasn’t happened and the staff has had no direct contact with Toups since the restaurant closed. She estimates each of the 11 staff members are owed at least $1,200 in lost wages and credit card tips. Plans for Mucho Mas were first announced in 2021, taking over the corner location that once had been home to the restaurant DTB and was later a short lived po-boy spot called Jazzy Pete's. But it wouldn’t be until February 2023 that it opened its doors. Machado had been a partner in the Metairie restaurant Tacos del Cartel, but is no longer involved with that business. Follow Where NOLA Eats on Instagram at @wherenolaeats, join the Where NOLA Eats Facebook group and subscribe to the free Where NOLA Eats biweekly newsletter here. Email Ian McNulty at imcnulty@theadvocate.com.   News Tips:nolanewstips@theadvocate.com Other questions:subscriberservices@theadvocate.com Need help?  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: