Scattered thunderstorms early, then cloudy skies after midnight. Storms may contain strong gusty winds. Low 59F. Winds NW at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 50%..
                                 Scattered thunderstorms early, then cloudy skies after midnight. Storms may contain strong gusty winds. Low 59F. Winds NW at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 50%.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 3:33 pm   Next to Burger King, the former Bank of America on Valley Road in Stirling is overgrown with weeds. LONG HILL TWP. – A popular “Live Más” fast food national chain may be setting up shop in a vacant retail space, pending Board of Adjustment approval. HAZA Bell of Northeast, LLC is proposing to build a Taco Bell with a drive-thru at 1031 Valley Road in Stirling. The closed-down Bank of America currently sits on the property. The zoning board has yet to review the application. It is scheduled to be heard on Tuesday, April 18. The applicant is requesting a use variance for construction of a drive-thru. Current township code dictates that drive-thrus are only permitted for banks and pharmacies. HAZA Bell’s requested use variance is to use the existing Bank of America drive-thru for a restaurant business. Burger King, located at 1013 Valley Road in Stirling, is the only restaurant in Long Hill that has a drive-thru. When Burger King was built, it needed a variance to allow its drive-thru. Bank of America closed permanently in December 2020. Bank of America spokeswoman Carla Molina said in September 2020 that the Stirling branch would close due to an overlap of customers with 50 other Bank of America locations within 13 miles, and 12 locations within eight miles. Since 2020, the former financial institution property has become an aesthetics problem, becoming overgrown with weeds and vegetation. Facebook Comments While the Taco Bell application has not been heard by the zoning board yet, Long Hill residents have already taken to Facebook to air their opinions on the proposal. Some community members are excited for Taco Bell food to be available in the township. Others don’t share that taste. Gillette resident Carolyn Straight Mazzucco commented, “Just so sad that it’s Taco Bell, of all the fast food places.” A few individuals felt that Long Hill has enough food establishments and that the focus should be on erecting affordable housing instead. Several township residents highlighted the numerous vacancies in the Valley Mall, and questioned what will be moving into the former Kings Supermarket location. There are eight vacancies in Gillette’s strip mall alone. Those locations formerly housed Kings Supermarket, Jos. A. Bank and PetValu. There is also a vacancy between the Verizon Store and Starstruck Dance, a vacancy between Starstruck and TJ Maxx, a vacancy between Bonji Bowls and Bath and Body Works, and two vacancies between Bath and Body Works and PetValu’s former space. Gillette resident Marianne Noonan wrote on Facebook that the township “desperately needs” a supermarket in the Valley Mall. She pointed to the future population growth that will impact Long Hill, as the Warren Township Planning Board has approved “multiple high density projects that literally are surrounding Long Hill.” Stirling resident Katie McLennan claimed there are many residents who feel “passionate” about bringing new businesses to Long Hill. McLennan is the administrator of the Long Hill Community Facebook forum, and a member of the K-8 Board of Education. “I think we need some sort of committee to research strategies and find ways to inspire and lure desirable successful businesses to town and stop relying solely on the Township Committee,” McLennan wrote. The zoning board will hear the Taco Bell application at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, April 18. LONG HILL TWP. - The Bank of America branch at 1031 Valley Road in Stirling will close for good on Dec. 1.      Regarding Bank of America and Chase Bank closures; you would think that each bank could establish a kiosk to house an ATM machine within Long Hill.MICHAEL SCHMIDT, Millington(Edited by staff.) Regarding Bank of America and Chase Bank closures; you would think that each bank could establish a kiosk to house an ATM machine within Long Hill. MICHAEL SCHMIDT, Millington 
Log In
 BE YOURSELF. We do not accept and will not approve
anonymous comments. Kindly add your full name and hometown to the
end of your comment.
Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today!  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.