It's not particularly surprising, but it is pretty exciting: In a decision that could change the way we interact with social media companies, Meta is offering a monthly subscription fee to use Facebook and Instagram without any ads for users in the EU, EEA, and Switzerland.  Beginning in November, users will be able to pay €9.99 per month on the web or €12.99 per month on iOS and Android to use Facebook or Instagram without ads, and, while subscribed, their information will not be used for ads. It's more expensive on iOS and Android because of the app store fees, Meta said in a statement. The subscription will apply to all of your accounts until March 1, 2024 — so if you have a public Instagram account and a finsta, both will be covered under your subscription.  After March 1, 2024, you'll have to pay an additional €6 per month on the web and €8 per month on iOS and Android for each additional account. There will still be the option to use the services for free and continue to see ads.  "We believe in an ad-supported internet, which gives people access to personalized products and services regardless of their economic status," Meta said in a statement. "It also allows small businesses to reach potential customers, grow their business, and create new markets, driving growth in the European economy. And like other companies, we’ll continue to advocate for an ad-supported internet, even with our new subscription offering in the EU, EEA, and Switzerland.  But we respect the spirit and purpose of these evolving European regulations, and are committed to complying with them." Social media runs on ads — we know this. If Meta can keep you on its platform longer, you'll see more ads, paying Meta more money, and the cycle continues. Ads likely make Meta more money than a subscription fee ever could, so it's clear that this change was born from a fight between Meta and legislators, not just a kindness from the social media giant. This comes amid a years-long battle between EU regulators and Meta due to the company's data collection practices and the EU's GDPR, a 2016 law that protects people's online privacy and data. 
Topics
Apps & Software
Facebook
Instagram
Meta
 Christianna Silva is a Senior Culture Reporter at Mashable. They write about tech and digital culture, with a focus on Facebook and Instagram. Before joining Mashable, they worked as an editor at NPR and MTV News, a reporter at Teen Vogue and VICE News, and as a stablehand at a mini-horse farm. You can follow them on Twitter @christianna_j.