TL;DR: The 2023 Machine Learning for Absolute Beginners Program is on sale for £24.65, saving you 90% on list price. Technology changes fast. Before you know it, you're feeling like your parents asking younger people for help with something on your smartphone or computer. If you want to make sure you're in the know on some of the biggest tools and technologies, like artificial intelligence and machine learning, there's a convenient way to do it online so that you can work on it in your spare time at home. The 2023 Machine Learning for Absolute Beginners Program schools you on the basics of AI and ML at a beginner level, offering a great foundation for all the future technologies to come. And right now, this online education is available for just £24.65, the best price online, for a limited time.  Do you know Python? What about Numpy, SciPi, Pandas, or Matplotlib? If this sounds like a foreign language, don't worry. This E-degree program will teach you these fundamentals from the very beginning. Taught by Eduonix Learning Solutions, a premier training and skill development organization, you'll be in the great hands of five different talented instructors: John Ciolkosz, Stella Dong, Alexandre Oliveira Bocl, Rhythm Bhatia, and Tejasri Surapaneni. Whether you simply want to be more educated in AI or you're hoping to make a career change, these courses are geared toward providing a well-rounded understanding of the topics of AI and ML. You'll work on real-world projects to get hands-on learning over 200 lectures and 35 hours of content, and pick up essential techniques for data collection, processing, and visualizsation by using the popular programming language Python. And one of the best parts about this program? You'll have lifetime access, which will also include updates on the inevitable advances in this constantly changing world.  Expand your mind with this Machine Learning for Absolute Beginners Program, on sale for the best price on the web — just £24.65 — for a limited time.  
Topics
Artificial Intelligence
ChatGPT
