iProspect, a dentsu company, today announced it has been named global media agency of record for Zalando, one of the leading European platforms for fashion and lifestyle. The decision follows a competitive pitch aimed at consolidating all media into one agency group able to accelerate market collaboration and international campaign continuity.   It was iProspect’s global scale and the opportunity to increase scope through its dentsu network which initially appealed to Zalando. However, it was the digital-first media agency’s insights, strategy and passion, coupled with deep brand and performance expertise, which clinched the win.   “With over 50 million active users in its European heartland, and a highly sophisticated ecommerce and fashion collaboration model, it was imperative our ideas brought both simplicity and relevance into Zalando’s media activation.” said Amanda Morrissey, iProspect global client and brand president.   Amanda continues, “By understanding the key shopping touch points in each market and how these intersect into people’s lives, we were able to show how we can engage more with relevant audiences, to create deeper emotional bonds with customers.”   As of January 2023, iProspect will be responsible for all traditional above the line media planning and buying in Zalando’s 25 markets, including: Germany, UK, France, Sweden, Italy, Poland and Spain. This expansion of iProspect’s existing award-winning* remit will see the media agency working closely with Zalando to help shape the future of retail across the region and beyond.   Ralph Rijks, VP regional marketing, Zalando, explains the reasoning behind the selection of iProspect as its exclusive media partner, “For us, our customers are at the heart of everything we do, we want to be more than simply a platform to buy the latest in fashion and lifestyle for them. The iProspect team really understood our ambition to be a place of inspiration and engagement for our audiences. We are looking forward to working together on creating deeper emotional bonds between our brand and our customers.”  