If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 Christy Bieber is a full-time personal finance and legal writer with more than a decade of experience. She has a JD from UCLA as well as a degree in English, Media and Communications with a Certificate in Business Management from the University of Rochester. In addition to writing for The Ascent and The Motley Fool, her work has also been featured regularly on MSN Money, CNBC, and USA Today. She also ghost writes textbooks, serves as a subject matter expert for online course design, and is a former college instructor. 
See Full Bio
 
Our Insurance
Expert
 This life insurer is a good fit for: People who need help buying coverage or who qualify for the free LifeBridge program. 
 MassMutual connects interested consumers with a financial advisor. The insurer will set up an initial phone call. The advisor will ask customers shopping for life insurance questions to identify their financial goals. Professionals will then review their entire financial picture. The advisors will provide recommendations on life insurance and other products. These professionals help customers secure the insurance coverage and other products they may need. They will also work with policyholders to conduct periodic reviews of their finances to ensure they remain fully protected. This extra help can be invaluable to those who aren't sure where to start when it comes to buying insurance coverage. MassMutual received a solid customer service rating from JD Power. It wasn't the top insurer in terms of overall customer satisfaction rating. However, it came in at No. 7 behind State Farm, Nationwide, and several other competitors. It was ranked well above the industry average. And it beat more than 14 other carriers in the rankings. MassMutual offers a LifeBridge program for income-eligible families. It provides free coverage. It's intended to help children pay off educational expenses after an insured parent or guardian passes away. This free term-life insurance coverage runs for 10 years, and provides a $50,000 death benefit. The money is paid to a trust that distributes it directly to the schools surviving children attend. MassMutual offers multiple types of life insurance. It also offers disability and long-term care coverage. But it doesn't offer other insurance options such as homeowners insurance, auto insurance, or renter's insurance. Some insurers -- including Geico and State Farm -- offer all these different kinds of coverage. They provide more options for multi-policy discounts. And they make life more convenient for those who don't want to deal with many insurers for their different needs. MassMutual discontinued their Simplified Issue Whole Life Policy. That policy offered whole life insurance without a medical exam. Without this option available, people interested in getting guaranteed issue coverage must look elsewhere for options. If you want a life insurer who offers policy options with no medical exam: TransAmerica provides many options for life insurance without medical exams, unlike MassMutual. However, TransAmerica doesn't offer the same level of professional financial assistance to those buying coverage. Term life insurance remains in effect for a limited period of time. MassMutual offers term life policies that last for 10, 20, or 30 years. They come with guaranteed premiums. They do not include an investment component or acquire a cash value. Whole life insurance policies offer guaranteed premiums and guaranteed growth. Policies accrue a cash value. And policyholders have the potential to earn dividends. MassMutual recommends these types of policies for people who want to leave a legacy, receive guaranteed supplemental retirement income, or meet lifetime insurance needs. Universal Life Insurance from MassMutual comes with flexible premiums. Policies can accrue a cash value, which is based on the current interest rates with a guaranteed minimum. Mass Mutual offers this type of coverage for people looking for the benefits of permanent insurance but who want more flexibility regarding premiums. Variable Universal offers permanent life insurance with an investment component. This is the only type of policy that MassMutual offers which allows policyholders a choice of investment options. The policies come with flexible premiums. Their cash value is determined by how the underlying investment performs. This provides the option to purchase more life insurance at later points. It's common for this rider to be added on to a starter policy that parents purchase for children. This is an add-on to a term life insurance policy. It allows policyholders to renew their coverage or convert to whole life insurance without going through underwriting again. This rider allows policyholders to pause payments on a life insurance policy in the event of total disability while still keeping coverage active. Long-term care riders allow policyholders to accelerate payment of the death benefit when faced with a terminal illness in order to help cover long-term care or end-of-life costs. Consumers can apply online for term life coverage through MassMutual Direct. Or they can work with a financial professional to get personalized advice and assistance with the application process. Term life policies through MassMutual valued at $100,000 to $3,000,000 can be purchased by consumers between the ages of 18 and 64. MassMutual received 782 out of a possible 1,000 points on JD Power's Overall Customer Satisfaction Index Ranking. This put it well above the industry average of 776 points. However, the insurer received only a B- Better Business Bureau Rating. And it received one out of five stars on the BBB's customer reviews. MassMutual is best suited for people who: But for customers who want access to policies that don't require medical exams, TransAmerica could be a better fit. Those who would prefer to get life, home, auto, and multiple other insurance policies from the same insurer may also do better with Geico, which provides more opportunities for bundled coverage. 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.