WEA Member Benefits has partnered with Haven Life to make Haven Life's term life insurance policies available to those employed at PK-12 public schools nationwide. MADISON, Wis. (PRWEB) December 14, 2022   WEA Member Benefits, the Wisconsin-based company that provides personal insurance and retirement and investment programs to promote the financial well-being of public school employees and their families, has partnered with Haven Life to make Haven Life's term life insurance policies available to those employed at PK-12 public schools nationwide. Haven Life is a customer-centric digital life insurance agency backed and wholly owned by Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company (MassMutual, AM Best rating of A++). The partnership is supported by the addition of Haven Simple and Haven Term policies to Associates of Clifton Park's (AoCP) portfolio of insurance offerings. AoCP is a national leader in matching people with insurance coverage and provides access to licensed agents to help them find the right policy for their needs. As a result of the partnership, PK-12 public school employees and their families can purchase a low-cost Haven Simple policy via an easy, online application process through the website at weabenefits.com/haven, or with help from the agents at Associates of Clifton Park. Applicants just provide general information about their health to receive a quote.  Haven Simple never requires a medical exam, provides coverage up to $500,000 and you receive a decision online in minutes.  If you live in NY, DE, ND, or SD (where Haven Simple is not available), you may wish to consider Haven Term, a fully medically underwritten life insurance policy that requires a medical exam. Haven Simple and Haven Term policies provide flexible coverage amounts, customizable term lengths, and other individualized features to help meet the unique financial needs of public school employees.  "Member Benefits was born out of a determination to provide those employed in public schools with trusted financial resources to guide them on their financial journey. Haven Life's financial security, coupled with their affordable rates and easy-to-use-platform, were important factors as we considered a potential partnership," said David Kijek, President and CEO of WEA Member Benefits. "Whether people choose to purchase directly through our website or through the assistance of AoCP's agents, we are thrilled to be able to provide another resource to help public school employees and their families achieve long-term financial security."
### About WEA Member Benefits
WEA Member Benefits has been helping Wisconsin public school employees achieve their financial goals for over 50 years by providing personal insurance and retirement and investment programs. We operate as a trust that reinvests any profits back into programs that benefit participants. We have no shareholders. This allows us to focus on meeting the needs of those we serve with high-quality products that are competitively priced. We have one of the highest customer retention and satisfaction rates in the industry. Learn more at weabenefits.com.  About Haven Life
Haven Life Insurance Agency, LLC (Haven Life) is re-thinking how people financially protect the ones they love. Haven Life is committed to delivering exceptional products, delightful purchasing experiences, and meaningful moments of service to the modern life insurance customer. Haven Simple is a Simplified Issue Term Life Insurance Policy (ICC20 HAVEN SIMPLE in certain states, including NC) issued by C.M. Life Insurance Company, Enfield, CT 06082. Policy and rider form numbers and features may vary by state and may not be available in all states. Our Agency license number in California is OK71922 and in Arkansas 100139527. Haven Term is a Term Life Insurance Policy (ICC21 HAVEN TERM in certain states, including NC; HAVEN TERM CA21 in California) issued by C.M. Life Insurance Company (C.M. Life), Enfield, CT 06082. In New York (DTC-NY) and in other states it is issued by Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company (MassMutual), Springfield, MA 01111-0001. Haven Term coverage amount available for those ages 20-59 is up to $3M.  Issuing the policy or paying its benefits depends on the applicant's insurability, based on their answers to the health questions in the application, and their truthfulness. About Associates of Clifton Park 
Associates of Clifton Park (AOCP) has been a pioneer and national authority in the life and long term care insurance business for over 25 years. With a professional staff, including a Geriatric Care Manager who is a national speaker on the importance of planning and education, AOCP has been serving consumers and their respective advisors in all 50 states. They have been instrumental in educating consumers and placing over $1 billion of coverage in force and its client base includes some of the largest financial institutions and insurance distribution organizations in the country.  For the original version on PRWeb visit: https://www.prweb.com/releases/national_online_life_insurance_program_for_pk_12_public_school_employees_offered_by_wisconsins_wea_member_benefits/prweb19075196.htm © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.