We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Katia Iervasi is an assistant assigning editor at NerdWallet. An insurance authority, she previously spent over six years covering insurance topics as a writer, where she loved untangling complicated topics and answering readers’ burning money questions. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in communication and has studied writing, fact-checking and editing with Poynter. Her writing and analysis has been featured in The Washington Post, Forbes, Yahoo, Entrepreneur, Best Company and FT Advisor. Originally from Sydney, Australia, Katia currently lives in New York City.   Lisa Green leads the life insurance team and oversees insurance-focused data journalism at NerdWallet. A professional journalist since high school, she was an insurance writer at NerdWallet before becoming an assigning editor. Previously, Lisa spent more than 20 years as an editor at The Tennessean in Nashville, where she led business and consumer coverage for several years. At The Tennessean, she was part of a 2011 Pulitzer Prize finalist team for coverage of devastating floods in Middle Tennessee. Her work has also won awards from the Society for Advancing Business Editing and Writing, Investigative Reporters and Editors, and the Society of Professional Journalists. Lisa is an alumna of the Wharton Seminars for Business Journalists at the University of Pennsylvania. She has also studied data journalism with the National Institute for Computer-Assisted Reporting, business editing with the American Press Institute and writing, editing and news research with the Poynter Institute. In addition to her work at NerdWallet, Lisa is a real estate investor and has taught a seminar on how to earn college scholarships. She is based in Nashville.   Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. 5.0 on Nerdwallet Financial strength ratingThese ratings indicate an insurer’s ability to pay future claims. Online purchaseThis indicates whether the company offers a way to apply for and purchase policies entirely online. NAIC complaintsRatings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company’s size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Policies offeredTerm policies last a set number of years, while permanent policies typically last a lifetime. No-exam policies don’t require a medical exam. Pros Cons on Nerdwallet 5.0 Financial strength ratingThese ratings indicate an insurer’s ability to pay future claims. Online purchaseThis indicates whether the company offers a way to apply for and purchase policies entirely online. NAIC complaintsRatings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company’s size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Policies offeredTerm policies last a set number of years, while permanent policies typically last a lifetime. No-exam policies don’t require a medical exam. Pros Cons In our life insurance reviews, our editorial team considers the customer and the insurer. These are some of the factors we take into account: Policies offered. There are many types of life insurance on the market, and they fall into three key categories: Term life insurance offers temporary coverage and a guaranteed payout if the policyholder dies during the term. Permanent life insurance typically lasts a lifetime and builds cash value that can be borrowed against in the future. No-exam life insurance issues coverage without the need for a medical exam. Financial strength. We use AM Best ratings to confirm an insurer’s long-term financial stability and ability to pay claims. For life insurance, NerdWallet typically recommends considering insurers with ratings of A- or higher. Here’s the breakdown: Exceptional: A+, A++. Strong: A-, A. Moderate: B, B+. Complaints. These ratings are based on complaints to state regulators relative to a company’s size, according to three years’ worth of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The best life insurance companies have fewer than the expected number of complaints. Buy online. This indicates whether an insurer allows you to apply for and buy a policy completely online. Dive deeper: Ratings methodology for life insurance Founded in 1851, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. is one of the largest U.S. life insurers. It offers a broad range of term and permanent life insurance and sells policies through a network of agents across the country. As a mutual company, MassMutual is owned by its policyholders. This means that certain policyholders are eligible to receive dividend payments based on the company’s financial performance. MassMutual estimates it will pay out nearly $2.2 billion to policyholders in 2024, the largest dividend payout in the company’s history. [0]MassMutual. Record policyowner dividend announced by MassMutual. Accessed Aug 2, 2024.View all sources. » MORE: Compare life insurance quotes 5.0 MassMutual earned 5 stars out of 5 for overall performance. NerdWallet’s ratings are determined by our editorial team. The scoring formula takes into account consumer experience, complaint data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and financial strength ratings. Based on these ratings, MassMutual tops our list of the best life insurance companies. MassMutual made our list of the best term life insurance, best whole life insurance and best life insurance for seniors. Term life insurance. People ages 18 to 75 can apply for a term life insurance policy lasting 1, 10, 15, 20, 25 or 30 years, with coverage starting at $100,000. Premiums are typically locked in for the life of the policy, and you may convert to permanent coverage at a later date. MassMutual includes an accelerated death benefit at no charge, and you may add a waiver of premium rider to your coverage for a fee. Whole life insurance. MassMutual has a variety of whole life insurance policies to choose from, all of which offer essentially lifelong coverage and build cash value over time. You can apply from age 0 to 60 or 90 depending on the policy you choose, and most death benefits start at $25,000. There’s no maximum coverage amount, but if you want a lot, you’ll have to justify your need for a large policy. Universal life insurance. Available to people ages 18 to 85, this universal life insurance policy typically lasts your entire life. Coverage starts at $50,000. It also offers flexible premiums, which may be appealing to people whose income fluctuates. Variable universal life insurance. Along with offering permanent coverage and flexible premiums, variable universal life insurance allows you to be more hands-on with the cash value portion of your policy. You can work with a MassMutual representative to choose the investments that align with your goals and risk tolerance. Other. MassMutual also offers free life insurance for income-eligible parents and guardians through its LifeBridge program. Qualifying applicants can get a free $50,000, 10-year term life policy to help pay for educational expenses. » MORE: What is a waiver of premium rider? Over three years, MassMutual has drawn far fewer than the expected number of complaints to state regulators for a company of its size, according to a NerdWallet analysis of data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. MassMutual ranked No. 3 out of 22 companies for customer satisfaction in J.D. Power's 2023 U.S. Individual Life Insurance Study[0]J.D. Power. 2023 U.S. Individual Life Insurance Study. Accessed Aug 2, 2024.View all sources. MassMutual Guardian Northwestern Mutual Star rating 5.0 5.0 5.0 Financial strength Exceptional. Exceptional. Exceptional. NAIC complaints Far fewer than expected. Far fewer than expected. Far fewer than expected. J.D. Power ranking #3 out of 22. #12 out of 22. #10 out of 22. Policy types offered Term, permanent. Term, permanent. Term, permanent. Read full reviews Guardian life insurance review Northwestern Mutual life insurance review Reddit is an online forum where users share their thoughts in “threads” on various topics. The popular site includes plenty of discussion on financial subjects like life insurance, so we sifted through Reddit forums to get a pulse check on how users feel about insurers. People post anonymously, so we cannot confirm their individual experiences or circumstances.  The comments about MassMutual are generally positive, with users saying they like the company’s customer service and policy lineup. Some Redditors say MassMutual’s life insurance policies aren’t cheap, but are worth the higher price tag. Others report that their MassMutual agent promoted whole life insurance as an investment, which they felt was questionable advice. Overall, we saw more user questions about the best type of life insurance to buy in different situations, and whether it’s a good idea to treat a policy as an asset. It depends on your budget, risk tolerance and reason for buying life insurance. Cash value life insurance typically lasts your entire life, so it can be a good option for those with lifelong financial dependents, such as a child with a disability. It can also suit high net worth individuals who have maxed out tax-advantaged retirement accounts, like 401(k)s, and are looking for another way to boost tax-deferred savings. Cash value life insurance earns interest over time at either a fixed or variable rate, so it can appeal to people who want to diversify their investment portfolios. However, the cash value is slow to grow and the rates of return are relatively low compared to other investments. Finally, cash value policies are pricey — typically at least five times as expensive as term life insurance, and sometimes as much as 20 times as expensive. Permanent life insurance is a lifelong commitment, so weigh the costs before signing up for a policy. » MORE: The cost of whole life insurance — and why it’s so high Mutual life insurance companies like MassMutual often pay annual dividends to their permanent policyholders. Typically, the company’s board of directors decides whether to pay out dividends — they’re not guaranteed — and how much money to award. The payout is calculated based on the company’s cash reserves, operating expenses, investment returns and profits from the previous financial year. These finer details typically aren’t disclosed to policyholders. They’ll either receive a dividend or they won’t. As a MassMutual policyholder, you can change your beneficiaries, request a cash value loan and pay your premiums via either the online portal or app. Along with a suite of retirement and investment products and services, MassMutual offers these types of insurance: Disability insurance. Long-term care insurance. Employee benefits, including group life insurance, critical illness insurance and accident insurance. MassMutual can be reached by: Phone: Call 800-272-2216 on weekdays from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. ET. Email: Fill out the form on MassMutual’s contact page. Live chat: Not available. Before you start comparing companies, choose the type of life insurance you want, such as term or whole life. Decide which life insurance riders, if any, you want the policy to include. Calculate how much life insurance you need and how long you want the coverage to last. Check that the insurers you’re considering offer the coverage you’re looking for. When comparing rates, be sure the quotes are for the same amount of coverage over the same period of time. It’s also important to make sure the policy’s medical requirements match your needs. For example, if you want to skip the life insurance medical exam but don’t mind answering health questions, confirm that the application process for each policy you're comparing aligns with that. Price may not be the biggest driver behind your decision to buy. Look at the number of consumer complaints each company receives, as high numbers can be a red flag about the quality of service. For more guidance, see our life insurance buying guide. Methodology NerdWallet’s life insurance ratings are based on consumer experience, complaint index scores from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners for individual life insurance, and weighted averages of financial strength ratings, which indicate a company’s ability to pay future claims. Within the consumer experience category, we consider ease of communication and website transparency, which looks at the depth of policy details available online. To calculate each insurer’s rating, we adjusted the scores to a curved 5-point scale. These ratings are a guide, but we encourage you to shop around and compare several insurance quotes to find the best rate for you. NerdWallet does not receive compensation for any reviews. Read our editorial guidelines. NerdWallet examined complaints received by state insurance regulators and reported to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners in 2020-2022. To assess how insurers compare with one another, the NAIC calculates a complaint index each year for each subsidiary, measuring its share of total complaints relative to its size, or share of total premiums in the industry. To evaluate a company’s complaint history, NerdWallet calculated a similar index for each insurer, weighted by market shares of each subsidiary, over the three-year period. NerdWallet conducts its data analysis and reaches conclusions independently and without the endorsement of the NAIC. Ratios are determined separately for auto, home (including renters and condo) and life insurance.  Read more Read more Read more Explore INSURANCE Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105