Citigroup analyst Andrew Kaplowitz maintained a Buy rating on MasTec (MTZ – Research Report) today and set a price target of $113.00. The company’s shares opened today at $89.92. According to TipRanks, Kaplowitz is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 14.0% and a 61.64% success rate. Kaplowitz covers the Industrial Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Fluor, General Electric, and Dover. MasTec has an analyst consensus of Strong Buy, with a price target consensus of $117.50, which is a 30.67% upside from current levels. In a report released today, Craig-Hallum also upgraded the stock to a Buy with a $113.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> Based on MasTec’s latest earnings release for the quarter ending March 31, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $2.58 billion and a GAAP net loss of $80.55 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $1.95 billion and had a GAAP net loss of $34.95 million
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. MasTec, Inc. engages in the provision of infrastructure construction services. It operates through the following segments: Communications; Oil and Gas; Electrical Transmissions; Power Generation and Industrial; and Other. The Communications segment performs engineering, construction, maintenance and customer fulfillment activities related to communications infrastructure, primarily for wireless and wireline/fiber communications, and install-to-the-home customers. The Oil and Gas segment offers services on oil and natural gas pipelines and processing facilities for the energy, and utilities industries. The Electrical Transmission segment deals with the energy and utility industries. The Power Generation and Industrial segment covers energy, utility and other end-markets through the installation and construction of conventional and renewable power facilities. The Other segment comprises of equity investees, other small business units that perform construction, and other services for a variety of international end-markets. The company was founded by Jorge Mas Canosa in 1994 and is headquartered in Coral Gables, FL.  Read More on MTZ: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks