Auburn Police are seeking the public's help to identify three people suspected of installing credit card skimming devices at Walmart locations in the region. This photo shows the suspects installing the device. (Provided by Auburn Police) Update: A 5th Central NY Walmart found to have card skimmer over July 4 weekend  How to avoid becoming a victim of credit card skimmers like those found at 4 CNY Walmarts The questions Walmart refuses to answer about credit card skimmers found at 5 Central NY stores Four secret credit card skimmers found at 4 Central NY Walmart stores Original article Auburn, N.Y.— A device used to steal credit card information has been found at a second Central New York Walmart. The device was secretly placed in a checkout and not found for four days. On Friday, Auburn police announced that the credit card skimming device was found at the Walmart at 297 Grant Ave. in Auburn. Another card-skimming device was found at a Walmart at 818 County Route 3 in the town of Granby near Fulton, State Police announced Thursday. A cashier found that device, troopers said. The devices were installed on July 2 and discovered on July 5, the two agencies reported. Walmart employees in Camillus also reported finding a credit card skimming device at one of their checkouts, said Capt. James Nightingale, a Camillus police spokesperson. the device was also found on July 5 and was believed to be installed on July 2. Auburn police are seeking the public’s assistance to try to identify three people -- two men and one woman -- who are suspected of installing the devices at several Walmart stores in the region, police said. Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard has reached out to Auburn police to identify what other stores the skimmers were found. The suspects are believed to have a gray or light blue minivan, police said. Customers who shopped at either location are encouraged to check their credit card and bank statements to watch for fraudulent charges. Troopers do not know whether any customers had their information stolen, said Trooper Jack Keller, a State Police spokesperson. Some skimming devices have Bluetooth capabilities that allow criminals to steal information remotely, while others need to be retrieved to collect the data. Keller said troopers are not certain whether the device they recovered is Bluetooth compatible. It is unusual for a skimming device to be installed in such a public place. Typically, criminals target ATMs or registers in areas with less light or fewer people around, Keller said. Skimming occurs when devices illegally installed on ATMs, point-of-sale (POS) terminals, or fuel pumps capture data or record cardholders’ PINs, Keller said. Criminals use the data to create fake debit or credit cards and steal from victims’ accounts. It is estimated that skimming costs financial institutions and consumers more than $1 billion each year. The State Police ask anyone with fraudulent charges to contact the Fulton barracks at 315-598-2112. Troopers are working with Walmart to determine how many shoppers may have used the affected register. Auburn police are asking that anyone with information on the suspects or skimming devices contact APD at (315)255-4703 or (315)253-3231. All callers can remain anonymous, police said. Walmart issued a statement Thursday night in reference to the device found in the store outside Fulton: “We have controls in place designed to give customers a safe experience and have measures designed to help guard against these types of crimes. We are continuously enhancing and reviewing our protocol to better serve and protect customers, and will continue to work with the police and refer any additional questions to them.” A Walmart spokesperson has not responded to questions from Syracuse.com seeking more information about the device or what Walmart will do if customers have fraudulent charges. Auburn Police are seeking the public's help to identify three people suspected of installing credit card skimming devices at Walmart locations in the region. (Provided by Auburn Police) Staff writer Anne Hayes covers breaking news, crime and public safety. Have a tip, a story idea, a question or a comment? You can reach her at ahayes@syracuse.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices