
Family fintech pioneers new interactive financial literacy game to boost money confidence, knowledge, and skills
 
Greenlight® Financial Technology, Inc. ("Greenlight"), the fintech company on a mission to help parents raise financially-smart, independent kids, today announced the launch of Greenlight Level Up™, an interactive, curriculum-based financial literacy game. Level Up goes beyond the National Standards for K-12 Personal Financial Education developed by the Jump$tart Coalition and Council for Economic Education to empower young people with money skills and confidence.
 This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230106005027/en/ 
93% of teens believe they need financial knowledge and skills to achieve their life goals, and 97% of parents agree.* Still, only 23 states require a personal finance course for students, and teens score an average of 64% on the National Financial Literacy Test, showing a clear gap in financial education that is accessible and effective for young people.
 
Built by academic and game design experts, Level Up reimagines financial education with an industry-leading curriculum, challenges, and rewards that keep kids and teens engaged. Using the Greenlight app, kids can play Level Up and put their learnings into action by earning, spending wisely, saving, investing, and more while parents follow along with their progress. Level Up is designed to empower kids and teens with money confidence, knowledge, and skills through these key features:
 
"Greenlight's mission has always been focused on empowering kids and teens to learn about money," said Jennifer Seitz, Certified Financial Education Instructor and Director of Education at Greenlight. "Level Up advances our mission even further with an engaging, gamified curriculum that teaches financial literacy in a fun and relatable way."
 
"Level Up is such an amazing game. It's animated, colorful, and packed with super helpful financial lessons," said Nikki M., parent of a 12-year-old daughter who participated in Level Up beta testing. "Starting at the very first level, it has important lessons that I wish I was taught when I was younger. This is such valuable knowledge that my daughter will have for life."
 
To date, Greenlight's award-winning banking app has helped more than 5 million parents and kids learn about the world of money together. Level Up is included in-app for all Greenlight customers on all subscription plans, starting today. Level Up will also be available for free for schools, teachers, and students through Greenlight for Classrooms, a web-based financial literacy library tailored to K-12 grade levels, coming later this year.
 
To learn more about Greenlight Level Up, visit: greenlight.com/level-up-financial-literacy-game.
 
*Survey insights were collected by Greenlight through a Researchscape survey fielded between March 18 and March 20, 2022, among 1,096 respondents in the U.S., split between teens ages 13-18 and parents of 13-18 year olds.
 
**Greenlight Coins (i) are not cash or a cash equivalent, (ii) have no cash value prior to redemption, and (iii) are not redeemable or exchangeable for any cash equivalent. See the Level Up Program Terms for details.
 
About Greenlight
 
Greenlight Financial Technology is the family fintech company on a mission to help parents raise financially-smart, independent kids. Its product, Greenlight, is an award-winning banking app, complete with a debit card for kids and teens, cash back credit card for parents, and safety features for the whole family. Parents can automate allowance, manage chores, set flexible spend controls, and invest for their family's future. Kids and teens learn to earn, save, spend wisely, give, and invest with parental approval. Together, families can also stay safe and connected with location sharing, SOS alerts, and crash detection with automatic 911 dispatch to get help if they need it.
 
The Greenlight Debit Card is issued by Community Federal Savings Bank, member FDIC, pursuant to license by Mastercard International. The Greenlight Family Cash Card is issued by First National Bank of Omaha (FNBO®), member FDIC, pursuant to license by Mastercard International. Greenlight Investment Advisors, LLC, an SEC Registered Investment Advisor, provides investment advisory services to its clients. Investing involves risk and may include the loss of principal. Greenlight is a financial technology company, not a bank. The Greenlight app facilitates banking services through Community Federal Savings Bank, Member FDIC. For more information, please visit: greenlight.com.
  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230106005027/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.