MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  "While the principle of aerial trespass has existed for decades, few—if any—courts have wrestled with how to apply it to drones," according to a report from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Institute for Legal Reform. February 15, 2023 at 02:58 PM  7 minute read Risk and Compliance Amazon and other tech companies are chomping at the bit to use drones for delivery and other services. Trouble is, they’re trying to fly over a jagged legal and regulatory landscape that is far from fully formed. That reality has bogged down Amazon’s ambitious plans for nationwide drone deliveries. According to a Feb. 1 story in The Information, the Federal Aviation Administration has prohibited Amazon from flying its 80-pound drones over people or roads without separate permission for each flight. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Trudy Knockless By Maria Dinzeo By Michael A. Mora By Michael A. Mora Special Report 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Simpson Thacher to Face UK Tribunal Over Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Allegations International Edition Simpson Partner Heads to Paul Hastings, as Firm Plots Growth in Banking, Finance The American Lawyer Presented by BigVoodoo  Join General Counsel and Senior Legal Leaders at the Premier Forum Designed For and by General Counsel from Fortune 1000 Companies Women, Influence & Power in Law Awards honors women lawyers who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession. WIPL is the original global forum facilitating women-to-women exchange on leadership and legal issues. 
                                        SALARY/STEP INCREASES 3% Annual Across the Board Salary Increases on February 2025/2026 (Salary Increases contingent upon assessed values fo...
                                 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join Corporate Counsel now! Already have an account? Sign In Predictive reporting, trend analysis, peer guidance and a practical playbook to help general counsels succeed in their increasingly high stakes roles as risk managers and corporate strategists The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.