© 2023, Roadracing World Publishing, Inc. By David Swarts. KurveyGirl.com brings you the results of this weekend’s events.    At our online motorcycle parts store, you’ll find a specialized selection of quarter turn “Dzus” fasteners, titanium hardware, premium tire valve stems, Vesrah racing brake pads, Brembo parts and accessories, and other unique hardware specifically designed for race and trackday motorcycles.   Five-time Champion Cameron Beaubier won MotoAmerica Medallia Superbike Race Two Sunday at WeatherTech Raceway Laguna Seca, in Monterey, California.  Riding his back-up Tytlers Cycle Racing BMW M 1000 RR, Beaubier passed Jake Gagne late in the race and pulled away to win the 20-lapper by 2.423 seconds. It was Beaubier’s fourth win of the season, the 58th Superbike win of his career, and his 79th overall AMA/MotoAmerica race victory. Two-time and defending Champion Jake Gagne led from the first lap and made no mistakes, but second place was the best he could do on his Fresh N Lean Progressive Yamaha YZF-R1. Second place, however, allowed Gagne to expand his Championship lead to 43 points. Josh Herrin was the fastest rider on track at one point and was closing on the lead duo late in the race, but he ran out of time and ended up third on his Warhorse HSBK Racing Ducati Panigale V4 R. Richie Escalante recovered from a sub-par start and being seventh at the end of the first lap to catching the top three late in the race. The Mexican rider crossed the finish line fourth, just 1.2 seconds behind Herrin, on his Vision Wheel M4 ECSTAR Suzuki GSX-R1000R. Gagne’s teammate Cameron Petersen got a strong start but faded somewhat during the race to an eventual fifth-place finish.   23_7_LAGUNA_SBK_R2_res « Previous Article |  Next Article » 











Follow us
43,094FansLike19,223FollowersFollow16,430FollowersFollow1,200SubscribersSubscribe 


Menu


Action Fund
Events
Store
Subscribe
Past Issues



Information


Site Map
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact







© , Roadracing World Publishing, Inc.




AUTHOR LOGIN




 © , Roadracing World Publishing, Inc. [flipbook id=”9″] A “press release” is promotional text issued by a rider, team, company or organization to inform
the public about an event, product, or service from the issuer’s own point of view, and if deemed
to have news value, may be placed on roadracingworld.com as a service to our readers. A press release is not an article written by Roadracingworld.com staffers. When a post is labeled with the words “press release”, it means that Roadracingworld.com is not responsible for its content and that Roadracingworld.com makes no guarantee that it is accurate. Not all press releases are posted and Roadracingworld.com may reject press releases if the content is too heavy on commercial promotion with little or no news value or if the press release contains obvious errors.