Apply Now
 The ability to generate, access, and use information has become a critical factor in personal, social, and economic growth. The expanding global information society is encouraging the free flow of information, while the impact of rapidly changing information and communications technologies is reshaping our personal, educational, and social activities, as well as our organizational and political practices and our local, national, and international institutions. OU’s online Master of Library and Information Studies program allows students to develop skills in librarianship, archival studies, technology/data science, and other current specializations as part of the only American Library Association-accredited master's degree program in Oklahoma. Graduates will be prepared for careers in information agencies and positions in information management, storage, organization, access, and use within profit and not-for-profit institutions. Request Information Rolling admissions (applications due 14 days before the intended start date). Fall, Spring, Summer Stay up to date with OU holiday closings, deadlines, and more. View Calendar This program creates strong leaders who harness cultural differences and gather perspectives from across age groups and socioeconomic backgrounds while adapting to constant change. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average salary for librarians and library media specialists is $61,190 as of 2021, with 14,900 openings projected through 2031. Learn in a flexible, online program designed for working adults. You’ll engage in online discussions with professors and fellow students while learning how to become a leader in the field through both coursework and practical experience. OU Online graduates find employment within six months after graduation* OU Online graduates report earning an annual salary of $75,000 or more* OU Online students say the skills they gained in their program made them more competitive in their career field* *Source: OU Online Graduate Outcomes Survey, 2023 Take the next step in your career with a degree from the University of Oklahoma. Applications are reviewed year-round for fall, spring, and summer sessions. Choose your program, choose your start, and apply today. The School of Library and Information Studies offers a comprehensive degree program through coursework and practical experience. The Master of Library and Information Studies degree requires at least 36 hours of completed coursework. Students achieve degree completion through one of three options: passing a comprehensive examination, completing a written thesis, or completing a portfolio. Accreditation
 The Master of Library and Information Studies program at the University of Oklahoma is accredited by the American Library Association Committee on Accreditation.   In addition to the required courses, students have six (6) elective courses that give them the flexibility to tailor their degree to the professional setting of their interest. Admission to the online program is selective. Those interested in the program should have a competitive undergraduate GPA. Additional admissions factors may include work or service experience, demonstrated leadership potential, exceptional talents or skills, trends, or academic and undergraduate school performance improvement. Applicants must complete the following: The admissions committee operates under a rolling admission process, and admissions may continue until two weeks before classes start. The committee strives to respond to all applicants within two weeks of submitting a completed application. For more information on the admissions process, please complete the contact form below, and an admissions counselor will be in touch shortly. If you would like to compare the estimated cost of your program with a typical financial aid package, use the cost calculator on our OU Online financial aid page.  Graduate tuition waivers cannot be applied to OU Online programs. OU Online programs qualify for the OU Faculty/Staff Tuition Waiver & Fee Exemption, and we encourage you to check your eligibility.   Tuition waiver and fee exemption package application If you have questions regarding financial aid for your online program, please get in touch with the Online Aid office by emailing onlineaid@ou.edu or calling 405-325-2929. Apply Now Like every OU Online program, the Master of Library and Information Studies is built on the foundation of world-class University of Oklahoma faculty mixed with professors of practice providing valuable instruction. By linking industry experts with our online programs, we offer the most advanced curriculum and prepare students for future career success.  Earning a Master of Library and Information Studies from OU Online gives you the skills to succeed in a growing and evolving field. It also gives you access to career support and an expanded professional network as part of the global OU alumni community. Stand out where the industry is moving while enjoying the potential for higher pay, career advancement, and new opportunities. Tuition and fees for the program are $17,424-$39,420 ($484-$1095 per credit hour). Books and additional materials are not included. Once accepted into the program, students must submit a $350 nonrefundable deposit within two weeks. Deposits are applied toward tuition expenses and secure a student’s place in the upcoming class. There is no application fee for this degree. Our tuition calculator can help you estimate your tuition and financial aid for your program of interest. ESTIMATE COSTS
 We are a top-tier public institution offering high-quality, affordable, professional undergraduate and graduate programs committed to maintaining academic excellence online. Every OU Online program is built on the foundation of world-class faculty mixed with professors of practice providing valuable instruction. By linking industry experts with our online programs, we offer the most advanced curriculum and prepare students for future career success. When you graduate from an OU Online program, you’ll join the network of 250,000 OU alumni and be forever part of the OU family. Become part of the tradition of excellence that OU has established in its 130-year history. Apply Now          