foodRestaurant News By  Sarah BlaskovichSenior Food Reporter By  Sarah BlaskovichSenior Food Reporter 5:00 AM on Jul 18, 2023 CDT — Updated at 1:21 PM on Jul 18, 2023 CDT Not much about The Colony, a suburb of Dallas, is like Chicago. The Colony is hot, flat and suburban. Chicago is windy, often cold and urban. But allow them two exceptions: Italian beef shop Portillo’s and pasta restaurant Quartino both hail from Chicago, and both have found a high-profile home at the $1.5 billion Grandscape development west of the Dallas North Tollway, off of State Highway 121. We’ve covered Portillo’s expansion into Texas extensively. It was the biggest restaurant opening in early 2023 in North Texas, and it remains a talker even though drive-through lines have slimmed from an hour’s wait to just a few minutes for hot dogs and Italian beef sandwiches. Quartino Ristorante & Wine Bar deserves a look now, not only for Chicago ex-pats but also for Denton and Collin County dwellers seeking reasonably-priced Italian food. That’s Quartino’s “thing,” says co-founder and executive chef John Coletta during a swift tour of the 15,000-square-foot restaurant with dining rooms, bars and kitchens on two floors. It’s the second Quartino ever, after the original in Chicago’s River North neighborhood opened nearly 20 years ago. Coletta has been with the company since the beginning, when the original plan was to open a French restaurant in Chicago. The team decided opening an Italian restaurant was a surer bet because French food seemed to be going out of style in the early 2000s, the chef says. So Coletta, a New York City native, designed a menu that, today, includes plates of salumi studded with prosciutto, speck and blue cheese; polenta fries with red bell pepper salsa; house-made ricotta; blistered Neapolitan-style pizzas; porcini and truffle risotto; linguine with clams; and penne alla vodka. Get the scoop on the latest openings, closings, and where and what to eat and drink. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy The food will likely be welcomed into North Texas, where red-sauce Italian restaurants have proliferated in the past 10 years. But many of those are high-end: A meal for two at Carbone can cost hundreds of dollars or more, and the lauded Lucia, Nonna and The Charles can get pricey, too. And all of those are in Dallas proper. Inside Quartino’s gargantuan dining room in the ‘burbs, pizzas cost as low as $12 and pastas start at $12.75. Some glasses of wine are 8 bucks. Industry workers get 25% off from 9 p.m. until close every night. “The customer cannot afford to not eat or drink here,” the chef says. We’re laughing, but he’s not: Price is part of the Quartino mission statement. The team at Quartino isn’t sure yet how much of the Chicago menu will stick with a Texas audience. So far, they’ve got more than 70 Italian items on the menu, from spuntini (snacks) to verdure (vegetables) to frutti di mare (seafood) to pastas and more. Quartino is one of the final restaurants to open in the Grotto, an area of Grandscape with peekaboo patios and bars underneath ground-level restaurants. Red Phone Booth, a speakeasy, is one recent addition. Chicago-based restaurant parent company Gibsons has been in talks with Grandscape for eight years. The company also runs Gibsons Bar & Steakhouse, which has been in operation in Chicago for 34 years. So why make the leap to Texas? The nearby headquarters for Toyota and Boeing were attractive, as were the vibrant populations in neighboring suburban cities. Coletta says Quartino might expand beyond The Colony. That depends on what happens at Grandscape. Quartino, like Portillo’s, is giving Texas a try. Quartino is at 5754 Grandscape Blvd., The Colony. It opened June 19, 2023. Sarah Blaskovich, Senior Food Reporter. Sarah writes about restaurants, bars and culture in Dallas. Follow @sblaskovich on Twitter and ask her what to do, where to eat or where to drink in your area.