Thousands of companies across the world are customers of Matillion Sign up to FREE email alerts from BusinessLive North West We have more newsletters Sign up to FREE email alerts from BusinessLive North West We have more newsletters Greater Manchester has a long tradition of being the birthplace of technology giants that go on to have an impact on the world in their own unique way. Names like Boohoo, AutoTrader, On The Beach, THG and AO have all found success after reaching the coveted $1bn valuation mark. But cloud services giant Matillion could surpass them all if it continues the meteoric rise it has enjoyed in recent years. After achieving unicorn status two years ago, the tech firm is drawing up plans to grow even further and is weighing up a possible IPO. In an exclusive interview with BusinessLive, co-founder and chief executive Matthew Scullion opened up about his future plans as well relocating the company's new European head office to Salford and creating jobs. He also talks about how Matillion's valuation in September 2021 was "very much at the sane end" of the scale at a time when valuations were "super frothy". READ MORE: Click here to sign up to the BusinessLive North West newsletter  READ MORE: Mike Ashley's Frasers Group further increases Boohoo stake after becoming biggest shareholder The CEO bemoaned that the UK "loves celebrating failure" and that it should have a culture of allowing risk taking like in Silicon Valley. Mr Scullion also spoke to BusinessLive about whether he would ever take Matillion public, adding that such a move would be "an incredible marketing event". Matillion recently relocated its UK head office from Altrincham to Salford's Two New Bailey. The office sits alongside the company's sister-HQ in Denver, Colorado. The 28,000sq ft space sits on the sixth and seventh floors of the building, which is also home to Eversheds and Clyde & Co. Mr Scullion said: "We're very pleased to have our new HQ offices open in Manchester and Denver. We were ready for new offices just prior to the pandemic, but thankfully the timing of it all meant that we actually didn't sign up for them in early 2020. "That was a big benefit going through the pandemic because we weren't carrying the costs of the lease. But the flipside was that once the world emerged from the pandemic, it meant we didn't really have enough space and the company had grown in size considerably. It was about 200 team members in April 2020 when we locked down. It's well over 500 today. "So we were definitely out of space and therefore perhaps felt a little itinerant for quite a long time after the pandemic ended. So it's been really nice to be able to get proper HQ locations back up and running, get people back into the office and working together. "We often in our country, as part of the long list of things we tell ourselves that we do wrong, that we don't make anything here. But what happens in the Manchester office is that we manufacture a product. In a way we're a manufacturing company, it's just we don't make it out of steel anymore. We make it out of lines of code." There is a long list of technology companies in Manchester who are planning to create hundreds of jobs over the coming years. It's a common goal that many business leaders want to share with their industry and the public at large as a measure of their success. However, when asked, the CEO said that while he expects Matillion to increase its headcount, it's not something that he is focusing on. He said: "I expect so but the thing we focus on growing is the top line. I'm wary of setting goals for growing headcount because headcount growing faster than the top line is just adding cost. You may need to do that, but it's not a goal to be celebrated in its own right. It's a byproduct. "Matillion is in a very large total addressable market and has a leading position in it. We've built what we describe as the start of a consequential company, and we very much feel and hope and are working hard to execute against the fact that we think it's really just day one in our story. So with those things in mind, yes, I should imagine that we will grow over the years to come in terms of headcount internationally and certainly here in Manchester." Matillion joined the ranks of Manchester's tech unicorns in September 2021 when a $150m fundraising drive by a US investment giant with stakes in the likes of Gymshark, BuzzFeed and Squarespace valued the business at $1.5bn. The firm secured the Series E funding from General Atlantic with participation from Battery Ventures, Sapphire Ventures, Scale Venture Partners and Lightspeed Venture Partners.  The funding was Matillion's second triple-digit round of 2021. The valuation meant the business became Manchester's sixth unicorn - a term meaning a privately-held start-up valued at over $1bn - joining fellow city-based firms On The Beach, Boohoo, AutoTrader, THG and AO. AutoTrader is the only one of the five now listed on the London Stock Exchange to still be valued at over $1bn. Asked whether that valuation still holds true two years on, Mr Scullion said: "The company is certainly a lot bigger since then. Without mentioning the detailed figures, the top line revenue that was associated with that funding round has more than doubled since that time. As regards the valuation itself, as a private company, you only know when you go to market. "We raised $250m in 2021 and still have a reassuringly plentiful amount of that left. So we won't need to raise capital any time imminently, and we'll only know the valuation of the company next time we go to market. "Separately and entirely disconnected from that, 2021 was a fairly heady time for tech valuations, perhaps only beaten by the first half of 2022. And I think all tech valuations have reduced in their multiples significantly since that time. "I'm not a financier, I just focus on building our business as well as we can. But in general, as a layman, I would describe the valuations in 2021/2022 were extremely high and represented an aberration. "Valuations today are probably lower than what I'd suggest a kind of sensible midpoint would be. But I think rational valuations are probably closer to today's pricing than they are to 2021/22 pricing. "Now on the flip side, our 2021 valuation wasn't one of the crazy ones. There were many companies that raised money in 2021 with valuations completely disconnected from the stage and scale of their business. "That really wasn't the case for Matillion. We had a substantial business growing strongly at the time we raised. I would describe our valuation during 2021 as quite a sensible one, and certainly in the context of that time. "What are we worth now? I have no idea, because you're worth what someone is willing to pay, and you don't know that until you go out and raise money which we won't be doing imminently, as we have plenty of cash on our balance sheet. But in general, valuations were super frothy in 21/22. Our valuation was very much at the sane end of that frothiness." Matillion is due to file its latest set of accounts with Companies House by the end of October. For its previous financial year, the business reported a turnover of $57.2m and pre-tax losses of $31.6m. Matillion was co-founded by Mr Scullion and chief technology officer Ed Thompson in 2011 after quitting their jobs in a bid to "revolutionise business intelligence in the cloud". Like any start-up, the move involved risk - something that Mr Scullion says is not celebrated enough in the UK. "I serve on the Capital Markets Industry Task Force which is a body set up to help address the issue of how we start, scale, grow and keep companies in the UK", he said. "One of the things that we talk about a lot is the UK's attitude to risk. "Entrepreneurialism and the deployment of risk capital are inherently risky. The way it works in Silicon Valley, roughly and I'm paraphrasing, is you back ten companies and one of them works out and gets really big and changes the world. Meaning nine down. "That's to be celebrated, I think. You don't castigate the nine that didn't work out. In Silicon Valley, invariably the nine that didn't work out, the people involved with them go and set up another ten and in the end, one of them sticks and changes the world and becomes one of the technologies that we all use. "I do think in the UK we love celebrating failure and we take more pleasure from the schadenfreude and pointing at the one that didn't work out. But building companies is difficult and risky. If you want to have no risk, then don't set up a company. If you want to minimise risk in the way that's actually quite de rigueur in the UK, then don't try to grow fast. And as a by-product of that, never become big, never change the world and be part of the low growth economy that we're all part of. "It really pisses me off, actually, how much everybody celebrates when someone fails. It should be like, 'hey, that was close, nice one, really good attempt. Dust yourself off and get going with the next one'. Mr Scullion has previously expressed his hope that Matillion would one day be in a position to become a public company, whether that be in the UK or US and his top team have experience in floating businesses. The CEO said that "only the best companies can become and stay public companies" and while "we want to be the best company" he adds that striving for that lucrative IPO "can form a massive distraction". He said: "Going public isn't a destination. Matillion exists to help our customers and to help data teams be wildly productive at making data business ready. That's solving a big problem. "As a byproduct of that, we're excited about building what we hope to be a company that is consequential and good. By good I mean something that we can be proud of, something that we're not embarrassed about how it was built, something that there's no aspect of we wouldn't be happy to see written about in the press or discussed at the water cooler. "Whether it's raising capital or becoming a public company, they're just things that we do to help us achieve that core mission of helping individuals, teams and organisations make their data business ready faster and in doing so, building a consequential company of which we can be proud, making a dent in the universe bigger than ourselves. "What I'll say about being a public company is that, in my opinion at least, only the best companies can become and stay public companies. It's a high bar and in general, we want to be the best company that we can so for that reason, it would certainly seem a compatible ambition. "As to the where, when and if of that, I don't really have any comments on it because it's never my top of mind goal. My top of mind goal is to build a consequential company, then things like becoming a public company are a byproduct of that. "I often think it can form a massive distraction and misaligned incentives. Becoming public is not the end. In fact, in many ways, it's just the first major milestone, and much of the value to be created in your company will come after a point of going public, if you so choose to do that. "There are some specific tactical advantages of becoming a public company that often aren't always obvious and would be some of the sorts of things that we might be thinking about if we were to go public at some stage. The biggest one in many ways is about brand awareness and about sales and marketing. "Public companies are more famous and that makes it easier to do the day to day job of finding and working with current and new customers. If you're a public company, lots gets written about you in the press. That makes your website more prominent, which then makes it easier to generate business through your website. So it can be quite practical. "Often as you become public, you start to work more closely with the world's largest financial services institutions which can in turn make it easier to work with other financial services institutions and or just other companies in general, because people might conclude if they're good enough for X, Y, Z huge bank, then they're good enough for me. "Often people don't connect those dots but it's an incredible marketing event. That would be part of our decision making criteria when and if we're able to do that." 