
UPDATED 16:40 EDT / JULY 21 2023

 
	                    		                        by 
Victor Dabrinze

 Sustainability and energy management are top of mind for enterprises today, as the world seeks to find greener, more efficient ways to generate, transport and utilize energy resources. Companies such as EDF Energy are increasingly relying on data to better direct and manage energy sustainability operations to bring forth a net-zero future. “At EDF, we have a bunch of data sources: first-party data, market data, third-party data [and] industry data,” said Alex Read (pictured, left), senior manager of data platforms at EDF Energy. “The big challenge for us is bringing that data into one location and making it business ready. Matillion Data Productivity Cloud is enabling us to bring the data into our data platform [and] store it in one location that can serve multiple products across the organization.” Read and Matthew Scullion (right), chief executive and founder of Matillion Ltd. spoke with theCUBE industry analysts Dave Vellante and Lisa Martin at Snowflake Summit, during an exclusive broadcast on theCUBE, SiliconANGLE Media’s livestreaming studio. They discussed EDF empowering its Snowflake-powered data platform with Matillion’s Data Productivity Cloud. (* Disclosure below.) Birthed in 2015, Matillion gained recognition through its tools for extracting, transforming and loading data. The platform is simply taking a step into its next generation with Matillion Data Productivity Cloud, which is targeted at “sophisticated data teams for whom productivity is important”, according to Scullion. “Today, this morning, we have launched the next generation platform, the Data Productivity Coud — which is an end-to-end integrated platform building on the years of experience we’ve had across tens of thousands of users making data business-ready to make data teams wildly more productive.” he explained. For EDF, the Data Productivity Cloud’s low-code/no-code environment has expanded usability and created accessibility across a range of coding skill levels, Read added. “As you can imagine on historical tooling, we would’ve had to have large teams of data engineers [and] DevOps engineers in order to provision data platforms and then build our data pipeline,” he said. “With Matillion, because it’s a low-code/no-code, user-friendly UI, we can roll that tool out to quite medium-skilled data analysts, for example, who can then go on via the tooling and start playing with data, driving data outcomes via the Matillion tooling.” Here’s the complete video interview, part of SiliconANGLE’s and theCUBE’s coverage of Snowflake Summit:  (* Disclosure: Snowflake Inc. and Matillion Ltd. sponsored this segment of theCUBE. Neither Snowflake/Matillion nor other sponsors have editorial control over content on theCUBE or SiliconANGLE.) THANK YOU Virtual networking startup ZeroTier raises $13.5M to juice product development A close look at JPMorgan's aggressive cloud migration Why Databricks vs. Snowflake is not a zero-sum game X’s new AI training opt-out setting draws regulatory scrutiny Cyber insurance provider Cowbell reels in $60M to grow its product portfolio New AI models flood the market even as AI takes fire from regulators, actors and researchers Virtual networking startup ZeroTier raises $13.5M to juice product development CLOUD - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 2 HOURS AGO A close look at JPMorgan's aggressive cloud migration CLOUD - BY PAUL GILLIN . 2 DAYS AGO Why Databricks vs. Snowflake is not a zero-sum game BIG DATA - BY GUEST AUTHOR . 2 DAYS AGO X’s new AI training opt-out setting draws regulatory scrutiny AI - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 3 DAYS AGO Cyber insurance provider Cowbell reels in $60M to grow its product portfolio SECURITY - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 3 DAYS AGO New AI models flood the market even as AI takes fire from regulators, actors and researchers AI - BY ROBERT HOF . 3 DAYS AGO Forgot Password? Like Free Content? Subscribe to follow.