E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
For information on submitting an obituary, please contact Reading Eagle by phone at 610-371-5018, or email at obituaries@readingeagle.com or fax at 610-371-5193.
 
Most obituaries published in the Reading Eagle are submitted through funeral homes and cremation services, but we will accept submissions from families. Obituaries can be emailed to obituaries@readingeagle.com.
 
In addition to the text of the obituary, any photographs that you wish to include can be attached to this email. Please put the text of the obituary in a Word document, a Google document or in the body of the email. The Reading Eagle also requires a way to verify the death, so please include either the phone number of the funeral home or cremation service that is in charge of the deceased's care or a photo of his/her death certificate. We also request that your full name, phone number and address are all included in this email.
 
All payments by families must be made with a credit card. We will send a proof of the completed obituary before we require payment. The obituary cannot run, however, until we receive payment in full.
 
Obituaries can be submitted for any future date, but they must be received no later than 3:00 p.m. the day prior to its running for it to be published.
 
Please call the obituary desk, at 610-371-5018, for information on pricing.
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 Perhaps no one has been impacted quite as dramatically by watching a baling machine wrap plastic around hay as Tom Brizek was, one day in 2008.Observing how the machine spread plastic 360 degrees around the bales sparked an idea — with his metal fabrication company quickly growing, Brizek wondered if he could apply a similar all-around wrapping technology to streamline his own packing process.It didn’t take long for Brizek and his business, TAB Industries, to turn that idea into an innovation. In 2009, TAB put the first Wrapper Tornado to use at its fabrication facility.By dispensing stretch wrap from a circular ring rotating around a horizontal axis, TAB’s Tornado orbital wrapper envelops 360 degrees, around and under a pallet of products.The wrapper secures the pallet, allowing for safe storage and transport without the need for boxes, banding, strapping, or overpacking, according to TAB.A pallet of pipes wrapped by TAB Industries’ Wrapper Tornado orbital wrapper. (Courtesy of TAB Industries)The product soon became the envy of TAB’s customers, so Brizek decided to make it available to all, establishing the Wrapper Tornado division of TAB Industries in 2011 to build and distribute the machine.A decade later, TAB’s invention was officially recognized by the U.S. government. In June 2021, TAB was granted a patent for the Wrapper Tornado line of orbital wrappers.The patent credits the invention to Brizek, TAB president and CEO, along with his son, Andrew Brizek, vice president of sales and marketing.

From left, Andrew Brizek, vice president of sales and marketing at TAB Industries, with his father Tom Brizek, TAB president and CEO. (Courtesy of TAB Industries)The patent notes that by applying compression and lateral forces to the pallet load, the wrapper solves a key shortcoming of turntable wrappers, preventing loads from sliding off the pallet and adding protection from damage in transit.In a brochure on the company’s website, TAB notes that the wrapper reduced instances of products being damaged and rendered defective, meaning fewer rejected orders.TAB also says its product eliminates the old manual wrapping process, where workers would risk injury by wrapping the pallets by hand.The company claims its Wrapper Tornado line reduces wrapping times from two to three minutes, to about 60 seconds, and can save companies more than $25,000 in annual labor costs.The wrapper comes in a variety of sizes and is offered with semi-automated controls, in addition to a fully automated option that can be customized with optional accessories.TAB is seeing high demand for the wrappers in the US and Canada, although the product has been sold internationally, company representatives said.The company was founded in 2005 and operates a 44,000-square-foot facility in Reading.TAB still offers its original metal fabrication, laser cutting, welding, and related metalworking services, in addition to the Wrapper Tornado line.Its clients include growing small businesses, as well as globally recognized companies like Target, Walgreens, Volvo, and Mack Truck, according to TAB’s website. Observing how the machine spread plastic 360 degrees around the bales sparked an idea — with his metal fabrication company quickly growing, Brizek wondered if he could apply a similar all-around wrapping technology to streamline his own packing process. It didn’t take long for Brizek and his business, TAB Industries, to turn that idea into an innovation. In 2009, TAB put the first Wrapper Tornado to use at its fabrication facility. By dispensing stretch wrap from a circular ring rotating around a horizontal axis, TAB’s Tornado orbital wrapper envelops 360 degrees, around and under a pallet of products. The wrapper secures the pallet, allowing for safe storage and transport without the need for boxes, banding, strapping, or overpacking, according to TAB. The product soon became the envy of TAB’s customers, so Brizek decided to make it available to all, establishing the Wrapper Tornado division of TAB Industries in 2011 to build and distribute the machine. A decade later, TAB’s invention was officially recognized by the U.S. government. In June 2021, TAB was granted a patent for the Wrapper Tornado line of orbital wrappers. The patent credits the invention to Brizek, TAB president and CEO, along with his son, Andrew Brizek, vice president of sales and marketing. The patent notes that by applying compression and lateral forces to the pallet load, the wrapper solves a key shortcoming of turntable wrappers, preventing loads from sliding off the pallet and adding protection from damage in transit. In a brochure on the company’s website, TAB notes that the wrapper reduced instances of products being damaged and rendered defective, meaning fewer rejected orders. TAB also says its product eliminates the old manual wrapping process, where workers would risk injury by wrapping the pallets by hand. The company claims its Wrapper Tornado line reduces wrapping times from two to three minutes, to about 60 seconds, and can save companies more than $25,000 in annual labor costs. The wrapper comes in a variety of sizes and is offered with semi-automated controls, in addition to a fully automated option that can be customized with optional accessories. TAB is seeing high demand for the wrappers in the US and Canada, although the product has been sold internationally, company representatives said. The company was founded in 2005 and operates a 44,000-square-foot facility in Reading. TAB still offers its original metal fabrication, laser cutting, welding, and related metalworking services, in addition to the Wrapper Tornado line. Its clients include growing small businesses, as well as globally recognized companies like Target, Walgreens, Volvo, and Mack Truck, according to TAB’s website. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group