CBSE Class 10 Manufacturing Industries MCQs: Get important MCQs for CBSE Class 10 Geography Chapter 6 - Manufacturing Industries here to prepare for the year-end board exams. Download all questions and answers in PDF here. CBSE Class 10 MCQs for Geography Chapter 6: This article presents important MCQs for CBSE Class 10 Geography Chapter 6 - Manufacturing Industries. Subject experts have created these questions after a careful analysis of the new reduced syllabus and the revised NCERT Book - Contemporary India - II. Hence, the questions and answers provided below are important for the board exam preparations. Students can also check here the link to get access to the chapter-wise MCQs for History, Geography, Civics and Economics subjects and practise them for an outstanding performance in their CBSE Class 10 Social Science Board Exam 2024. Related|  CBSE Class 10 Social Science Deleted Syllabus 2023-24 CBSE Class 10 Social Science Sample Paper 2023-24 1.The first Jute mill was set up in ............... (a) Hyderabad (b) Bengaluru (c) Kolkata (d) Mumbai Answer: (c) Kolkata  2.Which one of the following agencies markets steel for the public sector plants? (a) HAIL (b) SAIL (c) TATA Steel (d) MNCC Answer: (b) SAIL  3._________pollution of water occurs when hot water from factories and thermal plants is drained into rivers and ponds before cooling. (a) Thermal (b) Industrial (c) Noise (d) Air Answer: (a) Thermal  4.Molasses are used to make (a) rum (b) rubber (c) ethanol (d) all of the above Answer: (a) rum  5.Which one of the following industries uses bauxite as a raw material? (a) Aluminum smelting (b) Cement (c) Paper (d) Steel Answer: (a) Aluminum smelting  6.Oil India Ltd is a ________ type of industry on the basis of ownership? (a) Public sector (b) Private sector (c) Joint sector Industry (d) Cooperative sector Industry Answer: (c) Joint sector Industry  7.Which one of the following organizations is responsible for the marketing of steel of the public sector undertaking? (a) TISCO (b) IISCO (c) BHEL (d) SAIL Answer: (d) SAIL 8.Which out of the following is a mineral based industry? (a) Sugar (b) Tea (c) Cotton (d) Petrochemicals Answer: (d) Petrochemicals 9.Which of the following areas has most of the integrated steel plants in India? (a) Malwa Plateau (b) Bundelkhand Plateau (c) Meghalaya Plateau (d) Chotanagpur Plateau Answer: (d) Chotanagpur Plateau 10.India is the largest producer of raw jute and jute goods at second place as an exporter after _________. (a) Bangladesh (b) Pakistan (c) China (d) Sri Lanka Answer: (a) Bangladesh  11.Which country has the largest installed capacity of spindles in the world? (a) Japan (b) Philippines (c) China (d) India Answer: (c) China  12.Which are the two prime factors for the location of aluminium industry? (a) Market and cheap labour (b) Transport network and unlimited water supply (c) Regular supply of electricity and an assured source of raw material (d) None of the above Answer: (c) Regular supply of electricity and an assured source of raw material  13.Match the items of column A with that of Column B (a) (i) a, (ii) b (iii) c (iv) d (v) e (b) (i) d (ii) e (iii) b (iv) a (v) c (c) (i) c, (ii) d (iii) b (iv)a (v) e (c) (i) d, (ii) e (iii) c (iv) b (v) e Answer: (b) (i) d (ii) e (iii) b (iv) a (v) c 14.Which is the only industry in India which is self-reliant? (a) Textile industry (b) Iron and steel (c) Electrical (d) Petrochemicals Answer: (a) Textile industry  15.The industries which have heavy types of raw material are called (a) light industries (b) consumer industry (c) Key industry (d) none of these Answer: (d) none of these Also Read: MCQs for CBSE Class 10 Social Science (All Chapters) Get here latest School, CBSE and Govt Jobs notification and articles in English and Hindi for Sarkari Naukari, Sarkari Result and Exam Preparation. Download the Jagran Josh Sarkari Naukri App. Get here latest School, CBSE and Govt Jobs notification and articles in English and Hindi for Sarkari Naukari, Sarkari Result and Exam Preparation. Download the Jagran Josh Sarkari Naukri App. UP Police Constable Admit Card 2024 Live Update: आज शाम 5 बजे से डाउनलोड करें यूपी पुलिस के एडमिट कार्ड, यहाँ देखें सभी डाउनलोड लिंक   Top 10 Most Expensive Movies Ever Made, Check Complete List  India Post GDS Cut Off 2023 & Merit List: State and Category Wise Previous Year Cut Off Marks  India Post GDS Result 2024 OUT at indiapostgdsonline.gov.in: Download Circle-wise 1st Merit List Here  एक ओवर में सर्वाधिक रनों का टूटा युवराज का रिकॉर्ड, इस खिलाड़ी ने बनाया नया विश्व रिकॉर्ड  India Post GDS Apply Online 2024 for 44,228 Vacancies at indiapostgdsonline.gov.in; Direct Registration Link Here  Karnataka PGCET 2024 Result Date: KEA to Announce Karnataka PGCET Result 2024 Soon; Check at cetonline.karnataka.gov.in  PSEB Punjab Board Class 5 Maths Sample Question Paper 2025: Download PDF For Free  MPBSE Class 9 Social Science Syllabus 2024-25: Download MP Board Marking Scheme PDF  Top 10 Largest Companies in the World By Market Cap 2024  CFTRI Recruitment 2024: Online Application Begins for Research Associate Posts, Salary Upto Rs.58,000  India Post GDS Cut Off 2024: State-Wise Cut Off Marks  India Post GDS Result 2024 Released: इंडिया पोस्ट जीडीएस की पहली मेरिट लिस्ट जारी, यहाँ देखें सभी सर्किल का PDF Link   Spot 3 Differences Between Alladin's Lamp Pictures in 26 Seconds  eShram Card: क्या है ई-श्रम कार्ड? लाभ, पात्रता और ऑनलाइन अप्लाई की सभी डिटेल्स यहां देखें, e-shram Card Download का तरीका  इंडिया पोस्ट GDS रिजल्ट 2024 घोषित, यहां देखें Circle-wise 1st मेरिट लिस्ट PDF  RUHS BSc Nursing Answer Key 2024: बीएससी नर्सिंग परीक्षा की उत्तर कुंजी ruhsraj.org पर जल्द, यहां देखें PDF डाउनलोड करने का Direct Link  UPSC NDA 2 Admit Card 2024 Soon at upsc.gov.in; Check Exam Details   JPSC Recruitment 2024: Apply Online For 170 Forest Range Officer Posts, Check application process   Indore University Result 2024 OUT: देवी अहिल्या विश्वविद्यालय  परिणाम घोषित, यहां देखें UG, PG सेमेस्टर मार्कशीट  