Patricia Assui Reed at Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Patricia Assui Reed at Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Patricia Assui Reed at Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Patricia Assui Reed at Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Matriark in Sag Harbor.  DANA SHAW  Patricia Assui Reed is a great connector. That’s one of the main reasons she started Matriark in Sag Harbor — to connect women, especially women designers and women-owned brands, with one another and with their customers. But for the past two years, that mission has been curtailed. This summer, Assui Reed looks forward to getting back to the purpose: bringing women together to lift each other up. “It’s not just about Matriark selling stuff — that’s not really why I do this work,” Assui Reed said, settling into a chair in the former Victorian residence turned clothing store, known as the “Gingerbread House,” on Main Street. Instead, she looks to designers and companies whose missions she respects. ANAAK, which creates breezy summer clothes with consciousness, is one of the designers she’s been supporting for a long time. “I like her because of her global view of things,” she said. “She supports artisans and is committed to craft. Her clothes are beautiful and sophisticated.” When Assui Reed loves a company, she takes great satisfaction in helping them collaborate with others. “The part of the job I love most is pairing women,” she said, “and watching them help each other.” When Assui Reed sees a certain synergy between labels, she will introduce the owners, and she loves to watch how their relationships unfold. For example, she introduced KZK, Grammar, and Poetica — three brands that are all New York City-based and share a consciousness about their business models. “I put KZK and Grammar together last year,” Assui Reed said, “and they became friends. Then I introduced them to the owner of Poetica.” On July 14, 15 and 16, these three women will be at Matriark doing fittings and talking to customers. “This story is one example of what happens here all the time,” she said. “I paired women together, and they end up sharing resources and collaborating in different ways. There’s cross-pollination.” Another motivation for Assui Reed when she launched Matriark was to give independent women-owned brands a home in the Hamptons. “There was a lack of representation for these brands everywhere,” she said. “And in the Hamptons, it was even more acute. In East Hampton, you have all these flagships, and they’re great, but where are the independent brands? I see it as homogeneous.” While large brands have huge budgets for advertising and brick-and-mortar rent, some of the most creative and innovative businesses are hustling to get seen. Assui Reed loves to bring these business owners into contact with their customers. “We aren’t just pushing merchandise,” she said. “I bring in the designers and introduce them, and it’s a community of people who can help each other. At the end of the day, these are all women trying to thrive in the business world.” This Memorial Day weekend, Assui Reed will kick off Summer 2022 with community and connection at the heart. She’s invited two brands that she loves, that she feels will feed off each other, for in-store events. Leret, a cashmere company run by a pair of siblings, will have a customization event. Customers can have their initials or other lettering embroidered onto their sweaters. “These sweaters are perfect for cool summer evenings at the beach,” Assui Reed said. Julietta, a jewelry company, will be in the store meeting customers and selling bright, colorful fashion jewelry and hair accessories. As people throw their doors open and invite the world back in for summer 2022, Assui Reed wants to remind people that Matriark has always had a sense of social responsibility. For every item purchased in Matriark, $5 goes directly to i-tri, an East End based organization devoted to instilling a sense of confidence in adolescent girls. “I read that a girl’s self-esteem peaks at 9 years old,” Assui Reed said. “Anyone doing anything to increase girls’ self-esteem should be supported.” What she’s looking forward to most about this summer is finding a sense of lightheartedness again. “We haven’t had enough fun in the last few years,” she said. “When you think about summer in the Hamptons, that’s what people are here for.” One fine body… We're happy you are enjoying our content. You've read 4 of your 7 free articles this month. Please log in or create an account to continue reading. We're happy you are enjoying our content. Please subscribe to continue reading.