Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Whether you're all-natural or you wear gels or acrylics, these are the top cuticle oils, nail strengtheners and other essentials for healthy-looking digits. 
							By 

	Natalie Alcala
 
	If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, The Hollywood Reporter may receive an affiliate commission.	 
	Whether you’re prepping for a wedding or red carpet event, or you simply want to update your grooming routine, there’s something about well-manicured nails that help you feel put together while keeping your hands and feet healthy. Some of the best nail care products can encourage you to prioritize self-care on a budget, or help you pamper your digits in between manicure or pedicure appointments. 
	Here, we’ve rounded up some of the top nail care products from brands trusted by Hollywood beauty pros and stars, such as OPI (which has previously collaborated with Mariah Carey, Carrie Underwood and others), Nails Inc., Beauty Pie, Butter London and more to consider as you build the best DIY mani-pedi kit. Once you have a healthy foundation in place, have some fun with pro-approved nail art or even press-ons for a foolproof coat of creativity.  

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	












	
	Lifestyle
			



	
		
					20 Unexpected Hello Kitty Collabs That Celebrate the Beloved Character's 50th Anniversary		
			














	
	Lifestyle
			



	
		
					These Designer-Inspired Woven Handbags Are $30 and Under at Target		
			






 
	This Nails Inc. Essentials 5-Piece Kit aims to create a professional-looking manicure or pedicure with the help of five bestselling products: Gel Effect Nail Polish in Mayfair Lane, Back to Life Recovery Treatment, Superfood Cuticle Repair Oil, Second Top Coat with Retinol and a classic Nails Inc. nail file.

 
	Beauty Pie’s Pro DIY Manicure Kit contains “precision-engineered” nail clippers, a five-pack of nail files, a set of 24 orangewood sticks, cuticle remover, cuticle therapy gel and the brightening and smoothing Super Retinol Hand Treatment — essentially, everything you need for a luxe at-home pampering routine. 
	This 18-piece manicure set truly features everything you’d need to keep your tips trimmed, which is why the pocket-sized all-in-one kit has more than 30,000 reviews. Although it always includes products for the face (tweezers, scissors), hand and nail-focused items include standard nail clippers, diagonal nail clippers, a nail file, a V-shaped cuticle trimmer, a nail cleaner and a cuticle pusher. 
	Mineral Fusion’s Amazon-bestselling acetone-free nail polish remover for shellac and regular nail polish was designed to prevent stripping or overdrying nails. It helps to prep and clean the nail surface to extend the life of color.

	








 
	OPI’s Nail Envy Nail Strengthener offers a targeted nail treatment with hydrolyzed wheat protein and calcium for harder, longer and stronger, natural nails. It comes in a variety of shades, but we like the clear coat for a neutral option. 
	Butter London’s highly-rated cuticle exfoliator gently removes dry, overgrown cuticles eliminating the need to clip. Formulated with plant-based conditioning ingredients that help soften and gently exfoliate cuticles with each use. 
	Made of 240/320-grit fine and ultra-fine paper for precise filing, these maple wood nail files come in a pack of five and are biodegradable. They feature an ergonomic shape for accuracy. 
	With over 100,000 reviews, Cuccio Naturale’s bestselling Cuticle Revitalizing Oil aims to revive dry and damaged cuticles. It’s a grease-free, vitamin-infused oil conditioner that works to deeply penetrate the skin with moisture, working to prevent peeling, while healing damaged, cracked nails and hands. 
	This 100 percent natural oil from Tenoverten is an overall healthy nail conditioner. Celery seed extract helps to improve thickness and reduce the appearance of ridge, meadowfoam seed oil shields against environmental elements, evening primrose oil assists in hydration and healing, chia seed oil, vitamin B3 and zinc help harden nails, and rosehip oil helps strengthen them. We love the unique roller-ball tip, which rolls the oil right onto your nails and cuticles for a no-mess, efficient and effective application on the go. 
	French skin-care brand Caudalie’s antioxidant-rich, moisturizing cream provides a silky finish and lasting comfort for hands and nails. Concentrated with moisturizing active ingredients plus antioxidant grape polyphenols and reparative organic fair trade shea butter. Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Send us a tip using our anonymous form.