This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Read our privacy policy  Smartphone PC Tablet Wearable Audio Router EMUI Accessories All Products [Demark, Copenhagen, October 9th, 2023] At DTW 2023 in Copenhagen, the project “Techco practicing decision intelligence for sustainable growth” won the TM Forum “Outstanding Catalyst - Use of TM Forum Assets” award. The project was the result of collaborative efforts between Huawei and leading Ecosystem Service Providers (ESPs) including China Mobile, China Unicom Software Research Institute, stc, HKT, Maxis, MTN, Robi, and others.  Catalyst project “Techco practicing decision intelligence for sustainable growth” won the TM Forum “Outstanding Catalyst - Use of TM Forum Assets” award Huawei and partners have thoroughly researched and developed Decision Intelligence (DI) oriented operations transformation framework to enable data-driven Techco’s achieving sustainable growth ambition, and applied it in diversified business scenarios that transform the whole operating model of ESPs as well as digital business transformation, new digital products & services opportunities, and new business model like digital platform business. The project showed how ESPs and partners can better use data intelligence to digitally transform the whole operations with 360-view of customer aspects, needs and context. By identifying their largest operating challenge which can be leveraged to drive better business outcomes, ESPs can make more informed and strategic investments into customer-centric digital transformation, increase agility of their business operations, improve Return on Experience (RoX), and achieve experience-centric business operations for long-tern sustainable growth. Jing Xin, Deputy General Manager of Big Data Applications Department, China Mobile Information Technology Center, said: “The project relies on the data intelligence advantages of China Mobile Wutong Big Data, integrates the operator's industry practical experience in technical architecture, operational efficiency & effectiveness, and uses the industry's leading DT (Digital Twin), DI, AI, blockchain and other capabilities to build an integrated intelligent decision-making technology solution based on IOP (China Mobile Integrated Operation Platform).	 This solution and its practices have been incorporated into the IG1310A international standard by TM Forum, contributing advanced experience to the global promotion of intelligent operation architecture systems. In future, China Mobile will continue to promote the evolution of intelligent operations architecture systems, continuously consolidate the foundation of standardization work, and contribute digital intelligence power to business growth, diversified innovation ecology, and large-scale sustainable development.” Exploring new markets by embracing digitalization is the goal of telecom operators’ digital transformation for long term business growth. Huawei will strengthen cooperation in the industry chain, continue to improve the digital operations transformation theory and industry standards with DI as the core, continue to accumulate practical experience, accelerate the empowerment of digital industrialization and industry digitization, and work with operators and partners to win a bright future for the digital economy. Follow this link for more information on the Catalyst project:
https://www.tmforum.org/catalysts/projects/C23.0.511/techco-practicing-decision-intelligence-for-sustainable-growth
 Sales: +852-800-931-122