Solutions to Nigeria’s newborn mortality rate might lie in existing innovations Research into more efficient AI hardware and software supported by AMD donation Imperial and Vietnamese partners explore UK and Vietnam's pathways to net zero    Transforming health and care for all through evidence-based innovation Top Links Innovative children’s hospice opens in Italy with support from IGHI Impact of the cost-of-living crisis on patient preferences towards virtual consultations GSK backs Imperial’s Fleming Initiative with £45m pledge to fight AMR Health tech organisations visit IGHI IGHI is one of Imperial College London's global challenge institutes.

We exist to empower people to transform health and care.  
Find out more about us
 We unite people, disciplines and ideas to solve some of the biggest healthcare challenges of today. By building evidence and solutions, we are helping more people across the globe to experience good health and wellbeing and better, safer care. 
Discover more about our activities
 Our work is made possible through our seven Centres of Excellence that innovate across medicine, policy, technology and design. Our Centres collaborate to share knowledge, skills and expertise so that we can solve bigger problems and accelerate progress in healthcare. Find out more about our Centres here. The Centre for Health Policy's vision is to catalyse the development, uptake and diffusion of innovative, evidence-based health policy globally. Climate Cares is a team of researchers, designers, policy experts and educators working to understand and support mental health in the current climate The Fleming Initiative works to control the spread of Antimicrobial Resistance and keep antibiotics working. The Hamlyn Centre works to develop safe, effective and accessible imaging, sensing and robotic technologies to shape the future of healthcare. Helix focuses on transforming healthcare using design to make the UK a global hub for high-impact yet simple, cost-effective innovation. ICCARE assembles our research, education and policy engagement in Africa and synthesises within themes. Working to improve patient safety and the quality of healthcare services. Now in its 13th year, the Institute of Global Health Innovation (IGHI) continues to tackle the healthcare needs of the present and the future.

Highlights from 2023 include examining best practice public engagement in dementia research, cutting edge robotics, and supporting the delivery of health services in Ukraine. 
Read our report
 The Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip) in Digital Health Leadership is the flagship programme of the NHS Digital Academy. 

This world-class training programme is designed to nurture existing and aspiring leaders in the growing world of digital healthcare.  
Check out the programmes
 Our paid internship programme gives students and graduates the opportunity to gain professional work experience and skills, while contributing to an impactful programme of work at IGHI. 

The scheme is open to people who have no, or limited, prior work experience.  
Find out more
 The Fleming Initiative offers an innovative approach to the challenge of antimicrobial resistance – combining research, behaviour change, public engagement, and policy to provide real-world solutions that work to protect the health security of local populations around the world. The Centre is due to open in 2028, with Lord Ara Darzi serving as the Executive Chair of the Fleming Initiative. 
Learn more about this initiative
 The Climate Care Centre’s Connecting Climate Minds Global Event in Barbados involved 70 in-person participants and more than 600 virtual participants. Together, we celebrated the initiative’s first year of work led by seven regional communities, youth, Indigenous Nations and Peoples, and small farmers and fisher people. 
Read more about the event
 Our Institute is made up of a multidisciplinary group of talented people with a common ambition to empower people to transform their health and that of others. It’s this drive, and the collaborative nature of everything that we do, which helps us tackle health challenges across the globe. 

Join our team and help us transform health for all! 
Explore current vacancies
 Level 1, Faculty Building South Kensington CampusLondonSW7 2NA IGHI website Fleming InitiativeCentre of African Research and Engagement   
Imperial College LondonSouth Kensington CampusLondon SW7 2AZ, UKtel: +44 (0)20 7589 5111


                Campuses & maps
                
