A victim of the robbery said the man with a gun demanded she give him her McDonald's and purse.  A victim of the robbery said the man with a gun demanded she give him her McDonald's and purse.  The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. A victim of the robbery said the man with a gun demanded she give him her McDonald's and purse.  University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee police are searching for two people after an armed robbery outside of Cambridge Commons, an off-campus dorm. The robbery happened Wednesday around 6:40 p.m. Abagail Houck, a junior at UWM, spoke exclusively with WISN 12 News about her alarming encounter. "I had to look at my friend and she had complete fear in her eyes. And then I finally realized I need to take the bag off. That's when I saw the gun, how close it was to me," Houck said. Houck said the robbery happened while she and her friend walked to the Cambridge Commons dorm from McDonald's.  "A white Kia pulled up on us. A young Hispanic man came out of the car, just jumped up at us with a gun, held it five inches from our chest, and asked for our food first, and then our bags," Houck said, "The woman opened the door and said 'sorry, he was just hungry,' And they drove away." Houck said he took their McDonald's, their wallets, and something else that cannot be replaced. "I had a ruby bracelet that my mother gave me before she died, and that was the only thing I had left of her. So that's gone," Houck said. Houck said her sense of security was also robbed from her. "It makes me feel horrible being a woman, you know. I have mace in my pocket and just nothing works because you just get jumped, even if you're in groups," Houck said. After she escaped the man with the gun, Houck sought help inside the dorm building. "I just kind of collapsed on the floor from panic and shock. A lovely person who didn't know who I was helped me," Houck said. The stranger was Katelyn Jansen, a sophomore at UWM.  "I was about to leave the building as the two girls came running in and one of the girls was like crying, sobbing, and she was like up against the wall and like slid down. The other girl was like 'we just got robbed,'" Jansen said, "I was about to leave by myself. If I left like a minute earlier, that easily could have been me." UWM police said the suspects got away in a white 2021 Kia Sportage.  WISN 12 News reporter Kendall Keys asked police Chief David Salazar if he considered the pair dangerous. "Well, the one suspect was armed. So, yes, they are very dangerous," Salazar said. Salazar said the getaway vehicle may be linked to other investigations in the Milwaukee area. He did not specify what crimes, but encouraged the public to call police if they see the vehicle. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.