
  A McDonald’s in Crayford has reopened following a refurbishment and the News Shopper has an exclusive first look.
 
  A new layout has been introduced to the Tower Retail Park branch to improve both customer and staff experience.
 
  It is one of the first McDonald’s in the region to undergo the “Convenience of the Future” restaurant redesign.
 
McDonald's in Crayford has reopened its doors  (Image: McDonald's)
 
  It aims to offer a greater speed, efficiency and various of food choices for customers when ordering.
 
  Pictures taken by McDonald’s show the finalised look which has been in the works since February 12.
 
Have you got a story for us? You can contact us here.
 
Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram to keep up with all the latest news.
 
Sign up to our newsletters to get updates sent straight to your inbox.
 
  Customers will be welcomed by a bright neon sign, which reads: “McDonald’s.”
 
  The original front counters have removed to provide customers with more space when eating.
 
  It can be seen from the pictures that more seats have been introduced with a tablet area table for kids.
 
McDonald's in Crayford has reopened its doors  (Image: McDonald's)
 
  The Crayford branch will now offer a separate “McDelivery only” area for delivery drivers to collect orders.
 
  It will allow drivers to go in and out of a dedicated service entrance which aims to reduce congestion in the dining area.
 
  Gareth Pearson, McDonald’s UK and Ireland’s COO said: “The pace of change within the restaurant industry is relentless, and the pandemic accelerated this with digital adoption gathering greater pace.
 
  “Our customers rightly expect to have choice in how and where they order and collect their food, and our job is to ensure that every experience is a great one.
 
McDonald's in Crayford has reopened its doors  (Image: McDonald's)
 
  “For this to be the case, we know we also have to provide our restaurant teams and delivery partners with the best possible environment to work in.”
 
  “We strongly believe we have to continue to invest to grow, and this investment not only addresses how customers are ordering now but provides us with a platform to continue to adapt in the future, whatever that innovation looks like.”
 
  McDonald’s has so far introduced 200 “Convenience of the Future” upgrades with 800 more planned over the next four years.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.