McDonald’s is selling its apple slices using plastic packaging with branding from The Little Mermaid on it, a move the fast-food giant is known to replicate with many major Disney films. A Redditor posted a picture of the packaging to highlight the irony, considering how so much plastic wrapping ends up in our oceans, writing, “One apple slice in this plastic baggie, advertising a movie about the ocean…” The image was posted on the popular Reddit community r/Anticonsumption, which has 605k members. Much of the plastic used to wrap the products we purchase, including items from fast food restaurants, ends up under the sea, where the animated Disney classic “The Little Mermaid” takes place. Today, 80% of all marine pollution is plastic, with around 9 to 11 million tons of plastic ending up in our oceans each year, according to UNESCO’s Ocean Literacy initiative. This garbage can stay there, in some form, for anywhere between 500 and 1000 years, and even when it eventually breaks down, it still becomes microplastics, which make their way into our food supply and put us at risk. While a large percentage of the plastic trash in our oceans comes from fishing nets, an estimated 44% comes from takeout. Meanwhile, 914 marine species, including whales, dolphins, sea turtles, and all those depicted in “The Little Mermaid,” are known to ingest or get tangled in plastic. Redditors had no shortage of opinions on the McDoanld’s product, with one saying: “I played airsoft using biodegradable bb’s over 15 years ago, still wondering why biodegradable plastics aren’t more popular in everyday things.” Another added, “These apple slice packs are standard in Happy Meals. McDonald’s sells 4.1 million Happy Meals a day. Imagine 4.1 million of these wrappers in a pile.” “Surprised nobody has sued them for false advertising as it says apple slices and there’s only one apple in the bag,” commented a third. Speaking of fiction and fantasy, this Redditor had a creative idea: “If only we could develop an apple that grows its own packaging.” Join our free newsletter for easy tips to save more, waste less, and help yourself while helping the planet. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. It's position preview week at Yahoo Fantasy and the pod and there may be no other position discussed, debated and passionately watched in fantasy more than the wide receiver position. Matt Harmon is back in the host chair and joined by Dalton Del Don to break down every angle of the WR position in 2024. Harmon and Del Don attempt to identify the potential league winners, sleepers and fades at the WR position this season. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run.