There's something you need to look out for if you want a real vegan meal, though Serve the food you really want to eat by signing up for our tips and recipes and never be bored by your cooking again We have more newsletters Serve the food you really want to eat by signing up for our tips and recipes and never be bored by your cooking again We have more newsletters  Veganuary is here, and with the occasion comes a variety of brands throwing out their best attempts at vegan options - which often has varied results. While some things are instant hits, such as the Greggs vegan sausage roll, some options can be a bit lacklustre - like this year's McDonald's double McPlant burger.  Burger King is another chain throwing their hat - or crown - into the mix, adding to their handful of vegan options already on the UK menu. But while the restaurant offers vegan nuggets and the Vegan Royale, Burger King also fall short in a lot of their offerings through cross-contamination. They already offer a plant-based Whopper as well as introducing a new plant-based Bakon King burger, but Burger King is yet to find a vegan replacement to their famous flame-grilled selling point. The burger and all of its ingredients are plant-based, but the burger is cooked on the same broiler (grill) as the regular beef burgers. READ MORE: Greggs adds new spicy vegan option to menu for Veganuary  This means the chain can't call their burger vegan, and is likely to catch out anyone thinking they're doing a vegan diet if they're not used to thinking about how their food is cooked. Don't be too worried, however, as they do offer some fully vegan options, and I - a meat eater - decided to try one of their new vegan burgers. I opted to review the new Vegan Royal Bakon King - which is acknowledged by the Vegan Society - as it is the only fully vegan provision newly released this month. The burger itself is a meat-free equivalent of the Chicken Royale Bacon King, a chicken burger with melted American cheese, bacon, mayo, and ketchup. It's an impressive combination of foods to make vegan, but as someone that has previously went vegetarian for a month, I was more than interested to see how they could substitute the meat products for completely vegan alternatives. The burger comes with the already-established vegan Royale patty - replacing the chicken - before topping it with some vegan bakon, provided by La Vie, vegan "cheeeze", and egg-free mayo along with ketchup. This is then all placed between a soft sesame bun. If you order the Vegan Society trademarked meal, you will only have fries as a side as it's the only vegan-friendly offering, as the onion rings are cooked in the same oil as chicken products. While, for a drink, for some reason you can only get a bottle of water or a Capri-Sun. While fries might be all you're restricted to, you can order Coca Cola products as an alternative drink without breaking a vegan diet, as their sodas are all vegan-friendly, so feel free to grab a Diet Coke, like I did. The meal comes at an eye-watering £9.99, which is pretty steep for fast-food and the McPlant burger from McDonald's - as you can get a McPlant large meal for £6.49. As well as this, I added some BBQ sauce, which will set you back 30p per pack. I was a little taken aback at how small the burger appeared in the wrapping, and once I opened it, it looked a little underwhelming. I know fast food never looks like the photos, but the bun seemed to swamp the rest of the sandwich. But, for the sake of presentation, I pressed forward and cut the sandwich in half - seeing quite an appetising burger inside. Taking my first bite, I was genuinely surprised at the taste and texture, as it was very similar to biting into a chicken and bacon burger. A lot of the time, vegan and vegetarian burgers are good "for a meat-free version", but this was actually just a good burger. The bakon has the taste and texture of crispy bacon, the vegan cheeeze tasted like a stronger cheese taste and had the texture of American cheese slices. It was a thoroughly enjoyable burger, and something I would likely order again in the future. If you're giving Veganuary a go and you're missing a chicken burger, then you definitely need to head down to Burger King and try one.  For the latest food stories and reviews from across Leicestershire and Rutland,  sign up here   READ NEXT 