
Aldi has 'saved' shoppers as it releases a dupe of an axed Mcdonald's item for only 99p.
 
  The discount supermarket has introduced its own version of the Hash Brown Waffles which were recently dropped from the menu at the popular fast food chain.
 
  The Four Seasons Mini Hash Brown Waffles (455g) can be picked up by supermarket shoppers for just 99p and they can be cooked from frozen in just 16 minutes.
 
  The news comes amid a shake-up of McDonald's offerings as we head into January 2023.
 
Aldi has released a McDonald's dupe after the breakfast item was removed from the menu (Aldi)  (Image: Aldi)
 
  The restaurant chain has developed a new vegan burger - the Double McPlant - for Veganuary and will be bringing in a Spicy Sriracha Chicken wrap for a limited time only.
 
  However, the Mini Hash Brown waffles are not the only item that McDonald's fans have had to bid farewell to.
 
  At the end of the year, the chain announced that its Big Tasty, Cheese Melt Dippers, Celebrations McFlurry and Festive Pie were all leaving the menu.
 



 
  Amid the rising cost of living, Aldi is helping shoppers indulge in a 'fake-away' which they can enjoy from the comforts of their couch.
 
  For only £1.89, Customers can indulge on Aldi's take of the fast food favourite - 12 Chicken Nuggets & Dips (300g) paired with either a BBQ or Sweet Chilli dip.
 
READ MORE: Greggs reveals four new vegan options across its UK stores just in time for Veganuary
 
READ MORE: The new items at McDonald's this week amid major menu changes
 
  You can also pick up Aldi’s version of Chicken Selects with four Boneless Chicken Strips (230g) for £2.49.
 
  For a mouthwatering breakfast, you can add 10 Breakfast Hash Browns (500g) to your basket for £1.99.
 
  Find your nearest Aldi by checking the store locator on the Aldi website.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.