We are called upon to do unto others as we would have them do unto ourselves. This sacred principle demands we treat others with basic decency and don’t exploit our fellow man. It’s a saying unfamiliar to our pharmaceutical companies. Big Pharma exploits ordinary Americans just to achieve maximum profit. That’s now how it’s supposed to be. North Carolinians especially know the hardship of medical care right now. The big drug makers hiked prices on their products at the beginning of this year, even though more Americans are feeling the pinch of tough economic times. A majority of North Carolinians are worried about skyrocketing drug prices, with nearly a third of state residents foregoing a prescription, cutting pills in half, or skipping a dose of medicine. While ordinary people suffer, Big Pharma reaps record profits. COVID vaccines brought in $90 billion in profits for the industry. Pfizer’s 2022 revenues were the highest in the drug giant’s history. Pharma giants such as ANI and Valeo have reported record quarterly earnings this year. They’re getting richer, while hard-working North Carolinians can barely afford their prescriptions. That’s not right. It would be one thing if these companies made massive profits through good, old-fashioned entrepreneurship and ingenuity. America has always been the land that rewards those who work hard to deliver a great product. But honest business isn’t how they’re raking in billions. Many of these companies corner the market and fix prices to enrich their bottom line. There may be no greater offender in this category than the major drug distributors. Just three companies (AmerisourceBergen, McKesson Corp and Cardinal Health) control 85 percent of the market. The giants have a reputation for price-fixing. Earlier this year, McKesson was forced to fork over $141 million as part of a settlement over claims it benefitted from a price rigging scheme. AmerisourceBergen and Cardinal Health have both had to settle claims over allegations of price-fixing and other behavior to manipulate the market. They’re not alone. Twenty-six drug companies are being sued by North Carolina and nearly every other state over alleged price fixing. These are business practices that violate basic morals. There’s nothing wrong with companies making money the right way. But market monopolies and price-rigging schemes violate the basic teachings our country was founded on. These practices are made worse in that they come at the expense of our sick and needy. People require these drugs to survive, and greedy pharma companies take advantage of that pain to make a bigger buck. It’s downright sinful. Like any bad actor caught doing wrong, Big Pharma tries to shift blame onto others. The industry wants to place more restrictions on pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs), which are third-party groups that negotiate for lower drug prices with the drug giants on behalf of consumers. It’s no mystery why Big Pharma wants to restrict PBMs–they hurt Big Pharma’s bottom line.The real answer to the drug price crisis is to empower the free market to take down Big Pharma’s dominance. If the giants no longer had a stranglehold over the marketplace, businesses with proper morals and a commitment to solid business practices would succeed. North Carolinians are tired of having no choice and paying outrageous prices for the drugs they need. Our lawmakers should listen to their concerns and do what’s right. The drug giants need to be reined in and learn the Golden Rule. We’ve had enough of their immorality.  Chris Williams, a former pharmacy technician, is a Gaston County conservative activist. This article originally appeared on The Gaston Gazette: My Turn: Big Pharma puts profits above basic decency New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.