 Now  73  Sun  81  Mon  79 The Democratic National Convention begins Monday and will give Vice President Kamala Harris her biggest platform yet. by Liz Bonis & Megan Burgasser, WKRC TOPICS: CINCINNATI (WKRC) - A company in Evendale is changing medicine through a breakthrough device that gives patients a way to take certain medications at home. Its purpose is to redefine drug delivery. This new injector called the Enfuse allows medication to be delivered through the skin as a wearable device. It’s the first of its kind, made at a local company called Enable Injections.  “Enable Injections is a company which manufactures a high-volume subcutaneous on-body injector. And that’s a mouthful, but basically what it does is it takes a drug, which normally would be required to be delivered intravenously, and it converts it to a subcutaneous injection, which is just under the skin,” said Mike Hooven, the founder and CEO of Enable Injections. A medication that normally might take eight hours to infuse in a health care setting will take much less time with this new device. “It’s typically about ten minutes or less than hour,” said Matt Huddleston, chief technical officer at Enable Injections. The Enfuse device would let patients get that medicine while wearing it at home or anywhere else.  Right now, the device is only approved for a rare blood disorder. “It is a blood disorder where rare blood cells break down, they clot. So, patients who have this disorder are prone to strokes. They are prone to different anemias, and they require infusions and transfusions on a regular basis to avert the symptoms that they have,” said Allison Mack, medical education lead and nurse practitioner at Enable Injections. Studies already show it’s as effective as an IV delivery system for appropriate drugs. “This is going to be a major, major player in health care,” Hooven said. “This is going to be a big company.” The use for this device is likely to keep growing as care at home continues to be a cost-effective shift in health care.