© 2023, Roadracing World Publishing, Inc. By David Swarts. KurveyGirl.com brings you the results of this weekend’s events.    At our online motorcycle parts store, you’ll find a specialized selection of quarter turn “Dzus” fasteners, titanium hardware, premium tire valve stems, Vesrah racing brake pads, Brembo parts and accessories, and other unique hardware specifically designed for race and trackday motorcycles.   Defending Champion Jake Gagne won MotoAmerica Medallia Superbike Race Two Sunday at Pittsburgh International Race Complex (a.k.a. PittRace), in Wampum, Pennsylvania. It was Gagne’s eighth win of the season on his Fresh N Lean Progressive Yamaha YZF-R1, extending his Championship point lead to where he can possibly clinch the 2023 title in Race Three later Sunday afternoon.  PJ Jacobsen was a very close runner-up, just 0.264 second behind Gagne on his Tytlers Cycle Racing BMW M 1000 RR. Josh Herrin finished third on his Warhorse HSBK Racing Ducati Panigale V4 R. The race was red flagged seven laps into the original start for a crash involving five-time Superbike Champion Cameron Beaubier. Beaubier had run off track early in the race and was running ninth right behind Ashton Yates when Yates’ Aftercare Scheibe Racing BMW lost power momentarily coming out of the chicane. Beaubier ran into the back of Yates’ BMW, and as Beaubier was coming off his bike he was struck by Hayden Gillim and his Disrupt Racing Suzuki. Beaubier suffered a bloody facial laceration but was seen awake and alert on video feeds after the incident. The race was then restarted for an eight-lap final segment.   23_10_PITT_SBK_R2_res « Previous Article |  Next Article » 











Follow us
43,094FansLike19,223FollowersFollow16,430FollowersFollow1,200SubscribersSubscribe 


Menu


Action Fund
Events
Store
Subscribe
Past Issues



Information


Site Map
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact







© , Roadracing World Publishing, Inc.




AUTHOR LOGIN




 © , Roadracing World Publishing, Inc. [flipbook id=”9″] A “press release” is promotional text issued by a rider, team, company or organization to inform
the public about an event, product, or service from the issuer’s own point of view, and if deemed
to have news value, may be placed on roadracingworld.com as a service to our readers. A press release is not an article written by Roadracingworld.com staffers. When a post is labeled with the words “press release”, it means that Roadracingworld.com is not responsible for its content and that Roadracingworld.com makes no guarantee that it is accurate. Not all press releases are posted and Roadracingworld.com may reject press releases if the content is too heavy on commercial promotion with little or no news value or if the press release contains obvious errors.