When a cat is scared, it may hide under the couch; a startled fish will swim into a dark hole. And when humans feel uneasy, we tell ourselves stories. An example: "growth at all costs" is a fairy tale made possible by cheap money that helped venture capitalists set expectations for founders — and each other — for years. "Growth at all costs" is a fairy tale made possible by cheap money that helped VCs set expectations for founders — and each other. Similarly, "everyone needs 18-24 months of runway" is a nice motto, but when it takes three times longer to raise a round than it used to, it may no longer be useful advice. "These 'VCisms' borne out of an era of plenty have permeated boardrooms and investor meetings everywhere," notes Neotribes Ventures partner Rebecca Mitchem in a TechCrunch+ post this morning. Full TechCrunch+ articles are only available to members. Use discount code TCPLUSROUNDUP to save 20% off a one- or two-year subscription. "It’s time to ask ourselves if these VCisms are still relevant or if it’s time to change." In a data-driven piece that looks at post-money valuations, deal sizes and dilution rates going back to 2012, Mitchem says we're now heading into a new era where the tech industry will embrace "growth at reasonable costs." Founders can continue to water down their ownership by pursuing fat rounds, or they can decide to grow more slowly, which will leave everyone involved with a larger stake over time. "While it may feel counterintuitive, given the recent market environment, the value of the equity for all parties — investors, founders and employees — is higher in the more conservative growth scenario," says Mitchem. Thanks very much for reading TC+ this week, Walter Thompson Editorial Manager, TechCrunch+ @yourprotagonist The rules of VC are changing: Here’s what founders should be considering in the new era Image Credits: Andriy Onufriyenko (opens in a new window) / Getty Images Biotech firms widely use AI and machine learning to reduce R&D spending and bring products to market faster, but “the bigger question for investors is getting a better understanding of what exactly AI is attempting to model and predict,” says Shaq Vayda, principal at Lux Capital. In her latest investor survey, Anna Heim spoke to six biotech investors about where AI creates value, short-term market shifts, and how they’d like to be approached by founders: Robert Mittendorff, M.D, general partner and head of healthcare, B Capital James Coates, health and human performance principal, Decisive Point Shaq Vayda, principal, Lux Capital Franck Lescure, partner, Elaia Partners Francisco Dopazo, general partner, Humboldt Fund Sarah Guo, founder, Conviction 6 investors discuss why AI is more than just a buzzword in biotech Image Credits: Jonathan Knowles (opens in a new window) / Getty Images Consumer-facing startups are spending more on platforms like TikTok and Instagram to reach customers, but which ad products offer the best return? In a case study based on Instagram campaigns for a site that facilitates bookings for freelance beauty professionals, digital marketer Angelina Liparteliani looked at Instagram Reels, Feed Posts and Stories. Her highly detailed breakdown includes examples of the ads used in various campaigns, the process she used for optimizing creative materials and a cost-per-click analysis that shows how she reduced CPC from $1.51 to 17 cents. “Definitely don’t chase trends,” advises Liparteliani. “Diversify your ad strategy, test different ideas and don’t give up if your ad doesn’t show results right away.” Which Instagram ad placement is more cost-effective: Reels, Feed Posts or Stories? Image Credits: Medcrypt (opens in a new window) Many medical devices are just as vulnerable to cybersecurity threats as other IoT products, which is why Y Combinator graduate MedCrypt creates software to protect patients. The company predicts that manufacturers will need to secure $1 trillion of "new and legacy" devices over the next three years, a truly tantalizing TAM. After redacting some customer adoption details, MedCrypt's founders shared with TC+ the 12-slide deck that helped it raise a $25 million Series B: Cover slide Problem slide Target audience/market size slide Opportunity slide Mission slide Product slide: Vulnerability tracking Product slide: Behavior monitoring Product slide: Cryptography Product slide: MedISAO Team slide Summary/traction slide Pitch Deck Teardown: MedCrypt’s $25M Series B deck Image Credits: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch Dear Sophie, We’re a pre-seed startup thinking about sponsoring an early employee’s H-1B visa to stay in the U.S. and work for us. How does the process work? — Seeking in San Mateo Dear Sophie: When can I register my employee for the H-1B lottery? Image Credits: MirageC (opens in a new window) / Getty Images I'm used to working under pressure, but taking a job as a chief information security officer sounds extraordinarily stressful: People are far more likely to learn about your failures than your successes. Managing the cybersecurity needs of an entire organization is "a big job that touches just about every part of the organization," says Heather Gantt-Evans, CISO at SailPoint. She's written a guide for incoming CISOs that contains a framework for setting goals, creating action plans and, most importantly, documenting risk. "The first 90 days of a new CISO’s term are critical," writes Gantt-Evans. "They’re the best chance you’ll ever have to research, gather documentation and assess where things stand and how they can be improved." A guide to navigating your first 90 days as a new CISO Image Credits: Peter Dazeley (opens in a new window) / Getty Images Many SaaS sales teams haven't worked in an environment where so many customers are cutting back on spending, and it shows: When everyone's in the mood to buy, it's less important to develop a critical understanding of your customer's needs. "Sellers shouldn’t hop right into pushing features," advises Steve Goldberg, chief revenue officer at Salesloft. "They should illustrate the unsustainable nature of a customer’s current behaviors and processes." In this post, Goldberg looks at MEDDPICC and design thinking, two sales methodologies that are "particularly effective when times get tough." In a turbulent market, it’s time to get methodical about sales New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.