Following years of high-flying growth, the venture-capital industry pumped the brakes this year. A tidal wave of layoffs hit once-flourishing tech startups and forced them to slash spending on beloved passion projects. But despite a similar downturn in digital health — investing in this sector fell by 72% in the second quarter of 2022 compared to its peak in the second quarter of 2021, according to the research firm CB Insights — there are still opportunities for healthtech startups to get funding. "Our healthcare system fails consumers," Amanda Eilian and Lisa Blau, founding partners of healthcare-focused VC firm Able, told Insider in an email. "We need to invest in consumer-first experiences within the healthcare system that will ultimately lead to better outcomes." Caregiving, holistic healthcare, omnichannel distribution, and data collection are other areas within healthtech where startups are primed to shine and raise money, they said. But to capitalize in a down economy, healthtech founders need to create stellar pitch decks — and what better way to put one together than to take advice from founders who successfully raised capital in 2022? Insider spoke with 11 healthcare founders who collectively raised more than $146 million from investors in 2022. From pediatric-mental healthcare, to medical security, to consumer sex-tech, these founders managed to come out ahead in a tough fundraising environment and dwindling deal volume thanks to stellar pitch decks.  Responses have been lightly edited for brevity and clarity. "Investors, of course, need to see your business projections, customer data, where you sit in the competitive landscape and everything else that comes along with seeking investment, but my No. 1 piece of advice is to bring authentic self to your business and mission. In our case, Russ and I had a unique combination of life and professional experience to set us up as the founders of this company. Literally growing up in the medical-supply chain, I have always felt committed to enriching an ethical, high-quality, and more-sustainable supply chain. Russ' background is in sustainable products and he has a wealth of international experience from serving in the US Army. In every pitch, we make sure our investors — future entrusted partners — acknowledge that Russ and I were born to build this business and won't stop till the mission is accomplished. Without our backgrounds, we would not have been able to build the Cabinet business, so showcasing why you as a founder are uniquely equipped to lead and scale your business is of the utmost importance." — Achal Patel, cofounder of Cabinet Health Check out Cabinet Health's full pitch deck here. "In addition to a pitch deck, you also want a data deck, which is a way to take a deeper dive into the data and stories. Investors want to see the deck right at the beginning, but you have to include just the right amount of info in order to keep the conversation interesting but also entice them with the fact that you have more to share. Don't ever go over the whole deck; pull up the slides that correspond with whatever the question is." — Alexandra Fine, Dame CEO and cofounder Check out Dame's full pitch deck here. "Keep your slides simple. We tracked how much time investors spent on the deck, and the average was about two to three seconds per slide. Make sure you get your point across quickly. While it's nice to have an hour, a lot of meetings will have to be under 30 minutes. Make sure you have a 20-minute version and a 40-minute version of the story." — Sahil Choudhry, Handspring Health CEO Check out Handspring Health's full pitch deck here. "On my fundraising 'ask' slide, I included specific and quantifiable goals that I was aiming to hit with this funding and highlighted how I intended to use these resources. High-level buckets are fine. This is important because it demonstrates to investors that you understand the milestones you intend to hit are on par with what will be expected in your next round; showcases that you have an understanding of the amount of funding that will be necessary for you to hit those defined milestones; and have a clear understanding of how you intend to allocate resources you're setting out to hit. Any investor that is seriously interested and is leaning in wants to ensure that you're raising the amount of capital needed in order to take you to the next stage and that you're clear in your thinking in terms of what additional team members and resources you'll need to help you get there." — Marla Beyer, CEO of Hopscotch Check out Hopscotch's full pitch deck here. "Give yourself a chance to refine your deck as you go through the fundraising process. Take the investor feedback you receive early on as an opportunity to address concerns directly in your deck before they come up in your next round of pitches. This is why you'll often hear founders delay reaching out to their first-choice funds until they've had a chance to test and refine their pitch with others." — Chloe Harrouche, cofounder and CEO of The Lanby Check out The Lanby's full pitch deck here. "From a broad perspective, there are a few tactics we've used that helped us be successful. The first is that we really took the time and space to explain the problem and our solution. Healthcare cybersecurity is a very technical problem, and this has to be understood before the solution and the why will land. Secondly, we used real examples through news-story headlines and social proof to validate the problem. And lastly, we kept it simple — no heavy jargon or technical terms. It was the long-term relationships that we had been fostering that allowed us to be successful. If we had to rely on sending pitch decks out to funds that weren't previously aware of us, I think things would have turned out very differently." —Mike Kijewski, MedCrypt CEO and cofounder Check out The Medcrypt's full pitch deck here. "My one rule about the deck is that it should be less than 10 slides. That's really important. If you can't sum up the problem in 10 slides, everything beyond that is just fluff, so have the shortest, most succinct deck possible.'" — Brian Levine, Nodal founder Check out Nodal's full pitch deck here. "The best decks provide a clear narrative — this is your opportunity to tell a concise story with compelling data. We followed a problem-market, opportunity-solution format. On slides three and four, we presented the existing problem within education and health and clearly outlined how it impacts students and educators. We then elaborated on the solution we provide across slides five to nine, with traction and validation to back us up, for a succinct narrative that highlights parts of the business investors find most important. I was advised to keep the deck short, sweet, and clear, which went a long way as I was quickly able to show the traction we've made in this space rather than tell it." — Diana Heldfond, CEO and Founder of Parallel Learning Check out Parallel Learning's full pitch deck here. "Hands down, the No. 1 slide investors were excited about was the team page. The people on that page instantly set Petfolk apart and stopped investors in their tracks. Our team has a unique blend of over 100 years of experience in veterinary medicine, scaling technology companies, and building $1 billion-plus businesses. This is also the page that I am most proud of and excited about." — Audrey Wystrach, Petfolk co-CEO Check out Petfolk's full pitch deck here. "We led with the track record of our three cofounders having launched or led three unicorn companies in our investor pitch, but also the total addressable market of a wildly underserved 60 million sufferers from chronic gut disorders and billions spent already in the gastrointestinal area that is ripe for digital transformation." — Jeff Glueck, cofounder of Salvo Health Check out Salvo Health's full pitch deck here. "We used descriptive insights instead of section labels to title each slide. Your two goals are to be clear and compelling, in that order. It doesn't matter how compelling your business is if they don't understand it. Don't make the investor guess what your point is — tell them straight up. Use statements like '...massive underserved market of $19 billion in US alone' instead of 'market size.' Ditch the 'problem,' 'solution,' and 'value proposition,' labels, or at least stick them on the bottom in small font as a tracker.  We also started with my personal story and my experience of the problem. Lead with the problem you're trying to solve, not your solution. As an early-stage — especially pre-seed and seed — company, the exact make-up of your product will likely shift as you find better ways to solve the problem. Showing that you have an in-depth knowledge of the problem and allowing them to feel it will show investors that you're in it for the long haul because you care, and you have a spirit of iterating to find product market fit." — Christal Wang, Shimmer cofounder and CEO Check out Shimmer's full pitch deck here. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to