
					By Valerie Complex  Associate Editor/Film Writer 
	In a world where familial ties are often tested by time and tradition, Fawzia Mirza’s latest film, The Queen of My Dreams offers a poignant dive into the dynamics between a rebellious daughter and a mother with a past not so dissimilar. This film weaves various  generational narratives together, shedding light on the age-old war between convention and personal aspirations. This is a heartfelt ode to women of different eras who journey through the challenges and triumphs that bind them. The film stars Amrit Kaur, Nimra Bucha, and Hamza Haq.  
	The film follows Azra (Kaur), a Pakistani Canadian who isn’t concerned with conformity. Naturally, her parents Miriam (Bucha) and Hassan (Haq) aren’t happy with her choosing acting classes and an LGBTQ lifestyle. It is these choices that leave mother and daughter estranged. When her father dies, Azra travels from Canada to Pakistan to mourn with her family. Reconnecting with her mother, Azra is privy to some family history as her mom discusses her personal rebellious streak in 1969. 

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	













	News
	



	
		
					Philippines Romance 'Un/Happy For You' Continues ABS-CBN Studios' Box Office Streak		
			















	News
	



	
		
					'How To Make Millions Before Grandma Dies' Secures Theatrical Releases Across North America, China & Europe		
			





 
	As a young woman, Miriam is fiercely independent, looking for love and looking to carve her own path. When Miriam and her family move from Pakistan to Canada, there is a familial shift as they have to adjust to a new life, and assimilate into the western work force. At one point, Miriam sells tupperware door to door to make ends meet. It is through these flashbacks that the audience learns how mother and daughter became estranged, and also how the past can be the key to making amends in their future. 




			Watch on Deadline		




 
	In the cinematic universe where stories are often linear and themes monochromatic, Fawzia Mirza’s The Queen of My Dreams emerges as a delightful anomaly. The film explores the complexities between then and now, a tussle many diaspora families are all too familiar with. What sets this movie apart is its refusal to stick to the beaten path. It’s less about the destination and more about adventure – the unexpected detours that make you pause, think, and, laugh. The only issue is the movie spends more time in the past than it does in the present, which deprives the viewer from really getting to truly know Azra, and layers of empathy and understanding that we seek feel amiss in these moments. However, there is enough information to surmise who Azra was, is, and who she will be in the future. 

	








 
	Lit up with the vibrant hues reminiscent of the golden age of Bollywood, which include strong, conventional lighting techniques and color palettes, It’s evident that Mirza and cinematographer Matt Irwin desired to frame this narrative in the most opulent and stylish way. These moments are a favorite of mine because there is just something about that period in time that captures all the senses.  
The Queen of My Dreams  is a film that doesn’t shy away from wearing its heart on its sleeve. Its endearing charm radiates not only from its affectionate nod to Sharmila Tagore, or its love affair with Bollywood, but also from its dedication to narrating the tales of multiple generations of women who examine, reflect, and celebrate their experiences.  Mirza directs with colorful fervor that will resonate with  viewers, making them feel a part of its world, even if for a short time. 
Title: The Queen Of My DreamsDirector: Fawzia Mirza’Screenwriters: Fawzia MirzaCast: Amrit Kaur, Nimra Bucha, and Hamza Haq.Rating: N/ARunning time: 1 hr 37 min Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	