Protect your phone and keep it looking stylish in one of the best iPhone 13 mini cases 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 The best iPhone 13 mini cases are here to help the last mini iPhone (for now) stay in good working order. There's no shortage of options either, whether you want to maximize protection, add some style to your phone or add some extra utility to your phone. But the prospect of picking a new case can be pretty daunting, with all the options out there.  Fortunately, we've been testing out phone cases for many years, and know how to spot the good from the bad. Often some of the best options come from Apple, and the iPhone 13 mini is no different. If you need something simple and effective then the Apple iPhone 13 mini case with MagSafe is a solid option. However, other options like the Spigen Tough Armor iPhone 13 mini case have proven their worth for a much lower price tag. So if you're in the market for something to protect or accessorize your iPhone 13 mini, here are our top iPhone 13 mini cases you can buy right now. Why you can trust Tom's Guide 


Our writers and editors spend hours analyzing and reviewing products, services, and apps to help find what's best for you. Find out more about how we test, analyze, and rate.  If you’re looking for a case for your iPhone, you can’t go wrong with going straight to Apple. The company sells MagSafe cases made of silicone or leather in multiple stylish colors — but our favorite is the clear iPhone 13 mini case. There’s no need to cover the phone up when it already looks great, after all. This iPhone 13 mini case is made with a blend of optically clear polycarbonate and flexible materials. It's lightweight, and comes with scratch proof and anti-yellowing coating. Coming straight from Apple also means it’s built to be used with MagSafe accessories, so you can add wireless chargers, battery packs, or card wallets that’ll snap right onto your phone thanks to the built-in magnets that align perfectly with the ones inside your iPhone 13 mini.   If you want the best protection for your iPhone 13 mini, Spigen is a great place to go for its rugged armor cases. The three layers of defense inside the frame provide great protection against drops and other shocks, and the raised lips of the case protect the cameras and the screen from scratches.  The Spigen Tough Armor works with MagSafe wireless accessories and comes with a handy kickstand as a bonus. All in all, this is a great case to protect your iPhone 13 mini.  Currently, this case is 58% off on Amazon, so it is a great time to pick one up  Casetify's cases are really stylish, and the level of customization they offer is impressive. They make cases using recycled plastic and other sustainable materials, and offer MagSafe compatibility and different levels of shock protection. There’s no doubt that your phone will turn heads inside a Casetify case. The company's design library features a whole host of fun and quirky looks — “never regretti eat your spaghetti” is a conversation-starter for sure. Of course, Casetify also offers matte and clear options for those of you that prefer a little more subtlety in your iPhone 13 mini case options.  You’ll find you don’t need to choose between style and functionality with Mujjo’s Leather Wallet Cases. This sleek leather case has a high-quality feel great along with with raised bevels at the front and a bump at the back to protect the iPhone 13 mini's screen and camera.  The wallet on the back of the Mujjo case is a great addition, as it can hold up to three cards. That's one less thing to remember to grab when you head out the door with your iPhone.  The Caseology Nano Pop case is reportedly inspired by fruit, and will definitely make your iPhone 13 mini look fresh. The two-tone design of the case really makes it stand out — and it comes in five different colors, all of which look great. The Nano Pop case is made of silicone, so it’s comfortable and feels good to hold, and Caseology promises it to be dust-free. It still offers great protection against drops, with an inner defense pattern and air-space technology in the corners. Plus, it's compatible with MagSafe wireless chargers. All in all, it’s a great, stylish case, and one of the cheaper options on our list.  Totallee’s Super Thin iPhone 13 mini case is ultra-thin, ultra-light and still offers amazing protection. It’s less than 0.03 inches thick and weighs a tenth of an ounce. Perhaps the best thing about the design is its simplicity — the Super Thin case comes in four frosted matte translucent colors, allowing you to see your iPhone underneath that layer of protection.  The case itself also doesn’t come adorned with any branding or logos, putting your new phone center stage. However, it also comes in a limited edition carbon fiber pattern in case opaque cases are more your thing. Despite how thin Totallee's case is, it’s still drop-proof and has a raised lip around the camera to protect it from scratches. The Super Thin iPhone 13 mini case works with MagSafe wireless chargers and is guaranteed to be a perfect fit. What more could you ask for? This case is currently 20% off at Amazon, so now is a great time to pick one up.  This Moment iPhone 13 mini case is strong, sleek, and really comes equipped with everything you need in a case. It’s soft to the touch and easy to grip, and will protect your phone from drops up to 6 feet. But you may not even need to worry about that — as it comes with space to attach a wrist strap (sold separately) to stop those big drops from happening in the first place. It works with wireless chargers, as it comes equipped with (M)Force magnets — that’s Moment’s take on MagSafe. You can then connect the case to a variety of accessories, such as Moment’s range of tripods and car mounts. The iPhone 13 mini case is currently only available in black, but that’s no problem when it looks this fantastic.  If you want a case that stands out — the Mous Bamboo iPhone 13 mini case certainly does that. It feels great to hold, with a nice wooden finish, and works great with all MagSafe accessories. It’s nice and thin — even thinner than the previous Mous Limitless 3.0 case. Even so, it doesn’t compromise on protection, with Mous' AiroShock impact absorbing technology. If bamboo isn’t your thing, the case comes in four other designs, including a nice walnut brown and sleek black leather — and you can pick up a Mous MagSafe compatible wireless charger, stand, or card wallet to use with it if you like.  Casely makes some really vibrant and beautiful phone cases — our pick of the bunch is the Here Comes The Sun colorblock sunset clear case, featuring a beautiful sunset scene over rolling colorful sand dunes. All this is layered over a clear panel at the top, to allow your iPhone mini’s color scheme to peek through the sun’s rays. Even though Casely's offering looks great, there’s no need to worry about protection either — the case has rounded edges designed to protect the screen and buttons, even from hard falls. This stunning sunny case will keep you smiling, even if your phone takes a tumble.  Spigen's Ultra Hybrid case is a great choice for iPhone 13 mini owners who want strong protection at a low price. The clear backing shows off your iPhone 13 mini while giving it a pop of color around the edges for flair — or there’s a totally clear version if you like to keep your phone’s design front and center.  The Ultra Hybrid's raised edges lift your phone off the ground when you place it down, helping protect the screen and camera from scratches while keeping the case slim and lightweight. Plus, it’s MagSafe compatible for wireless charging.  This case is currently 47% off from Amazon, so now is a great time to pick one up. When choosing the best iPhone 13 mini case for you, you need to remember that it may be smaller than what you’re used to. Not many phones sold these days are as dinky as the iPhone 13 mini, which could mean more drops than usual. Prioritize protection in your case if that’s a concern for you. There are plenty of stylish iPhone 13 mini cases with good drop protection, so you shouldn’t need to compromise on this if you still want your phone to look great — but of course it's another factor that will influence your decision. Think as well if there are any other features you’d like included in your case, such as a wrist strap, kickstand, wallet, and whether you want it to have additional built-in MagSafe magnets. You really can spend as little or as much as you like on a phone case, so just go with your gut and choose what feels right for you. And make sure when you're shopping for a case, that you select the iPhone 13 mini option. As the smallest of Apple's phones, it will only work with cases specifically designed for the mini; other options will be too large for your phone. iPhone 12 mini are no good either because Apple changed some design elements between generations, including the main camera block, so those cases won't fit the 13 mini. We use a combination of our own testing and customer experiences when selecting the best iPhone 13 mini cases. For cases we try ourselves, we'll install them on a test device and carry them around with us for several days, noting anything interesting about the experience. Any special features we'll test, as well as more basic parts of our time with the case like how it felt to hold or how it is to look at.  If we've not been able to get a case in for review yet, we'll take a look at Amazon reviews and other customer write-ups to help inform our decision. Drop testing and durability claims we're unable to test for ourselves (at least not without risking our own phones) so for these, we defer to the manufacturers' claims, but recommend that users understand that these aren't independently verified. Cases aren't a necessity for the iPhone 13 mini, but it's better to be safe than sorry. While Apple's Ceramic Shield glass is pretty tough against scratches, it's not drop-proof - it'll still shatter if you drop it on a hard surface. The only downside about having a case is the cost, but Apple mini cases go on sale pretty regularly. A case will help to protect your phone from any falls, although it will make the phone slightly bigger so be aware of that.  Only cases designed specifically for the iPhone 13 mini will fit the iPhone 13 mini. While it's the same overall size as an iPhone 12 mini, the camera block on the back is larger on the 13 mini, meaning a 12 mini case won't fit. You can't go wrong with the Spigen Tough Armor or Spigen Ultra Hybrid case for the iPhone 13 mini. It just depends how chunky you want your case, if you think the Tough Armor's kickstand is useful, and how much you're willing to pay. Get instant access to breaking news, the hottest reviews, great deals and helpful tips. Millie is a Deals writer at Tom's Guide specializing in deals content. She also covers the latest tech news and and creates how-to articles about everything from phones, streaming devices, and headphones to apps and video games. In her spare time, she enjoys reading, gaming on her Nintendo Switch and creating digital art.  iPhone 16 Pro colors tipped — here’s your first look at 'Desert Titanium' iPhone 17 Slim rumors — everything we know so far Samsung Galaxy S24 FE launch could be very soon according to new leak Tom's Guide is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 