Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Ivan Taylor
 
Updated on:  February 21, 2023 / 7:48 PM EST
          / CBS Miami
         MIAMI - Two people were killed and three were injured in an explosion and fire that raged at a Medley business.  A ring video camera captured the explosion and an immediate huge column of fire.  Chopper4 caught video from high above. Relentless flames coming from a welding shop.  "Unfortunately, the explosion resulted in several injuries, leaving two people diseased, transported to trauma center and another 2 in critical condition at the hospital," said Miami-Dade police public information officer, Luis Sierra.   Chopper4, over the scene at 11350 NW South River Drive, spotted several vehicles and what appeared to be a semi truck on fire.  Miami-Dade Fire Rescue said they received a call about an explosion at the business which is located in an industrial area.  Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Deputy Fire Chief Danny Cardeso said they received a call about an explosion and fire at the business around 8:40 a.m. The address they were given was in Hialeah Gardens. Fire crews in the area saw the plume of smoke and realized the address given was wrong and went to where it was burning. When they arrived several of the vehicles were fully engulfed in flames as were the back and undercarriage of the semi truck. Smoke from the fire could be seen on the Palmetto Expressway.    Jason Montenegro was one of the workers from neighboring shops who captured images while the tragedy occurred. "It's a welding shop for trucks, big trucks," said Montenegro. Another worker of a business nearby shared with CBS4 the moment one of the people seriously injured was wheeled to the chopper that would carry him to the rescue helicopter.  He was taken to the trauma center before 10 a.m.  "We saw one person wheeled out to the hospital," said Montenegro, who stated they only knew the workers by face, and they were all Hispanic males.   "Miami-Dade Police Department's Homicide Bureau, along with the arson unit, is investigating what happened or occurred in this incident," said Sierra.   Cardeso said a third injured person was treated on the scene.  Metro-Dade Fire says the area of the fire is now a very hazardous scene.  Victims have not yet been identified.  
© 2023 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 ©2024 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.