Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Ever since the release of 2017’s Sonic Mania fans of the Blue Blur have been asking for a follow-up to the throwback sidescroller, and now some of the game’s developers have finally shared why the much sought-after sequel ultimately never materialized. These new insights come on the heels of recent statements by Sega president Yukio Sugino expressing interest in creating more Sonic the Hedgehog reboots and remakes.
                         Released for PC and consoles in 2017, Sonic Mania was a love letter to Sonic’s Sega Genesis roots. The development team, headed by programmer Christian Whitehead, brought together members of the Sonic ROM hacking community alongside studios PagodaWest Games and Headcannon to create an homage to the original games. With a mix of classic and original levels featuring the series’ signature speedy side-scrolling, Sonic Mania was widely praised for bringing the series back to its roots. While games like the open-world Sonic Frontiers have kept Sonic in the spotlight in recent years, the Sonic Mania sequel that many players were hoping for never arrived.
      RELATED: Sonic the Hedgehog Creator Found Guilty Of Insider Trading
                     In a new interview with Game Informer, Sonic Mania developer Christian Whitehead and Sonic Team producer Takashi Iizuka explained why a Sonic Mania sequel never happened. The interview covers several factors that played a role in Sonic Mania 2 ultimately failing to come together, but the largest stumbling block in the way of a potential sequel appears to have been that both the Sonic Mania developers and Team Sonic were interested in moving beyond pixel art graphics. Whereas fans were hoping for another 2D pixel art game in the franchise, Sonic Team was worried this could limit the game’s appeal, with Iizuka stating that “When you make a 2D game using pixel art, you kind of end up targeting a very specific core audience.”
                         Showing just how intent both parties were in stepping away from the 2D pixel art of Sonic Mania and exploring new styles, Whitehead states that Sonic Mania 2 never even entered development because “we actually agreed early on that we should try to make something fresh.” Although Whitehead’s studio, Evening Star, did pitch a Sonic prototype to Sonic Team at one point, both parties decided not to continue with development. Though Sonic Mania 2 was apparently not meant to be, developer Headcannon assisted on Sonic Origins in subsequent years, where it helped remaster several classic Sonic titles.
                         Even though fans never got Sonic Mania 2 as they’d hoped, the 2017 title still stands as one of the best entries in the franchise in recent memory. And with Sega asking Sonic fans what genre the series should tackle next, maybe another 2D pixel art project could still be in Sonic’s future.
      Sonic Mania is out now for PC, PS4, Switch, and Xbox One.
      MORE: Sonic Mania Still Offers the Best of Classic Sonic Five Years Later
                     Source: Game Informer
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Gwenpool's mission, should players choose to accept it, will see them encounter tasks of espionage and violence in Fortnite's Battle Royale. Discover the best Google phones with our expert guide, offering top features, performance, and options for every type of user. How to find Johnson's Acre in Fallout 76's Savage Divide. Fortnite Absolute Doom increases the levels players need to acquire all V-Bucks in the Battle Pass. Gamescom announces its annual award nominees for the year, but the Nintendo category is notably absent from the list. Another weapon has joined the arsenal. Find out how to unlock the Torque 35 in Modern Warfare 3 and Warzone using this guide. Corsair announces that it will be laying off a number of its staff, continuing an unfortunate trend that has been plaguing the gaming industry.