Video Gamer is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Prices subject to change. Learn more With the best Mini LED TV you can make the most of the latest technology for the small (or sometimes not so small) screen. Mini-LED TVs only came onto the scene in 2021. As the name suggests the diodes (the things that are emitting the light), are much smaller than in traditional LED displays. This gives the screen far more ability for local dimming, as the backlighting for a region can be far more precisely turned off. This creates much deeper blacks and also largely avoids blooming. Compared to other LCD TVs on the market, mini LEDs excel at super bright and dark scenes and have a much lower chance of burn-in than compared to LCDs, plasma and even older OLED displays. Cutting straight to the chase, below you’ll find three of the best LED TVs currently on the market. We keep this page updated regularly so we can be sure we’re showing you the most relevant TVs. Shop on Amazon Shop on Amazon Shop on Amazon Compared to a super-bright OLED or QLED display, the humble LED display offers an excellent all-round performance without breaking the bank. There’s a lesser risk of burn-in (compared to OLEDs), and mini LEDs generally achieve much higher contrast ratios than IPS displays, thanks to the ability to dim individual zones of the backlight. Many people also opt for a mini LED display because of its high brightness levels too. For more expert recommendations exclusively based on brightness levels, have a look at the best TVs for bright rooms – you’ll find a number of mini LED displays there.  Some want a huge 65-inch screen to create a cinema-like experience in their home, while others need the best TV for showing sport, or for gaming. If you want to get really precise, there is now enough TV variation to get a TV that is specifically great for PS5. While we focus on TVs here, monitors also benefit from this technology. You can check out the best mini-LED monitors, though it’s worth adding some of these TVs can double up as monitors. Our roundup of the best TVs has been chosen based on several different factors. Technical specifications like resolution, display size and connectivity are super important. We also take gaming features into account where relevant and consider the OS since some Smart TVs can have cluttered menus that are difficult to navigate. The technology came at a convenient time. We are demanding more and more from our TVs. This is, in part, because we have started using them for more and more things. If you want the best overall mini LED TV, the Samsung Neo QLED QN90C comes highly recommended, closely followed by the LG QNED85 which delivers a super bright and bold picture. These TVs don’t come cheap though, so anyone looking to find the best budget mini LED TVs should focus on either the TCL 55″ Class 6-Series 4K Mini-LED or the enduringly popular Hisense U8H. Finally, if budget is more important than a mini LED display, we’ve selected the best TVs under $1000.  Size 43 inch Resolution 4K Refresh rate 120Hz Panel type QLED Whether it’s for watching sports, movies or gaming, this TV delivers a commendable performance thanks to its bright display and wide viewing angles. We’ve chosen the Samsung QN90C as our best mini LED TV thanks to its elegant design and fantastic peak brightness levels, especially when it comes to viewing HDR content. The successor to the Samsung QN90B QLED, the QN90C excels in wide viewing angles, and  Its low response time means it’s a popular choice for watching sports or playing games, combined with a low input lag and 120Hz refresh rate. Perhaps if you’ve been eying up the PS5 Slim, the QN90C is a good excuse to go all out, thanks to its 4K resolution and four HDMI 2.1 ports.  A special shoutout goes out to Samsung’s rechargeable remote. It comes with a solar panel on the back to harness ambient light and a USB-C port for rapid charging.  Screen Size 55-inches Display Technology QLED Resolution 4K Refresh Rate 120hz High Dynamic Range HDR10+ The TV features the Game Bar 2.0, a handy hub centralising all game-rated information. Settings include Input Lag, Picture Game Mode, Screen Ratio, Minimal Zoom, Sound Output, HDR Tone Mapping and more The Samsung Neo QLED QN95B is a great showcase of what Mini-LED technology is capable of. This is mostly thanks to its stunning image quality. The mixing of 4k image processing, SDR, HDR with the local dimming technology of the Mini-LED screens leads to some of the most gorgeous images you can expect to see on a TV. For this reason, it’s our top pick for the best Mini-LED TV. It matches this beauty with its exterior. It’s ultra-thin, stylish and virtually bezel-less on 3 sides. This means you look at the image rather than the screen housing it which is great for immersive game-play. Part of how it achieves this is by sneaking the speakers into the sides panels, speakers which are excellent quality. It’s also got HDMI 2.1 inputs, allowing for 4K at 120fps from your Xbox Series X. There are some downsides however, the most obvious being the high price. This is almost inevitable with Mini-LED at the moment currently, as the technology is so cutting edge. The good news is that we’ve seen the price gets slashed up to $2000 during sales periods, so definitely bide your time if you have your eye on this TV. Beyond that, sometimes the built-in automatic image treatment is a bit too much, though this can be adjusted in the settings. Screen Size 65-inches Resolution 4K Refresh Rate 120hz Display Technology QLED, Quantum Dot If you’re planning to set-up your TV in a bright room, avoid the Energy Saving mode which is a little dim. Instead set it to Filmmaker Mode, Theatre Day or Theatre Night and don’t forget to tick the “apply to all inputs option” if you’re hooking it up a console. This TV from Hisense makes use of their exclusive ULED technology to boost colour, contrast and brightness, all things perfectly complimented by the strengths of a Mini-LED screen. As you’d expect the display is bright enough to be largely glare-proof. It pares is speedy 120Hz refresh rate with smooth motion, a technology that calculates, and removes, the digital noise that the reproduction of fast-moving images can bring. Hisense has positioned this screen as especially good for watching sports, having sponsored the Qatar World Cup. It does use its wide colour gamut and HDR well to create an image as vivid as the real thing. It also manages to do this without charging an extortionate price, though naturally, you do pay more for the Mini-LED tech. Screen Size 55 inches Resolution 4K Refresh Rate 120hz Display Technology Mini-LED, QLED High Dynamic Range Dolby Vision HDR The remote control isn’t the most intuitive so make sure you’re taking full advantage of Google’s hands-free assisstant. The TCL R646 brings mini-LED technology down to a more reasonable price, without making any major sacrifices. As you’d expect for a more budget-friendly option, it is a modest but significant 55-inches. It’s great to see it still includes HDMI 2.1 ports, and VRR support though. It puts its Mini-LED technology to good use too, with a large colour gamut complimented by the high brightness the technology is able to produce. This means the TCL R646 outputs vivid colours and images. It is worth noting that it is inferior in local dimming that the more expensive options on this list, meaning you are not reaping the full capabilities of Mini-LED. However, it is still far superior to traditional LED screens, as well as being brighter, and cheaper, than OLED equivalents. The metal feet for standing are sturdy enough to minimise wobble and the border is not too thick at 0.35 inches. However, because of the foot design, you won’t be able to place it directly against your wall. Screen Size  75-inches Resolution 4K Refresh Rate 120hz Display Technology Mini-LED, Quantum Dot Nanocell While the Hisense U8H competes with this TV on picture quality and price, anyone who likes inviting a bunch of people over will appreciate the wide viewing angles of the QNED 85 Series. Measuring in at a whopping 75-inches, the LG QNED really makes use of the engaging brightness and image quality that Mini-LED screens are capable of. It’s bright enough to not feel the effects of even pretty significant glare, and adds to this with the ability to replicate true colours at wide angles. It’s also geared towards gaming, as well as movies and tv shows. It supports 120Hz through its HDMI 2.1 ports, and comes with an ALLM mode, which stands for auto-low latency mode. This essentially minimises lag and makes the gameplay smoother. It matches these premium features with a premium build quality of solid metal. Our main issues are the high price, though that is inevitable with this size and quality of the screen, and the speakers could have been higher quality. To solve that issue, simply do some research into the best soundbars for TV to unlock the best possible experience. Screen Size 43 inches Resolution 4K Refresh Rate Up to 144hz Display Technology LED, Quantum Dot Action role-playing games like Starfield will look stunning on the QN90B. Make sure you switch HDR10+ on for the most accurate representation of the game! Our second Samsung on the list, the QN90B QLED, is slightly different from other Mini-LED screens and these differences feed well into gaming capabilities. This includes support for G-Sync and Freesync as well as the VRR we saw with the R646. These are features designed for gaming-specific visual technologies like monitors and TVs. They work together to minimise screen tearing and make the experience of playing even the most fast-paced games smooth. Naturally, we included it in our best 43 inch TVs which often double up as monitors. For a long time, OLED screens have been held up as superior for gaming, but this gives them a run for their money. This is thanks in no small part to its incredible brightness, which is powerful enough to overcome a significant glare. It also largely avoids blooming even in darker cutscenes. This makes it one of the best TVs for Xbox Series X, and arguably one of the best gaming TVs, period. It has a snappy 120hz refresh rate, a must-have for a competitive gaming monitor. The only fault I could find is its high price tag but it still beats most OLED screens making it a great choice as a gaming monitor.  As with any new piece of technology, there are inevitably some questions. While we can’t cover everything here, we’ve selected a few ones that keep coming up and sought to answer them here. Mini LED and OLED each have different strengths. Mini-LED is able to produce a far brighter image than OLED screens can, and they aren’t susceptible to the same screen-burning image issues. However, though they are excellent at true dark and high contrast, especially compared to traditional LED screens, OLED screens are superior in that regard.  Mini-LED screens do vastly improve picture quality when compared to traditional LED screens. This is thanks to their local dimming abilities. You do, of course, pay for this improvement, though they remain cheaper than OLED, making them a good middle ground for those who care about image quality but can’t afford to break the bank.  Always check the specs sheet to get an accurate answer. However, the industry standard for a Mini LED TV is around 10 years – meaning you can have peace of mind knowing your Mini LED TV will last. A Mini LED TV has the advantage of delivering superior picture quality over traditional LED TVs. This is due to the use of smaller, more precise LED backlights, which can be dimmed or brightened more precisely to produce higher contrast ratios and more vibrant colors. They are also generally less expensive than traditonal OLEDs, while boasting wide viewing angles. Rory Greig works as a tech writer for Videogamer. He is a writer with a strong knowledge of gaming technology and an eye for detail. He is especially interested in graphics cards and generative AI.  
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy and may receive occasional deal communications; you can unsubscribe anytime.
