Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Baltimore Sun eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun On what was such a sloppy, sporadic day of offense for the Ravens in their 25-9 win over the Texans that quarterback Lamar Jackson at times found himself asking what they were doing, rookie wideout Zay Flowers, center, was a bright light. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' David Ojabo celebrates after sacking Texans quarterback C.J. Stroud for a fumble in the fourth quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium.
Sept. 10, 2023 Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Roquan Smith sacks Houston Texans quarterback C.J. Stroud in the 4th quarter as the Baltimore Ravens defeat the Houston Texans 25-9 in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson, left, is sacked by Texans' Will Anderson Jr., in the fourth quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' David Ojabo, right, causes a fumble as he sacks  Texans quarterback C.J. Stroud, left, in the fourth quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Gus Edwards looks for room to run as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens wide receiver Zay Flowers, right, beats Texans' M.J. Stewart (#29) for 19 yards in the third quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun The Ravens defense celebrates a fumble recovery in the second half as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Ar'Darius Washington tackles Houston Texans quarterback C.J. Stroud out of the pocket as the Baltimore Ravens defeat the Houston Texans 25-9 in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' Gus Edwards, left, runs against Texans' Denzel Perryman, right, in the third quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' Ronald Darby, left, tackles Texans' Devin Singletary, right, in the third quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Justice Hill scores a touchdown in the 3rd quarter as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Justice Hill scores a touchdown in the 3rd quarter as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Justice Hill stumbles into the end zone for a touchdown as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Justice Hill stumbles into the end zone for a touchdown as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Justice Hill (43) heads for the end zone for a touchdown as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens center Tyler Linderbaum is slow to get up after a play Texans in the fourth quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens staff check on condition of offensive tackle Ronnie Stanley in the fourth quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Roquan Smith was called for a facemask penalty in defending Houston Texans Teagan Quitoriano   as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson holds his head in frustration after turning over the ball on a fumble against the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Odafe Oweh pressures Houston Texans quarterback C.J. Stroud as the Baltimore Ravens defeat the Houston Texans 25-9 in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens J.K. Dobbins is tackled by Houston Texans M.J. Stewart in the 3rd quarter as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Dobbins limped off the field with a season-ending torn Achilles. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens J.K. Dobbins is tackled by Houston Texans M.J. Stewart in the 3rd quarter as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Dobbins limped off the field with a season-ending torn Achilles. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Houston Texans Derek Stingley Jr. is called for pass interference as Baltimore Ravens Odell Beckham Jr. is knocked out of bounds in the second half as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr., right, beats Texans' Shaquill Griffin, left, for a 29-yards reception in the fourth quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens running back J.K. Dobbins, right, signals to the sideline before limping off after he was tackled by Texans' M.J. Stewart (#29) in the third quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' J.K. Dobbins, left, runs against Texans' Christian Harris, right, in the second quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' Lamar Jackson, left, runs away from Texans' Denzel Perryman, right, in the second quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Ravens defenders celebrate after sacking Houston Texans quarterback C.J. Stroud as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson runs away from Texans' Will Anderson Jr., left, in the second quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' Patrick Queen, top, sacks Texans quarterback C.J. Stroud on a 4and 1 play to cause a turnover on downs in the first quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' Ronald Darby, right, stops Texans' Dameon Pierce, right, for no gains after a catch in the first quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson  runs for a first down in the first quarter as Houston Texans Sheldon Rankins pursues. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson  runs for a first down in the first quarter as Houston Texans Sheldon Rankins pursues. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens safety Marcus Williams (#32), top, closes in to defense against Texans' Dameon Pierce, right, in the first  quarter. The Ravens defeated the Texans 25-9 at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson looks for a receiver in the first quarter as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Devin Duvernay looks for running room while returning the opening kickoff as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Isaiah Likely is taken down by Houston Texans Derek Stingley Jr. after making a reception in the 1st quarter of the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Zay Flowers makes a reception along the sidelines for a big gain in the first quarter as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Zay Flowers makes a reception along the sidelines for a big gain in the first quarter as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson is taken down by Houston Texans Jonathan Greenard in the first quarter as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson tries to escape Houston Texans Jonathan Greenard in the first quarter as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson throws an incomplete pass to Odell Beckham Jr under pressure in the home opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens J.K. Dobbins  dives in to the end zone for a 1st quarter touchdown as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens J.K. Dobbins  dives into the end zone for a 1st quarter touchdown as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Texans' Steven Nelson, left, intercepts a pass intended for Ravens' Zay Flowers in first quarter at M&T Bank stadium on September 10, 2023. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' Zay Flowers catches for first down against Texans Jalen Pitre in first quarter at M&T Bank stadium on September 10, 2023. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' Zay Flowers catches for first down against Texans Jalen Pitre in first quarter at M&T Bank stadium on September 10, 2023. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Ravens' Patrick Queen sacks Texans quarterback C.J. Stroud in the home opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Ravens' Patrick Queen sacks Texans quarterback C.J. Stroud in the home opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson takes the field for warmups as the Baltimore Ravens prepare to host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Zay Flowers catches a low pass during warmups as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Odell Beckham Jr. catches a low pass during warmups as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Odell Beckham Jr. catches a low pass during warmups as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Zay Flowers is greeted by fans as he takes the field for warmups as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Zay Flowers warms up pregame as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens kicker Justin Tucker warms up with a field goal from midfield as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens kicker Justin Tucker warms up with a field goal from midfield as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Zay Flowers catches a low pass during warmups as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore Ravens Odell Beckham Jr. and Zay Flowers warm up pregame as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens quarterbacks Lamar Jackson, left and Tyler Huntley warm up with centers on the field at M&T Bank stadium before a game against the Houston Texans. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens'  wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. warms up on the field at M&T Bank stadium before a game against the Houston Texans. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens tight end Charlie Kolar warms up on the field at M&T Bank stadium before a game against the Houston Texans. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Quarterbacks Lamar Jackson, from left, Tyler Huntley and Josh Johnson warm up on the field at M&T Bank stadium before a game against the Houston Texans. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Ravens' Lamar Jackson warms up on the field at M&T Bank stadium before a game against the Houston Texans. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Of Ravens wide receiver Zay Flowers' 78 receiving yards against the Texans on Sunday, 52 of them came after the catch. Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Ravens defenders celebrate a fumble recovery as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium. On what was such a sloppy, sporadic day of offense for the Ravens in their 25-9 win over the Texans that quarterback Lamar Jackson at times found himself asking what they were doing, rookie wideout Zay Flowers, center, was a bright light. It didn’t take long Sunday at M&T Bank Stadium to see why Lamar Jackson gave the nickname “Joystick” to rookie wide receiver Zay Flowers.On the third play of the Ravens’ second possession against the Houston Texans, Flowers, the 22nd overall draft pick out of Boston College, lined up in a bunch formation wide left along with tight ends Isaiah Likely and Charlie Kolar to his right at the Texans’ 28-yard-line. Split out to the right was receiver Odell Beckham Jr., while Jackson stood in the shotgun with running back J.K. Dobbins on his left hip. Houston, meanwhile, had 6-foot-1, 226-pound linebacker Christian Harris lined up against the bunch, with 5-11, 194-pound cornerback Steven Nelson behind him and 5-11, 240-pound linebacker Denzel Perryman inside but leaning toward the stack before the ball was even snapped.Once it was, Jackson momentarily held the ball out in front of Dobbins while Flowers shuffled a couple of steps to his left and glanced at the defenders in front of him. Jackson then quickly flung the ball toward Flowers, who cradled the tight spiral into his sternum before turning upfield and accelerating through the crease created by Kolar’s block on Harris and Likely’s on Nelson.Perryman closed in from the right, taking a slight angle upfield, but didn’t stand a chance. As he came diving in for what he thought would be a potentially crunching hit on the 5-9, 182-pound rookie, Flowers planted his right foot and spun back to the right, leaving Perryman and his left arm grasping at the warm Maryland air.Defensive end Jonathan Greenard was next in line, but as he closed in from Flowers’ right the receiver jump cut to the inside, causing Greenard also to whiff. Flowers then continued upfield for 4 more yards before burrowing to the turf between the four Texans players who surrounded him, including edge rusher and No. 3 overall pick Will Anderson Jr.It was just one of nine catches for Flowers — a franchise record for a rookie in his debut — but it was the kind of play that makes it easy to understand why coach John Harbaugh and offensive coordinator Todd Monken have already fallen in love with the dynamic and explosive receiver. On what was such a sloppy, sporadic day of offense for the Ravens in their 25-9 win that Jackson at times found himself asking what they were doing, Flowers was a bright light.“I already knew what Zay was capable of, and he showed it himself — making guys miss and running great routes, catching the ball [and] getting up the field, getting yards after the catch,” Jackson said.“It slowed down for me,” Flowers said of his first NFL game. “In my head, I was like, ‘Two catches. I’ll be good with that [for my] first game.’ [We] got the win. As long as we win, I was all right.”

Instead, Flowers led the team in targets (10), catches (nine) and receiving yards (78). The next closest players to him were Rashod Bateman (three catches, 35 yards) and Beckham (two catches, 37 yards).Flowers’ numbers were perhaps boosted somewhat by the absence of injured tight end Mark Andrews, but he also stood out among his NFL peers.His targets, catches and yards all ranked in the top 15 among Week 1 wide receiver performances, with only the Miami Dolphins’ Tyreek Hill (11 catches), Buffalo Bills’ Stefon Diggs (10) and Los Angeles Rams’ Puka Nacua (10) hauling in more passes. Meanwhile, Flowers’ yards per route run (2.79) ranked 13th, while his average separation (3.5 yards) ranked 12th, according to Next Gen Stats, just a half-yard behind Minnesota Vikings star and reigning NFL Offensive Player of the Year Justin Jefferson. His 80.3 receiving grade from Pro Football Focus was also the sixth-best in the league.“He’s going to play a lot,” Harbaugh said.Indeed. How the Ravens deployed Flowers was also telling: He was everywhere.Of the 54 snaps he played, Flowers lined up in the slot 25 times with the rest out wide. Unsurprisingly, he also got the ball near the line of scrimmage most of the time, with four of his catches coming short left, one short middle and one short right. Of his 78 receiving yards, 52 of them came after the catch. His numbers would have also been even better if not for back-to-back bubble screens that got blown up for minus-6 and minus-3 yards.But he also showed off his speed downfield, easily working open against cornerback Derek Stingley Jr. for a 20-yard grab down the right sideline in the third quarter. And for good measure, he had two runs for 9 yards on a pair of jet sweeps.In other words, Flowers was a bright spot on a day with not many of them, especially considering running back J.K. Dobbins went down with a season-ending torn Achilles tendon in the third quarter and three other starters — safety Marcus Williams (torn pectoral), left tackle Ronnie Stanley (knee) and center Tyler Linderbaum (ankle) — got injured.
Baltimore Ravens Zay Flowers runs through a gauntlet of Texans for a gain in the first quarter as the Baltimore Ravens host the Houston Texans in the season opener at M&T Bank Stadium.It was also a familiar one in some ways for Flowers. At Boston College, he was easily the Eagles’ best player last season and was utilized as such in a do-everything role.“I feel like they use us in every way; that’s for all receivers,” he said of all the action he saw in his first NFL game. “We all [can] play different positions. We all can play every position. We all can run every route. There’s no limit to our receiver room.” On the third play of the Ravens’ second possession against the Houston Texans, Flowers, the 22nd overall draft pick out of Boston College, lined up in a bunch formation wide left along with tight ends Isaiah Likely and Charlie Kolar to his right at the Texans’ 28-yard-line. Split out to the right was receiver Odell Beckham Jr., while Jackson stood in the shotgun with running back J.K. Dobbins on his left hip. Houston, meanwhile, had 6-foot-1, 226-pound linebacker Christian Harris lined up against the bunch, with 5-11, 194-pound cornerback Steven Nelson behind him and 5-11, 240-pound linebacker Denzel Perryman inside but leaning toward the stack before the ball was even snapped. Once it was, Jackson momentarily held the ball out in front of Dobbins while Flowers shuffled a couple of steps to his left and glanced at the defenders in front of him. Jackson then quickly flung the ball toward Flowers, who cradled the tight spiral into his sternum before turning upfield and accelerating through the crease created by Kolar’s block on Harris and Likely’s on Nelson. Perryman closed in from the right, taking a slight angle upfield, but didn’t stand a chance. As he came diving in for what he thought would be a potentially crunching hit on the 5-9, 182-pound rookie, Flowers planted his right foot and spun back to the right, leaving Perryman and his left arm grasping at the warm Maryland air. Defensive end Jonathan Greenard was next in line, but as he closed in from Flowers’ right the receiver jump cut to the inside, causing Greenard also to whiff. Flowers then continued upfield for 4 more yards before burrowing to the turf between the four Texans players who surrounded him, including edge rusher and No. 3 overall pick Will Anderson Jr. It was just one of nine catches for Flowers — a franchise record for a rookie in his debut — but it was the kind of play that makes it easy to understand why coach John Harbaugh and offensive coordinator Todd Monken have already fallen in love with the dynamic and explosive receiver. On what was such a sloppy, sporadic day of offense for the Ravens in their 25-9 win that Jackson at times found himself asking what they were doing, Flowers was a bright light. “I already knew what Zay was capable of, and he showed it himself — making guys miss and running great routes, catching the ball [and] getting up the field, getting yards after the catch,” Jackson said. “It slowed down for me,” Flowers said of his first NFL game. “In my head, I was like, ‘Two catches. I’ll be good with that [for my] first game.’ [We] got the win. As long as we win, I was all right.” Instead, Flowers led the team in targets (10), catches (nine) and receiving yards (78). The next closest players to him were Rashod Bateman (three catches, 35 yards) and Beckham (two catches, 37 yards). Flowers’ numbers were perhaps boosted somewhat by the absence of injured tight end Mark Andrews, but he also stood out among his NFL peers. His targets, catches and yards all ranked in the top 15 among Week 1 wide receiver performances, with only the Miami Dolphins’ Tyreek Hill (11 catches), Buffalo Bills’ Stefon Diggs (10) and Los Angeles Rams’ Puka Nacua (10) hauling in more passes. Meanwhile, Flowers’ yards per route run (2.79) ranked 13th, while his average separation (3.5 yards) ranked 12th, according to Next Gen Stats, just a half-yard behind Minnesota Vikings star and reigning NFL Offensive Player of the Year Justin Jefferson. His 80.3 receiving grade from Pro Football Focus was also the sixth-best in the league. “He’s going to play a lot,” Harbaugh said. Indeed. How the Ravens deployed Flowers was also telling: He was everywhere. Of the 54 snaps he played, Flowers lined up in the slot 25 times with the rest out wide. Unsurprisingly, he also got the ball near the line of scrimmage most of the time, with four of his catches coming short left, one short middle and one short right. Of his 78 receiving yards, 52 of them came after the catch. His numbers would have also been even better if not for back-to-back bubble screens that got blown up for minus-6 and minus-3 yards. But he also showed off his speed downfield, easily working open against cornerback Derek Stingley Jr. for a 20-yard grab down the right sideline in the third quarter. And for good measure, he had two runs for 9 yards on a pair of jet sweeps. In other words, Flowers was a bright spot on a day with not many of them, especially considering running back J.K. Dobbins went down with a season-ending torn Achilles tendon in the third quarter and three other starters — safety Marcus Williams (torn pectoral), left tackle Ronnie Stanley (knee) and center Tyler Linderbaum (ankle) — got injured. It was also a familiar one in some ways for Flowers. At Boston College, he was easily the Eagles’ best player last season and was utilized as such in a do-everything role. “I feel like they use us in every way; that’s for all receivers,” he said of all the action he saw in his first NFL game. “We all [can] play different positions. We all can play every position. We all can run every route. There’s no limit to our receiver room.” Copyright © 2024 Baltimore Sun