Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? For years the Apple iPad has been setting the standard for the best tablets, and despite its more premium nature you can generally find some great iPad deals among the best tablet deals. That’s certainly the case right now, as there are a lot of iPad deals to shop. And while many of the best Apple deals include fan favorites like iPhone 15 deals, MacBook deals, and even AirPods deals, the current iPad deals have a lot of savings available. We’ve rounded up all of the best iPad deals worth shopping right now. Reading onward you’ll find discounts on everything from budget iPads to recent releases, as well as some savings on iPad accessories. If you’d like to sort through the competition as well, be sure to check out today’s Samsung tablet deals, Amazon Fire tablet deals, and Kindle deals. Apple’s A13 Bionic chip is no M1 or M2, but it still offers 64-bit architecture and neural engine support for excellent performance. In other words, this 10.2-inch iPad is incredible value. It has a 10.2-inch Retina display, 64GB of storage, supports Touch ID and Apple Pencil (1st Gen), and it’s size, plus all-day battery life make it an excellent choice for anyone with an on-the-go lifestyle.  The 10.9-inch iPad remains one of the best iPads for someone on a budget. If you just want an easy to use tablet to browse the internet, watch some streaming shows, and do other straightforward tasks, it’s a reasonable solution. The 10th Gen version is powered by Apple’s A14 Bionic chip, has a liquid Retina display, WiFi 6 for better connectivity, and works with Touch ID.  A “little powerhouse”, the Apple iPad Mini is ideal if you need a more portable iPad. It has a smaller 8.3-inch screen but that makes it the perfect middle ground between your phone and a laptop. Performance is pretty good from the A15 Bionic processor which is the same as the one on the iPhone 13. There’s support for the Apple Pencil too making it an ideal tablet for sketching out designs or taking notes. If you want a smaller tablet, this is perfect. Previous iPad Minis weren’t so great performance wise and had a smaller display, but the 6th generation model fixes that.  Offering incredible value, the iPad Air is a great option if you don’t want to splurge on the iPad Pro but you still want plenty of power. While the screen isn’t quite as good as the iPad Pro, everything else about it is high-end including its M2 processor. Thanks to plenty of accessory compatibility, it’s a good bet for when you need to be more productive, but is great for relaxing, too. All-day battery life keeps you going into the late hours without a charge.  The Apple iPad Pro with the powerful M4 chip is the newest iPad on the market, which makes it a bit of a surprise to see it discounted already. This 256GB Wi-Fi model, however, can add some savings to its long list of reasons to buy. Others include the 11-inch Ultra Retina XDR display, which delivers extreme brightness and contrast and features advanced technologies like ProMotion, True Ton, and P3 wide color. This iPad will have all of the performance you’ll likely need, as it features the aforementioned M4 chip, a processor Apple is also putting in many of its laptops to come.  You can enrich your iPad experience with accessories. For example, with an Apple Pencil you can sketch out designs or write notes. The Magic Keyboard makes it easier to type up essays or other reports, while there are many case options for keeping your beloved tablet safe. If you are going to get a stylus, read our guide on which Apple Pencil to buy for your tablet first, as choosing can be somewhat complicated. Here are some other Apple iPad deals we love, on cases, the Apple pencil, and more: The iPhone 14 has been a popular choice among new phone shoppers since its release, and even with the more recent release of the iPhone 15 it still makes a great option among Apple deals and iPhone deals. If you want Apple’s latest and greatest you should check out iPhone 15 deals, but if you’re looking for ultimate savings it’s iPhone 14 deals that have a lot in store. The best iPhone 14 deals taking place right now consist of both new and refurbished models, each of which make for some impressive phone deals overall. We’ve rounded up the best ways to save on every phone in the iPhone 14 lineup, and you’ll find all of those details below. If you’d like to consider some similar options check out today’s refurbished iPhone deals, and if you’d like to see what other brands have to offer check out Samsung Galaxy S24 deals, Samsung Galaxy S23 deals, and Google Pixel 8 deals.
Apple iPhone 14 -- from $483, was $699 With the Apple iPhone 14 you’re getting what is still one of the most popular smartphones on the market. This is the iPhone 14 model that’s meant for everyone. It holds back a few features you can only get on the Pro model, but it still has an impressive 6.1-inch display, an impressive camera, and dozens of ways to personalize your iOS experience with widgets and fonts. The phone can reach up to 26 hours of battery life on a single charge, and it’s powered by Apple’s A15 Bionic chip. Face ID, emergency SOS via satellite, and super fast 5G cellular connectivity round out the top features of the Apple iPhone 14.
Buy Refurbished at Amazon — from $483 Whether for work, play, or anything in between, a new tablet can make a nice addition to your device lineup. They’re perfect for kids, professionals, and content creators, and most brands have a tablet to offer for every price point. Tablets also make great tech for some savings, as even the best tablets will see a discount pretty readily. There are a lot of tablet deals going on right now and among them are some of the best Samsung tablet deals, best iPad deals, and best Surface Laptop and Surface Pro deals we’ve seen. There are even some Amazon Fire Tablet deals and Kindle deals to check out. Below you’ll find what we feel are the best tablet deals to shop right now, as well as some information on why each might best suit your tablet needs.
Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite (32GB) -- $145, was $160 If you need an Android tablet for simple tasks like browsing the internet and watching streaming shows, the affordable Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite may be enough for you. Its 8.7-inch screen is decent with WXGA+ resolution, while maintaining portability so you can easily hold the tablet in one hand. Its internal storage is limited at 32GB, but you can expand it by up to 1TB using a microSD card. For the clumsy ones, the Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Lite is perfect for you because it's protected by a sturdy metal frame. A tablet can make a nice addition to one’s device ecosystem, and shopping the best tablet deals is a great way to take a tablet home with some savings. And whether you prefer a new tablet for reading books, browsing the web, or watching your favorite movies, the Amazon Fire Tablet lineup is full of affordable options. There almost as many Amazon Fire Tablet deals out there right now as there are Fire Tablet models, and we’ve rounded up all of the best Amazon Fire Tablet deals below. Several of them are refurbished models, so if you aren’t quite finding what you’re looking for here you can also check out today’s Kindle deals, or the current Samsung tablet deals and iPad deals if a more professionally-minded tablet sounds right for you.
Amazon Fire HD 8 -- as low as $104 with trade-in, was $130 If you just need a basic tablet for simple functions such as browsing the internet, doing online shopping, and watching streaming shows, the incredibly affordable Amazon Fire HD 8 may be enough. It's not going to wow you with its performance, as it's only equipped with 2GB of RAM with limited storage of 32GB, but it's got an 8-inch touchscreen with HD resolution and built-in support for Amazon's Alexa, so if that's all you need, go for the Amazon Fire HD 8. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.