Have your say on Charlie Brooker's latest offering. After four long years of waiting, Black Mirror season 6 is finally here! Five new mind-bending and genre-shattering episodes are here to scar us all, and fans are quickly deciding where they sit in the Black Mirror episode rankings. The new season features a star-studded cast, including Salma Hayek, Annie Murphy, Michael Cera, Aaron Paul, Kate Mara, Josh Hartnett, and Paapa Essiedu and covers everything from true crime in Loch Henry to the paparazzi in Mazey Day. Plus, it even features a parody of Netflix itself in Joan Is Awful. So, which episode of the bunch is your favourite? Have your say below! Brooker has teased that this season will embrace horror in a big way, and that he wants to shake up everyone's expectations once again. Speaking at a Q&A and preview of Black Mirror season 6 episode Beyond the Sea at BFI Southbank, the writer said: “This season I started out doing some with a very different take – a Red Mirror film, and almost like a crime and horror-led sister label, so to speak. And in doing that, I thought, ‘I’ll shake up what I think a Black Mirror episode is’.” Brooker acknowledged the fact that some episodes of this season are set in the past (which is different for the Black Mirror universe, where stories are usually set in the present or future), and explained that comedy fans will be in luck with the first episode of the new season. The best sci-fi news and features this side of the Outer Rim. By entering your details, you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You can unsubscribe at any time. When asked whether it's fair to say that this upcoming season has more horror than previously, Brooker said: “This season overall, we’ve also got probably one of our most overtly comic ones that we’ve ever done, which is Joan Is Awful. But certainly, there’s quite a lot of horror." Joan Is Awful is the first episode of season 6 and sees Annie Murphy and Salma Hayek Pinault star in the Netflix parody episode which features streaming service Streamberry. Fairly surprisingly, Brooker also revealed that Netflix had no issues at all with the parody. The writer recalled: "We just said, 'We’ve got this streaming platform called Streamberry in this episode… can we make it look like Netflix?'" He added to Empire: "They went away and came back quite quickly — weirdly quickly — and said, 'Yeah, okay.' There wasn’t any resistance to it, that I could tell. Which is a bit disappointing, because it would be good to be able to say, 'I just did it anyway, because I’m an anarchist!' But no.” However, we're sure he's set to cause a stir with the new episodes either way. Black Mirror season 6 is available to stream on Netflix now. Check out more of our Sci-Fi coverage or visit our TV Guide and Streaming Guide to find out what's on. Take part in the Screen Test, a project from Radio Times and the Universities of Sussex and Brighton, to explore the role of television and audio in our lives. Try Radio Times magazine today and get 12 issues for only £1 with delivery to your home – subscribe now. For more from the biggest stars in TV, listen to The Radio Times Podcast. Try 10 issues for just £10! Sign up to our reader offer newsletters and be entered into a monthly prize draw. August's prize is a Roberts Play 11 radio. Rising house prices make equity release more attractive to homeowners. Get a free guide and find out if equity release could work for you. Sign up to receive our newsletter! By entering your details, you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You can unsubscribe at any time.