e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
Please email legals@ukiahdailyjournal.com or call 707-380-1152. Please include your name, mailing address, and phone number along with the copy and photo.
  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition Sitting down with the Lunch Bunch at the Ukiah Senior Center on Tuesday afternoon, we enjoyed a meal of beef enchiladas, Spanish rice, beans, two salsas and lemon cake, all freshly-made, on-site, under the supervision of head cook Lisa Silva.Mary Ann Anderson has been at the Senior Center for 23 years, Lunch Bunch Coordinator since 2011. The original program, the state-licensed Adult Day Healthcare, was terminated by the state just prior and “not wanting to close the doors and leave people hanging,” Anderson and staff put it back together.The program, presently serving 11, can accommodate up to 20 clients with early Alzheimer’s and dementia, 3 hours a day, 4 days a week, allows respite for family members and helps attendees stay physically and cognitively active.The Mendo-C-Notes directed by Oini Lagioia, the in-house Senior Center choir, entertain monthly-with verve and style-at the Lunch Bunch gathering at the Senior Center on Leslie Street.They provide light exercise, games, crafts and musical events three times a month. Today’s entertainment is the Center’s in-house choir, the Mendo-C-Notes directed by Oini Lagioia.Transportation is provided and, no longer state-funded, they charge $25 a day with donations from the community providing scholarships.“I see changes in them,” she says, “but mostly I hear from their families about their improvement.I took care of my mom for 20 years and it’s how I would want her to be treated. The program is a little jewel.”As a non-profit, it has been an especially difficult time for the Senior Center—rebounding from COVID, insufficient funding, the Thrift Store’s forced shut down for 7 months, turnover in directors and rising prices throughout the economy.

In spite of the difficulties, however, the Center, founded by volunteers, celebrated 50 years last August with festivities and a well-attended dance party at Bartlett Hall.Kristin Kelly, a transplant from San Jose in 2017, a board member and treasurer, currently serves as interim executive director.“We’re working on a proclamation to present to the City Council—that would be the City of Ukiah that does not fund us even one penny—honoring our 50 years of achievement,” says Kelly.According to the National Council on Aging: “Senior centers must leverage resources from a variety of sources. Primary funding sources are often local (municipal or county government tax dollars).”“We’re currently and have never been in The City’s budget stream. There are a couple other senior centers that don’t get funding from their cities but it’s rare,” says fiscal associate Dona Fridae Mitcham.Financially struggling through the pandemic—utilizing their COVID grants, volunteers returning home, unable to open for almost two years and unable to generate income from dances, Bingo and Bunko nights, it is taking time for them to get back on their feet.The majority of their income comes from community donations and three endowments handled by the Community Foundation but, with a break in funding from the T.R. Eriksen Foundation, the high cost of living and the rise in the minimum wage, it has been challenging.In addition to their annal pledge drive, this year they are doing a special ask sending letters out to previous donors and extending a request to members and the community to consider donations of $100 to $250.Although the Senior Center has a membership of 600, they serve the greater community in multiple ways, seeing as many as 2,900 people per month come through their doors.Free to the entire community, they offer health and welfare information and referral services that include medical equipment, general transportation, tax preparation, legal assistance, senior information and referral, Food Bank and financial assistance.Free Outreach services available five days a week include representative payee services, money management services, insurance advocacy, housing, food, utility assistance, caregiver referral, medical appointment transportation, scamming support and friendly check ins.They provide fresh-cooked lunches five days a week, $8 for members and $9 for non-members, to be eaten there or taken home. They average 75 people a day. For St. Patrick’s Day, in addition to a full house, they sold 25 special meals to go for families of four.They provide door through door transportation through a contract with the MTA, with special assistance provided, $3 per trip.“It costs us more than $25 per day for one Lunch Bunch attendee, more than $8 to cook a meal for lunch and more than $3 dollars in transportation costs: there’s the ever-rising food costs, gas, maintenance, wages, utilities, paper supplies,” says Mitcham. “We’re not making money; we’re providing a service.”They deliver meals to Coyote Valley Reservation for the elderly 5-days a week for $6 plus mileage and meals to individuals in the community.They offer activities such as Bingo, Bunko, exercise classes, line dancing, arts and crafts, senior driver education classes, computer lab, choir, bridge club, current Academy-award winning movies, monthly Ice Cream Socials, birthday lunches and four much-anticipated dances a year at Bartlett Hall.“Just to get listed in the City of Ukiah’s recreation guide delivered twice a year to all households would be helpful,” says Kelly. “They can’t, however, list us because they don’t fund us. How can someone look at the City budget and not think it’s strange that there’s no funding for seniors?”In 2019, Executive Director Diana Clark and staff members met with Ukiah’s city manager and mayor where Clark presented statistics for senior centers that are funded by cities in surrounding counties in hopes of getting on the agenda for budgeting consideration. It was not successful.Kelly continues, “I don’t think all City Council members realize that we don’t receive any of their funding and I think it’s critical that they come to an understanding of this; it’s a form of negligence to ignore it.“We’re almost 30 per center of the population, an invisible minority, growing in numbers, those of us in our 60s, 70s, 80s and 90s, and unless you live high on the hill, you live on a fixed income. Every day we have volunteers who go to Lucky, Safeway, Raley’s for the free, expired food. They bring it back, put it on the tables and it’s always gone by noon.”Mitcham says, “Lakeport is an example of a city supporting their senior center—not only do they provide financial support but they have street signs that point to their Senior Center. Ukiah has signs for the library, for the park, but none for the Senior Center.“We have a chef who prepares our meals with three to five volunteers and no employees; in Bartlett Hall, every day, we have from 10 to 20 volunteer servers, those who staff the lunches, receptionists and cashiers. If not for our volunteers, our doors would not be open.”Donate online at their website with a credit card or PayPal or mail check to Ukiah Senior Center, 499 Leslie Street, Ukiah, Ca. 95482. For volunteering call Debbie at 462 4343 ext. 107. Mary Ann Anderson has been at the Senior Center for 23 years, Lunch Bunch Coordinator since 2011. The original program, the state-licensed Adult Day Healthcare, was terminated by the state just prior and “not wanting to close the doors and leave people hanging,” Anderson and staff put it back together. The program, presently serving 11, can accommodate up to 20 clients with early Alzheimer’s and dementia, 3 hours a day, 4 days a week, allows respite for family members and helps attendees stay physically and cognitively active. They provide light exercise, games, crafts and musical events three times a month. Today’s entertainment is the Center’s in-house choir, the Mendo-C-Notes directed by Oini Lagioia. Transportation is provided and, no longer state-funded, they charge $25 a day with donations from the community providing scholarships. “I see changes in them,” she says, “but mostly I hear from their families about their improvement. I took care of my mom for 20 years and it’s how I would want her to be treated. The program is a little jewel.” As a non-profit, it has been an especially difficult time for the Senior Center—rebounding from COVID, insufficient funding, the Thrift Store’s forced shut down for 7 months, turnover in directors and rising prices throughout the economy. In spite of the difficulties, however, the Center, founded by volunteers, celebrated 50 years last August with festivities and a well-attended dance party at Bartlett Hall. Kristin Kelly, a transplant from San Jose in 2017, a board member and treasurer, currently serves as interim executive director. “We’re working on a proclamation to present to the City Council—that would be the City of Ukiah that does not fund us even one penny—honoring our 50 years of achievement,” says Kelly. According to the National Council on Aging: “Senior centers must leverage resources from a variety of sources. Primary funding sources are often local (municipal or county government tax dollars).” “We’re currently and have never been in The City’s budget stream. There are a couple other senior centers that don’t get funding from their cities but it’s rare,” says fiscal associate Dona Fridae Mitcham. Financially struggling through the pandemic—utilizing their COVID grants, volunteers returning home, unable to open for almost two years and unable to generate income from dances, Bingo and Bunko nights, it is taking time for them to get back on their feet. The majority of their income comes from community donations and three endowments handled by the Community Foundation but, with a break in funding from the T.R. Eriksen Foundation, the high cost of living and the rise in the minimum wage, it has been challenging. In addition to their annal pledge drive, this year they are doing a special ask sending letters out to previous donors and extending a request to members and the community to consider donations of $100 to $250. Although the Senior Center has a membership of 600, they serve the greater community in multiple ways, seeing as many as 2,900 people per month come through their doors. Free to the entire community, they offer health and welfare information and referral services that include medical equipment, general transportation, tax preparation, legal assistance, senior information and referral, Food Bank and financial assistance. Free Outreach services available five days a week include representative payee services, money management services, insurance advocacy, housing, food, utility assistance, caregiver referral, medical appointment transportation, scamming support and friendly check ins. They provide fresh-cooked lunches five days a week, $8 for members and $9 for non-members, to be eaten there or taken home. They average 75 people a day. For St. Patrick’s Day, in addition to a full house, they sold 25 special meals to go for families of four. They provide door through door transportation through a contract with the MTA, with special assistance provided, $3 per trip. “It costs us more than $25 per day for one Lunch Bunch attendee, more than $8 to cook a meal for lunch and more than $3 dollars in transportation costs: there’s the ever-rising food costs, gas, maintenance, wages, utilities, paper supplies,” says Mitcham. “We’re not making money; we’re providing a service.” They deliver meals to Coyote Valley Reservation for the elderly 5-days a week for $6 plus mileage and meals to individuals in the community. They offer activities such as Bingo, Bunko, exercise classes, line dancing, arts and crafts, senior driver education classes, computer lab, choir, bridge club, current Academy-award winning movies, monthly Ice Cream Socials, birthday lunches and four much-anticipated dances a year at Bartlett Hall. “Just to get listed in the City of Ukiah’s recreation guide delivered twice a year to all households would be helpful,” says Kelly. “They can’t, however, list us because they don’t fund us. How can someone look at the City budget and not think it’s strange that there’s no funding for seniors?” In 2019, Executive Director Diana Clark and staff members met with Ukiah’s city manager and mayor where Clark presented statistics for senior centers that are funded by cities in surrounding counties in hopes of getting on the agenda for budgeting consideration. It was not successful. Kelly continues, “I don’t think all City Council members realize that we don’t receive any of their funding and I think it’s critical that they come to an understanding of this; it’s a form of negligence to ignore it. “We’re almost 30 per center of the population, an invisible minority, growing in numbers, those of us in our 60s, 70s, 80s and 90s, and unless you live high on the hill, you live on a fixed income. Every day we have volunteers who go to Lucky, Safeway, Raley’s for the free, expired food. They bring it back, put it on the tables and it’s always gone by noon.” Mitcham says, “Lakeport is an example of a city supporting their senior center—not only do they provide financial support but they have street signs that point to their Senior Center. Ukiah has signs for the library, for the park, but none for the Senior Center. “We have a chef who prepares our meals with three to five volunteers and no employees; in Bartlett Hall, every day, we have from 10 to 20 volunteer servers, those who staff the lunches, receptionists and cashiers. If not for our volunteers, our doors would not be open.” Donate online at their website with a credit card or PayPal or mail check to Ukiah Senior Center, 499 Leslie Street, Ukiah, Ca. 95482. For volunteering call Debbie at 462 4343 ext. 107. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group