Jun. 17—David Thompson went to the NBA Finals to cheer on the Nuggets. In the process, he met a bunch of Broncos. Thompson was a star guard for the Nuggets from 1975-82 and went on to make the Hall of Fame. When he was playing in Denver, the Broncos in 1977 captivated the city by coming out of nowhere to make it to Super Bowl XII. Even though they lost 27-10 to Dallas, Thompson was hooked on the team. "I kind of fell in love with the Broncos," Thompson said. "I knew all those guys. Rick Upchurch, Haven Moses, I'd hang in the same area with those guys. Craig Morton lived near me in Greenwood Village." Thompson grew up near Charlotte, N.C., and long has lived in the city. When the Carolina Panthers came to Charlotte in 1995, they became his favorite NFC team. But the Broncos remain his favorite AFC outfit. Thompson attended Game 2 of the Finals and last Monday's Game 5, when the Nuggets wrapped up the series 4-1 over the Miami Heat. Obviously, it was a big thrill for Thompson to see the franchise win its first championship. "I'm so happy, mostly for the fans who supported the team through thick and thin," Thompson said. "I was talking to (former Nuggets star center) Dan Issel and I told him that we were the roots of the team and we finally got to see the fruit come to bear." But Thompson wasn't just talking basketball when at Ball Arena. In Game 5, he sat next to Broncos coach Sean Payton and peppered him with questions about the team. He also met Hall of Fame quarterback Peyton Manning and running back Terrell Davis for the first time. And he rekindled his relationship with Denver quarterback Russell Wilson, who played from 2008-10 at North Carolina State, the school Thompson led to an NCAA basketball title in 1974. "I used to go to all his games at North Carolina State and I followed them wherever they went," Thompson said. "I actually went down to a bowl game in Florida (the 2010 Champs Sports Bowl in Orlando) that they played in. I love watching him play." Thompson met Wilson when he was in college and when he played for the Seattle Seahawks from 2012-21. And after Wilson joined the Broncos last season, Thompson was in the stands for a Denver home game last December against Kansas City. "I came out with my cousin, Curtis Brown, and we both had Russell Wilson jerseys on," Thompson said. During Game 5, Thompson said he and Wilson "showed each other the Wolfpack sign" for North Carolina State. He talked to Wilson after the game and took photos with him, wife Ciara and their three children. During the game, Payton asked Thompson a lot of questions about basketball, and the Hall of Famer was impressed. "He's very knowledgeable about basketball," Thompson said. "You can tell he's a coach. He was analyzing the game as it went on." Football also was discussed by Thompson and Brown, who also was at Game 5. Brown lived in Denver for 20 years and is an avid Broncos fan. Payton, a first-year coach who inherited a team that went 5-12 in 2022, was on hand with his wife, Skylene. "(Payton) seemed to think that they'll be really good and back on track," Thompson said. "He was assuring me that Russell is going to be all right (after struggling last season)." During the game, Thompson got a text from his cousin, Alvin Gentry, who had seen the two sitting next to each other on television. Gentry, who coached the New Orleans Pelicans from 2015-20 and got to know Payton when he was then coaching the Saints, told Thompson to say hello to the Broncos boss, and Thompson did. Thompson had photos taken with Payton. He met Manning, who led Denver to a Super Bowl 50 win in his final NFL game in February 2016, and the two posed for a photo. "He's a very nice man," Thompson said. "I'm so happy for what he did for the Broncos. I talked to him a little bit about the team, and he said he's still involved somewhat with the team." Then Thompson ran into another Hall of Famer in Davis. More photos were taken. "We're fans of each other," Thompson said of meeting a number of notable Broncos. "It was a great evening. It was great to meet some nice, down-to-earth guys." The day after the Nuggets won the title, Thompson flew back to Charlotte. But he's planning to return to Denver for the Oct. 29 game against the Chiefs, when he again might be sitting in the stands wearing a Wilson jersey. *** WHAT I'M THINKING —The Broncos' signing of outside linebacker Frank Clark was a good move. After turning 30 last Wednesday, Clark might not end up in a fourth Pro Bowl or approach a third double-digit sack season, but he still can be an effective pass rusher. And Clark, who was signed after Baron Browning suffered a knee injury that could keep him out for at least the first six games, comes to Denver with a salary that hardly is out of line. He will make a base salary of $5.5 million and could earn another $2 million in incentives. —Former Broncos head coach and defensive coordinator Wade Phillips, who turns 76 Wednesday, might coach until he's 80. Phillips said he will be back in 2024 for a second season as coach of the Houston Roughnecks. He's showing no signs of slowing down. "The XFL, I think some good things are happening," Phillips said. "We had a lot of players go out and I think are going to make some (NFL) teams. It's a neat deal." *** WHAT I'M HEARING —Broncos tight end Greg Dulcich battled hamstring injuries as a rookie and missed seven games. He wants to make sure that doesn't happen again in 2023. "That's definitely been a huge part of my offseason since January, making sure that I can be more flexible to try to limit injuries and try to get a better routine to make sure my body is all good," he said. Overall, Dulcich looked good during spring drills. —When Jim Turner was Denver's kicker from 1971-79, two of the team's primary quarterbacks were Morton and Charley Johnson. Both were downcast when informed of the passing of Turner at age 82 on June 10. "Oh, my goodness," said Johnson, who played for the Broncos from 1972-75. "We were very close." Morton, who played for Denver from 1977-82, said he was saddened but wanted to put a positive spin on his time spent with Turner. "I smile when I hear his name," Morton said. "He and I had a great relationship and it was a great time to play for the Broncos." *** WHAT I'M SEEING —The Broncos don't look to have settled on a kicker for 2022. After releasing Brandon McManus, they signed Elliott Fry, who has played in three NFL regular-season games. They then brought in Randy Bullock, a 10-year veteran, for a tryout at the recent mandatory minicamp, although he didn't do enough to immediately get signed. After Fry and Bullock both kicked straight-on 9-yard field goals at a practice as a tribute to straight-on booter Turner, Payton said, "We looked a little better kicking straight on than we did with the soccer-style attempts." It was meant as a quip but it also shed some light on Denver's uncertain kicking situation. —Center Lloyd Cushenberry could be a weak link in Denver's offensive line, but there's no indication yet that he's in much jeopardy of not being a starter. "He's super bright and he's picked up the offense really quickly," said offensive line coach Zach Strief. Other Denver centers are Kyle Fuller, who is the second-best NFL player with that name and mostly a career reserve, Luke Wattenberg, who started one game last season as a rookie, and rookie Alex Forsyth, a seventh-round pick. *** THE LISTS LAST OF THE TOE GUYS In his final season of 1979, Turner was one of last of the NFL's straight-on kickers. Mark Moseley, who kicked for Washington and Cleveland in 1986, turned out to be the final one in the league. Here's a look at straight-on kickers still active in 1979 in order of how many points scored: Mark Moseley, Washington, 114 Don Cockroft, Cleveland, 89 Jim Turner, Denver, 71 Rick Danmeier, Minnesota 67 Tom Dempsey, Buffalo, 11 Russell Erxleben, New Orleans, 10 RIVALRY OUT OF THE GATES The Broncos and Raiders have met 125 times since both entered the AFL in 1960, with the Raiders holding a 70-53-2 edge while playing in Oakland, Los Angeles and Las Vegas. The rivals will meet for the ninth time in the opener Sept. 10 in Denver. Here's how the first eight went, all before the Raiders moved to Las Vegas in 2020: 1978: at Denver 14, Oakland 6 1981: at Denver 9, Oakland 7 1986: at Denver 38, Los Angeles 36 1990: at Los Angeles 14, Denver 9 1992: at Denver 17, Los Angeles 13 2008: Denver 41, at Oakland 14 2011: Oakland 23, at Denver 20 2019: at Oakland 24, Denver 16 Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Which teams have the toughest schedules ahead of the 2024 season? The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday.