By  Jennifer Pattison Tuohy and  Nathan Edwards If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. Good evening. It’s still Prime Day. Maybe we’ll be stuck in Prime Day forever (jkjk, there are only a few hours left). Since we’re here, please enjoy these deals on smart home devices. They are for sale. Please. Amazon Prime Day 2023, day two. There are some pretty good deals on robot vacuums and smart bulbs and so forth. Got a couple of cameras in here, a video doorbell or two. Smart locks. The Google Nest Wifi Pro mesh router thing that looks like it has a candy coating, which I regret to inform you is just plastic. The new Nanoleaf Matter bulbs are on sale! They’re pretty. Other deals occur as well. But they’ll end, as all things eventually do. Before you buy any smart home device, make sure it works with the smart home platforms and the phone ecosystems you already use. Matter makes this easier — kind of, but also kind of not. There’s also a lot of junk out there! Here’s some stuff that’s actually worth buying. This bot can do everything, just not quite as well as the top-of-the-line options. It vacuums, mops, self-empties, fills its mop reservoir, and cleans and dries its oscillating mops. It can map and has virtual keep-out zones but doesn’t avoid obstacles like shoes, so you have to clean up your clutter. Here’s the thing: robot vacuums are always on sale, and Prime Day isn’t necessarily the best time to buy one. In fact, the iRobot Roomba J7 Plus, our favorite robot vacuum, is slightly more expensive on Prime Day than it was just a few weeks ago, while the regular J7 is down from $599 to $399 — but it hits that price every few weeks. That said, these deals ain’t bad: Nanoleaf’s Matter Essentials bulbs work with every smart home platform as long as you have a Matter controller and Thread border router. They’re brighter, cheap, and have great colors, but they don’t support Apple’s Adaptive Lighting.  This colorful and versatile smart light strip is one of the most fully featured. A gradient LED strip with tunable white light, dimming functionality, and music sync, it works with Apple Home, Alexa, and Google Home, and over Wi-Fi, so it doesn’t need a hub. Read our review. With 24/7 recording, facial recognition, reliable smart alerts, and some free video recording. Google’s newest wired doorbell is the best option for most people. The Nest Doorbell Wired (second gen) is the best video doorbell camera for most people, especially if you use Google Home or Amazon Alexa. It has 24/7 recording and reliable alerts, and it’s down to $149.99 from $179.99.  The fourth-gen August Wi-Fi Smart Lock is a great retrofit smart door lock. This bundle includes a (kind of chunky) wireless keypad, which adds another unlocking option.  The Nest Wifi Pro is an upgraded version of the standard model that’s equipped with Matter and Thread support in addition to Wi-Fi 6E connectivity. Read our review. The Arlo Pro 3 Floodlight Cam has excellent video quality, versatile installation options, and the widest smart home integration — Amazon Alexa, Google Home, SmartThings, and Apple Home. It’s expensive, especially when you add continual power and pay for smart alerts and video recording.  / Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we've tested sent to your inbox weekly. Updated, July 12th, 2023 at 9:49PM ET: Vetted prices and availability, while also noting the fact that Prime Day is almost over.  / Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we've tested sent to your inbox weekly. The Verge is a vox media network © 2024 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved