ILLINOIS — More than 130 new laws will take effect in Illinois after Gov. J.B. Pritzker signed off on them last week — including controversial measures like allowing non-U.S. citizens to apply to be police officers. Some laws will take effect immediately, while others take effect in the coming months or on Jan. 1, 2024.  Here's a look at some of the new laws that could affect your life in Illinois: Pritzker signed House Bill 3751 which, effective immediately, allows non-U.S. citizens to apply for jobs as police officers. Current federal law does not allow non-citizens to joint police forces, but that's no longer the case in Illinois. The measure has drawn outrage from some, including Colorado Republican Congresswoman Lauren Boebert, who tweeted over the weekend that in Illinois, "illegals can now become police officers" and that "people who are breaking the law by their presence here can now arrest American citizens." Illinois Republican Congresswoman Mary Miller made a similar claim on X, formerly known as Twitter. She wrote, "When no one was paying attention, Pritzker signed a bill to allow illegal immigrants to become police officers, giving non-citizens the power to arrest citizens in our state. No sane state would allow foreign nationals to arrest their citizens, this is madness!"  Related: 'Hitler Was Right On One Thing': IL Congresswoman Miller That's not quite right, though. The law does not allow people who are in the U.S. illegally to apply for police jobs — according to the legislation, "an individual who is not a citizen but is legally authorized to work in the United States under federal law is authorized to apply for the position of police officers." Non-citizen applicants are subject to the same requirements as applicants who are citizens, and must be legally allowed to purchase and possess a gun under federal law. Earlier this week, Pritzker defended the new law during a press conference, calling the claims like those of Boebert and Miller "lies." "We have the ability for people who are legally here in this country, and permanent residents and DACA residents, to apply for jobs as police officers," he said. "I am tired of the right wing twisting things," Pritzker said. "There are people out there that think we’re just allowing anybody to become a police officer. That’s just not accurate." Just as smoking regular cigarettes is banned in most public places, starting Jan. 1, 2024, vaping or smoking electronic cigarettes will also be prohibited. The law adds electronic smoking devices to the 2008 Smoke-Free Illinois Act, meaning that just like cigarette smokers, those who vape will no longer be able to do so inside bars, restaurants and most public places. Under the 2008 law, most indoor public places and workplaces must be smoke-free, and smoking is banned within 15 feet of doors, windows and vents. Pritzker also signed House Bill 2396, which requires school districts across the state to establish a full-day kindergarten program by the 2027-28 school year.  Under the new law, every district must also establish a half-day program for parents who do not opt for full-day kindergarten that is “developmentally appropriate” and provides opportunities for play-based learning. Districts that currently do not offer a full-day program can apply for a waiver to extend the implementation date up to two years past the 2027-2028 school years if they meet certain criteria, according to the governor's office. Starting in January, it will be illegal to take part in a videoconference while driving in Illinois. In the era of Zoom calls, Google Meet conferences and Teams meetings, especially for remote workers, residents will not be allowed to log on to a video call while behind the wheel. But there is an exception for devices that can be used hands-free or via voice activation, according to the bill, as long as they can be used "by pressing a single button to activate or terminate a voice communication when a person is using the electronic communication device to watch or stream video, participate in any video conferencing application, or access any social media site." The bill amends the Illinois Vehicle Code, which already bans the use of hand-held cellphones, texting while driving or using other electronic communication devices behind the wheel. Drivers ages 19 and older are permitted to use hands-free devices or Bluetooth technology while driving. Exceptions to the existing rules include if a driver needs to use a cellphone that is not hands-free to report an emergency or while parked on the shoulder of a roadway. Other bills signed by Pritzker on Friday include: Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.