
Featured  
Written by: James Flippin   
        August 28, 2023     Zoom (ZM) and other video calls are a mainstay of the modern workday. While smiling into a camera may be exhausting for remote workers, there is a new reason to keep cameras dark: saving the planet.  Researchers from Purdue, Yale, and MIT found that switching off the video during Zoom meetings doesn’t just reduce video call fatigue. It effectively reduces your carbon footprint. According to the study, keeping your camera off during video conferencing can lower the session’s carbon footprint by as much as 96%, almost completely eliminating the environmental toll.  The carbon footprint of a video call mainly stems from data centers, which require huge amounts of air conditioning and coolant liquids, an energy-intensive combination. The numbers speak for themselves: one single hour of video conferencing or streaming emits anywhere from 150 to 1,000 grams of carbon dioxide. That’s equivalent to 11% of the emissions from burning an entire gallon of gasoline.  And that’s not all. One hour on Zoom also requires between 2 and 12 liters of water. Zoom alone hosts 55 billion hours of meetings annually. If just a quarter of those were audio-only, it would eliminate 18.2 million pounds of CO2 emissions and save 27.5 billion liters of water.  These numbers provide an eye-opening reminder that our digital actions impact the world around us. By opting for audio-only calls when possible, disabling autoplay while streaming, and being mindful of our interactions with large-footprint tools such as AI, we can all do our part.  This article originally appeared on SoFi.com and was syndicated by MediaFeed.org.  Please understand that this information provided is general in nature and shouldn’t be construed as a recommendation or solicitation of any products offered by SoFi’s affiliates and subsidiaries. In addition, this information is by no means meant to provide investment or financial advice, nor is it intended to serve as the basis for any investment decision or recommendation to buy or sell any asset. Keep in mind that investing involves risk, and past performance of an asset never guarantees future results or returns. It’s important for investors to consider their specific financial needs, goals, and risk profile before making an investment decision.No brands or products mentioned are affiliated with SoFi, nor do they endorse or sponsor this content.Communication of SoFi Wealth LLC an SEC Registered Investment AdvisorSoFi isn’t recommending and is not affiliated with the brands or companies displayed. Brands displayed neither endorse or sponsor this article. Third party trademarks and service marks referenced are property of their respective owners.SOSS23081801 Social Security is a social insurance program created in 1935 to pay workers an income once they retired at age 65 or older. When people talk about Social Security benefits, they’re referring to a monthly payment that replaces a portion of a worker’s pre-retirement income.  The amount you receive depends on how much you earned and paid in Social Security taxes during the 35 highest-earning years of your career. Generally speaking, the higher your income, the bigger your monthly check will be — up to a point. Also important is the age at which you claim benefits. Typically, the later you receive benefits, the higher your monthly check will be.  Note that retirees aren’t the only ones who are eligible for Social Security benefits. People with qualifying disabilities, surviving spouses of workers who have died, and dependent beneficiaries may also qualify for benefits.              David Petrus Ibars/istockphoto   When the Social Security program began, the full retirement age (FRA) was 65, and that’s still what many in the U.S. think of as the average retirement age. However, as life expectancy in the U.S. has increased, the Social Security Administration (SSA) has adjusted the FRA accordingly.  The chart below illustrates FRA by year of birth.              jacoblund/istockphoto   You can choose to claim retirement benefits as early as age 62. However, SSA will reduce your benefit by about 0.5% for every month you receive benefits before your FRA. For example, if your full retirement age is 67 and you file for Social Security benefits when you’re 62, you’d receive around 70% of your benefit.  On the other hand, if you wait to claim benefits after your FRA, you’ll accrue delayed retirement credits. This increases your benefit a certain percentage for every month you delay after your FRA. For example, if your full retirement age is 67 and you delay receiving benefits until age 70, you’ll get 124% of your monthly benefits. Note that the benefit increase stops when you turn 70.  (Learn more atPersonal Loan Calculator)               PeopleImages/istockphoto   When you claim your Social Security benefits, the SSA considers you retired. However, you can continue working after retirement and receiving benefits at the same time, though they may be limited.  If you’re younger than FRA for the entire year, the SSA will deduct $1 from your payment for every $2 you earn above an annual limit. In 2023, that limit is $21,240. In the year you reach full retirement age, the SSA will begin deducting $1 for every $3 you make above a different earnings limit — $56,520 in 2023.  No matter their work history, your spouse has the option to claim Social Security benefits based on your work record. That benefit can be up to 50% of your primary insurance amount, which is the benefit you’d receive at FRA. Your spouse can begin receiving spousal benefits at age 62, but they will receive a reduced benefit.               g-stockstudio/istockphoto   The main advantage of filing for Social Security early is that you’ll have access to retirement funds sooner. This can be a boon to individuals who need extra money to get by each month. To help you maximize every last dollar, consider using a spending app to create budgets, track spending, and monitor bills.  The main disadvantage of filing early is that you may permanently reduce your monthly benefit amount. This could be a factor to keep in mind as you determine whether you’re on track for retirement. So how do you decide when to file for your benefits? Consider your “break-even point.” This is the age at which receiving a delayed higher benefit outweighs claiming benefits earlier.  Here’s an example of how that works. Let’s say your FRA is 67 and your annual benefit is $24,000. If you claim your benefit at age 62, your benefit drops to $16,800 a year. If you delay until age 70, your benefit would be $29,760 a year.  By adding up each year’s worth of benefits and comparing them across different potential retirement ages, you find your break-even point. So in that last example, claiming your benefit at FRA breaks even with early filing at age 78. If you expect to live until this age or longer, you may consider filing for Social Security at full retirement age. Delaying until age 70 breaks even with claiming at FRA at age 82. So if you expect to live until 82 or longer, you may consider delaying your benefits.  (Learn moreHow Many Credit Cards Should I Have?)               JLco – Julia Amaral/istockphoto   Social Security is an important source of guaranteed income during retirement and can help ensure you can cover recurring expenses like housing payments and utilities. Your monthly payment amount is determined by how much you’ve earned during your working career and the age at which you claim Social Security benefits. You’re eligible to receive your full benefits when you reach full retirement age (FRA). If you file before then, the monthly payment will be reduced. If you file later, your monthly payment can increase, up to a point. Consider your short- and long-term financial needs carefully before deciding when to claim Social Security.  This article originally appeared on SoFi.com and was syndicated by MediaFeed.org.  SoFi’s Insights tool offers users the ability to connect both in-house accounts and external accounts using Plaid, Inc’s service. When you use the service to connect an account, you authorize SoFi to obtain account information from any external accounts as set forth in SoFi’s Terms of Use. SoFi assumes no responsibility for the timeliness, accuracy, deletion, non-delivery or failure to store any user data, loss of user data, communications, or personalization settings. You shall confirm the accuracy of Plaid data through sources independent of SoFi. The credit score provided to you is a Vantage Score® based on TransUnion™ (the “Processing Agent”) data. Financial Tips & Strategies: The tips provided on this website are of a general nature and do not take into account your specific objectives, financial situation, and needs. You should always consider their appropriateness given your own circumstances. Non affiliation: SoFi isn’t affiliated with any of the companies highlighted in this article.              KenTannenbaum/istockphoto                FG Trade/istockphoto   Featured Image Credit: damircudic/istockphoto. Last modified: August 28, 2023 MediaFeed is an independent news and education site, and may earn revenue through affiliate links. That means that if you click on a link to a product in one of our articles, and ultimately purchase that product, we may be paid a fee. The inclusion of those links, however, does not impact the editorial content.  
        February 11, 2024     The products and services mentioned below were selected independent of sales and advertising. However, Simplemost may receive a small commission from the purchase of any products …  
        February 8, 2024      
        February 6, 2024      
        February 6, 2024      
        February 7, 2024     NFL player Mark Andrews helped save a passenger’s life during a recent Southwest Airlines flight. The Baltimore Ravens tight end was on a flight from Baltimore …  
        February 4, 2024      
        February 1, 2024      
        January 25, 2024      
        February 5, 2024      
        February 3, 2024      
        January 29, 2024      
        January 27, 2024    