Haite Group is a trinity high-tech enterprise focusing on high-end core equipment R & D & manufacturing, aviation engineering technology and services, and high-performance second-generation/third-generation integrated circuit design and manufacturing. It is the first private aviation equipment development and technology service company in China, and the only private aviation engineering technology service company in China with licenses for aircraft, business jets, aviation accessories & components maintenance, pilot training from CAAC, EASA, FAA, etc. In the field of R&D and manufacturing, Haite Group has formed a product series mainly of airborne equipment and test equipment. ACCEL (Tianjin) Flight Simulation Co., Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Haite Group, is the first and only company in China that has the capability to develop Level-D Full Flight Simulators for all mainstream narrow-body aircraft of Airbus and Boeing at the same time. By the end of 2022, ACCEL has successfully delivered the Full Flight Simulator products of B737 NG, A320ceo, A320neo, B737 MAX platforms and all acquired the Level-D certificates from CAAC with the name of the first Full Flight Simulators “Made in China”. Entering a new phase of development, ACCEL is now trying to leverage the strong technical capabilities built from the Full Flight Simulator full life-cycle development experience to develop the Simulation and Training Solutions (STS) for new industry sectors: Innovative Air Mobility (IAM) and electric Vertical Take-off and Landing (eVTOL) industries, and has now completed products delivery to several domestic eVTOL OEMs. In the field of aviation engineering technology and service, Haite Group has the maintenance capabilities of FAA, EASA and CAAC, and it is the only service provider in the world that has the STC modification scheme for B737-700/800 P2F. Haite will establish the first A321 P2F conversion line in August 2023, which will provide P2F conversion service for two main narrow-body freighters. Now, Haite has become a third-party independent MRO with strongest maintenance ability and the largest amount of man-hours among all the private MROs in China. Haite has 3 training bases in China: Kunming, Tianjin, Shenyang and one in Singapore with 26 simulator bays and 13 Level-D full-flight simulators for fixed-wing aircrafts and helicopters, providing superior pilots and flight crew training solutions for the airlines from China and Southeast Asia. In the field of second/third generation compound semiconductor integrated circuit chip development & manufacturing, Haite has an internationally leading product line, providing strong support for improving wireless communication efficiency. Aircraft-related leasing system has been set up with subsidiaries of related business in Tianjin (China), Ireland and Singapore. Utilizing Haite Group's technical advantages in the aviation field, it provides customers the leasing services with passenger and cargo aircraft, simulators, and aviation materials. Focusing on aviation and building dreams for the future, Haite Group has established a system of the whole aviation industry chain to provide high quality and efficient aviation products and technical services for global customers. At the same time, for the fast-growing aviation market in China and the Asia-Pacific region, Haite is looking forward to in-depth cooperation with customers and industry partners to jointly build a new future for aviation in the Asia Pacific region. http://www.haitegroup.com/  Stay Connected.
Stay Informed
Grow Your Business.