We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports  7 August 2024 — Press release Government unveils AI projects to improve productivity and public services supported by a share of £32 million.  1 August 2024 — Press release Eleven semiconductor start-ups working on chips that make AI more efficient and create new lifesaving healthcare tech have joined a government-backed support service to help turn their research into business realities. 26 July 2024 — Press release UK Science Secretary Peter Kyle has commissioned an Action Plan to identify how AI can drive economic growth. 26 July 2024 — Press release Five new quantum research hubs backed by over £100 million of government funding will deliver breakthroughs in healthcare, cybersecurity and transport. 25 July 2024 — Press release Amazon Web Services (AWS) will provide around £8 million worth of cloud computing storage access to support UK Biobank, the world’s leading biomedical database. 23 July 2024 — Speech DSIT’s Secretary of State delivers his first speech at the Farnborough International Air Show on Monday 22 July 2024. 

          See all latest documents
        
 Driving innovation that will deliver improved public services, create new better-paid jobs and grow the economy. DSIT is a ministerial department, supported by 17 agencies and public bodies. 

              Read more about what we do
            
 
      The following links open in a new tab
     Unpaid Email 
correspondence@dsit.gov.uk
 FOI contact form We're unable to respond promptly to letters sent in the post at the moment. Please email to ensure we can respond to your enquiry as quickly as possible. 
      Read about the types of information we routinely publish in our Publication scheme. Our Personal information charter explains how we treat your personal information.
     Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      