When it comes to understanding artificial intelligence (AI) and self-actualizing robotics, I'll be the first to admit: I'm hopelessly clueless. Besides not grasping how the tech even works (I'm still trying to figure out how the hell to back up my iCloud), the tools are evolving at breakneck speed. Up until very recently, I'd been avoiding the craze surrounding ChatGPT and OpenAI, but once the fashion industry started adopting the tech, my interest was immediately piqued. Tapping into AI to curate a more personalized online shopping experience is definitely something I can get behind, and evidently, that's the exact mission of Mercari's new ChatGPT-powered shopping assistant (in beta), Merchat AI. As one of the world's largest resale brands, Mercari has a large inventory of products that it hopes consumers will be able to explore more seamlessly with the help of the AI tool.
 "Merchat AI marks an exciting turning point in the evolution of secondhand shopping," said John Lagerling, Mercari's US CEO, in a released statement. "With this technology, we're leveraging the transformative power of artificial intelligence to make it easier for Americans to shop and explore Mercari's extensive marketplace."
 Eager to find a way into the AI craze, I tested out Mercari's Merchat AI tool to see if the product could help streamline my online shopping experience. Ahead, I break down everything to know about the AI-powered shopping assistant, including how exactly it works, the best tips for getting the most out of it, and how it helped introduce me to some of my favorite thrifted finds. 
 First, start by going to the site Mercari.com/merchat/. From there, users are directed to a chatbot page where you can type in exactly what you're looking for, with suggestions like: "Could we look for anniversary gifts for my wife?" "Can you help me with Y2K style clothing?" "Any ideas for someone who travels a lot?" The brand emphasizes the importance of being incredibly specific in your searches, that way you can limit the amount of back-and-forth conversation you might need to have with the chatbot. 
 Before heading out to see the new "Barbie" movie, I decided that I needed a matching outfit to celebrate the pink-infused event and turned to Mercari's AI to help me curate a look for the watch party. I started by typing in: "I want to try TikTok's Barbiecore trend. Help!" The chatbot then proceeded to ask me a lot of follow-up questions, including what "color preferences" I'm looking for — which I'd assumed could be inferred as hot pink given that it's the core identity of the aesthetic. I then decided to take a different and much more focused approach, writing instead: "I want to test out TikTok's Barbiecore trend. Any suggestions for hot pink tops that I could wear to the theater?" The chatbot then proceeded to inquire about my preferences for the top's style and fabric, before recommending a wide range of options that varied in style, price point, and seller — even breaking my options down into categories like "Barbiecore Hot Pink Sleeveless Crop Top" and "Neon Pink Tank Top For Barbiecore Trend." I immediately fell in love with a few thrifted options like the Barbiecore Pastel Fuzzy Bandeau Top ($42), the Peppermayo Barbiecore Halterneck Top ($28), and even the Hot Pink Sleeveless Feather-Trim Crop Top ($30), but the styles represented only a small portion of all the pieces that were pulled for my search — and within only a few seconds, no less.
 I love that the tool removes all the hassle that normally comes with online shopping. Within a matter of seconds, the chatbot pulls up precisely what I'm looking for. It's free, so it's like having your own personal stylist with you at all times. The only thing that would make it better is if it could provide more specifics on sizing and reviews from previous shoppers, that way I wouldn't have to dive as deep into the details on each product page.  This AI-powered virtual shopping assistant is so easy to use and perfect for anyone who needs a little extra help in the online-shopping department. It essentially encapsulates the same experience you'd get working with a stylist IRL, yet it manages to also simplify the process of shopping online so you can find exactly what you need without having to spend endless hours scrolling through Mercari's site. As someone with a notoriously busy schedule, I appreciate that it cuts my browsing time in half and even manages to introduce me to an array of new pieces I might not have found on my own. Even the most heavily SEO-optimized sites don't have searching capabilities as advanced as the tool, and it's a game changer for people who are in a time crunch to shop something in a hurry. Best of all, it provides an easy way to dip your toe into the waters of the AI trend without having to fully immerse yourself in it.  Rating: ★★★★★