Stephanou has worked for more than 30 years in engineering and manufacturing roles within the pharmaceutical industry. Architecture and construction management services provider IPS has hired Jim Stephanou from US pharmaceutical company Merck & Co. (MSD) to serve as IPS’ new CEO. In this role at Berkshire Hathaway Company IPS, Stephanou will be responsible for spearheading the company’s next growth phase. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 He will report to IPS Enterprise Global CEO Dave Goswami. Goswami said: “Jim is just the right person to lead IPS Life Science as we continue on our unwavering commitment to providing EPCMV [engineering, procurement, construction management and validation] services to the life sciences industry. I’ve had the pleasure of working with and getting to know Jim through the many years supporting Merck as one of our largest clients. “He has demonstrated remarkable leadership capabilities and possesses the skills necessary to lead IPS into the future. I have full faith in his ability to build upon our past accomplishments and drive the company to even greater heights.  “This appointment is a part of our organisational strategy to achieve our ambitious growth goals. It will allow me to focus on our enterprise-level targets and to fulfil IPS’ overall mission.” Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Stephanou has worked for more than 30 years in manufacturing and engineering operations within the pharmaceutical sector. He worked at MSD for eight years as vice president of Global Engineering Solutions. Prior to his time at MSD, Stephanou held leadership roles at Bayer Corporation and LyondellBasell Industries for a combined total of more than 20 years. His background includes a mechanical engineering degree obtained from Drexel University in Philadelphia, US. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the construction industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024