Job Title: Public Information Officer Organisation: United Nations Regional Service Centre Entebbe (RSCE) Duty Station: Entebbe, Uganda Job Opening Number: 23-Public Information-RSCE-199972-R-Entebbe (N)   About US: The Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, Uganda (RSCE) was established in July 2010, following the adoption of General Assembly resolution 64/269. The Centre provides efficient, client-oriented and scalable services with the goal of moving transactional, non-location dependent administrative functions to the Centre from its client entities. This includes transactional elements of human resources, finance, multimodal movement and control, personnel and cargo transport and information and communications technology (ICT) support.   Job Summary: This position is located in the Communications Unit in the Office of the Director RSCE in Entebbe, Uganda. The Public Information Officer reports to the Director RSCE and shall be responsible for participating in the formulation and implementation of strategy, planning, development and provision of accurate and timely information with the objective of promoting awareness, understanding, support and respect for the RSCE’s work with particular emphasis of reaching local and international media, civil society organizations, Government and National NGOs, United Nations staff Worldwide and United Nations stakeholders.   Key Duties and Responsibilities: Under the direction of the supervisor and within the limits of delegated authority, the Public Information Officer may be responsible for the following duties: 
      (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Qualifications, Skills and Experience:   Competencies   How to Apply: All candidates who wish to join the United Nations should apply online at the link below.   Click Here   Deadline: 23rd February 2023    For more of the latest jobs, please visit https://www.theugandanjobline.com  or find us on our facebook page https://www.facebook.com/UgandanJobline Job Title:  Contact Center Apprentice (No Experience Customer Service Internship… Job Title:   Programme Development Manager Organisation: Save the Children International Duty… Job Title:  Trainees (Several No Experience Fresh Graduate Jobs) Organisation:… Job Title:    Quality Analyst Organisation: Mogo Uganda Duty Station: Kampala,… Job Title: Learning and Communications Officer Location: Jinja, Uganda Reports… Job Title:   Teller (Several No Experience Customer Service Jobs)… 

 For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com Popular Jobs 



 Administrative Assistant NGO Jobs – GOAL Uganda
 

											6 min read										



Job Title: Administrative Assistant Location: Jinja, Uganda Reports to: LogisticsRead More






 Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling) Jobs – Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.
 

											4 min read										



Job Title: Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling)Read More






 2 Entry-Level Oil & Gas Jobs – Assistant Coating Inspector – Sinopec (Uganda)
 

											3 min read										



Job Title:  Assistant Coating Inspector (2 Entry-Level Oil & GasRead More






 10 Sales Manager Job Positions – Platinum Credit (U) Ltd
 

											2 min read										



Job Title:  Sales Manager (10 Positions)   Organisation: Platinum CreditRead More






 24 Team Leader – Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Loans Job Vacancies – Platinum Credit (U) Ltd
 

											2 min read										



Job Title:  Team Leaders-Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Loans (24Read More




 Job Title: Administrative Assistant Location: Jinja, Uganda Reports to: LogisticsRead More Job Title: Production Manager (Mechanical Engineer – Wheat Flour Milling)Read More Job Title:  Assistant Coating Inspector (2 Entry-Level Oil & GasRead More Job Title:  Sales Manager (10 Positions)   Organisation: Platinum CreditRead More Job Title:  Team Leaders-Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Loans (24Read More   