Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Teena Jose
          

            Jan 5, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   
    You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   ElectricPe, an EV charging aggregation platform, has closed a pre-Series A funding round of $5 million. The funding round was led by notable investors like Green Frontier Capital, Blume Ventures, and Micelio Fund, and also saw participation from Dubai based NB Ventures, Anchorage Capital Partners, Supermorpheus, and Climate Angels. "We've received positive consumer response to our offering of a single app to find, use and pay across any charging or swapping station. Our belief has always been in stage-by-stage capitalisation as we ramp up our operations and create a holistic full-stack consumer-facing platform," said Avinash Sharma, co-founder and CEO, ElectricPe. Since its inception in May 2021, ElectricPe has built the densest charging network in Bangalore, with 10,000 live charging points. In a span of 7.5 months, the ElectricPe app usage has increased by 30% month-on-month, with customers on the network completing 4 million green kilometres. The pre-Series A funding round is completed just 12 months after the seed funding round. ElectricPe will use the combined capital of $8 million to deepen technology investments and scale operations, claimed by the company in a statement. We are focused on investing in homegrown start-ups which have a strong vision and are proving their ability to provide a unique technology solution to the growing climate change issue. As E-mobility is gaining traction in India, ElectricPe has identified a primary challenge and is working to create easy and seamless access to a trusted network of charging points/swapping stations all in one space," said Sandiip Bhammer, managing partner, Green Frontier Capital. Co-founded by Avinash Sharma and Raghav Rohila in May 2021, ElectricPe makes access to charging points simple, seamless, and efficient. The company's next-gen technology helps users discover charging points and identifies the best while facilitating charging in any station across the country. News Desk Reporter with Entrepreneur India 
          AI tools may help write your cover letter, but it's also doubling the number of applicants.
         
          From social media to AI, entrepreneurs are pulling out all the stops for success. 
         
          Preparation, resilience and adaptability are universal keys to scaling the heights of business success.
         
          "Do what you can, with what you have, where you are."
         
          The rising use of deepfakes is a growing threat to businesses and society as technology advances. Here are three tips for companies to combat this threat. 
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
