businessReal Estate By  Steve BrownReal Estate Editor By  Steve BrownReal Estate Editor 3:02 PM on Jul 14, 2023 CDT A Minnesota engineering firm is moving its headquarters to Plano, but the relocation isn’t expected to bring an influx of new workers to North Texas. Westwood Professional Services – which has been based in the Minneapolis area for more than 50 years — is shifting its headquarters to an office the company already occupies on the Dallas North Tollway in Plano. The engineering firm recently acquired two North Texas firms. Westwood purchased Fort Worth-based Peloton Land Solutions in June after acquiring Dallas’ Pacheco Koch Consulting Engineers in December 2021. Get the latest real estate news you need to know. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Westwood representatives did not respond to The Dallas Morning News’ request for details about the Texas move. But CEO Paul Greenhagen told the Minneapolis Star-Tribune that the company has more workers in Texas than in Minnesota. He said three of the firm’s top executives will be based in the Plano office, one of 12 it operates in Texas. “The Dallas-Fort Worth area gives us a much larger market to attract top corporate talent,” Greenhagen told the Star-Tribune. “Additionally, our team members collaborate across the country. D-FW has two major airports and is centrally located in the U.S.” None of Westwood’s Minnesota corporate staff will be required to move to Texas, Greenhagen said. The headquarters relocation is expected to be complete by the first of next year. The company’s 1,600 employees work in 27 offices across the country. Dallas-Fort Worth already is home to some of the country’s largest engineering firms. Global engineering and construction firm Fluor Corp is based in Las Colinas. Engineering firm Jacobs, which has a 62,000-person workforce worldwide, has its head office in downtown Dallas. In 2021, California-based international engineering firm Aecom moved its headquarters from Los Angeles to Dallas. The trio hold the top three spots in trade publication Engineering News-Record’s annual ranking of project design firms. Westwood ranked 79th. Steve Brown, Real Estate Editor. Steve covers commercial and residential real estate in Dallas-Fort Worth.