DeFi protocols, especially lending protocols account for over 40% of USDD utility within the Tron ecosystem. The report revealed that SunCurve and SunSwap, two of the top DEXes on Tron controlled roughly 10% of circulating USDD  We have been evaluating Tron from a bird’s eye view but have you ever wondered what has been happening under the hood? Perhaps a look at USDD, a fast-paced stablecoin native to Tron, may offer some insights. USDD achieved significant growth in the last 12 months. This was a noteworthy observation considering that it survived some rough terrain slightly over a year ago. The UST collapse in 2022 sowed a dark cloud of uncertainty and distrust over the crypto market. As a result, we saw Tron commit to more investments aimed at overcollateralizing USDD to secure its peg. But just how far has it grown since the shocking events of 2022? Messari recently released an analysis evaluating USDD’s performance in Q2 2023. The analysis revealed that the stablecoin enjoyed lower volatility as well as improved stability. This allowed it to maintain its dollar peg.  1/ How did @usddio perform in Q2 of 2023? During the second quarter, the @trondao-native stablecoin showed improved stability and returned to its peg, resulting in reduced volatility while trading.@john_tv_locke explores key insights and developments below. ? pic.twitter.com/xg4kSke2sk — Messari (@MessariCrypto) July 18, 2023  Some of the key takeaways from the report include the announcement that USDD maintained over 130,000 holders during the quarter. However, this marked a significant quarterly decline since its inception. According to the Messari analysis, DeFi protocols, especially lending protocols account for over 40% of USDD utility within the Tron ecosystem. The report revealed that SunCurve and SunSwap, two of the top DEXes on Tron controlled roughly 10% of circulating USDD. The amount of borrowed liquidity in Q2 amounted to 5 million USDD while the liquidity deposited to lending protocols amounted to 220 million. USDD managed to maintain healthy on-chain performance during the last six months. For example, its volume on the Ethereum network soared as high as 159.37 million USDD at its peak in February. USDD volume on Ethereum had a record low of just above 10 million. Its network growth maintained healthy activity during the same period. Source: Santiment As for the situation on the BNB chain, volume peaked just below 50 million USDD during the same six-month duration. Its lowest volume during the same period fell to roughly 11.0 million USDD. Meanwhile, network growth has been more pronounced during the last four weeks compared to the previous months since the start of 2023. Source: Santiment In conclusion, it is clear that USDD owes its rapid growth to the Tron network’s robust growth during the last few months. It will likely continue on the same trajectory as the Tron network expands. Nevertheless, 2022 stablecoin woes have certainly left a mark on the market. Can Tron avoid a repeat of what we saw during the UST crash? Time will tell.    Disclaimer: AMBCrypto's content is meant to be informational in nature and should not be interpreted as investment advice. Trading, buying or selling cryptocurrencies should be considered a high-risk investment and every reader is advised to do their own research before making any decisions. © 2024 AMBCrypto