This time last year, Meta's ad business was on the brink. Apple's ATT privacy update threatened to upend its primary source of revenue, and the company was aggressively repositioning itself toward the metaverse.  But today, Meta's ad business is back on the upswing, as the company has delved into AI to replace the consumer data that powered its lucrative ad targeting and measurement capabilities.  However, as Meta has reoriented its priorities within advertising, it has also lost many of the top executives who built and sustained its $113 billion advertising business. Many of those executives have now gone on to other platforms, like Snap and Reddit, which are making aggressive investments to improve their own ad platforms. The following are some of the prominent Meta ad executives who left the company since 2022, where they've taken their talents, and what they're now building. They are listed alphabetically. Formerly VP of product marketing, Meta Ahmad-Taylor joined Snap in January where he currently serves as VP organic growth and product marketing. He spearheads marketing and strategy for Snap's ad products, according to Adweek. During a recent fireside chat with LDV Capital, Ahmad-Taylor said he's developing ways to monetize the various features that consumers use on the platforms — including sponsored augmented reality lenses, ads in the Discover or Spotlight tabs, sponsored locations on Maps, or the messaging tab with lead generation or click-to-message features. Ahmad-Taylor has tons of experience as a tech and media exec. He started his career as a reporter and graphics editor at The New York Times before jumping to Silicon Valley in the mid-90s. Since then, he's worked as an executive at Comcast, Viacom, and Samsung — after it acquired Ahmad-Taylor's startup FanFeedr in 2012. After a stint at Samsung, Ahmad-Taylor served as CEO of the George Lucas-founded audio and video firm THX. Ahmad-Taylor then went to Meta for about five years. Initially, the company was focused on photos and text, he said during the fireside, and he helped it monetize as it transitioned to become a video-centric environment. Formerly VP of science and ecosystem, Meta Buchheim has over two decades of experience in digital advertising, having worked at Yahoo, Microsoft, the industry trade body IAB Tech Lab, and most recently at Meta.  At Meta, Buchheim built relationships so others in the ad industry could work with the platform giant, while making sure Meta didn't divulge its trade secrets.  After one and a half years there, Buchheim struck out on his own, starting the consultancy ThinkMedium, he told Insider. "There were a couple of client opportunities that were attractive, and I'd mentioned to friends and former colleagues that my longer term desired state was to be semi-independent and consulting in a small group," he said. At ThinkMedium, Buchheim works with three other consultants to help adtech companies, advertisers, and publishers ensure data privacy, make sure that ads are being shown in a safe environment, and that their ad businesses are run efficiently.  For example, ThinkMedium might examine a client's current product roadmap, develop one that's better, and map out how to get there. "Right now, we're focused on defining a plan with a client, rather than executing on it," Buchheim said. In the future, ThinkMedium could develop services to provide a team to actually execute on that plan, if a client doesn't have the staff to do it. ThinkMedium currently has about a half dozen clients, though Buchheim did not say who they were.  Formerly VP of global channels, Meta Harris was a longtime Meta ad exec who joined Snap as SVP of partnerships in May. At Snap, he is tasked with finding ways for advertisers and partners to use Snap's technology including augmented reality.  Harris spent nearly 12 years at Meta and is credited with building relationships with ad agencies. In his last role as VP of global channels, Harris armed advertisers with educational resources for testing ad creative and measuring campaigns. A few years ago, his team launched a program called Rise that offered educational and networking resources to ad agencies impacted by the pandemic. Harris also helped steer advertisers through Meta's brand safety, misinformation, and data privacy issues. Prior to Meta, Harris worked in ad sales at Microsoft. Formerly VP of northern Europe, Meta Hatch left Meta this year and is set to join the polling and research company YouGov on August 1 as its CEO. His responsibilities at Meta have been assumed by Derya Matras, who was previously vp of Middle East, Africa, and Turkey. "I have felt lucky to go home from Meta a bit smarter every day, not because of who I am but because of the excellent people I have worked alongside," Hatch wrote in a February post on his LinkedIn page. "It really is a self-sharpening organization and no doubt Meta's best days are ahead." He had spent almost a decade at Meta, having joined as Facebook's first regional director for the UK in 2014. In 2016 he was promoted to become vice president for Northern Europe — an important region for driving the growth of Meta's e-commerce products and its insight tools. Hatch previously worked across the UK ad agency space. He was CEO of the WPP agency MEC UK and previously held roles at agencies including Mediaedge, Young & Rubicam Group, and PHD Media. Formerly head of creative and design of partnerships marketing, Meta Hsu had been at Meta since 2014, leading the Instagram Creative Shop, and later building marketing campaigns for core Facebook. She moved to Clinique in April 2022, where she currently serves as its VP of global creative, digital brand. Since she joined Clinique, the cosmetics giant has leaped into the metaverse. In March, the company launched the Clinique Lab, a mobile-first activation hosted on its website, where users can create an avatar to navigate a digital space modeled after the real-life Clinique Lab at Macy's Herald Square.  "In developing brand experiences, we are always conscious of telling our story through our values of clarity, optimism, and bravery, and the Virtual Lab reflects these in our ideal state," Hsu told the trade publication BeautyMatter in March this year. Hsu was diagnosed with IV metastatic breast cancer in 2019, and she has spoken openly about the challenges living with the disease.  She has also advocated for more Asian, Asian-American, and Pacific Islander representation in the advertising industry.  "There is [still] the perception that AAPIs are not creative," Hsu said last year in Campaign US. "There isn't enough creative representation for AAPIs in leadership roles." Formerly head of creative intelligence, senior director, Meta After years honing her craft at ad agencies, Keller came to Meta in 2015 as a creative strategist, according to her LinkedIn profile, ascending to oversee the company's creative intelligence team. She led a team that looked at how creative performed across Meta, according to an online biography, and shared those insights with Meta's global Creative Shop to better help businesses create content for Meta. In May, Keller said in a LinkedIn post that she would leave that post to return to the agency world, taking up a position as both a board member of DDB Germany as well as its chief strategy officer. "As a member of the board I will be responsible for Innovation, Corporate Culture, Strategy and will lead the Planning departments across the German offices," Keller wrote. "In addition, I will also take on the Lead Strategy role for DDB's central Volkswagen team within the Omnicom group — and drive close collaboration across creative, strategic and media disciplines in an integrated approach." Formerly VP of global business marketing, Meta Klein had worked with Meta for more than a decade before announcing earlier this year she planned to leave the company and return home to her native Australia to be closer to her family and to "help shape [the country's] future." Earlier this month, Insurance Australia Group, said it had appointed Klein as its first chief customer and marketing officer. She will be responsible for marketing across all of IAG's brands and divisions, including NRMA Insurance, ROLLiN', CGU and WFI. Writing on her LinkedIn page, Klein said she wanted to bring everything she'd learned from Silicon Valley to drive transformation through innovation and technology at IAG. "As a marketer who cares about putting customers at the center of the brand experience, the most compelling aspect of insurance is that it could be considered one of the most emotionally-driven purchase decisions a person makes," Klein wrote. At Meta, was part of the team that worked on the rebrand from Facebook to Meta in 2021, and she was part of the team charged with getting businesses enthused by the metaverse concept. A marketer by trade, Klein worked at Diageo for more than seven years, rising to become vp of global marketing innovation where she developed new spirits offerings. Formerly VP business products engineering, Meta MacLean joined Amazon in April to lead Amazon's demand-side platform business, Insider first reported. The Amazon DSP uses automation to let advertisers buy ads on Amazon properties like Amazon.com, Twitch, and IMDb, as well as elsewhere on the web. MacLean is responsible for growing awareness of the Amazon DSP's capabilities among large agency groups and nonendemic advertisers — or advertisers who don't sell products on Amazon. She reports into Colleen Aubrey, SVP of advertising products and tech. "Kelly has spent 20 years leading and supporting teams that build science-driven products and technology to help brands of all sizes operate smartly and effectively," said an Amazon spokesperson in a statement last month. "Advanced science is at the heart of Amazon DSP, and we'll continue inventing on behalf of brands so they can more easily maximize the reach and performance of their ad spends." MacLean had spent more than 11 years at Meta before joining Amazon. Most recently she held the role of Meta's VP of business products engineering, where she specialized in ads, enterprise, and other business-to-business products. Formerly VP of small business group, Meta Rao joined Meta in 2017, where he led global operations for Meta's small and midsize advertisers. SMBs account for most of the company's advertisers and Rao was responsible for turning the companies that use Meta's free tools into paying advertisers.  He has since taken that experience building and selling tools to SMBs to financial software company Intuit QuickBooks, which he joined in February as its chief sales officer. In a column for Entrepreneur.com, Rao said that the volatile economy as well as increased costs of raw materials, shipping, labor, and utilities have put a tremendous burden on SMBs. "Recently, I joined Intuit QuickBooks, specifically because I wanted to help small businesses better manage their finances amid these challenges," he wrote.  Formerly VP of business and creator marketing, Instagram Squires spent more than a decade at Meta and in his final role there, he helped brands and creators use the Instagram platform, as the image and video-oriented social media platform became a big revenue driver for Meta. In early 2023, soon after leaving Meta, he moved to Reddit. Squires is Reddit's EVP of business marketing and growth, a newly-created position reporting to Reddit COO Jen Wong, according to a company release announcing the hiring.  At Reddit, Squires is tasked with enticing a larger variety of advertisers to buy ads on the platform. He will also influence the development of ad products unique to the Reddit platform for large businesses and SMBs. Squires is one of the latest executive appointments by Reddit to help bolster its aggressive plan to grow its ad business. Earlier this year, because of the growth of its ads team, Reddit promoted its VP of ads Harold Klaje to be its CRO. Formerly global head of brand design, Meta Suviala hopped to WPP design agency Landor & Fitch in February to take responsibility for its creative teams who work with clients including Apple, Coca-Cola, and LEGO. He is also responsible for applying new technologies across its design studios. "I'm keen to explore how we can be at the forefront of the Imagination Age with new technologies such as A.I. and by blurring the lines between our physical and virtual worlds to create the better, bolder brand experiences which appeal to the consumers, clients, and stakeholders of today and tomorrow," said in a statement announcing his appointment. It's a nod to his prior role at Meta, where Suviala was the global head of brand design for its Reality Labs division. Suviala's team worked on the rebranding of Facebook to Meta and were responsible for designing many of its metaverse concepts. Before joining Meta, Suviala held creative director positions at agencies including COLLINS, Wolff Olins, and Kokora & Moi. Formerly director of product management, Meta Wong leads product for Google's Ads Privacy Sandbox, the tech giant's initiative to test and create privacy focused standards for how advertising will work on Chrome and Android when third-party cookies go away. "We are making one of the largest changes to how the Internet works at a time when people, more than ever, are relying on the free services and content that the web offers," Wong told Gizmodo earlier this year.  Prior to joining Google, Wong was at Meta for two years, responsible for the company's privacy and data practices across ads, commerce, and business payments, according to his LinkedIn.  Wong previously founded the adtech startup Thunder, a cross-device ad server that was acquired by Walmart in 2021. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to