
			Metaverse-obsessed billionaire is running out of new users to sign up
		 Mark Zuckerberg spent Facebook’s early days fending off claims that he stole the idea from his Harvard classmates. More recently he has become far more comfortable taking inspiration from elsewhere. Since buying Instagram, Zuckerberg has seen off competition from Snapchat by aping its popular video features with Stories and is now trying to do the same with Reels, a short-form video feature meant to give TikTok a run for its money. Perhaps it was only a matter of time before Zuckerberg took a leaf out of Elon Musk’s book. On Sunday night, Meta’s chief executive announced that Facebook and Instagram would introduce a subscription service, the first time users have been offered the chance to pay for special perks on the advertising-funded platforms. For $11.99 (£9.96) a month, or $14.99 if purchased through an iPhone, users of Meta Verified will get a blue tick on Instagram and Facebook if they confirm their identity with an official ID. Their profiles will be more prominently displayed in comments and searches, and they will also be offered new protections to fight against impersonators. The service mirrors Twitter Blue, the £8 a month verification service that Musk has been continually promoting since he bought the social network in October. Musk said it was “inevitable” that Zuckerberg would follow. Yet Meta, the world’s biggest social media company with a value of $450bn, faces an uphill battle to encourage its more than 3.7bn users to part with their cash. “I’m struggling to see how this will be a big hit for them at the price point and the perks package they’re offering,” says Matt Navarra, a social media consultant who discovered Meta’s plans and forced the company to make the announcement on Sunday. Musk’s effort to wean Twitter off advertising revenue is yet to bear fruit. Estimates suggest that fewer than 300,000 accounts have subscribed to Twitter Blue, less than 1pc of the social network’s total users. Zuckerberg faces added challenges as a result of Meta’s size: the bar for success is high. “It takes at least 5m paying subscribers to get to a place where it's 1pc of revenue,” says Brian Wieser, an advertising consultant. “It's hard to fathom this being a significant line item. 99pc of their revenue is advertising and they haven't found a way to make a meaningful revenue stream from anything else yet.” Meta’s most well-off users already bring in more in advertising revenue than they would if they paid for verification. Meanwhile, the majority of its users – many of them in developing countries – do not have the disposable income to sign up. Zuckerberg has long toyed with the idea of charging users. In the days after the 2018 Cambridge Analytica scandal, which triggered an outcry about the company’s use of data, executives considered offering a paid-for and advertising-free version. A year later, it removed the slogan, “It’s free and always will be,” from its sign-up page. Until now, however, the idea of making users pay has never been a priority. Millions of people kept signing up to Facebook and Instagram each month, fuelling a seemingly perpetual cash machine of targeted adverts. Critics repeatedly pointed out that Facebook was free because users were the product: their data was being sucked up and sold to advertisers. However, most people did not seem to mind and the sign-ups continued. Today, however, Zuckerberg is facing a different reality. Meta’s world-beating advertising machine is teetering, thanks to a combination of uncertain economic conditions and privacy changes from Apple that have limited how companies can target adverts on iPhones. Meta recorded its first ever drop in advertising revenue last summer and has now endured three consecutive quarters of declining revenue. Investor confidence in Zuckerberg’s vision for the company has also slumped after a costly and as yet unsuccessful pivot to focus on the metaverse. He is under pressure to find some success. Finally, the company is simply running out of new users to sign-up. A total 3.7bn people are now using one or more of either Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp – almost all the world’s online population outside of Facebook-less China. The number of people using at least one of Meta’s services each month rose by 290m in 2021, but just 150m last year.  Signing up new users is getting more and more difficult. With no more worlds left to conquer, the alternative way to keep growing is to make more from each user. Estimates from Bloomberg Intelligence suggest Meta Verified could add between $2bn and $3bn to the company’s annual revenue of $117bn. Paid-for verification is likely to appeal to two types of Meta users: professional influencers who rely on Facebook or Instagram for their livelihoods, and those for whom the fabled blue tick is a status symbol. Subscriptions are attractive because they offer "better predictability" to businesses and influencers looking to boost their visibility, says Julien Codorniou, a former Facebook executive and investor at Felix Capital. Bruce Daisley, the former head of Twitter in Europe, compares the appeal of a blue tick on social media to flying business class, which is as much about prestige as comfort. Subscription success would come with its own hazards. Verified users would have their comments and profiles made more visible, leading to concerns that a subclass of non-paying users would be drowned out. Commercial interests could also trump the rules. Meta has already faced criticism, including from its own Oversight Board, for letting celebrity users get away with activity that would have seen others banned. Alternatively, platforms could see overall user numbers and usage wane if perks are gradually taken away from those who do not pay. Musk is already doing just that, declaring last week that only those who subscribe to Twitter Blue would be allowed to further secure their account using phone number verification. The move provoked criticism from experts including Ciaran Martin, the former head of the National Cyber Security Centre. Navarra believes the high price of Meta Verified is likely to turn users off. He is not prepared to pay despite working in social media. “I think it’s overpriced for what you’re getting at this time. It’s not the best value in my mind and the features aren’t things that people are clamouring for.” He points out that unlike Twitter Blue, which restricts the number of adverts subscribers see, Meta Verified users will still be targeted with ads. Zuckerberg is not prepared to give up on advertising. Success or not, the genie is out of the bottle. Alongside Meta and Twitter, Snapchat, Reddit and Discord have all introduced paid-for versions of their services. Snapchat, whose subscription offering is cheaper at £3.99, has been the most successful, bringing in 2m subscribers with perks such as early access to experimental features and more control over posts. The era of free social media is well and truly over – and Zuckerberg isn’t about to be left behind. 