SINGAPORE — The Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA) has notified Meta, the parent company of Facebook, to urgently review and remove a Facebook Page and Group containing child sexual exploitation material This marks the first time the IMDA has exercised its authority under the amended Broadcasting Act to address such content, said the authority in a media release on Friday (9 June). Meta promptly removed the offensive material from its platform within 24 hours. Additionally, IMDA has directed internet service providers in Singapore to block a website associated with the Facebook Page and Group, which facilitated the distribution of further child exploitation content. The investigation was initiated after the Singapore Police Force alerted the IMDA to a Facebook Page that was involved in a network promoting the sharing of the child exploitation material. The police told Yahoo Southeast Asia that the Facebook page was uncovered during investigations against a 42-year-old man for possession of child sex material. Subsequently, the IMDA discovered a Facebook Group with similar content, including hyperlinks directing viewers to a website hosting the content. The IMDA and the SPF firmly condemn the solicitation and distribution of such material, recognising it as an egregious form of harmful content, as defined by the amended Broadcasting Act. The act holds social media platforms accountable for ensuring the safety of local users by safeguarding them from online harm. Failure to comply with the amended legislation may result in significant penalties, including fines of up to $1 million or the blocking of social media services in Singapore. A comprehensive effort involving all stakeholders is necessary to tackling the global issue of harmful online content, the IMDA said. "The Singapore government has strengthened our regulatory framework and will continue its efforts in ensuring that regulatory and public education measures can address the growing range of harmful online content and protect Singapore users against online harms," the IMDA wrote in its statement. The authority also emphasised the crucial role that social media services play in ensuring the safety of all users, particularly children and reaffirmed its commitment to collaborate closely with social media services to enhance Singapore's online safety further. Do you have a story tip? Email: sgnews.tips@yahooinc.com. You can also follow us on Facebook, Instagram, TikTok and Twitter. Also check out our Southeast Asia, Food, and Gaming channels on YouTube. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.