Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile Our mission is to deliver unbiased, fact-based reporting that holds power to account and exposes the truth.Whether $5 or $50, every contribution counts.Support us to deliver journalism without an agenda. Louise Thomas Editor Facebook owner Meta will pay the biggest ever fine over accusations it gave people access to personal information. Meta has agreed to pay $725 million as part of a class action lawsuit, according to a court filing posted on Thursday. The settlement must still be approved by a judge in San Francisco. The lawsuit accused Meta of allowing third parties to access people’s personal information. The long-running lawsuit began after 2018 accusations that Facebook had failed to protect people’s data from being given to Cambridge Analytica. The complaint was filed on behalf of up to 280 million people, according to the court documents. That represents everyone who used Facebook in the US between 2007 and 2022, the filings claim. It is not clear how any money will be shared and the case will be subject to further hearings next year. Lawyers involved said that the fine was not only the biggest ever to be paid by Meta – which has faced a number of legal claims and financial penalties in recent years – but also the largest fine ever to be paid out in a US class-action lawsuit that related to data. It is far from the biggest fine ever paid by the company, however. In 2019, Facebook paid a $5 billion fine to settle a case with the Federal Trade Commission, as part of another dispute over its privacy policies. Meta did not admit any wrongdoing in the settlement. But it said that settling the lawsuit was nonetheless “in the best interest of our community and shareholders”. It also said that it had made significant changes to the way it handles users data over the past three years. It has “revamped our approach to privacy and implemented a comprehensive privacy program”, it said in a statement. Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies Facebook Meta FTC Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today. Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Log in New to The Independent? Or if you would prefer: 