We sometimes use affiliate links in our content, when clicking on those we might receive a commission – at no extra cost to you. By using this website you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. Don’t invest unless prepared to lose all the money you invest. This is a high-risk investment, you shouldn’t expect to be protected if something goes wrong.
 Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage ConsenSys, the blockchain software company behind the popular MetaMask crypto wallet, has launched a new non-fungible token collection to celebrate the Ethereum Shanghai upgrade. The highly anticipated Ethereum Capella upgrade went live just a few hours ago. The Shanghai upgrade is a technological milestone in the history of the internet that will enable users to withdraw staked Ethereum assets. The activation will reduce barriers to entry for retail and institutional stakers, encouraging increased participation, and precipitating further decentralization and security of the Ethereum network. To celebrate this historic moment, ConsenSys has launched a new NFT collection, “Ethereum, Evolved: Shanghai,” which will feature two editions. The first commemorative edition consists of an art NFT depicting the themes of liquidity and security. 🔊The moment has finally come!  Ethereum has now simultaneously upgraded its execution and consensus layers to enable staked ETH withdrawals.  It's time to celebrate! Claim your Ethereum, Evolved: Shanghai NFT now👇https://t.co/QoagIXBmz1 — Consensys (@Consensys) April 13, 2023  The second open edition is an NFT depicting the theme of decentralization, a benefit of the Shanghai/Capella upgrade. To thank all the Core Devs and contributors, ConsenSys will airdrop the new commemorative NFTs to the Ethereum Core Devs on April 13. As part of the celebrations, ConsenSys has announced to airdrop the new NFTs to members of the Protocol Guild, including 130 Ethereum core protocol contributors, for the years of decentralized coordination and their effort to make the Shanghai/Capella Upgrade a reality. Ethereum, one of the world’s largest programmable blockchains, performed another significant upgrade, “Merge,” in September last year, enabling it to move to the Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism. The upgrade reduced the network’s energy consumption by 99.99%, among other significant implications. Again, ConsenSys launched a similar NFT collection, “Regenesis,” to celebrate the Ethereum Merge upgrade. The NFT collection featured two sets of commemorative NFTs. The first was presented to the Ethereum Core Developers (Core Devs), researchers, and client teams, who participated in the Ethereum upgrade. The second set of NFTs in the collection was an open edition NFT of Regenesis that anyone with a web3 wallet could mint. The open edition NFT remains one of the most distributed NFT drops in the history of Ethereum, with 327,600 mints. In the meantime, the NFT claim window is open, and it will run for 72 hours. ConsenSys requires shortlisted users to have MetaMask wallets to mint the free open-edition commemorative NFTs. Nonetheless, MetaMask has cautioned over possible scams during this celebration period. 🚗 The Shanghai/Capella upgrade is next on the Ethereum roadmap!  You do not need to do anything to your MetaMask wallet for the upgrade.  Any messages about upgrading your MetaMask or swapping your tokens are scams. 🧐For more on the upgrade check out: https://t.co/f8qTSpKANd — MetaMask Support (@MetaMaskSupport) April 12, 2023  Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage Dominic is a Nairobi, Kenya based crypto news writer enthusiastic about NFTs, DeFi, GameFi, the Metaverse and blockchain tech in general, with five years experience in the field, alongside his own personal trading and investing journey. Dominic holds a Bachelor's degree in Journalism, Media and Mass Communication Studies and has been blogging and producing educational materials for retail investors in… Join Our Telegram channel to stay up to date on breaking news coverage The ...