STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. — Ed Sheeran is returning to venues across the United States in 2023 for the first time in nearly five years. STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. — Ed Sheeran is returning to venues across the United States in 2023 for the first time in nearly five years. The singer-songwriter will break out on the North American leg of his international tour “+ - = ÷ x Tour,” pronounced the “Mathematics Tour,” from May 6 to Sept. 23, 2023. He’ll perform at 21 venues across North America, including MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford on June 10-11. He will also perform at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia on June 3. Ticket prices start around $70. He’ll perform at 21 venues across North America, including MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford on June 10-11. He will also perform at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia on June 3. Ticket prices start around $70. Show openers will be Khalid, Russ, Dylan, Rosa Linn, Cat Burns and Maisie Peters on select dates. Find the complete calendar featuring all tour dates, venues, show start times and links to buy tickets here. Find the complete calendar featuring all tour dates, venues, show start times and links to buy tickets here. RELATED CONTENT Lynyrd Skynyrd will hold 50-year anniversary tour and it will stop near Staten Island | How to get tickets Reba McEntire is coming to Madison Square Garden in NYC on April 15, 2023 | How to get tickets Country music star Morgan Wallen will perform at MetLife Stadium on May 20, 2022 | How to get tickets If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices