If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 Christy Bieber is a full-time personal finance and legal writer with more than a decade of experience. She has a JD from UCLA as well as a degree in English, Media and Communications with a Certificate in Business Management from the University of Rochester. In addition to writing for The Ascent and The Motley Fool, her work has also been featured regularly on MSN Money, CNBC, and USA Today. She also ghost writes textbooks, serves as a subject matter expert for online course design, and is a former college instructor. 
See Full Bio
 
Our Insurance
Expert
 Eric McWhinnie has been writing and editing digital content since 2010. He specializes in personal finance and investing. He also holds a bachelor’s degree in Finance. 
See Full Bio
 Anyone with people depending on them should buy the right life insurance coverage to protect loved ones. This guide will help insurance buyers find the best life insurance companies. Northwestern Mutual's mix of different coverage options, its strong customer service, and its long history in the life insurance market make it a top pick for anyone seeking life insurance. Its premiums are competitive, and those who buy permanent life insurance are also eligible to receive dividends. While the insurer doesn't allow online applications as some of its competitors do, its network of agents are helpful and make the process easy. Its customers don't see this as an issue -- 97% of its more than 5 million customers remain with the company from year to year. So it still earns our top spot as the best overall life insurance provider. Term life insurance; whole life insurance; universal life insurance  No 


Read our Northwestern Mutual review


 Bestow is different from other insurance providers because it offers substantial insurance coverage without a traditional medical exam. It's possible to get approved for a policy worth up to $1.5 million within just minutes. Premium prices are competitive and policy quotes are available online for policies with a 10-30 year term.  Term life insurance Yes 


Read our Bestow review


 State Farm offers a huge variety of life insurance policies, including multiple different term life policies, as well as an Instant Answer policy that doesn't require a medical exam. Premiums are competitive, and it's possible to save substantially on insurance costs by bundling coverage with home, auto, liability, or other policies. The wide variety of different insurance policies State Farm has available make it the best option for those who want to get all their coverage from one trusted insurer with a solid reputation for customer service.  Term life insurance; whole life insurance; universal life insurance   Yes (Instant Answer term life policy)  


Read our State Farm review


 When you want a customizable policy, New York Life has you covered. There are multiple choices for term, whole life, and universal life policies and you aren't limited to pre-selected terms such as a 10-year or 20-year term of coverage. You can also opt for convertible term life policies so you can change to permanent coverage if your needs change -- all without undergoing another medical exam. Term life insurance; whole life insurance; universal life insurance   Yes (AARP Easy Acceptance Life Insurance through New York Life)  


Read our New York Life review


 Life insurance is a type of insurance policy that provides financial protection for dependents. The policy pays out a death benefit if the covered person passes away. Designated beneficiaries receive the death benefit, which can be used to replace the deceased's income or pay for services the deceased provided. Some life insurance policies are also a type of investment vehicle. They acquire a cash value. Policyholders can borrow against them, withdraw some money, or cash in their policies. Insurance buyers can also add more protections, called riders, from most insurers. For example, it may be possible to add long-term care insurance or a guaranteed income rider. Hoping to protect family members? Check out The Ascent's guide to the best life insurance for families. There are two primary types of life insurance: "term life" and "whole life." While both provide a death benefit, they have some important differences.  Term life insurance is in effect for a set time. It pays a death benefit if the covered person dies while the policy is active. It is solely a life insurance product, with no investment component. Insurance buyers decide how large the death benefit will be, with some policies offering millions in coverage -- although policies with higher death benefits cost more. Term life insurance is much more affordable than whole life insurance, especially for those who shop around to find coverage. Whole life premiums often cost up to four times more than a term life policy. However, term life insurance only provides coverage for the selected term, which is usually between 10 and 30 years. If the covered person doesn't die while the policy is in effect, the policy will expire and the death benefit won't be paid. However, it's possible to buy a guaranteed renewable term policy to have the option to extend the term of coverage. Unfortunately, premiums could go up when life insurance coverage renews. Whole life insurance remains in effect for life as long as premiums are paid. As long as it is in effect, the death benefit will be paid out. Whole life policies also have an investment component and acquire a cash value that it's possible to borrow against or cash out. Policyholders can withdraw some of the money, borrow against the insurance policy, or surrender the policy. Tax benefits are associated with investing in a whole life insurance policy. However, many financial experts believe it's possible to earn a better return on investment elsewhere. Buying a cheaper term life policy and investing the money saved on premiums could be the better choice in the long run. The first decision to make when buying life insurance is whether to buy term life or whole life. Here's a rundown of which policy type is best for specific needs, along with pros and cons of each. Best for: Term life insurance is best for people looking for the most affordable insurance protection for a limited time. Best for: Whole life insurance is best for people looking for lifetime protection and a policy that also serves as an investment. When applying for a standard term or whole life policy, insurance buyers must go through a medical underwriting process. They must provide health information so an underwriter can assess their risk of dying during the coverage period. In many cases, insurance buyers will also need to undergo a medical exam as part of the medical underwriting process. No exam life insurance is life insurance that is sold to consumers without requiring a medical examination. There are different kinds of no exam life insurance to be aware of. Before purchasing a no medical exam policy, research the terms carefully to understand both coverage and cost. It's also important to remember that life insurance medical exams often aren't a big deal. The insurer covers costs and the exam involves a simple general assessment of health status. Choosing the right life insurance requires taking several steps. Here are some of the things insurance buyers should do to get the perfect policy in place. There are different kinds of life insurance policies, including the following: Term life is usually the best choice for most people. However, those who cannot qualify for a term life policy due to pre-existing medical conditions may want to consider guaranteed issue coverage. And people who will need lifetime coverage (such as parents of disabled children who will need financial support after a caregiver's death) may want to look into whole life plans. When buying life insurance coverage, it's essential to decide on the size of the death benefit. Some experts recommend purchasing policies with a death benefit equal to 10 to 12 times annual income. This is a simple approach to estimating coverage needs. However, the DIME formula provides a more precise method. This formula suggests basing the amount of the death benefit on four factors: It's a good idea to get at least three to five quotes from different life insurance companies because prices vary. Many insurers provide quotes online. Or an independent insurance agent can help consumers shop around with different carriers to explore coverage needs. Insurance buyers should look at premium costs, but also other key criteria as well, including: After reviewing all of these details, insurance buyers can choose which insurer to submit an application to. Insurers often ask for extensive medical information during the application process and a medical exam may be required. Be sure to leave time to complete this step and get coverage in place when it is needed. Life insurance costs vary depending on many factors, including: The difference in cost from one policy to the next can be substantial. For example, while the average cost of a term life policy purchased at a young age could be around $30 for someone with no health issues, older smokers could pay $1,000 per month or more for similar coverage. Life insurance coverage insures against the loss of life. If the covered person passes away, beneficiaries receive a payment. It's also possible to add riders or optional additional coverage. The most important coverages are listed below, along with common riders. Beneficiaries get an additional payout when someone dies as a result of an accident. This is commonly referred to as the death benefit. Beneficiaries often receive double the death benefit from the accidental death rider. This adds long-term care insurance. Long-term care coverage can be purchased separately, however, bundling can simplify and streamline the process of getting covered. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for nursing home care or long-term care at home. Loved ones will receive regular monthly income for a policyholder's death Premiums paid for term life insurance are returned if the coverage term ends without a death. Premiums are waived for policyholders who become permanently disabled. Coverage will remain in effect, despite a pause in premium payments, after a disability. Life insurance provides a death benefit in almost all situations when someone passes away. A death benefit is typically paid out: Some life insurance policies will not provide a death benefit if the covered person dies by suicide within a certain period of time after the policy is purchased. The life insurance death benefit can be used for anything that the beneficiaries desire, from debt repayment to funeral expenses to daily expenses. Life insurance buyers can also add additional coverage in the form of riders. This means that in addition to paying a death benefit, the life insurance policy might offer these extra protections: Insurance buyers should research these options to ensure they are getting the right coverage for their needs. Life insurance would typically not provide coverage in the following situations: Some insurers also deny coverage for high-risk activities like scuba diving or skydiving. And, if a policy has a waiting period, the insurer might pay out only a partial death benefit or no death benefit during that time. Life insurance is affordable and offers invaluable protection to save loved ones from financial disaster after a death. It can pay for important things, like a child's college education or the mortgage on a family home. It can also pay for important services someone was providing to their family, such as caring for children or aging parents. To make sure a policy is worth paying for, you need to understand the details. This means researching term insurance vs. whole life insurance, researching which riders to buy, and obtaining at least three different quotes to compare costs. Life insurance offers peace of mind and ensures loved ones are cared for. Shop around for quotes today with no obligation to find out how much a policy will cost and which policy makes the most sense. Want a large life insurance policy? Check out The Ascent's guide to million-dollar life insurance policies. The cost of a whole life insurance policy is determined by many factors including the age, gender, and health of the covered person, as well as the life insurance carrier selected. A healthy 30-year-old could expect to pay around $472 monthly for a $500,000 whole life insurance policy. But older insurance buyers could pay much more while younger buyers could pay less. One big downside of life insurance is that term life policy premiums can feel like wasted money if no death benefit is paid out. However, the premiums are buying protection against financial disaster in the event of an untimely death, which is money well spent. Just as people don't consider auto insurance a waste if they don't get into an accident, term life insurance shouldn't be considered wasteful if the policyholder outlives the coverage term. Other downsides include the fact it is difficult for older people or those with health problems to get life insurance coverage. And whole life policies generally are a poor investment due to their complexity, fees, and limitations on accessing funds. Employer-provided life insurance can be a good workplace benefit to have, especially if an employer subsidizes the costs of the coverage. Employer-provided policies are also generally issued to all eligible workers without regard to their health status. This can be very beneficial to people who have pre-existing conditions and who might not qualify for standard coverage on their own. The downside is that these policies may not follow the insured if the covered person leaves work. And the death benefit may not be large enough to provide sufficient protection as many employer-provided life insurance plans have low coverage limits. As a result of these major downsides, those with employer-provided insurance may wish to also purchase additional life insurance coverage independently. Life Insurance products are rated on a scale of one to five stars, primarily focusing on: We look at overall customer sentiment from those who have direct experience with the specific life insurance company. This is compiled through researching publicly available data as well as survey data from visitors of this site. With so many options for life insurance across the board these days, it's easiest, and quite effective, to first look at the bottom line. We look at the various options available and variety of insurance products offered that can better fit a range of consumers. The focus being on term and whole life insurance and the strength of those specific policy products. We review the overall strength and health of the company as an indicator as that can highlight a stability that provides peace of mind. Company strength can include: 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.