Dentsu Group Inc. announced today a significant evolution in its longstanding relationship with Google Cloud by deploying Google Cloud’s Vertex AI and Duet AI for Google Workspace – increasing its focus on driving innovation through emerging technologies such as GenAI.  “Google Cloud continues to be a key partner for dentsu as we develop innovative products and services for clients and optimise our global business. We are putting significant focus on experimentation with emerging GenAI tools, and we’re excited by the enormous potential of the Google Cloud AI roadmap. Our teams across the group are looking forward to piloting the Vertex AI platform for solution development and new Workspace AI capabilities to power up day-to-day business activities,” said Dominic Shine, group CIO, dentsu.  Merkle’s generative AI solution, Merkle GenCX, will collaborate with Google’s Vertex AI and Duet AI, to allow brands the ability to drive connected customer experiences with improved speed, accuracy, and effectiveness not possible before the era of generative AI. Building upon its deep heritage in data and analytics, Merkle GenCX leverages large knowledge models (LKMs) and the power of large language models (LLMs) on its clients’ proprietary data assets via neutral networks to uncover opportunities with vast amounts of enterprise first-party data – all in a privacy-safe environment. Businesses who use Google Duet AI and Vertex AI can leverage Merkle GenCX to create opportunities for brands that generate actionable insights from data previously left untapped. Benefits include: “The power of AI and data brings the future of CX into the market today, and Merkle and Google will help guide brands on this journey,” said Shirli Zelcer, global head of analytics and data platforms at Merkle. “Infusing this data and LKMs from Merkle GenCX into the Google AI platforms, in concert with the benefits of the Google Cloud, makes it possible for marketers to build meaningful experiences for their customers.” Dentsu has prioritised investments into deploying private and secure instances of enterprise-grade cloud infrastructure founded in ethical and responsible AI principles by design. Google Cloud has a similar vision and as a pioneer in responsible AI, releasing its AI Principles in 2018 to describe its commitment to developing technology responsibly. With this next phase of the relationship with Google Cloud, dentsu will enable its teams to focus on swiftly upskilling in the GenAI space to deliver rapid prototypes and sustainable solutions developed with Google Cloud’s AI platform.  “This next chapter of our partnership is a testament to how our platform and solutions can further enable the creative minds at dentsu as it continues to bring brand experiences alive by leveraging technology in a safe, ethical and responsible way,” said Caroline Yap, managing director, global AI business at Google Cloud.