Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  Terms apply to American Express benefits and offers. Visit americanexpress.com to learn more. If there's one thing everyone can agree on about flying, it's that nobody likes a long security line at the airport. Thankfully, you have a few options for paying a little extra to skip the crowds. Statement credits for CLEAR®, Global Entry or TSA PreCheck application fees have become a standard benefit of many travel rewards cards, and are available as bundles as well. Below, CNBC Select reviews the difference between each travel perk — TSA PreCheck, Global Entry and CLEAR — and how your credit card could help you save on membership fees. The cost varies by enrollment provider and ranges from $77.95 to $85 for a 5-year membership. Renewal fees are $68.95 to $78 depending on which provider you renew through and whether you renew online or in-person. If you rarely travel abroad and don't want to pay for Global Entry, TSA PreCheck is $78 for a five-year membership and gives you expedited security checks at more than 200 select airports in the U.S. If you don't have a U.S. passport, this is probably your best option. For anyone who has experienced TSA PreCheck, the process is less invasive than the standard security screenings. You don't have to remove your shoes, belt, light jacket, laptop or TSA-approved liquids. To apply, you have to submit an online application and then schedule a 10-minute in-person appointment at one of the many enrollment centers. The appointment includes a background check and fingerprinting. A 5-year membership costs $100 (increasing to $120 as of Oct. 1, 2024). As of Oct. 1, 2024, children under 18 years old won't pay an application fee when the parent/guardian is a member of a valid trusted traveler program (Global Entry, SENTRI or NEXUS) or is applying at the same time. Global Entry is a U.S. Customs and Border Protection program that allows expedited clearance for pre-approved, low-risk travelers upon arrival in the U.S. after traveling internationally. It basically means getting in the express line at customs and immigration, which can save you time and a potential headache after a long trip. To apply, you must submit an application, pay a non-refundable $100 fee ($120 starting Oct. 1, 2024) and complete an in-person interview. If approved, your five-year membership includes both Global Entry and TSA PreCheck in the U.S. To qualify for Global Entry, you must be a U.S. citizen or U.S. lawful permanent resident. Residents of select countries can also qualify, and you can learn more about international application requirements. Applicants under 18 must have a parent or legal guardian's consent to participate in Global Entry. Learn more about eligibility for Global Entry, and be sure to check out CNBC Select's how to apply for Global Entry. Here's a sampling of some popular travel credit cards that offer statement credits for the Global Entry or TSA PreCheck fees. Though each of these cards has an annual fee, this travel perk can help offset it — not to mention all the additional rewards you can earn using these cards regularly. 5X miles on hotels, vacation rentals and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel, 2X miles per dollar on every other purchase Enjoy $250 to use on Capital One Travel in your first cardholder year, plus earn 75,000 bonus miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening - that's equal to $1,000 in travel $95 N/A for purchases and balance transfers 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) $0 at the Transfer APR, 4% of the amount of each transferred balance that posts to your account at a promotional APR that Capital One may offer to you None Excellent/Good Terms apply.   Unlimited 2X miles on all eligible purchases, and 5 Miles per dollar on flights and vacation rentals and 10 Miles per dollar on hotels and rental cars when booked via Capital One Travel portal Earn 75,000 bonus miles once you spend $4,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening $395 None 19.99% - 29.99% (Variable) $0 at the Transfer APR, 4% of the amount of each transferred balance that posts to your account at a promotional APR that Capital One may offer to you None Excellent Terms apply. Read our Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card review. 2 miles per $1 spent on United purchases; 2 miles per $1 spent on dining, eligible delivery services and hotel stays; 1 mile earned on every $1 spent on all other purchases Earn 50,000 bonus miles after you spend $3,000 on purchases in the first 3 months your account is open. $0 intro annual fee for the first year, then $95 None 21.99% - 28.99% Variable 5%, minimum $5 None Excellent/Good Member FDIC. Terms apply.   Earn 5X total points on flights and 10X total points on hotels and car rentals when you purchase travel through Chase Travel℠ immediately after the first $300 is spent on travel purchases annually. Earn 3X points on other travel and dining & 1 point per $1 spent on all other purchases plus, 10X points on Lyft rides through March 2025 Earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. That's $900 toward travel when you redeem through Chase Travel℠. $550 None 22.49% - 29.49% variable 5%, minimum $5 None Excellent Terms apply. Read our Chase Sapphire Reserve® review.   Earn 5X Membership Rewards® Points for flights booked directly with airlines or with American Express Travel up to $500,000 on these purchases per calendar year, 5X Membership Rewards® Points on prepaid hotels booked with American Express Travel, 1X points on all other eligible purchases Earn 80,000 Membership Rewards® Points after you spend $8,000 on eligible purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of Card Membership. Apply and select your preferred metal Card design: classic Platinum, Platinum x Kehinde Wiley, or Platinum x Julie Mehretu. $695* None See Pay Over Time APR N/A None Excellent/Good See rates and fees, terms apply. Read our The Platinum Card® from American Express review. Global Entry and TSA PreCheck credits are worth up to $120 or $78, respectively, and they are typically offered every four or five years, depending on which card you have. You receive the statement credit after you submit and pay for an application, and it can take a few weeks to see the cost credited to your account. You can bundle with a 5-year TSA PreCheck membership for the same $199 cost. Military and government employee discounts available. Discounts available for select airline loyalty program members. CLEAR® is a newer addition to accelerating airport security screenings. CLEAR uses your eyes and fingertips rather than traditional IDs to verify your identity when you travel. The most expensive program of the three, CLEAR costs $199 for an annual membership that does not include TSA PreCheck. However, you can also enroll in a CLEAR Plus membership bundled with TSA PreCheck. For new CLEAR Plus members, you only have to pay $199.95 for the bundle the first year ($77.95 for your TSA PreCheck application and a discounted $122 CLEAR Plus membership). After the first year, your CLEAR Plus membership automatically renews at $199 annually. If you're renewing your TSA PreCheck membership and you don't have a CLEAR Plus membership, you'd only have to pay $190.95 ($68.95 for a 5-year online renewal of TSA PreCheck membership, and $122 for your first year of CLEAR Plus). However, this deal only applies to online renewals — if you renew in person, you have to pay $199.95. With CLEAR, you can add up to three adult family members for only $99 per year each. Kids under 18 are free and don't need to enroll. Delta SkyMiles and United MileagePlus members with status can often receive CLEAR discounts. CLEAR also offers discounts for military service members and government employees. To apply, you sign up online and complete an in-person biometric scan. Once you are approved to use CLEAR, your experience going through security at the airport is pretty seamless. You report directly to a CLEAR kiosk and scan your fingerprints or eyes. A representative then escorts you to a security checkpoint. For sports and music fans, the membership also grants you CLEAR Sports, which allows you to skip the security line when attending many major stadiums and entertainment venues throughout the country, including Staples Center and Madison Square Garden. There are a few cards that offer statement credits toward the CLEAR® Plus membership fee, most of which come from American Express. If you apply for The Platinum Card® from American Express or The Business Platinum Card® from American Express, you can use your card to get up to $199 in statement credits back per year on your CLEAR® Plus membership when you pay for membership with your Platinum card (Excluding any applicable taxes and fees. subject to auto-renewal). This benefit is also available to those with the Hilton Honors American Express Aspire Card. Terms apply. Earn 5X Membership Rewards® Points for flights booked directly with airlines or with American Express Travel up to $500,000 on these purchases per calendar year, 5X Membership Rewards® Points on prepaid hotels booked with American Express Travel, 1X points on all other eligible purchases Earn 80,000 Membership Rewards® Points after you spend $8,000 on eligible purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of Card Membership. Apply and select your preferred metal Card design: classic Platinum, Platinum x Kehinde Wiley, or Platinum x Julie Mehretu. $695* None See Pay Over Time APR N/A None Excellent/Good See rates and fees, terms apply. Read our The Platinum Card® from American Express review. Earn 5X Membership Rewards® points on flights and prepaid hotels on AmexTravel.com and 1X points for each dollar you spend on eligible purchases. Also, earn 1.5X points (that's an extra half point per dollar) on each eligible purchase at US construction material, hardware suppliers, electronic goods retailers, and software & cloud system providers, and shipping providers, as well as on purchases of $5,000 or more, on up to $2 million per Card Account per calendar year. Purchases eligible for multiple additional point bonuses will only receive the highest eligible bonus.  Earn 150,000 Membership Rewards® points after you spend $20,000 in eligible purchases on the Card within the first 3 months of Card Membership. $695 N/A 19.49% - 28.49% variable N/A None Excellent/Good See rates and fees, terms apply. Additionally, with the American Express® Green Card, you can receive up to $199 in statement credits per calendar year toward a membership. Terms apply. This credit can help offset the Green Card's $150 annual fee (see rates and fees) while you get to enjoy a discounted CLEAR® Plus membership. American Express® Green Card cardholders also earn 3X Membership Rewards® points on eligible travel, transit and at restaurants worldwide and 1X Membership Rewards® points on all other purchases. 3X Membership Rewards® points on travel, transit purchases, and on eligible purchases at restaurants worldwide (including takeout and delivery in the U.S.) and 1X Membership Rewards® points on all other eligible purchases Earn 40,000 Membership Rewards® Points after you spend $3,000 on purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of Card Membership $150 Not applicable See Pay Over Time APR N/A None Excellent/Good Terms apply. Read our American Express® Green Card review. Delta SkyMiles American Express and United credit card members can also enroll in CLEAR at a discounted rate of $149 per year ($40 off) or for free if they have a top-tier elite status. Earn 2X Miles on Delta purchases, at U.S. Supermarkets and at restaurants worldwide, including takeout and delivery in the U.S., and 1X Mile per dollar on all other eligible purchases  Earn 40,000 Bonus Miles after you spend $2,000 in eligible purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of Card Membership. $0 introductory annual fee for the first year, then $150 None 20.99% - 29.99% variable N/A None Excellent/Good See rates and fees, terms apply. 2 miles per $1 spent on United purchases; 2 miles per $1 spent on dining, eligible delivery services and hotel stays; 1 mile earned on every $1 spent on all other purchases Earn 50,000 bonus miles after you spend $3,000 on purchases in the first 3 months your account is open. $0 intro annual fee for the first year, then $95 None 21.99% - 28.99% Variable 5%, minimum $5 None Excellent/Good Member FDIC. Terms apply.   CLEAR and Global Entry are very different programs because CLEAR saves you time going through security screenings, while Global Entry saves you time at customs and immigration upon arrival in the U.S. after traveling internationally. Global Entry members automatically receive TSA PreCheck expedited security benefits as part of their membership. While Global Entry includes TSA PreCheck benefits, TSA PreCheck does not include Global Entry. Global Entry can definitely be worth it as it saves you a lot of time and hassle when returning from an international trip. The cost is just $22 more than TSA PreCheck and it includes all PreCheck benefits as well. Unfortunately, you can't upgrade TSA PreCheck to Global Entry — you must apply for the program separately. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every travel guide is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of travel products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date Information about the American Express® Green Card has been collected independently by CNBC Select and has not been reviewed or provided by the issuer of the card prior to publication. For rates and fees for the American Express Green Card, click here For rates and fees of the Hilton Honors American Express Aspire Card, click here. For rates and fees for the Platinum Card® from American Express, click here For rates and fees of the Business Platinum Card® from American Express, click here For rates and fees of the Delta SkyMiles® Gold American Express Card, click here © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.