On December 27,MEXC Global, the world’s leading crypto-asset trading platform, officially launched the MEXC Mastercard, allowing cryptocurrency holders to use digital assets in daily payments. It is reported that the MEXC Mastercard can be directly connected to the user’s MEXC account, allowing users to recharge with cryptocurrency balances. Cardholders can manage their cards, view transaction history, and access customer support through the card dashboard on the MEXC app and website. Andrew, VP of MEXC Global, said: “MEXC is committed to tangibly promoting global cryptocurrency adoption, bringing cryptocurrency into everyday shopping. We believe that the MEXC Mastercard is an important step in encouraging wider cryptocurrency use and global adoption.” The launch of the MEXC Mastercard is a new practice of MEXC in cryptocurrency. MEXC Mastercard can not only help cryptocurrency to be used in life payment like traditional bank account payment but also expand the user base from traditional financial card users to those Users who are keen on spending with cryptocurrencies. Now such cryptocurrency cards are becoming more and more popular. “The launch of the MEXC Mastercard also reflects our reliability, innovation, and influence. We always start from the perspective of users’ needs and provide users with professional products and services. After continuous efforts, in the second half of this year, the liquidity of contracts, spot, and ETFs has achieved the world’s first.” Andrew added. MEXC is the world’s leading cryptocurrency trading platform, providing one-stop cryptocurrency trading services for spot, ETF, futures, Staking, NFT Index, and more. MEXC currently serves more than 10 million users worldwide and embraces the philosophy of “Users first, MEXC’s Changing for you”. Visit thewebsite andblog for more information, and followMEXC Global andM-Ventures & Labs. If you’re here, you understand the importance of safeguarding your valuable assets and enhancing... Imagine this: It’s the morning of your big meeting with the boss. You’ve been... In the chaotic and often unpredictable world of cryptocurrencies, three digital coins are capturing... Artificial Intelligence (AI) has transformed the technological landscape, driving innovations across industries. The development... Introduction to Blockchain PR Agency A Blockchain PR Agency is a special type of... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming... As cryptocurrency investors look ahead to 2024, MoonTaurus (MNTR) is gaining attention for its... Today live sports coverage is a major thing for every sports enthusiast; hence, missing... The cryptocurrency market is again facing turbulent times, with Bitcoin and Ethereum seeing a... Solana’s pricing prospects have snagged the spotlight as Brazil gears up to roll out... Are you ready to take your career to the next level while indulging in... The abaya has remained a staple in Saudi fashion even in 2024, expanding with... Singapore, August 18, 2024 – In the rapidly evolving cryptocurrency industry, LBank has established... The fusion of technology and life sciences has become more crucial than ever in... The rise of child anxiety Based on recent academic sources, child anxiety appears to... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming a highly successful marketing expert and CEO of... Many large businesses started as startups, but coming up with an idea, launching it, and staying on course is extremely challenging. Often,... After dedicating himself to a career as an inner-city teacher and collegiate basketball coach, Eric Allen embarked on a journey that led... Ultima Business Solutions, a leading provider of innovative technology solutions, is proud to announce a significant enhancement to its leadership team. Effective... TechBullion FinTech News and Information Copyright © 2024 TechBullion. All Rights Reserved.