DISCLAIMER: This article is a SPONSORED Press Release and does not constitute Finbold's editorial content. Crypto assets/products involve significant risks. Do not invest unless you are prepared to lose your entire investment. For a full disclaimer, please click here. Finblox, a leading crypto superapp backed and supported by behemoths like Dragonfly and Sequoia, is delighted to announce the remarkable success of its recent token launch, defying current market conditions and generating a trading volume exceeding 2 million USD in the first 12 trading hours. Preparation for the ICO Leading up to the listing, Finblox witnessed impressive participation from the crypto community across various partner launchpads, with more than 3,000 unique addresses who purchased FBX during the pre-sale period from PoolZ, Decubate, Spores, and from Finblox’s own launchpad: FinLaunch. As part of its comprehensive community strategy, Finblox conducted a series of compelling online and offline activities, including social media campaigns, learn-and-earn activities, and interactive ask-me-anything sessions. The culmination of these efforts took shape in the form of highly successful offline meetups called Finblox Summit held in Manila, Philippines, and Ho Chi Minh, Viet Nam last May 8 and 16 respectively, which brought together power users, partners, and media from the local communities. FBX has further achieved a significant milestone by being listed on major exchanges including Gate.io, MEXC Global, BTSE, starting May 18, 2023. The token’s all-time high during the ICO peaked at an astounding 500% above the listing price, demonstrating the market’s strong support for Finblox despite the volatility. Building a sustainable roadmap To further fortify the utility of Finblox Tokens, the superapp has announced a promotion of a guaranteed 30% APY for users who deposit their fresh FBX tokens into their Finblox Wallets between May 18 and July 18, 2023. This limited-time offer allows token holders to actively engage in the Finblox ecosystem while earning substantial rewards. Finblox invites all token holders to take advantage of this exclusive offer by transferring their Finblox Tokens to their Finblox Wallets and embarking on a journey of earning rewards. By participating in this initiative, users become a part of the Finblox community, while maximising their potential within the platform. Finblox has initiated a token burn in a strategic move to ensure fair value of the remaining tokens in circulation. As of May 19, 2023, 437 million tokens, valued at $3.07 million, representing 4.37% of the total supply, have been burnt. “Our users can now be a part of the growth and development of the Finblox ecosystem. With the roadmap ahead, we invite the community to join us in the journey of democratising finance with Web3”, said Peter Hoang, CEO and Founder of Finblox. Users are encouraged to check out Finblox’s blog to learn more about the token-burning activity. For more information on how you can accumulate more FBX tokens through the promotion, check out Finblox’s article here. About Finblox Finblox is a crypto superapp backed by top-tier VCs like Sequoia Capital, Dragonfly, and Saison Capital. Users can earn up to 100x rewards by participating in the ecosystem of products, including trading, staking, and AI games. Finblox Token (FBX) is the utility token native to the Finblox ecosystem. With FBX, users can enjoy perks that can be used across our entire suite of products – and shape the future direction of the ecosystem. Contact: Geoff Mabasa Growth Lead, Finblox Email: [email protected] 
                    Please be aware that the content of this website is not financial advice. Finodes Ltd. is not a financial advisor. The information and services provided are not intended for, and should not be accessed or used by, residents of the United Kingdom.
                 
                    In the United Kingdom, crypto assets are classified as restricted mass market investments. This classification means that such assets are considered high-risk investments and are not suitable for retail investors.
                 
If you are a resident of the United Kingdom, please exit this site immediately.
                    By continuing to use or access this website, you acknowledge that you are not a resident of the UK and understand the risks associated with high-risk investments, including the potential total loss of your investment.
                 Or copy link Create price alerts for stocks & crypto. Get started Get started  
              Copyright © 2024 Finbold.com. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service.
           
Disclaimer: The information on this website is for general informational and educational purposes only and does not constitute financial, legal, tax, or investment advice. This site does not make any financial promotions, and all content is strictly informational. By using this site, you agree to our full disclaimer and terms of use. For more information, please read our complete Global Disclaimer.
        