If you want an Amazon tablet, these are the best of the best 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 There are a lot of great tablets out there, but if you're price-conscious it's hard to beat the affordability of Amazon's slates. They're not all top-tier, but the best Amazon Fire tablets give you a great slate for not a lot of green. I know because my team and I review all the major tablets from the top manufacturers every year, so we see the best (and worst) you can buy. We generally recommend the Amazon Fire HD 10 to most folks shopping for a Fire tablet because it offers great battery life, good performance and a nice screen for under $200. If you can afford something slightly nicer, we recommend upgrading to the Amazon Fire HD 10 Plus because it comes with more RAM, a nicer finish and support for wireless charging. But if you're on a tight budget and just need a cheap tablet to browse the web, you'll be just fine with the Amazon Fire 8. It's a small, cheap slate with sub-1080p resolution, but it's one of the best you can get for $100. One key thing to remember before buying a Fire tablet: You're limited to the apps available in Amazon's App Store, which means you're not going to have access to mainstays like Gmail and YouTube. But as long as you're comfortable swimming exclusively in Amazon's ecosystem, these affordable tablets are just fine.  It's worth taking a look at our Amazon promo codes page for the latest offers before you buy, too! In a hurry? Here's a brief overview of the tablets on this list, along with quick links that let you jump down the page directly to a review of whichever slate catches your eye. Best overall  The Amazon Fire HD 10 is the Amazon tablet we recommend most due to its great mix of price, size and performance. At under $150 with ads (or slightly more without), this is the sweet spot for Amazon Fire tablets.
Read more below Best budget  The Amazon Fire HD 8 represents the sweet spot in terms of price, power, and functionality. This 12th-generation Fire HD 8 tablet packs roughly 30% more power than the last model. It’s also lighter yet more durable. This is an amazingly solid tablet for the $100 asking price .
Read more below Upgrade pick  If you can afford it, the Amazon Fire HD 10 Plus is the Fire tablet to upgrade to for the best blend of performance and screen quality. It's not a huge leap over the Fire HD 10, but then it's not much more expensive either. Read more below For ages 6-12  For older kids (ages 6-12) we recommend the Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids Pro because its cheap, durable and comes with a 2-year warranty and a year of Amazon Kids+ included at no extra charge. Read more below For ages 3-7  For youger kids (ages 3-7) we recommend the Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids because its cheap and comes in bright colors, yet remains extra durable and comes with a 2-year warranty and a year of Amazon Kids+ included.
Read more below  Our expert review: The Amazon Fire HD 10 is a great all-around tablet, and the 2021 model Amazon just released features incremental upgrades over the 2019 model like a brighter screen, 1GB more RAM and a smaller, lighter design.  With stellar battery life, good performance, and a nice screen for a starting price of $150, we think the Amazon Fire HD 10 is the best Amazon Fire tablet for most people.  Its biggest flaws, though, are those endemic to the Amazon Fire tablets in general. Most notably, Amazon's Fire OS is still app-challenged, missing the Google Play app store — which means you can't get the full YouTube experience, for example, and you'll miss out on a lot of great apps not available on Amazon's app store. Read our full Amazon Fire HD 10 (2021) review.  Our expert review: The Amazon Fire HD 8 is a cheap tablet, and for some that's the main selling point. We recommend this slate to Fire shoppers on a budget because its slightly nicer than the bottom of the barrel Fire 7, yet still affordable at $99. And while the 8-inch touchscreen isn't sharp enough to support 1080p content, it's more than fine for browsing the web. You get good battery life (nearly 14 hours in our testing) and decent speakers, as well as easy access to Amazon's various content streaming apps and strong parental controls. And since this tablet isn't powerful enough to run many demanding apps very well anyway, you won't miss the full panoply of apps available on Android nearly as much. Read our full Amazon Fire 8 review.  Our expert review: The Amazon Fire HD 10 Plus is the best Fire tablet Amazon makes, offering stellar battery life, a decent display, and good enough performance to make for a great value. This slightly more powerful version of the Fire HD 10 will feel right at home with someone who wants to kick back with a book or some streaming video. Just don’t come looking for much in the way of apps, as it shares the common Fire tablet weakness of not having easy access to the Google Play Android app store.  Still, if you’re already enmeshed in the Prime ecosystem (and can catch a deal during an Amazon sale), the Fire HD 10 Plus offers quite a bit of device for your dollar. Read our full Amazon Fire HD 10 Plus (2021) review.  Our expert review: The Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids Pro (2021) is basically the same, hardware-wise, as the excellent Amazon Fire HD 10 (2021). It’s got the same octa-core processor, 3GB of RAM and vivacious 1,900 x 1,200 display. The big difference is that it's designed specifically for use by older kids ages 6-12, so it comes with a one-year Amazon Kids+ subscription, a colorful kickstand case, and a comprehensive, no-questions-asked 2-year warranty that covers accidental damage.  If you're in the market for a kid-friendly tablet, few competitors can match what the Fire HD 10 Kids Pro offers for $199, particularly with that generous extended warranty. Sure, it has all the same weaknesses as every Fire tablet — most notably, no easy access to the Google Play Store — but if you're planning to give this to a kid anyway, that's less of an issue.  Read our full Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids Pro (2021) review.  Our expert review: The Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids, like the Fire HD 10 Kids Pro listed above, is effectively a version of the Fire HD 10 that's tailored for kid-friendly use. It costs as much as the Fire HD 10 Kids Pro ($199) and offers basically the same features, but aimed at children ages three to seven rather than older kids.  Like its siblings the Fire HD 10 Kids sports a bright display, a durable kid-friendly design, and excellent battery life. Plus, the detailed built-in parental controls give you a lot of control over what a child does on the device, with little risk of them going astray. Sure, the lack of Google Play Store apps limits what you can do with this tablet, but that's hardly a problem if you're planning to give it to your 5-year-old so they can have something to watch videos on. If you want a durable, long-lasting tablet tailored to young children, the Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids is a great choice. Read our full Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids review. Why you can trust Tom's Guide 


Our writers and editors spend hours analyzing and reviewing products, services, and apps to help find what's best for you. Find out more about how we test, analyze, and rate. Still not sure which Amazon Fire tablet is right for you? Here are some important things to consider. Screen size: The Amazon Fire tablets come in a variety of screen sizes ranging from 7 to 10 inches. If you expect to be watching a lot of videos, you'll want the biggest, nicest screen possible, so consider the Fire HD 10. But if you just want a tablet to browse the web and read ebooks, a smaller display, like those on the Fire 7 or Fire HD 8, will be more than enough for your needs. Budget: While all of the Amazon Fire tablets are more affordable than anything Apple makes, there's still a wide price range of $50-$200, or more if you splurge on extras. If you can afford the higher end of that spectrum, the $150 Fire HD 10 is probably the best choice for you. But if you'd rather spend $100, or $50, the Fire HD 8 or Fire 7 (respectively) are decent tablets that should meet your needs. Age: How old is the person you're buying this tablet for? Obviously if it's for you, buy whatever you like, but if you're getting a cheap Amazon Fire tablet for a younger person, there are a variety of kid-friendly options depending on their age. For those ages 3-7, the Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids offers decent performance, great parental controls, and a colorful drop-resistant case. The Amazon Fire HD 10 Kids Pro offers effectively the same benefits for the same price, but it's aimed at older kids in the 6-12 range. And if the person you're buying for is older than that, they should be well-served by the standard Amazon Fire HD 10. Battery life is one of the key things to consider when buying a tablet, and even though Amazon's slates are pretty long-lived you can't blindly trust the manufacturer's claims about exactly how long they'll last. That's why we put every tablet we test and review through a series of battery tests, then average the results and compare them against the competition. I've assembled the tested battery life of every tablet on this page here in one handy chart, to help you make a more informed buying decision.  Before we start reviewing a new Amazon Fire tablet, we send it to our lab, where it gets run through a series of tests that help us measure its capabilities.  First, we run as many benchmarks as that tablet will allow, to see how fast they are in ways that can be compared directly against competitors. We say "will allow" as Amazon's Fire slates have trouble with side-loaded Android apps. We then use colorimeters and light meters to measure how colorful and bright these tablets’ screens can get. After that, we put them through our in-house battery test, which times how long it takes — while surfing the web with brightness at 150 nits — to drain a tablet of a charge. After that, we do the same things you do — browse the web, watch videos, play games, compose emails — as we use the tablet like we own it, for a week or two at least. Get instant access to breaking news, the hottest reviews, great deals and helpful tips. Alex Wawro is a lifelong tech and games enthusiast with more than a decade of experience covering both for outlets like Game Developer, Black Hat, and PC World magazine. A lifelong PC builder, he currently serves as a senior editor at Tom's Guide covering all things computing, from laptops and desktops to keyboards and mice.  Not a typo! You can get a 10.2-inch iPad for $199 for a limited time Hurry! The iPad 9th gen just crashed to its lowest price ever Hurry! Amazon deal takes 45% off Echo speaker and smart light bundle Tom's Guide is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 