Boston 25 Now  CAMBRIDGE, Mass — Firefighters responded to a Cambridge church Sunday afternoon after a fire began in a portion of the building. Crews scaled ladders to the upper floors of the Faith Lutheran Church on Broadway Terrace around 6 p.m., dousing the roaring flames with water.  Clouds of black smoke could be seen billowing out of the steeple and occasionally bright orange flames would erupt from the church’s upper floors. For over four hours, crews from several towns battled the flames threatening to engulf the place of worship before finally getting the fire under control around 10 p.m.  So sad! A fire in Faith Lutheran Church, Cambridge, MA. Happening now! pic.twitter.com/ieuNnAYuyv According to the church’s website, Easter services took place in the building at 10 a.m. Hours after delivering the sermon, Pastor Robin Lutjohann watched in horror as the century-old building was swallowed up in smoke.  “It is heartbreaking and it is…the day started very different. We had a very joyous Easter celebration and now this,” said Lutjohann.   Churchgoers still in the area told Boston 25 News they were devasted at the potential loss of their place of worship. “It is devastating,” said Kristin Griffin. “I was baptized there and it is just a very close community for me.” “I am afraid there is long-term damage,” said Diane Garner.  Thick smoke coming from Faith Lutheran Church in Cambridge. Members tell me they are devastated about the potential loss of the church on what they say started off as a beautiful Easter Sunday. pic.twitter.com/QwGwE1AZ06 A large crowd was gathered as the sun began to set. Cambridge firefighters set up a collapse area out of fear the structure may collapse but the church remained intact.  Cambridge fire officials say crews will remain at the scene until the early hours of the morning to monitor for hot spots. No one was injured in the ordeal.  Lutjohann says he may have lost the building but the church will endure.  “There’s no smoke coming from the church, the church is here,” said Lutjohann, gesturing to the amassed crowd. “The church is the people.” This is a developing story. Check back for updates as more information becomes available. Download the FREE Boston 25 News app for breaking news alerts. Follow Boston 25 News on Facebook and Twitter. | Watch Boston 25 News NOW ©2023 Cox Media Group © 2024 Cox Media Group. This station is part of Cox Media Group Television. Learn about careers at Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices. 