or Remember me or LAS VEGAS, May 2, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- MGM Resorts International (NYSE: MGM) ("MGM Resorts" or the "Company") today announced the publication of its 2022 Social Impact and Sustainability Report. The report details the Company's continuing and steadfast commitment to its Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) principles of embracing humanity and protecting the planet. The report also highlights the Company's strategies, programs and performance focused on creating a more sustainable future and making a positive impact on the lives of employees, guests and communities.  "We are a company comprised of tens of thousands of people who, together, know what it is to collaborate and bring about meaningful change," said Bill Hornbuckle, CEO and President of MGM Resorts International. "Our employees, shareholders, communities and planet all Win Together as we strive toward our social and environmental goals. I am pleased with our work and the great progress made in 2022."  Highlights and accomplishments outlined in the report include: "We are incredibly proud of the efforts we have made in the past year to cultivate our company culture," said Jyoti Chopra, Chief People, Inclusion and Sustainability Officer. "Our employees are empowered to use their individual and collective strengths to help the company achieve our goals in the areas of environmental sustainability, philanthropy and diversity, equity and inclusion. In 2022, we proved how working together can result in success and meaningful progress." In 2019, MGM Resorts developed a bold social impact plan called "Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet," which included concrete long-term goals to guide the Company's commitment to social impact and sustainability. The framework for these goals is based on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and is centered on three pillars: fostering diversity, equity and inclusion, philanthropy and community engagement, and environmental sustainability. About MGM Resorts International MGM Resorts International (NYSE: MGM) is an S&P 500® global entertainment company with national and international locations featuring best-in-class hotels and casinos, state-of-the-art meetings and conference spaces, incredible live and theatrical entertainment experiences, and an extensive array of restaurant, nightlife and retail offerings. MGM Resorts creates immersive, iconic experiences through its suite of Las Vegas-inspired brands. The MGM Resorts portfolio encompasses 31 unique hotel and gaming destinations globally, including some of the most recognizable resort brands in the industry. The Company's 50/50 venture, BetMGM, LLC, offers U.S. sports betting and online gaming through market-leading brands, including BetMGM and partypoker. The Company is currently pursuing targeted expansion in Asia through the integrated resort opportunity in Japan. Through its "Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet" philosophy, MGM Resorts commits to creating a more sustainable future, while striving to make a bigger difference in the lives of its employees, guests, and in the communities where it operates. For more information, please visit us at www.mgmresorts.com. Please also connect with us @MGMResortsIntl on Twitter as well as Facebook and Instagram. MGM RESORTS CONTACTS: Crystal McNeal

    Executive Director, Internal Brand and Social Impact & Sustainability Communications
    
cmcneal@mgmresorts.com

    702-918-0296 

 View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mgm-resorts-international-releases-2022-social-impact-and-sustainability-report-301812617.html
SOURCE MGM Resorts International
  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mgm-resorts-international-releases-2022-social-impact-and-sustainability-report-301812617.html SOURCE MGM Resorts International Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today