Solutions to Nigeria’s newborn mortality rate might lie in existing innovations Research into more efficient AI hardware and software supported by AMD donation Imperial and Vietnamese partners explore UK and Vietnam's pathways to net zero    Promoting energy innovation and advancing systemic solutions for a sustainable energy future. Top Links Energy Futures Lab wishes a warm congratulations to Mervin Azeta (MSc Sustainable Energy Futures 2015), winner of the Emerging Alumni Leader Award 2022. Mervin is passionate about improving access to sustainable energy. Read her inspiring story here.  Our new Briefing Paper, Materials for Energy, produced in partnership with the UK Energy Research Centre, investigates the availability and development of critical raw materials for the energy sector. The MSc in Sustainable Energy Futures aims to develop the next generation of leaders in the energy sector, providing a grounding in the major features of global energy issues, sustainable energy technologies and their interactions with economics, the environment and policy.  Find recordings of our public lectures, briefing paper launches, webinars and more on our YouTube channel. Subscribe to make sure you never miss an event again. Our work is focused around six broad and interconnected research themes which reflect Imperial College London’s strengths in tackling major challenges in the energy sector. Rethinking how energy is used in our cities and transport Transforming fossil fuels through carbon capture and storage technologies Strengthening energy infrastructure and integrating new technologies Advancing energy technologies through innovation in materials Developing new energy service propositions and regulatory and policy frameworks Driving innovation in the development of low-carbon energy sources Countdown to COP29: Negotiators and scientists meet to raise global ambition 02 July 2024 13 March 2024 06 March 2024 23 February 2024 19 January 2024 02 September 2024, 13.00–14.00 The Topology Optimization Method Visit our YouTube channel to find recordings of our public lectures, events and research webinars. 
Imperial College LondonSouth Kensington CampusLondon SW7 2AZ, UKtel: +44 (0)20 7589 5111


                Campuses & maps
                
