
Published: Apr 3, 2024 06:14 am 
 Welcome to Roblox Lab Breakout, a game of hide-and-seek across a variety of maps, with deadly consequences! If chosen as the killer, choose your skill set then hunt down the other players. The rest will either try to hide and escape or find weapons and attempt to fight back against the killer. But you never know which side you will be on before the action begins!   When available, most Roblox Lab Breakout codes can be inputted to get some free Game Points. Points can be spent via the Shop button while in the lobby. They are used to purchase Killers with different skills, items such as healing kits and traps, as well as Survivor roles which give you different skills and spawn points when trying to escape. If you love Roblox escape action games, you should also check out Nanny [HORROR]. These are all the working Roblox Lab Breakout codes. These are expired codes for Roblox Lab Breakout. Related: Escape the Darkness Codes  Follow the instructions below to redeem codes in Roblox Lab Breakout. If you’re looking for the latest Roblox Lab Breakout codes, you can start by joining the Entertainment Syndicate Roblox Group. You can also become part of the Entertainment Syndicate Discord Server, where you’ll find all the latest Lab Breakout announcements, updates, maps, and sneak peeks at future developments.   Roblox Lab Breakout codes need to be inputted exactly as you see them above, so it is best to cut and paste them directly when possible. Otherwise, something such as missing a capital letter or mistaking a number for a letter can invalidate them. If you’ve definitely put it in correctly and it is coming up as expired, sadly that code is no longer of use. Please let us know in the comments below so we can update our guide. And check back soon, as we’ll add new codes to replace them as soon as we find them. One way to get more Roblox Lab Breakout codes is to sign up for the Entertainment Syndicate Roblox Group linked above. Once you’re a member, codes will be announced to members via in-game shouts. These free codes can then be used in the normal way as described above. While in the lobby in-game, it’s also worth looking for other ways to grab free rewards. For example, playing on Saturday and Sunday often means you’ll get the benefit of the Weekend Party when you’ll receive a bonus of 25 percent experience for everything you do. You can also complete the Obby Course in the lobby for free points. Roblox Lab Breakout is a horror-style escape game, where players get put onto a random team at the start of each round. You’re either trying to hide and then escape or to catch and kill the hiding players. The twist is that the hiding team can actually arm themselves and fight back if they can get access to the right area by unlocking particular doors. Repeated plays will unlock new permanent items you can use and roles you can take, on both sides of the game. If you're looking for codes for other games, we have a ton of them in our Roblox Game Codes post! You can also get a bunch of free stuff via our Roblox Promo Codes page. And in the meantime, take a look at the latest news to stay up-to-date on all things entertainment. Comments are on moderation and will be approved in a timely manner. Please read the following rules before commenting: Comment Nickname*  Email*   Save my nickname and email in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.