We’re sorry, this feature is currently unavailable. We’re working to restore it. Please try again later. This was published 1 year ago By Perry Duffin A group of trainees work their way through a mock drug lab set up in Orchard Hills, Sydney.
Credit: Janie Barrett Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time. Investment properties, Airbnbs and even caravans are being used as drug labs across Sydney, exposing suburban neighbourhoods to organised criminal gangs and a very real threat of toxic explosions. The dangerous trade is also burrowing further into the city’s fringe, police bosses say, after two multimillion-dollar labs were uprooted in the last week. Retirees on Oakhurst’s Southee Circuit peered through lace curtains as heavily armed police stormed a brick house in their quiet corner of Sydney late last month. HAZMAT firefighters and specially trained police in yellow jumpsuits followed, dragging buckets of chemicals out to the front lawn. Forensic police dismantle a clandestine methamphetamine laboratory on a suburban street in Oakhurst, in the city’s west.Credit: Janie Barrett There were few signs that the unassuming rental hid a clandestine lab, $2 million of methamphetamine and $10,000 cash until police cars converged. “The cook was brought from overseas in the UK to set up a lab and extract methamphetamine,” Drug and Firearms Squad commander John Watson told the Herald. “Two men were arrested, and more than two kilograms of methamphetamine were produced, but we were able to prevent it hitting the streets.” The drug squad is now finding labs secretly set up in Airbnbs, short-term holiday lets and rental homes rather than set down in permanent locations, Watson said. The Oakhurst operation was just five minutes’ drive from the largest lab the squad found in 2022. It was linked to $21 million worth of ice, bundles of cash, and cars with secret compartments, and took a full week to dismantle last October. Regional police and firefighters during a training course inside a simulated suburban home littered with children’s toys and caustic chemicals.Credit: Janie Barrett In April this year the squad were called in to a lab inside a Parramatta high-rise apartment. The cooks had soaked 60 packets of baby wipes in methamphetamine oil so they could sell it without raising suspicion. Some labs travel across the country packed in the boot of a car, set up for a matter of days or weeks, and then move on. “We’ve even had converted caravans and trailers that people have hitched on the back of vehicles that have been stopped or located that were just mobile labs,” Watson said. “Box labs” are so common they’re one of the three scenarios the drug squad spent last week training country cops to detect. Watson said the familiar clandestine labs are the “heart” of a new breed of drug syndicate; no longer organised along ethnic lines or dominated by outlaw bikie gangs (OMCG) as in previous years. “There’s no real ethnicity, it’s not necessarily OMCG doing the labs … They’re syndicates limited purely by imagination and connected with the common purpose of manufacturing these drugs,” Watson said. Detective Superintendant Warren Lysaght with a mock drug lab at Orchard Hills in the city’s west, where police and firefighters are trained to search and secure meth houses in rural NSW.Credit: Janie Barrett For drug cooks, the goal hasn’t changed: stay off the radar for as long as possible. The residents of Southee Circuit’s lab kept to themselves, locals said, and Watson wants the public to know how often he hears that. “These people aren’t inviting anyone over, they’re not talking to neighbours,” the commander said. “You might hear stirring noises inside, indicative of something mechanical, some sort of grinding noise continually during weird hours. You may be able to see someone loading up vans with waste water, plastic buckets.” “Bad salt” was still scrawled in a drug cook’s handwriting on one bucket seized from Oakhurst. Tea-coloured liquid sloshed as the officers decanted it into a forensic container. Such drug lab waste is caustic enough to “rot your fingers off”, Detective Inspector Warren Lysaght told officers learning how to combat the drug trade, down the road at a massive training facility. Lysaght spent Friday teaching country police officers how to identify and stabilise drug labs until specialised units arrive from Sydney. “Five years ago they were predominantly in Sydney metro areas, but we’ve seen a real pattern of movement to remote areas,” Watson said. “They feel they’re not as known by law enforcement in those areas, or maybe the labs are so remote and distant neighbours won’t detect them.” The final test at the Orchard Hills training facility requires officers to enter a home with a simulated active lab. They edge past glassware percolating on the kitchen bench, open caustic chemicals and electrical wires, while being alert to potential explosions or toxins. Children’s toys and clothes are dotted around the room between a massive methamphetamine condenser and white powder racked into lines on the dining room table. A mock drug lab was set up for the  simulation.Credit: Janie Barrett Watson said it’s not uncommon for families, including children, to also live in the labs. Sometimes cooks or their family members show up at emergency departments with chemical burns. “It’s not uncommon for clandestine labs to catch on fire, to explode; they’re inherently dangerous,” Watson said. “Our hearts and minds go out to these kids … It’s devastating for the officers investigating to know these children have been exposed.” Six days after the Oakhurst raid, heavily armed police flooded into Eric Crescent in Lidcombe, where another laboratory was found in the kitchen. The HAZMAT and police chemical unit followed to dismantle the equipment. Lysaght and Watson are aiming to have put officers from every corner of the state through the training course by the end of the year, before the labs shift entirely out of Sydney. “It’s about making it hard for them to move out of Sydney,” Watson said. “No matter where they go in NSW they won’t be able to hide from us.” Airbnb co-operates with police by handing over information after valid legal requests, and says it has a team that works directly with police. “We take reports such as these extremely seriously and prioritise acting decisively to help ensure our community is protected,” the company’s Australia and New Zealand manager Susan Wheeldon said. The Morning Edition newsletter is our guide to the day’s most important and interesting stories, analysis and insights. Sign up here. Copyright © 2024