Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Taiwan's Powerchip Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation (PSMC) and Japanese financial conglomerate SBI Holdings have chosen a site in northern Japan for an 800 billion yen ($5.3 billion) chip manufacturing plant, the two firms said Tuesday. The first phase of the project in the Miyagi Prefecture north of the capital Tokyo, will require a 420 billion yen investment. PSMC and SBI Holdings will pay for half of the cost of the foundry, with the rest coming from foreign and domestic investors, bank loans and government subsidies, the companies said. Japan has been looking to boost its domestic semiconductor industry and manufacturing of chips and the massive plant underscores the government's push in this area. That comes as the U.S. continues to ramp up export restrictions on key semiconductors and tools to China while trying to increase domestic manufacturing of these components, which go in everything from smartphones to cars. As demand for semiconductors rises and the technology is increasingly seen as strategically important, other countries, including Japan, are trying to raise their capabilities across the board. The PSMC and SBI factory will manufacture semiconductors in the 28 nanometer, 40 nanometer and 55 nanometer categories. They are not the cutting-edge chips that go into smartphones, but are key for automotive applications. Japan is home to some of the world's biggest carmakers such as Toyota and Honda. The companies did not release information on the construction timeline and when the factory will be operational, but said those details will come when they become more "concrete". Japan has been offering subsidies for companies to set up manufacturing facilities in the country. U.S. memory chipmaker Micron announced in May that it would invest up to 500 billion yen in Japan over the next few years, including into manufacturing. Meanwhile, Japan has been trying to double down on areas of the semiconductor supply chain where it has had strength in the past. In June, a fund backed by the Japanese government proposed a 903.9 billion yen acquisition of semiconductor materials giant JSR. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by