By Rosie Murray-west   Updated:  12:41 EDT, 29 August 2023      2 View  comments  It started out as a fishing company, but that doesn't mean that everybody thinks John Wood Group is a catch.  The oil industry consultancy business was spun out of one of Aberdeen's most venerable trawler businesses in the early 1980s. It is now delivering everything from carbon capture projects to an overhaul of National Grid's pipelines to carry hydrogen gas. What it has failed to deliver, though, is profit for its shareholders. In the pipeline: Oil industry consultancy John Wood Group has an orderbook up 5 per cent on last year and revenue was up 16 per cent year-on-year Wood shares were at £4.21 just before Covid struck but have tumbled since then. In total, they have fallen 80 per cent in the past five years. An aborted takeover bid by venture capitalists Apollo earlier this year gave cause for hope, then despair. Apollo assiduously courted the business, only to pull its £2.40-a-share exploratory offer after viewing the books. It cannot now bid for Wood again for another six months. Apollo has remained tight-lipped about what made it take the axe to the Wood deal, but this week's six-month figures didn't suggest any underlying fishy business. Wood posted revenue up 16 per cent year-on-year, and an orderbook that is up 5 per cent on last year in constant currency terms. These were slightly ahead of expectations. However, Wood still made a pre-tax loss as it deals with the consequences of a change in strategy, which it put in place nine months ago. It sold its built environment consulting arm to pay down debt and is focusing on less risky contracts. The aborted Apollo deal only added to its costs – and it is still indebted – but chief executive Ken Gilmartin is upbeat about a standalone future for Wood, despite admitting that the company has 'overpromised and underdelivered' in the past. Gilmartin is excited by Wood's role in the move to more sustainable energy, with 20 per cent of its revenue coming from this area. Potential clouds on the horizon include Wood's exposure to energy prices, and the fact that it still has a relatively high debt burden. While higher salaries due to inflation could also hit costs, Gilmartin says that the company can usually pass on higher costs to customers, making this less of a concern. Respected finance chief David Kemp is also retiring, but says he will remain in his role until a successor is found, which should hopefully lead to a smooth handover. Analysts highlight recent significant contract wins for the group – including a European minerals contract and a US life sciences job – as evidence for a bright future. Alex Smith, at Investec investment bank, says that Wood now has 'momentum'. The company's strategy seems to have led to an improved order book and it is expected to return to 'positive free cash flow' – meaning it is capable of generating a cash surplus once it has paid its investment and operating expenses – in the second half of the year. While there is still debt to contend with, it is far lower than before the sale of the built environment division. Wood does not currently pay a dividend, but some analysts are predicting one in 2024. Some believe Wood is undervalued compared with its peers – with its share price at £1.55 and a market value of £1.08billion it is currently trading at less than nine times forecast earnings for 2024. Smith, at Investec, says that if it was in line with its peers, the shares would be at £2.45 – above the Apollo bid price. Midas verdict: Current shareholders in John Wood Group may be disappointed by the Apollo rebuff, but this could represent a buying opportunity. The company has a diversified portfolio of clients in 60 countries, and the need for sustainable solutions for oil and gas companies is not going away.  Recovery may not be swift, but, rather like John Wood's fishermen ancestors, today's Wood shareholders may find patience is rewarded. And there's always the chance of a nibble on the line from another interested purchaser in the short term. Reel this one in. Traded on: Main market Ticker: WG Contact: woodplc.com or 01224 851500 Some links in this article may be affiliate links. If you click on them we may earn a small commission. That helps us fund This Is Money, and keep it free to use. We do not write articles to promote products. We do not allow any commercial relationship to affect our editorial independence. MORE HEADLINES Work out how a lump sum or regular monthly savings would grow Find the top deals in our independent best-buy tables This is Money is part of the Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday & Metro media group