Brief details are provided on the main UK product safety legislation  concerning the design and construction of equipment primarily for use at work,  and some of the related supply legislation affecting similar consumer goods.  More detailed information on each set of regulations can be found using the  links provided below. Most of this product supply legislation has certain features in common:  Products intended for the UK market must comply with the requirements  of all applicable UK legislation. For more information visit the OPSS website.     Most new products come within the scope of one or more of these product regulations. However, some  work equipment that is not powered or used to lift - such as hand tools,  racking and ladders - does not come within the scope of these regulations.  Instead these products must meet section 6 of the Health and Safety at Work etc  Act 1974. Section 6 of the HSW Act applies to articles and substances for use at work  where other more specific product safety law does not apply. In particular, section 6 applies to: Section 6(1) of the  HSW Act places a general health and safety obligation on anyone in the supply  chain, so far as reasonably practicable, for when articles for use at work are  being used, set, cleaned or maintained. This obligation includes providing  information and instructions on safe use, including any subsequent revisions to  that information, and testing or examination necessary to ensure compliance.  Enforcement of section 6 of the HSW Act is undertaken by HSE. Most new machinery is covered by the Supply of Machinery (Safety) Regulations 2008 (and the Supply of Machinery (Safety) (Amendment)  Regulations 2011 which added environmental aspects, but only for machinery  applying pesticides). Their scope extends to other non-machinery products as  defined including: safety components, interchangeable equipment, lifting accessories,  chains, rope and webbing, removable transmission devices and partly completed  machinery, but excludes such items as domestic electrical machines, many road  going vehicles (but not machinery mounted on them), and fairground equipment.  Other products that fall within the definition of machinery but are not covered  by these regulations are toys and medical devices where more specific  legislation applies (see below). These regulations  require that all machinery and other products in scope: before they are placed on the market for the first time (or where not  placed on the market, before being put into service for the first time).  Subsequent use and maintenance is covered by PUWER (overview). These regulations apply to Responsible Persons (as defined),  particularly manufacturers or their authorised representatives, and others such as: The regulations apply to manufacturers  and authorised representatives. Others in the supply chain  are covered by section 6 of the HSW Act (local link).  Some products which  are in scope of the Supply of Machinery (Safety) Regulations may also be  covered by other product legislation in addition, including: Both HSE and local trading standards enforce the provisions of the Supply  of Machinery (Safety) Regulations, depending on the field of use of the  equipment (HSE leads where the product is for use at work). The Electrical Equipment (Safety) Regulations 2016 (as amended) replaced the previous Electrical  Equipment (Safety) Regulations 1994 on low-voltage  equipment (most electrical equipment operating between 50-1000 volts  alternating current and 75-1500 volts direct current).  Machinery, with a few  exceptions (household appliances for domestic use, some office equipment, electric  motors and switchgear), which are subject to the Supply of Machinery (Safety)  Regulations (as amended) are excluded from these electrical regulations,  although the essential requirements and standards made to support these regulations  can apply to electrically powered machinery by virtue of EHSR 1.5.1 of the  Supply of Machinery (Safety) Regulations. The Electrical Equipment (Safety) Regulations are supported by many standards and require that electrical equipment be appropriately marked and  labelled, constructed to good engineering practice, and safe. These Regulations  apply to manufacturers or their authorised representatives, importers and distributors all of  whom now have a number of detailed and significant obligations to meet. Both HSE and local trading standards enforce the provisions of these regulations,  depending on the field of use of the equipment (HSE leads where the equipment  is for use at work). The Lifts  Regulations 2016 (as amended) replaced the previous Lifts Regulations 1997. HSE enforces the  provisions of these regulations. Certain types of lift are excluded because  they are subject to the Supply of Machinery (Safety) Regulations 2008. These  exclusions include: Lifts placed on the market or brought into use must be safe (meeting essential health  and safety requirements), appropriately  marked and labelled and certified by a Declaration of  Conformity. Information about  the lift, its safe installation, use and maintenance, and other test  documentation, must be provided both by and to those installing the lift. The Pressure Equipment (Safety) Regulations 2016 and The Simple Pressure  Vessels (Safety) Regulations 2016 replace the previous Pressure Equipment  Regulations 1999 and Simple Pressure  Vessels (Safety) Regulations 1991 (as amended in 1994). These regulations provide for the safety, by design and construction,  of most pressure equipment and assemblies at a pressure of more than 0.5 bar.  HSE enforces the provisions of these regulations for equipment for use at work. Duties for safety are placed on the manufacturer or their authorised representative, importers and distributors.  Machinery may include pressure systems which come within scope of these regulations.  In such cases, the requirements of these regulations apply to the pressure  parts of the machine, alongside those requirements under the Supply of  Machinery (Safety) Regulations for the machine.  The Equipment and Protective Systems Intended for Use in Potentially  Explosive Atmospheres Regulations 2016 replaced the previous Regulations 1996, as amended  in 2001 and 2005, and are usually  known as ATEX, for equipment and protective systems intended for use in  explosive atmospheres. Safety, controlling and regulating devices intended for  use outside potentially explosive atmospheres - but still contributing to the  safe functioning of equipment / protective systems against explosion - also  come within scope of the regulations. In addition to marking and labelling in  common with other product legislation. ATEX equipment  must normally bear the specific explosion  protection mark - Fig 1. HSE  enforces the provisions of these regulations.  Fig 1.  Manufacturers or their authorised representative, importers and distributors must  meet the requirements for safety. ATEX components (for example a rotary valve) may be  incorporated within other products (for example dust extraction machinery). In such  cases, the machine may be supplied with an additional Declaration of  Conformity, relating  specifically to the ATEX component. The Gas Appliances  (Enforcement) and Miscellaneous Amendments Regulations 2018  and Regulation  2016/426 concern appliances burning gaseous fuels, excluding  industrial appliances where section 6 of the Health and safety at Work etc Act  1974 applies.  Local trading standards services enforce the provisions of these regulations  if the gas appliance is designed for domestic use, otherwise HSE is the  enforcing authority. The regulations apply to gas appliances and fittings which  must undergo type examination by an approved third party  before they can be  appropriately marked and supplied.  The Cableway  Installations Regulations 2018  concern cableways designed to carry people, and their subsystems or  safety components. However, they do not cover cableway installations used: Some other similar equipment is also excluded, such as:  HSE enforces the provisions of these regulations. Prior authorisation  from the Secretary of State for Transport for a new or modified cableway is  required, and 'stage 2' authorisation is required before the cableway can be  put into service.  
A  summary of the Cableway Installations Regulations 2018
 The Explosives Regulations 2014  (Amendment) Regulations 2016 (where amended) are concerned with  safety requirements for explosives, and the security controls on their  transfer. These regulations are enforced by HSE. The following are generally excluded from the regulations: They replace the earlier Placing on the Market and Supervision of  Transfers of Explosives Regulations 1993.  
Guidance on the  Explosives Regulations 2014 (Amendment) Regulations 2016
 The Pyrotechnic  Articles (Safety) Regulations 2015 concern the placing on the  market of pyrotechnic articles and include: The regulations do  not apply to:  The Department for  Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) has the policy lead for these regulations  and trading standards services have the enforcement role. 
Guidance on the Pyrotechnic Articles 
 The Personal  Protective Equipment (Enforcement) Regulations 2018 and Regulation  2016/425 regulate the  basic safety requirements of most personal protective equipment whether for use  at work or elsewhere. Enforcement  of these new PPE supply regulations is now split between HSE and trading standards services. HSE leads for PPE intended for use at work in scope of the new regulations  and placed on the market under the new regulations. The Electromagnetic Compatibility Regulations 2016 concern the  avoidance of undue electromagnetic disturbance generated by electrical  equipment, and the sufficient immunity of electrical equipment against  electromagnetic disturbance. As most machinery is electrically powered, it will  have to meet these requirements in addition to those under the Supply of Machinery (Safety) Regulations 2008. HSE does not have a role in respect of these Regulations,  even for industrial equipment, and most enforcement falls to the relevant local  trading standards service. 
BEIS - Electromagnetic Compatibility 
 The Construction Products Regulations (where  amended) concern products produced for permanent  incorporation in building and civil engineering works. Where such products are also machinery (for example powered roller shutter  doors), they will also have to meet the Supply of Machinery (Safety)  Regulations 2008  and the  Electromagnetic Compatibility Regulations (if electrically powered). HSE does not have a role in respect of the Construction Products  Regulations, even for industrial products enforcement falls to the relevant Trading Standards  authority. 
GOV.UK guidance on the Construction Products  Regulation 
 The Medical Devices Regulations 2002, as amended 
      2003 Medical Devices Regulations amendments, 
      2005 Medical Devices Regulations amendments, 
      2007  Medical Devices Regulations amendments and 
      2008 Medical Devices Regulations amendments,  
      concern medical devices used for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes.  Where a medical device is also a machine it is excluded from the scope of the Supply  of Machinery (Safety) Regulations, although it must  still meet the relevant essential health  and safety requirements of the machinery  regulations, as these are called up by these regulations. HSE does not have a  role in respect of these regulations, even for workplace equipment, and  enforcement falls to the Medicines and  Healthcare products Regulatory Agency. 
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency
 The Noise Emission in  the Environment by Equipment for use Outdoors Regulations 2001, as amended 2001  Noise Emission in  the Environment by Equipment for use Outdoors Regulations 2001 amendments and 2005  Noise Emission in  the Environment by Equipment for use Outdoors Regulations 2001 amendments,  are environmental  protection regulations concerning noise emissions from equipment for use  outdoors. Much of the equipment within the scope of these regulations may also  be machinery and so will have to meet requirements under the Supply of  Machinery (Safety) Regulations, concerning noise  exposure to the operator and other workers. Enforcement of these regulations  falls to the Office for Product Safety and Standards. 
Guidance on Noise emissions from equipment for use outdoors
 The Non-Road Mobile Machinery (Type-Approval and Emission of Gaseous and  Particulate Pollutants) Regulations 2018 (where amended) and the Regulation 2016/1628 concern gaseous and  particulate emissions from non-road mobile machinery. In addition to these regulations,  mobile construction plant powered by internal combustion engines also come  within scope of the Supply of Machinery (Safety) Regulations 2008. Enforcement of these regulations is managed  by the Department for Transport.  
The Non-Road Mobile Machinery (Type-Approval and Emission of Gaseous and Particulate Pollutants) Regulations 2018
 The Radio Equipment Regulations 2017 which replaced the Radio Equipment and  Telecommunications Terminal Equipment Regulations 2000, as amended in 2003 Radio Equipment and  Telecommunications Terminal Equipment Regulations 2000 amendments and 2003 Radio Equipment and  Telecommunications Terminal Equipment Regulations 2000 amendments 2, concern the safety and interference with other radio  equipment.  Where electrical equipment incorporates radio equipment as defined,  the Electrical Equipment Safety Regulations 2016 and Electromagnetic Compatibility  Regulations 2016 do not apply instead the safety and functional objectives from  them are subsumed into the Radio Equipment Regulations. Enforcement of these  Regulations falls to the relevant local trading standards service even in the case of radio equipment for use at work, or OFCOM in the case of the protection and management of the radio  spectrum.  
Radio Equipment Regulations 2017
 The General Product  Safety Regulations 2005 concern consumer products which are not covered by any other product legislation.  Enforcement of these regulations falls to the relevant local trading standards service. 
OPSS guidance on product safety and the General Product Safety  Regulations
 The Toys (Safety)  Regulations 2011 concern the safety of toys. Where a toy is also a machine, powered by  an electric motor or other source of non-manual power - and so potentially  falling within the scope of the Supply of Machinery (Safety) Regulations - only  the Toy (Safety) Regulations apply, for example drones specifically marketed and defined  as toys. Enforcement of these regulations falls to the relevant local trading standards authority. 
OPSS guidance on toy safety
 The Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical  and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2012 restrict the use of certain hazardous materials  (such as lead, cadmium, mercury) in the manufacture of various types of electronic  and electrical equipment. The Office for Product Safety and Standards enforces the provisions of these regulations. 
BEIS guidance on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous  Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations
 The Ecodesign for  Energy-Related Products Regulations 2010 (as amended) aim to improve the  environmental performance of products throughout their life-cycle, starting at  a very early stage in their design. Enforcement of these regulations falls to  the Office for Product Safety and Standards. 
BEIS guidance on Ecodesign of energy-related  products
 
Buying new machinery
 Is this page useful? All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated