When it comes to health care, there will always be room for improvement. But, policymakers in New Jersey — from the local to the federal levels — have been making great strides to improve access and quality of care for patients. In fact, U.S. News and World Report ranks New Jersey eighth among all U.S. states when examining several different positive health care metrics. We're doing a lot of things right. Patients have access to quality medical services and good health outcomes in the Garden State. We’re doing everything we can here in Teaneck to improve health care in our community, and I’m encouraged to see more proposed legislation in Congress that does the same. Across the country, health care-related expenditures have been steadily increasing over the years, rising from 5% of the country’s Gross Domestic Product in 1960 to 18% in 2021. There is no sign that this upward trajectory will slow down any time soon. One driver of skyrocketing health care costs is the acquisition of independent doctor practices by big hospitals and corporate investors. How does this consolidation have an impact on the high cost of care? New corporate owners of doctor offices can charge more for services at their new facilities — even though the service itself hasn’t changed. This unfair billing practice exacerbates the challenge of unaffordable health care. High costs associated with unfair hospital billing is a burden too many New Jersey families cannot handle. More families in our community are coming face to face with increasingly unaffordable bottom lines on their medical bills. According to a recent survey, 57% of New Jersey adults experienced at least one health care affordability burden in the past year, and 85% worry about affording health care in the future. As mayor of Teaneck, I know that finding affordable health care is a constant battle for many families. Nearly every week, I hear a personal story about how the high cost of health care is affecting someone, their loved one, their employee, or their neighbor. I want to use my platform to encourage lawmakers to explore solutions to address rising health care costs before they spiral out of control. Mikie Sherrill:Congress must address the impending child care crisis facing NJ families Two bills in Congress were crafted with the problem of unfair hospital billing in mind. The Site-based Invoicing and Transparency Enhancement Act in the Senate and the Facilitating Accountability in Reimbursements Act in the House will address the need for fair billing and transparency within the health care industry. I urge our representatives in Washington and the entire New Jersey delegation to support these proposals and move them forward in Congress. The FAIR Act promotes fair hospital billing practices that will lay the groundwork for site-neutral payment reform proposed in the SITE Act. This means lower out-of-pocket costs for consumers and reduced national health costs upward of $672 billion, including $150 billion in Medicare spending. This is a win-win for both patients and taxpayers. Our legislators must take the next step and pass common sense legislation promoting fair billing and transparency in hospital billing. I implore our New Jersey leaders in Washington to bring the SITE Act to the floor for debate and for the House to follow suit with the FAIR Act. These bills will help ensure that access to quality, affordable health care continues to be available to all who need it in the years to come. Michael Pagan is mayor of Teaneck.