Bethpage Bethpage Long Island University (LIU) held a ribbon cutting ceremony for its new College of Veterinary Medicine Learning Center on its Brookville campus Friday morning. The $26 million, 33,100-square-foot facility will host courses in the four-year Doctor of Veterinary Medicine program. LIU’s College of Veterinary Medicine is the only veterinary medicine program recognized by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education in the New York metropolitan area and is one of four in the Northeast, joining Cornell University, the University of Pennsylvania and Tufts University. “The College of Veterinary Medicine has been a catalyst for Long Island University’s advancement as a top academic and research facility as part of Long Island’s world-class life science corridor,” said LIU President Dr. Kimberly R. Cline. “We are very proud of our new College of Veterinary Medicine facilities and connected clinical and research experiences which provide students with significant opportunities to become leaders in veterinary medicine.”   LIU’s College of Veterinary Medicine Learning Center features research and clinical laboratories, lecture theaters, classrooms, seminar rooms, and an animal simulation suite with examination rooms, surgical suites, and a medical imaging center. Through the veterinarian program, students also get hands-on experience through 75 affiliates, including primary care, specialty clinics, zoos, research laboratories, shelters, veterinary industry leaders, and other universities. The new learning center is part of a $53 million project to establish the College of Veterinary Medicine at LIU. New York’s Empire State Development initiative provided $12.75 million of those funds. “These new facilities, equipped with the latest technology and staffed by experienced educators, will provide students with the hands-on experience they need to become competent and compassionate veterinary professionals who can safeguard animal health and preserve the environment,” said Gov. Kathy Hochul. LIU’s veterinary program is currently in its third year with about 300 students enrolled to date and the anticipation of growing to about 450 veterinary and graduate students in the 2023-24 academic year.  Related Story: Long Island University Announces Launch of The Roosevelt School Briana Bonfiglio is the Digital Editor of Long Island Press. 

 
			Post an Event
 
View All Events…
 Subscribe