The Phase IIb study will enrol 265 patients and has an estimated completion date in Q2 2024.  The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has granted fast track designation to MimiVax’s SurVaxM vaccine for the treatment of newly diagnosed glioblastoma (nGBM).  You will receive an email shortly. Please check your inbox to download the Whitepaper. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData may share your information with Novotech and that your personal data will be used as described in their Privacy Policy Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. The FDA’s decision was based on results from the Phase IIa SURVIVE (NCT02455557) trial, which investigated the safety and efficacy of SurVaxM when given with temozolomide in treating newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients.   Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Drugs that receive fast track designation are eligible for more frequent meetings with the FDA with the objective of accelerated approval.   According to data published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology, 51% of patients receiving SurVaxM survived at least two years and 41% survived at least three years. The vaccine increased median overall survival to 25.9 months, significantly higher than with standard therapy alone.   SurVaxM is a peptide immunotherapeutic vaccine that targets survivin, a cell-survival protein present in 95% of glioblastomas.   MimiVax is currently recruiting for the second part of Phase IIb SURVIVE (NCT05163080) to investigate whether adding SurVaxM to standard-of-care temozolomide chemotherapy is better than temozolomide treatment alone.   CEO of MimiVax Michael Ciesielski said: “The receipt of fast track designation affirms the importance of new clinical developments of novel therapies to improve the treatment and outcomes for patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. This designation is a key component in our journey to help patients with glioblastoma to live longer.”  There are currently two vaccines that are approved by the FDA for the treatment of cancer. Tice Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG), marketed by Merck (MSD), was approved by the FDA for the treatment of non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer in 1998, and Provenge (sipuleucel-T), developed by Dendreon Pharmaceuticals, for the treatment of prostate cancer in 2010.   Provenge was approved by the Europe in 2013, but was withdrawn at the request of Dendreon Pharmaceuticals by the European Commission in May 2015 due to commercial reasons.   You will receive an email shortly. Please check your inbox to download the Whitepaper. By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData may share your information with Novotech and that your personal data will be used as described in their Privacy Policy Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. 
                                This content was updated on 25 January 2024                                 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Pharma Technology Focus : Pharmaceutical Technology Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the pharmaceutical industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024