Chocolate and candy hearts might be the sweet stars of mid-February, but some Wisconsinites have something sappier on their mind this month: maple syrup.  While the season doesn't usually ramp up until March, with daytime temperatures in the 40s in early February, some producers took advantage of the unseasonably warm weather — ideal for sap flow  — and began tapping trees. Theresa Baroun and her family, owners of Maple Sweet Dairy and Maple Buzz in De Pere, started setting up their 1,200 taps on Feb. 11, about a week earlier than last year.  “It’s really Mother Nature that determines the maple season,” she said, noting that some producers won’t tap before March 1 no matter what, but her family lets the weather dictate when they tap. "The weather is ideal, and you keep thinking of what happened years ago and you're hoping that that never happens again.” Baroun, who also is executive director of the Wisconsin Maple Syrup Producers Association, was referencing the spring of 2012 when temperatures in the 70s put a quick end to the season.  “We spent more time tapping” than collecting sap that year, she said.  Tree sap likes Goldilocks spring weather of warm, sunny days above freezing and cool nights below. Those temperatures signal spring for trees, which begin sending sap up to branches to create leaves. Too cold and the sap stops flowing, but only temporarily. Too warm and the tree starts to bud, turning sap bitter and ending the maple syrup season. March 2012 brought record high temperatures across Wisconsin, and the state produced just 66,000 gallons of maple syrup, tied for the lowest amount on record. The year before, the state produced 155,000 gallons. Last year Wisconsin churned out a whopping 440,000 gallons, according to the USDA's National Agricultural Statistics Service — good for fourth most in the country.  Baroun is hopeful for this season, noting that as of Valentine's Day, some producers in southern Wisconsin already had produced a couple gallons of syrup — impressive considering it takes 40 gallons of sap to produce one gallon of syrup. Without any snow on the ground in early February, tree roots warmed up faster and sap started flowing. Producers in far northern Wisconsin, which was still buried under a couple feet of snow, probably won't tap until mid- or late March, she said. March is prime maple syrup time no matter the year or area of the state, with events from hands-on workshops and demonstrations to festivals and pancake breakfasts planned to celebrate the season. Here’s a selection of those events in southeastern Wisconsin to check out this season.  More:Maple syrup tapping season, started by Indigenous people, arrives in Wisconsin Feb. 25, From Sap to Syrup, Riveredge Nature Center, Saukville: Watch the entire syrup-making process, from identifying trees to finishing off syrup, from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. Registration is required by Feb. 24 and costs $25 for non-members, $15 for trail pass members and $10 for all-access members. (262) 375-2715, riveredgenaturecenter.org Feb. 25, Family Tapping, Riveredge Nature Center, Saukville: Help the Riveredge staff drill holes, tap in spiles and hang buckets on trees in the sugar bush from 1 to 2:30 p.m.. Registration is required by noon Feb. 25 and costs $9 for adults and $7 for kids (12 and under) who aren't members, $5 and $3 for trail pass members, and is free for all-access members. (262) 375-2715, riveredgenaturecenter.org Feb. 25, Maple Tapping for Families, Wehr Nature Center, Franklin: Families with kids ages 7 and older are welcome at this hands-on workshop that will include drilling a tree, watching how sap is boiled down, and a sweet treat. The event from 1 to 2:30 p.m. costs $12 for the general public, $10 for Milwaukee County residents and $7 for Friends of Wehr members. Non-members also must pay a $5 parking fee. Registration is required by Feb. 23. (414) 425-8550, friendsofwehr.org Feb. 26, Maple Tapping Workshop, Wehr Nature Center, Franklin: Learn every step in the syrup-making process, plus enjoy a taste on top of pancakes. Tapping kits will be available for purchase from the Friends of of Wehr store. The event from noon to 2 p.m. costs $12 for the general public, $10 for Milwaukee County residents and $7 for Friends of Wehr members. Non-members also must pay a $5 parking fee. Registration is required by Feb. 24. (414) 425-8550, friendsofwehr.org March 4 and 11, Maple Syrup Hikes, Petrifying Springs County Park, Kenosha: Join hikes at 10 or 11:30 a.m. to learn how syrup is made, including a hands-on tapping demonstration, and sample the final product. The event costs $6 per person or $4.50 for Friends of Pringle members. Pre-registration is required by 4 p.m. the day before at pringlenc.org. March 5, 12, 19 and 26, Sugarin’ Off Pancake Breakfast, River Bend Nature Center, Racine: Dig in to a pancake breakfast that includes Wisconsin maple syrup, sausage, orange juice, coffee, tea or milk. Then hike through the sugar bush to see and learn about sap collection and syrup-making. Advance ticket purchase is required and costs $15 for adults and $10 for kids ages 3 to 10 (kids under 3 are free). 9 a.m.-1 p.m. (262) 639-1515, riverbendracine.org March 7, Sugar Moon Hike, Schlitz Audubon Nature Center, Milwaukee: Hike under the full moon to see the nature center's maple trees and more, then enjoy maple treats around a bonfire while listening to indigenous maple sugaring folklore stories. The event is from 6 to 8 p.m. and costs $15 for non-members and $10 for members. (414) 352-2880, schlitzaudubon.org March 10-11, Maple Days, Farm Wisconsin Discovery Center, Manitowoc: Learn about syrup making, sample the sweet stuff, tour sugar bushes (9 a.m.-3 p.m. March 11 only) and more at this event hosted in conjunction with the WMSPA. The first 25 families both days will receive a maple tree. The sugar bush tours are free; all other events at the center are included in admission, which costs $16 for adults, $14 for seniors (62 and older) and $10 for youth (ages 3-18). (920) 726-6000, farmwisconsin.org March 11, All Things Maple, Ice Age Visitor Center, Campbellsport: Learn about what kind of maple trees grow in Wisconsin, how to identify them, and what products are made from sap, plus try some syrup at this free nature program event in the Kettle Moraine State Forest's northern unit from 10 to 11:30 a.m. dnr.wisconsin.gov/events  March 18, Maple Sugar Time, Schlitz Audubon Nature Center, Milwaukee: Explore five stations around the nature center, including one that lets you try drilling a hole by hand and another with a sweet treat. The event is accessible. Tickets are available for morning (10-11:30 a.m.) or afternoon (1-2:30 p.m.) sessions and cost $15 for non-members and $10 for members. (414) 352-2880, schlitzaudubon.org March 18-19, Maple Sugar Days, Wehr Nature Center, Franklin: Walk to the sugar bush to visit a sugaring camp, watch a boil-down demonstration, listen to stories about the Native American origins of maple sugaring and enjoy a pancake with syrup. Hikes depart every 15 minutes from noon to 4 p.m. Pre-purchased tickets are required and are limited. They cost $10 per person (free for children 2 and under). There also is a $5 per car parking fee for non-members.  (414) 425-8550, friendsofwehr.org March 18, Maple Sugarin' Festival, Riveredge Nature Center, Saukville: Hike half a mile through the forest to trade nature items for maple candies, visit the Sugarbush House to sip sap tea or maple-sugar-rimmed beer and listen to music, plus enjoy "the Riveredge special," pancakes and pickles. This year also features a Maple Sugarin' Adventure Challenge, 15 minutes of climbing the maple trees for an additional $5 (weather permitting). Admission for the event from noon to 4 p.m. is $3 for ages 2 and older. Registration is recommended; walk-ins will be accepted until the event reaches capacity. (262) 375-2715, riveredgenaturecenter.org March 18, Maple Sugaring, Hawthorn Glen Outdoor Education Center, Milwaukee: Search for sugar maples in the glen and learn both the traditional and modern ways sap is turned into syrup from 10 to 11:30 a.m. or 1 to 2:30 p.m. Parents must register, pay and attend with their child(ren). $5 for Milwaukee residents, $8 for non-residents. (414) 647-6050, milwaukeerecreation.net March 19, Maple Fest, Covenant Harbor, Lake Geneva: Enjoy a pancake breakfast, an outdoor market and other family-friendly activities from 7:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Proceeds go to scholarships for the summer camp. Breakfast is $13 for adults and $10 for kids ages 4 to 12 (free for ages 3 and under). (262) 248-3600, covenantharbor.org March 25, Maple Syrup Family Day, Richfield Historical Park, Richfield: Watch the syrup-making process, enjoy a pancake breakfast, and experience pioneer life through interactive demonstrations including blacksmithing, weaving and lard rendering. There will also be free tours of the historical buildings. Admission to the event from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. is free, but the pancake breakfast (9 a.m.-noon) costs $7 per person. Additional food, including maple cotton candy, will be available for purchase from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. richfieldhistoricalsociety.org April 1 and 2, Outdoor Pancake Breakfast, Riveredge Nature Center, Saukville: Hike to the sugar bush to enjoy all-you-can-eat-pancakes in the great outdoors. Seatings are at 9 a.m., 10:30 a.m. and noon both days. Registration is required by March 31 and costs $15 for non-members and $12 for members (kids 3 and under are free). Mimosas and beer will be available for cash purchase. (262) 375-2715, riveredgenaturecenter.org. Contact Chelsey Lewis at clewis@journalsentinel.com. Follow her on Twitter at @chelseylew and @TravelMJS and Facebook at Journal Sentinel Travel. Our subscribers make this reporting possible. Please consider supporting local journalism by subscribing to the Journal Sentinel at jsonline.com/deal.  DOWNLOAD THE APP: Get the latest news, sports and more This article originally appeared on Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Wisconsin's 2023 maple syrup season is off to an early start New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.