SOUTH BEND — Angel Thomas, since she burst on the state track scene as a special sophomore, has been dreaming of her final prep race. The Adams senior sprint star is now poised to hopefully make that dream come true soon. Thomas is focused on one goal as she prepares to start the postseason run beginning Tuesday night with the Northern Indiana Conference Meet at Elkhart. The personable Thomas, who boasts blazing speed, is unbeaten in the 100 this season. "I still have the hunger to get to the top of the podium," said Thomas of winning a state title in her specialty at the Indiana State Finals set for June 3 at Indiana University in Bloomington. "I'm not content until that happens. I'm motivated and that gives me something to strive for." Thomas placed fourth in the 100 dash in Bloomington a year ago in a time of 11.91. That race was the first time she had been beaten all season and her time was fast enough that it would have won a state championship in five of the previous 15 state finals. Thomas holds the fastest time in the state in the 100 after clocking in at 11.9 during a 101-31 NIC win over New Prairie on Senior Night May 4. Prior to that, she went 12.12 in the South Bend City Meet April 27 to lead her team to the championship. More: Riley boys, Adams girls win SBCSC track meet titles "Everything has just flowed from last year to this year," said Thomas, who earned a state title in the 60 in a time of 7.62 at the Hoosier State Relays March 25 indoors at IU. "We saw what we needed to improve on. "I feel pretty confident. I trust my process and I know that I have worked hard. I was committed to the weight room in the offseason. I have 100 percent confidence in myself." Thomas, who was the NIC MVP in 2022, helped lead her team to a second place finish in Class A on Saturday at the 33rd Goshen Relays. She won the long jump at 16-0 and placed first in both the 4 X 100 relay and the high jump relay and second in the 4 X 200 relay. Thomas, along with senior teammate Kayla Douglas, tied for the high scorer of the meet honors. Thomas is set to compete in the 100, 200, 400 relay and long jump at the NIC Meet. She will then also do the same four events in the Mishawaka Sectional May 16. The Goshen Regional is then on May 23. Thomas, who placed 16th in the 100 in a time of 12.60 at State in 2021, is confident yet smart every time she goes to the starting block for a race. "I still go into races with the mindset that everyone has the ability to beat me," Thomas remarked. "If I do not approach it that way, I feel that I would underperform." Underperforming has never been an issue for Thomas. "Angel is in her prime right now," said Adams coach Savino Rivera. "She's mentally and physically strong. She's goal oriented and her goal is a state championship. And that's very attainable. "She has done everything she needs to do. She was committed to the weight room in the offseason and she is staying strong this year. Last year she had some injuries, but not this year. "She is easy to coach. She believes in herself, trusts the process and does what she needs to do for the team. She has really stepped up this year leading our team. She's also able to understand the things we want her to do." Thomas signed on Friday to attend Indiana State on a full ride scholarship. "I'm very blessed to get a full scholarship to do what I love," said Thomas of her college decision. "I fell in love with the school and the track program there. It's a good fit for me." Softball notes: Veteran team plus veteran coach equals success for Mishawaka Rivera points to his star as a fine leader for his program. "Angel is just really your normal kid," said Rivera. "She can be serious when she needs to be and play around when it's time to do that. She's just a good example of what a leader is. "We saw her talent, her raw speed as an eighth grader. The rest is history. It would mean a lot to her, our coaches, our program, our school and our community for her to be a state champion with all her hard work the past four years." Thomas credits track for many things. "I've learned discipline and goals and to stick with it on the hard days," commented Thomas, who credited her mother for convincing her to run track at an early age. "I've pushed and I've been committed. It's my senior year and I want to go out with a bang. I really do want that state championship. "I've dreamed of it since I was a sophomore." This article originally appeared on South Bend Tribune: Angel Thomas is primed to make a run at a state title in the 100 Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Which teams have the toughest schedules ahead of the 2024 season?