Perhaps he picked out a piece for a potential new place out east. Aaron Rodgers was photographed leaving the Topanga Rocks crystal shop in Los Angeles this week as trade negotiations between the Jets and Packers remain at a standstill. The 39-year-old quarterback — who previously said he intends to play for the Jets in 2023 — was seen holding a small bag as he left the store, which sells crystals, jewelry, stone goods and other design elements from around the world.  Crystals can be used for a multitude of reasons, including meditation, which is something the veteran quarterback enjoys practicing.  And while it’s unclear what exactly Rodgers purchased, he does have a history with crystals.  In a recent profile for Men’s Health, Rodgers wore a necklace with a crystal-and-fossil amulet.  He also spoke to the outlet about his affinity for practicing transcendental meditation.  “It’s really just about how I can calm my mind so it’s not racing,” Rodgers said, adding that doing the dishes is one of his favorite meditative “activities in the world.” “I think meditation can get skewed at times, like you have to go in some sort of trance and start om-ing or whatever, but I feel like I can go into a meditative space doing the dishes.”  “I can also get it with an instrumental soundtrack going on, just sitting on my couch in the sunroom, without my phone on, just my eyes closed.”  Rodgers has been open about alternative medicine and his use of ayahuasca, which is a plant-based psychedelic tea containing the hallucinogenic drug DMT. The Super Bowl-winning quarterback said it helped him perform better on the field due to its mental benefits. Last month, YouTuber-turned-pro boxer Jake Paul claimed he and Rodgers “did the ayahuasca together.”  “Aaron and I were actually together when we did the ayahuasca,” Paul told Fox News Digital. “He’s more publicly known for speaking about it, but I was actually there with him when we did it. We spent the week there doing it. Definitely share that similarity in terms of spirituality and reflecting and going into the deepest parts of the mind. Definitely have been doing some of that.” Rodgers has yet to address Paul’s claim.  In addition to his trip to the crystal shop, Rodgers grabbed a drink at the Longevity coffee shop in nearby Thousand Oaks, where he enjoyed a beverage with actor Jonathan Tucker. The four-time NFL MVP dressed casually for the outing, sporting a blue T-shirt, black shorts, brown flip-flops, and aviator sunglasses.  The quarterback — who emerged from his four-day darkness retreat in February — is spending time in California while the Packers and Jets continue negotiations on a deal. Last month, Rodgers said during an appearance on “The Pat McAfee Show” that the Packers are “digging their heels in” trying to get compensation for him.   Prior to that, there were conflicting reports about Green Bay’s compensation requests. Rodgers has $110 million left on his contract after signing an extension with Green Bay last spring.  He is due $59.5 million in guaranteed money this year and another $49.25 million in 2024.  Advertisement