We would like to send you notifications for the latest news and updates. 
                Fightful has been reporting all the latest breaking news from
                the wrestling world since 2016.
             
                Ads have played a big part in being able to keep our content
                free for all to enjoy.
             
                Please consider allowing ads on our site, and help continue to
                support Fightful.
             JTG is getting into the NFT business to help out the family of Shad Gaspard.  JTG released Volume 1 of the official Cryme Tyme NFT Collection on Mintable.app. Half the profits from The Official Cryme Tyme NFT Collection will go to Shad’s son Aryeh Gaspard. Shad tragically passed away in May 2020 when he was pulled under by a riptide in Venice Beach after helping save his son's life. Press release: Friday August 13th, former WWE Superstar JTG of Cryme Tyme released Vol 1 of the OFFICIAL CRYME TYME NFT collection on Mintable.app The Official Cryme Tyme NFT collection brings together Cryme Tyme’s early years with art inspired by The Simpson’s, Rick & Morty, Beavis & Butt-head, Dragon Ball Z and many more. The collection features original art created by JTG himself and collaborations with various digital artists. A total of ten pieces will be available in limited quantities.
1 BRONZE EDITION NFT 1/50
6 SILVER EDITION NFT’S 1/25
2 GOLD EDITION NFT’S 1/10
1 PLATINUM EDITION NFT 1/1 The Platinum Edition NFT titled  “STRAIGHT OUTTA NOWHERE” featuring a surprise guest  is a 1/1 collector’s item that will be Auctioned off, but it will have a $10,000.00 buy it now price. Half the profits from The Official Cryme Tyme NFT Collection will go to Shad’s son Aryeh Gasppard. What are NFT’S ?
A NFT is a type of digital asset that has exploded in popularity this following year. NFT’S exists on the blockchain because the blockchain serves as a public ledger allowing anyone to verify the asset’s authenticity and ownership.
And, Just like physical Art, NFT’S can appreciate in value over time.
With NFT’S you can you use it as currency, trade for other assets, decorate your digital space or post as a status symbol. JTG enjoyed putting the artwork together and also hid some Easter eggs in some of the NFT’S. He’s looking forward to showing the Wrestling world, the Crypto world and the NFT world The amazing Artwork and With all that being said JTG has 4 words for you NFT’S! NFT’S! YEAH! YEAH! Fans can check out the NFT collection by clicking here. 