Sign In Register There isn’t a hockey team on the planet that takes losing in stride, but it makes it a lot easier if you know you were in the game from start to finish. For the Moose Jaw WINMAR Warriors, that’s been exactly the case in both defeats they’ve absorbed in Sask Male AAA Hockey League action this season. After falling by a pair to the Swift Current Legionnaires last week, including an empty-net goal, the Warriors dropped a 3-2 decision to the Prince Albert Mintos at the Moose Jaw Events Centre on Friday night. Moose Jaw is now 2-2 on the season and are part of a five-team logjam for third place in the SMAAAHL standings. The league’s top four teams at the beginning of November will be in consideration for the elite Circle K Classic tournament -- formerly the Mac’s -- in Calgary over the Christmas break. Things started out well for the Warriors against the Mintos, as they took a 2-1 lead out of the first period, with all three goals in the frame scored in the span of just under three minutes. Carson Deichert scored his first in the SMAAAHL to give the Warriors a 1-0 lead 5:07 into the proceedings, but Owen Nelson would get that one back for the Mintos 2:20 later. The tie didn’t last long, though, as Brennan Brown restored the Moose Jaw lead 24 seconds after that marker, giving the Warriors a 2-1 edge heading into the break. Despite both teams putting up 12 shots in the period, it was the Mintos who would strike twice. Kale Margolis scored his first and second goals of the season at 2:48 and 11:54 to give Prince Albert a 3-2 edge heading into the final frame. Neither team would score in the third, and the Warriors settled for a one-goal loss. Ryan Bain made 28 saves for the Warriors while Brady Holtvogt turned aside 29 shots for the Mintos, who improved to 2-1 on the campaign. The WINMAR Warriors are back in action Sunday and Monday with afternoon games in Warman against the Wildcats. Next home action is Wednesday, Oct. 25 when the Warriors host the Swift Current Legionnaires. © 2024 MooseJawToday.com