Discover major savings on brands like Sun Joe, Garmin, adidas, and more. Our product picks are editor-tested, expert-approved. We may earn a commission through links on our site. Why Trust Us? IT'S TRUE the weeks leading up to Memorial Day can feel like an eternity. The anticipation is just as real when waiting on Memorial Day sales, where major deals go down in categories like fashion, sleep, travel, and home. Alas, these sales are sometimes gone much too fast, and the time spent waiting to hit on a specific deal—only to find out something sold out—can eat away a lot of precious time that could be spent enjoying the holiday. If you want to avoid the rush, then scoring on some early Memorial Day deals might be for you.  Early Amazon Memorial Day Deals | Early On Running Memorial Day Deals | Early Hoka Memorial Day Deals | Bowflex Early Memorial Day Sale What's great is you can do some intense deal hunting right at this very moment thanks to the Amazon Overstock Outlet. Unlike the Amazon Warehouse—where you can find excellent pre-owned, used, and open-box products—the Amazon Outlet is full of new overstock and clearance goods. You can score designer apparel, footwear, home goods, tech, tools, home gym equipment, and more for discounts of up to 50% off at Amazon Outlet. The best part is the outlet is always getting new products, and so the selection of choice is quality. If you're looking for any home or tech upgrades to help with home maintenance, or you're in need of a few wardrobe essentials for summer, then the Amazon Overstock Outlet could have exactly what you're hoping to find. But of course, we wouldn't let you go into these deals without a little help. Below, we've curated the best Amazon Overstock Outlet deals our editors caught as we get ready for summer. BROWSE ENTIRE AMAZON OUTLET HERE Amazon Secret Coupon Page | Amazon Premium Menswear Outlet | Amazon Warehouse Sale | Amazon Clearance Section You don't need a Prime membership to shop the Amazon Outlet, but if you want to get the best deal possible we recommend securing a membership. After all, you're going to receive fast and free shipping on tons of overstock items, which means more money (and time) saved. If you're on a desktop, click over to the "All" tab to open up Amazon's different shopping sections. Scroll and click on "Programs and Features", and then click on "See All". Once you've opened up the "See All" tab, you'll find the tab that says "Amazon Outlet" near the top. And if you're on the Amazon app, the easiest way is to start by tapping on the three horizontal lines at the bottom right of the screen. Doing this will take you to Amazon's different site sections. In the top search bar, type "Amazon outlet" and hit return. Amazon will then direct you to its Overstock home page. BROWSE ENTIRE AMAZON OUTLET HERE  Best Men's Clothing Brands on Amazon | Best Men's Workout Clothes on Amazon Shop Amazon's August Home Gym Equipment Sale The Top Watches Are 60% Off in Post-Prime Day Sale Shop Amazon's June Home Gym Equipment Sale Shop Amazon's May Home Gym Equipment Sale Shop Adidas' Awesome Ultraboost Sales Our Favorite Hydrow Rower Is Under $2000 Right Now Shop Amazon's Spring Home Gym Equipment Sale NordicTrack Spring Sale: Save Up to $500 Shop These Amazon Presidents' Day Deals Lululemon's "We Made Too Much" Got An Epic Restock Jump-start Your Home Gym With Nordictrack Sales Hoka's Having a Major Sale on Running Shoes  A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.