Here's the easiest way to save money at the legacy outfitter. Our product picks are editor-tested, expert-approved. We may earn a commission through links on our site. Why Trust Us? BEFORE YOU buy that next piece of gear you've been eyeing, you should get familiar with how to navigate the REI Outlet. Whether you're looking for gear like travel backpacks and camping essentials, or for outdoor apparel and footwear (like hiking boots and trail running shoes), the REI Outlet is a central hub where you can make strategic upgrades and replacements to better enhance your outdoor lifestyle—all while saving a ton of money in the process. To give you an idea of the wide range of products you can find in the REI Outlet, we're highlighting the best current sales breaking at the digital storefront ahead of Labor Day. There are hidden gem deals from brands like Arc'teryx, Patagonia, HOKA, The North Face and more; and category wide sales ranging from bikes to travel gear. Check out some of our favorite editor-approved deals below, and make sure to bookmark this page so you can keep visiting this guide as we update it leading into the holiday weekend. VIEW ALL REI OUTLET DEALS HERE Best Apple Labor Day Sales | Saatva Labor Day Mattress Sale | Best Labor Day Luggage Deals | Best Labor Day Small Appliance Deals  Most of us are aware REI is home base for all things recreational equipment. From hiking to camping, to climbing and fishing, you can find almost any piece of gear you need from all the top brands. The REI Outlet is much like a sale section for the outfitter, holding all of its past-season gear and its famous flash sales. What makes the REI Outlet special though is its wide array of product offerings that reflect all types of seasons—yes, even in summer you can find deals on warm weather gear in the REI Outlet.  This is all to say REI is constantly moving massive piles of product to the REI Outlet, cutting deals on major brands and creating savings up to 60% off in order to compensate for its rapid product turnover.  Sometimes REI offers limited-time sale events. These special sales are usually made available to REI Co-op members, which is an annual membership program that gives you access to perks like major sale events, a 10% giveback on eligible purchases year-over-year, and a discount on gear rentals and member events. You do not have to have an REI Co-op membership to shop the REI Outlet, but if you are someone who is spending a lot of time and money on outdoor hobbies then we recommend looking into the one-time $30 membership REI is currently offering. VIEW REI CO-OP MEMBERSHIP HERE  Comfortable Chairs to Pair With a Standing Desk 10 Best Hoverboards for Kids and Adults to Ride Early Labor Day Tech Sales up to 49% Off Are Here This AC Cools My Home Gym in a Heat Wave Some Saatva Mattresses Are Nearly $1,000 Off Now Save 40% on Greenworks Leaf Blowers at Amazon How to Save 20% Off Saatva Mattresses Our Gear Editors Found the Best Affordable E-Bikes The Best Deals on Outdoor Speakers for August 2024 Get Ready for Tailgating Season With These Grills  Shop REI Outlet's Massive August Sale  Our Favorite Samsung TV Is $1,000 off at Walmart A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.