E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
Deadlines:
 
Monday-Friday 8:30am-4:00pm, Call 610-915-2226
 
(Proofs will be provided for accuracy only, they will not be styled/formatted like the finished product)
 
Obituaries submitted on Saturday, Sunday and Holidays are accepted from 8:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. by email only Obit@delcotimes.com
 
(No proofs will be furnished. Pricing will not be available until the next business day after 10:00am by calling Dianne at 610-915-2226)
 
Obituaries received after Deadline will not be published in the following edition of the paper.
 
Sending Procedure:
 
Email is the preferable method for receiving Obituaries (and the only method on Saturday, Sunday and Holidays), they can be sent to Obit@delcotimes.com (Feel free to call and confirm that we’ve received the email)
 
Formatting:
 
Obituaries will continue to visually look the same as they currently do, but you will no longer be restricted in what you can say (ex. As much Family can be listed as you’d like; Wording like “Went to rest with the Lord” is now permissible)
 
Other:
 
There is a cost for each obituary. Pricing and payments are only available Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 4:00 pm. All weekend and holiday submissions will be provided a cost the next business day.
 
Exceptions:
 
All New accounts, Out of State Funeral Homes and Private Parties will require prepayment upon approval of the obituary. Weekend and Holiday staff are not authorized to set up a new account or process payments
 
Deadline for the above is before 4:00 PM Mon – Fri. only (Holiday schedules may vary).
 
Prepayment required submissions will be handled on the very first business day following the weekend and/or holiday schedule. A complete name, address and best contact phone number are required upon submittal of your obituary request to set up your account. A proof will then be emailed for review but placed on hold until payment is received.
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 PHILADELPHIA — Aggressive as the Eagles are on the field, they’re conservative away from it with the health of Jalen Hurts.After two days of practice and a week of doctors’ examinations the Eagles listed Hurts doubtful to play Sunday when the New Orleans Saints come to town. Barring a dramatic turnaround over the weekend the Eagles don’t want to risk Hurts reinjuring the SC joint sprain in his collarbone and breastbone area.“Obviously the first and foremost thing that’s most important for Jalen is that his health is always taken into consideration first and if it’s safe for him to be out there,” head coach Nick Sirianni said Friday. “Then from there, then you do what’s best for the team. But you first do what’s best for the individual.”Hurts was having an MVP-caliber season before he was hurt in the Eagles’ 25-20 victory over the Chicago Bears. He ranks third in the NFL in QB rating (104.6) and has completed 67.3 percent of his passes (286-for-425) for 3,472 yards and 22 touchdowns against just five interceptions. Hurts has also rushed 156 times for 747 yards and a league-best 13 touchdowns among quarterbacks. Detroit running back Jaamal Williams is the only player with more rushing touchdowns than Hurts.Gardner Minshew gets the start for the Eagles if Hurts cannot go. Minshew played well enough to beat the Cowboys last week except for two interceptions, which were among four Eagles turnovers in the 40-34 defeat.The Eagles (13-2) can clinch the top seed in the playoffs and the bye with a win over the Saints (6-9), who still are in the postseason hunt. A victory also would give the Eagles a franchise-best 14 victories.“It was a good week of practice,” Minshew said. “A real good week. I’m ready to go.”The Eagles ruled out offensive tackle Lane Johnson (groin) and cornerback Avonte Maddox (toe).

 After two days of practice and a week of doctors’ examinations the Eagles listed Hurts doubtful to play Sunday when the New Orleans Saints come to town. Barring a dramatic turnaround over the weekend the Eagles don’t want to risk Hurts reinjuring the SC joint sprain in his collarbone and breastbone area. “Obviously the first and foremost thing that’s most important for Jalen is that his health is always taken into consideration first and if it’s safe for him to be out there,” head coach Nick Sirianni said Friday. “Then from there, then you do what’s best for the team. But you first do what’s best for the individual.” Hurts was having an MVP-caliber season before he was hurt in the Eagles’ 25-20 victory over the Chicago Bears. He ranks third in the NFL in QB rating (104.6) and has completed 67.3 percent of his passes (286-for-425) for 3,472 yards and 22 touchdowns against just five interceptions. Hurts has also rushed 156 times for 747 yards and a league-best 13 touchdowns among quarterbacks. Detroit running back Jaamal Williams is the only player with more rushing touchdowns than Hurts. Gardner Minshew gets the start for the Eagles if Hurts cannot go. Minshew played well enough to beat the Cowboys last week except for two interceptions, which were among four Eagles turnovers in the 40-34 defeat. The Eagles (13-2) can clinch the top seed in the playoffs and the bye with a win over the Saints (6-9), who still are in the postseason hunt. A victory also would give the Eagles a franchise-best 14 victories. “It was a good week of practice,” Minshew said. “A real good week. I’m ready to go.” The Eagles ruled out offensive tackle Lane Johnson (groin) and cornerback Avonte Maddox (toe). Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group