For premium support please call: For premium support please call: "Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." Attention: Stop sleeping on your pillows. Not literally, you silly goose, but figuratively. As in, stop overlooking your pillows. They are a vital part of your sleep habits, and we all know how important good sleep is. Perhaps you’ve been given the popular advice to invest in your shoes and mattresses because you spend a whole lot of time in both. If that’s the thinking, we should invest in our entire bedding getup—not solely the mattress. So, that means you’ll need silk sheets, luxurious pajamas, and a consistent bedtime. It is true that pillows can get expensive, which is why the timing of Amazon Prime Day couldn’t be better. Today is the last day of the savings event, but you can still benefit from major discounts and amazing home deals until midnight PST tonight. So, if you’re thinking of giving your pillow collection a refresh, hop to it. Here, find the best pillow and bedding deals for Amazon Prime Day. This pillow is highly loved by Amazon users—and even own of ELLE’s own. Editor review: “This pillow has been crucial in my mission to become a back sleeper. It is so comfortable and I actually enjoy sleeping on my back now! The sides are super supportive and ensure that you don’t move throughout the night. I haven’t had a better night’s sleep since purchasing this pillow!”—Jane Mafale, SEO manager Shop Now Cervical Memory Foam Neck Pillow for Pain Relief  $42.99 amazon.com Here’s a peek into my personal Prime Day cart. I’m eyeing this pillow in hopes it will help me stabilize my neck in my sleep and encourage me to stay on my back. And is it just me...or is the shape kind of chic? Customer review: “From the moment I laid my head on the pillow, I could feel the memory foam supporting my neck and literally almost NO pain!! And I even awoke STARTLED by my alarm clock because I was sleeping sooo good! And I haven’t felt that good of a night’s sleep in such a LONG time! Definitely a 5-star product!!” Shop Now Deep Sleep Pillow, Patented Ergonomic Contour Design $98.00 amazon.com I’ve honestly never seen a pillow quite like this, and I definitely plan on getting one for my dad for Christmas. For anyone who prefers their pillows flat, this one comes with three individual inserts so you can pick your desired height. Customer review: “I have found this perfect pillow! Being able to personalize the thickness was the key. Feathers are soft. No noise. The outer layer is slightly padded and one works best for me. No stiffness or pain upon waking. Honestly, it’s a miracle!” Shop Now Adjustable Layer Goose Feather Pillow $49.98 amazon.com If you struggle with TMJ and read our beauty editor’s ode to this pillow back in 2021 and have been coveting it ever since (hi, same), now’s your chance to jump on the sale. Editor review: “I’m so committed to this pillow that I’m considering having one custom-made [pillowcase] to fit it. I’ve also purchased one of these pillows for every bed I sleep in... I start every day with 30 minutes of silent meditation. Yeah, I’m one of those people now. That’s how good that pillow is.”—Margaux Anbouba, beauty editor Shop Now Cervical Memory Foam Pillow $54.99 amazon.com No matter what size or color you want, Mellanni has what you’re looking for. Customer review: “I have to say, they are absolutely fantastic! One of the best things about these sheets is that they do not pill. We’ve had ours for over a year now and have washed them countless times, yet there are no signs of pilling or any tears. The durability is outstanding.” Shop Now Queen Sheet Set  $37.16 amazon.com I’ll let you in on a little secret: This has been one of the bestselling pillows this Prime Day. That means it’s gotta be good. Customer review: “These pillows are beautiful. If you like soft pillows. You’ll love these. It’s like laying on a cloud. I brought 4. I’m going to buy 4 more. Worth the money and I’m glad purchased them.” Shop Now 2 Pack Bed Pillows, Cooling Supportive Plush Pillows  $16.37 amazon.com Coop Home Goods is one of the best pillow brands out there, so I highly recommend taking the rare opportunity to shop while they’re on sale. Customer review: “I’m pleased to announce after 1 night’s use, I can label this pillow extraordinary. My husband slept through the night. He woke up without any neck stiffness or back pain. There was no overheating or midnight fluffing (or cursing). There was no breaking-in period with this pillow. It was fantastic off the jump.” Shop Now Premium Adjustable Loft Pillow - Cross-Cut Memory Foam Fill  $92.00 amazon.com This isn’t your average airport neck pillow. It’s SO much better. I especially love that it’s machine washable. Customer review: “It is possibly the best purchase I have ever made for traveling. I can’t even imagine ever traveling without it again. THAT was how great this Trtl turned out to be!” Shop Now Travel Pillow for Neck Support $59.99 amazon.com This Amazon Basics set is no-fuss, plain and simple. There’s no gimmick or tagline—they’re just really good pillows. Customer review: “Comfortable, and low loft. So for those of us who want soft pillows to sleep on our sides or stomach this is it. I like to have 2 pillows, so I use both. I’ve been fighting my husband for the softest pillow so I am buying another set today. ” Shop Now Down Alternative Pillows, Soft Density For Stomach and Back Sleepers $31.23 amazon.com Blissy makes some of the best silk pillowcases, as I can personally attest. The silky fabric feels amazing (and cooling) to sleep on, and I sleep better knowing it’s anti-aging. Customer review: “It is so soft, and amazing quality! I bought it because I would have uncontrollable and very frizzy bed head every day on my old cotton pillowcase. This product is a bit of a splurge, but 100% worth it! Your hair, skin, & lashes will thank you!” Shop Now Silk Pillowcase, 100% Pure Mulberry Silk  $58.89 amazon.com Amazon has tons of silk or silk alternative pillowcase options to fit every budget. Customer review: “I am very happy with the quality of this very reasonably priced and soft mulberry silk pillowcase. It washes well in a delicate cycle and low heat drying. I’ve also noticed that my complexion is better in the morning with no deep wrinkles or creases on my face from cotton pillowcases and my hair is in better shape too.” Shop Now Upgraded 100% Mulberry Silk Pillowcase $23.99 amazon.com The power of a good mattress pad truly knows no limits. If you’re dreading replacing your mattress, try adding a topper first. It might just save you some money. Customer review: “This mattress pad was easy to fluff up before the first use then it made our new mattress even better than it had been….we love the pad!! Sleep like a baby in his Momma’s arms!” Shop Now Queen Mattress Pad Cover, Cooling Mattress Topper Pillow Top $36.91 amazon.com Hi, hot sleepers, I’m talking to you. Skip flipping your pillow over all night and just get this cooling option. Customer review: “I wanted something that would remain cool, but support my head well. I’m a side sleeper, but also want something I can use as a backrest while watching TV. This pillow works really well.” Shop Now Cooling Pillow  $42.49 amazon.com Whether you’re looking for a body pillow to use as an affordable pregnancy pillow, a cuddle buddy, or a fancy throw, this one has great reviews all around. Customer review: “Fully adjustable, very soft, fluffy and squishy. Multipurpose use...If you like to have a body pillow wrapped halfway around your neck under your head and all the way down between your knees or under one knee, you want a pillow like this...This pillow can be put in a washer with cold water on gentle settings, and a tumble dryer on the lowest heat settings.” Shop Now Premium Adjustable Loft Quilted Body Pillows $33.14 amazon.com It’s Casper the friendly ghost mattress brand, here to bring you the best pillow you’ve ever tried. Customer review: “The pillow actually fills the pillow case which has not been the case for some other high # rating pillows...Its structure is sturdy but allows you to sink in...I am enjoying it and will purchase more in the future!” Shop Now Sleep Original Pillow $39.00 amazon.com You Might Also Like The 15 Best Organic And Clean Shampoos For Any And All Hair Types 100 Gifts That Are $50 Or Under (And Look Way More Expensive Than They Actually Are) Advertisement Advertisement AOL AOL AOL Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement