Search Restaurant Business Cleaning and hygiene giant Ecolab is teaming up with Miso Robotics, the company that makes Flippy the automated fry cook. The partnership includes a “multi-million dollar” growth investment from Ecolab. The two companies will also collaborate on automated cleaning solutions, they said Thursday, though they did not go into detail about what that might look like. "Ecolab's expertise and leadership in water, hygiene and infection prevention solutions and services are unparalleled, and we look forward to working together to create new value for our customers and the foodservice industry at large,” said Buck Jordan, Miso’s founder and chairman, in a statement. Pasadena, Calif.-based Miso is best known for Flippy, a robotic, AI-powered arm designed to work the fryer. It’s currently being piloted by a number of fast-food chains, including White Castle, Jack in the Box and Wing Zone. The publicly traded Ecolab offers food safety, hygiene and cleaning products and services in a variety of industries including food, hospitality and healthcare, in 170 countries. Miso has raised nearly $100 million since it was founded in 2016, according to CrunchBase. Much of that capital has come from crowdfunding.   The deal shows how automation is making its way into more areas of the restaurant business, from order taking to cooking and now, possibly, cleaning. The technology could help restaurants run more efficiently amid rising costs and smaller staffs. Members help make our journalism possible. Become a Restaurant Business member today and unlock exclusive benefits, including unlimited access to all of our content. Sign up here. Get today’s need-to-know restaurant industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from Restaurant Business on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from Restaurant Business, sent straight to your inbox. The Latest More on this Topic The Bottom Line: The marketing campaign was one of the most successful in restaurant industry history. But that promotion is stuck in consumers’ memory, making its offers more difficult. Reality Check: Supermarkets are suspected of exploiting tech to boost prices. You know, like the capabilities that are as common as napkins in the restaurant business. The Bottom Line: In hiring Brian Niccol, the coffee shop giant opted to bring in an experienced hand, rather than focus purely on culture.  Do not sell my personal infoPrivacy PolicyCode of ConductContact UsRSS Copyright © Informa Connect 2024