Mithra Pharmaceuticals is in line to receive €17.05m ($18.8m) in licencing fees, and milestone-based payments. Mithra Pharmaceuticals and Searchlight Pharma have entered a licensing agreement for Donesta, an investigational drug for treating menopausal symptoms.  The agreement grants Searchlight exclusive sales and marketing rights in Canada. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 As per the agreement, Searchlight is responsible for regulatory approval of Donesta in Canada while Mithra would be entitled to licensing fees, Canadian sales royalties, and milestone-based payments totalling up to €17.05m ($18.8m). Donesta is an orally administered estetrol (E4) hormone therapy that targets nuclear estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) and can potentially avoid the common side effects associated with hormonal therapies. Mithra’s first estertrol (E4) therapy was a combination therapy Estelle (15mg estetrol and 3mg drospirenone), which is currently marketed in the US, Canada, and Europe. The data from the two multicentre, randomised Phase III trials (C301 – NCT04209543, and C302 – NCT04090957) evaluating Donesta, demonstrated a reduction in vasomotor symptoms from baseline and compared to placebo.  Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Mithra has reported positive safety data in North America in the C302 Phase III trial, with primary safety data from Europe expected in H1 2024. Mithra plans to file marketing authorisation with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) by the end of 2023, based on the safety and efficacy data from the C302 Phase III trial. Searchlight also plans to file for marketing authorisation with Health Canada in H1 2024. Mithra has previously signed agreements with Searchlight for the licensing of an oral contraceptive Nextstellis (drospirenone and estetrol tablets), and a vaginal contraceptive Haloette, in Canada in 2021 and 2022, respectively. Mithra CEO David Horn Solomon stated that the company intends to seek a partnership to market Donesta in the US. Apart from the contraceptive and hormone therapy, Mithra is also developing a colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF-1R) kinase inhibitor with BCI Pharma for treating endometriosis, and certain oncology indications and inflammatory disorders. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Pharma Technology Focus : Pharmaceutical Technology Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the pharmaceutical industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024