Torch lights flicker in the underground space, illuminating the stone statues and casting shadows on the gathering. Military men sit on brick benches and look at the stone carving. Looking back at them through the lantern light is their god — a figure simultaneously well-known and mysterious. The cult scene feels part ominous, part reverent and entirely like part of a Netflix documentary. In reality, these shadowy gatherings took place across the ancient Roman world. Archaeologists in Trier, Germany, recently uncovered a 1,600-year-old temple where this Roman cult gathered, according to an April 12 news release from the General Directorate for Cultural Heritage in Rhineland-Palatinate. The archaeologists unearthed a 4-foot-tall stone relief statue of a figure known as Cautes, experts said. Cautes was a torch bearer for Mithras, the ancient Roman god of light, and symbolized sunrises and sunsets. The statue showed Cautes standing upright and looking left, photos from the City Administration of Trier show. His now-broken right hand is poised, perhaps mid-gesture or perhaps holding a long-gone object. Based on the statue and other Roman coins found nearby, archaeologists identified the site as an underground temple or cult space where people worshiped Mithras, the release said. The site was abandoned and destroyed by the end of the fourth century A.D. Mithras, a deity with origins in ancient Iran, was known to the Romans as a god of light and typically associated with “loyalty to the emperor,” according to Britannica. It’s unclear why or how, but Mithras became popular in the Roman empire in the second century, per Britannica. The cult of Mithras was very popular among Roman military personnel, the release said. Cult spaces were typically built in caves or underground, according to Südwestrundfunk, a German news outlet. These sanctuaries usually included a depiction of Mithras slaying a bull. The cult functioned under a shroud of secrecy, Südwestrundfunk reported. Despite Mithrac temples being found throughout the Roman empire, the exact beliefs and practices of the cult remain mysterious, the outlet reported. Archaeologists in Trier have moved the statue to a museum for restoration and preservation, according to the release. Excavations of the temple began in February and are ongoing. The city plans to build a new fire station at the site. Trier is in western Germany, about 290 miles northwest of Munich, and near the Germany-Luxembourg border. Google Translate was used to translate the news release from the General Directorate for Cultural Heritage in Rhineland-Palatinate, the City Administration of Trier and the article from Südwestrundfunk (SWR). ‘Unprecedented,’ massive site — linked to ancient cult — found in Bolivia. Take a look Colorful mosaics uncovered in underwater Roman spa puzzle experts. Take a look 1,100-year-old monument to Mayan ball game found buried at iconic Mexican pyramid New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.