
Innovation for sustainable water
 You can find details about how to access information remotely in this step-by-step guide. The guide will also help if for any reason you have difficulty accessing the content you want. Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology is a Transformative Journal, and Plan S compliant Impact factor: 3.5* Time to first decision (all decisions): 14.0 days** Time to first decision (peer reviewed only): 52.0 days*** Editor-in-Chief: Graham Gagnon Open access publishing options available Read this journal Submit an article Sign up for regular email alerts View all journal metrics Publish open access Meet the team Urban stormwater managementData-intensive water systems management and operationPolymers in liquid formulationsDrinking water oxidation and disinfection processes Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology seeks to showcase high quality research about fundamental science, innovative technologies, and management practices that promote sustainable water. The journal aims to provide a comprehensive and relevant forum that unites the diverse communities and disciplines conducting water research relevant to engineered systems and the built environment. This includes fundamental science geared toward understanding physical, chemical, and biological phenomena in these systems as well as applied research focused on the development and optimisation of engineered treatment, management, and supply strategies. Papers must report a significant advance in the theory, fundamental understanding, practice or application of water research, management, engineering or technology, within the following areas: The journal places special focus on issues associated with water sustainability, as well as research that may lead to more secure, resilient and reliable water supplies. And it welcomes inter- and multidisciplinary work contributing to any of the above developments that are likely to be of interest to the broad community that the Journal addresses.
Manuscripts should be written to be accessible to scientists and engineers in all disciplines associated with the Journal.
All manuscripts must highlight their novel features and explain the significance of the work relative to related studies in their field as well as the likely impact on relevant water communities in the industry, government or academia.

*Please see the below expandable section for specific guidance regarding this area of our scope.

See more information for specific guidance regarding some areas of our scope



Measurement advances and analysis: these papers are encouraged and must clearly focus on the relevance of the work to engineered water systems and clearly explain the implications of the analysis or observations for sustainable water management. Papers dealing only with analysis, analytical method development or that simply report measured concentrations of target analytes (for example, occurrence and effluent concentrations of novel pollutant classes) will not be considered for publication.
Modeling: papers that lack appropriate validation through either experimental data or available and reliable datasets will not be considered for publication.
New materials or technologies for water treatment: emphasis must be placed on one of the following:

Developing a fundamental understanding of the underlying mechanisms integral to technology performance
Demonstrating how the practical application of the technology advances the field and improves upon existing treatment options

Papers in this area are strongly discouraged from focusing solely on technology demonstrations in model systems with model pollutant targets. Rather, they are encouraged to consider performance in complex (that is, environmentally relevant) systems and performance metrics (for example, efficacy across multiple pollutant targets, longevity, regeneration during application, and sustainability assessment) most relevant to real world application. 
Technology papers: we will not consider papers that focus solely on any of the following:

Heavily focused on material synthesis and characterisation (such as nanomaterial catalysts)
Consider only the removal of highly idealised targets (such as dyes)
Work exclusively in clean laboratory systems
Do not demonstrate innovation that advances the treatment field, or develops a technology without a clear and viable pathway to full scale implementation

Sustainability assessments: papers that cover, for example, life cycle assessment or life cycle cost analysis, of water-related technologies and systems must emphasize the fundamental insight into the factors governing technology or system performance. Papers are strongly discouraged from solely reporting absolute or comparative assessments of technologies/systems without uncovering novel insight or identifying critical barriers to sustainability.
These guidelines will be used by our Associate editors and reviewers to assess the significance of each submitted manuscript.



 The journal places special focus on issues associated with water sustainability, as well as research that may lead to more secure, resilient and reliable water supplies. And it welcomes inter- and multidisciplinary work contributing to any of the above developments that are likely to be of interest to the broad community that the Journal addresses. Manuscripts should be written to be accessible to scientists and engineers in all disciplines associated with the Journal. All manuscripts must highlight their novel features and explain the significance of the work relative to related studies in their field as well as the likely impact on relevant water communities in the industry, government or academia. *Please see the below expandable section for specific guidance regarding this area of our scope. Measurement advances and analysis: these papers are encouraged and must clearly focus on the relevance of the work to engineered water systems and clearly explain the implications of the analysis or observations for sustainable water management. Papers dealing only with analysis, analytical method development or that simply report measured concentrations of target analytes (for example, occurrence and effluent concentrations of novel pollutant classes) will not be considered for publication. Modeling: papers that lack appropriate validation through either experimental data or available and reliable datasets will not be considered for publication. New materials or technologies for water treatment: emphasis must be placed on one of the following: Papers in this area are strongly discouraged from focusing solely on technology demonstrations in model systems with model pollutant targets. Rather, they are encouraged to consider performance in complex (that is, environmentally relevant) systems and performance metrics (for example, efficacy across multiple pollutant targets, longevity, regeneration during application, and sustainability assessment) most relevant to real world application.  Technology papers: we will not consider papers that focus solely on any of the following: Sustainability assessments: papers that cover, for example, life cycle assessment or life cycle cost analysis, of water-related technologies and systems must emphasize the fundamental insight into the factors governing technology or system performance. Papers are strongly discouraged from solely reporting absolute or comparative assessments of technologies/systems without uncovering novel insight or identifying critical barriers to sustainability. These guidelines will be used by our Associate editors and reviewers to assess the significance of each submitted manuscript. Meet Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology Editor-in-Chief and board members. Graham Gagnon, Dalhousie University, Canada Sebastià Puig Broch, Universitat de Girona, Spain Wenhai Chu, Tongji University, China Ning Dai, University at Buffalo, USA Lauren Stadler, Rice University, USA Liu Ye, The University of Queensland, Australia Takahiro Fujioka, Nagasaki University, Japan Branko Kerkez, University of Michigan, USA Jeonghwan Kim, Inha University, South Korea Linda Lawton, Robert Gordon University, UK Suparna Mukherji, IIT Bombay, India Luca Vezzaro, Technical University of Denmark, Denmark Eveline Volcke, Ghent University, Belgium Federico Aulenta, National Research Council, Italy Nicholas Ashbolt, University of Alberta, Canada Tom Bond, University of Surrey, UK Joby Boxall, The University of Sheffield, UK Kartik Chandran, Columbia University in the City of New York, USA Amy Childress, University of Southern California, USA David Cwiertny, University of Iowa   Joel Ducoste, North Carolina State University, USA Marc Edwards, Virginia Tech, USA Jingyun Fang, Sun Yat-sen University, China Maria Jose Farre, Catalan Institute for Water Research, Spain Yujie Feng, Harbin Institute of Technology, China Kathrin Fenner, Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology, Eawag, Switzerland  Ramesh Goel, University of Utah, USA Ola Gomaa, National Center for Radiation Research and Technology, Egypt Chris Gordon, University of Ghana, Ghana April Gu, Cornell University, USA Jochen Hack, TU Darmstadt, Germany Zhen "Jason" He, Washington University in St. Louis, USA Xia Huang, Tsinghua University, China Cynthia Joll, Curtin University, Australia Tamar Kohn, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, EPFL, Switzerland Peng Liang, Tsinghua University, China Irene Lo, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong Julie Minton, WateReuse Foundation, USA Vincenzo Naddeo, University of Salerno, Italy Indumathi M Nambi, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India Long Ngheim, University of Technology Sydney, Australia Paige Novak, University of Minnesota, USA Yong Sik Ok, Korea University, South Korea Ligy Philip, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India Thalappil Pradeep, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India Zhiyong "Jason" Ren, Princeton University, USA Peter Robertson, Queen's University Belfast, UK Michael Templeton, Imperial College London, UK Kai Udert, Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology, Switzerland Subramanyan Vasudevan, CSIR-Central Electrochemical Research Institute, India Xin Wang, Nankai University, China David Weissbrodt, TU Delft, The Netherlands Krista Wigginton, University of Michigan, USA Di Wu, Ghent University, South Korea Defeng Xing, Harbin Institute of Technology, China Jeyong Yoon, Seoul National University, South Korea Neil Scriven, Executive Editor Grace Thoburn, Deputy Editor Nour Tanbouza, Development Editor Claire Darby, Editorial Production Manager, ORCID 0000-0003-3059-6020 Emma Carlisle, Publishing Editor Hannah Hamilton, Publishing Editor Ephraim Otumudia, Publishing Editor Irene Sanchez Molina Santos, Publishing Editor Michael Spencelayh, Publishing Editor Lauren Yarrow-Wright, Publishing Editor Kate Bandoo, Editorial Assistant Linda Warncke, Publishing Assistant Sam Keltie, Publisher, Journals, ORCID 0000-0002-9369-8414 Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology publishes:

Communications
Full papers
Perspectives
Critical reviews
Frontier reviews
Tutorial reviews
Comments and Replies

Reviews & Perspectives are normally invited, however suggestions for timely Reviews are very welcome. Interested authors should contact the Editorial Office at eswater-rsc@rsc.org with an abstract or brief synopsis of their intended Review.
See more information about these article types



Communications
These must report preliminary research findings that are novel and original, of immediate interest and are likely to have a high impact on the Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology community. Authors must provide a short paragraph explaining why their work justifies rapid publication as a communication.
Full papers
Original research papers on any of the subjects outlined in the scope section and related areas are encouraged and welcomed. All papers should give due attention to overcoming limitations and to underlying principles. All contributions will be judged on the following four criteria.1. Novelty and insight2. Quality of scientific work and content3. Clarity of objectives and aims of the work4. Appropriateness of length to content of new science
Perspectives
These may be articles providing a personal view of part of one discipline associated with Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology or a philosophical look at a topic of relevance. Alternatively, Perspectives may be historical articles covering a particular subject area or the development of particular legislation, technologies, methodologies or other subjects within the scope of the journal.
Critical reviews
Critical reviews must be a critical evaluation of the existing state of knowledge on a particular facet of water research or water technologies as they affect environmental science. They should be timely and provide insights based on existing literature. They should be of general interest to the journal's wide readership.
All Critical reviews undergo a rigorous and full peer review procedure, in the same way as regular research papers. Authors are encouraged to identify areas in the field where further developments are imminent or of urgent need, and any areas that may be of significance to the community in general. Critical reviews should not contain any unpublished original research.
Frontier reviews
These are shorter, more focused versions of Critical reviews on a well-defined, specific topic area covering approximately the last two-three years. Articles should cover only the most interesting/significant developments in that specific subject area.
The article should be highly critical and selective in referencing published work. One or two paragraphs of speculation about possible future developments may also be appropriate in the conclusion section.
Frontier reviews may also cover techniques/technologies that are too new for a Critical review or may address a subset of technologies available for a given area of research within the journal scope.
Frontier reviews should not contain unpublished original research.
Tutorial reviews
Tutorial reviews should provide an introduction and overview of an important topic of relevance to the journal readership. The topic should be of relevance to both researchers who are new to the field as well as experts and provide a good introduction to the development of a subject, its current state and indications of future directions the field is expected to take.Tutorial reviews should not contain unpublished original research.
Comments and Replies
Comments and Replies are a medium for the discussion and exchange of scientific opinions between authors and readers concerning material published in Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology.
For publication, a Comment should present an alternative analysis of and/or new insight into the previously published material. Any Reply should further the discussion presented in the original article and the Comment. Comments and Replies that contain any form of personal attack are not suitable for publication. 
Comments that are acceptable for publication will be forwarded to the authors of the work being discussed, and these authors will be given the opportunity to submit a Reply. The Comment and Reply will both be subject to rigorous peer review in consultation with the journal’s Editorial Board where appropriate. The Comment and Reply will be published together.



 Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology publishes: Reviews & Perspectives are normally invited, however suggestions for timely Reviews are very welcome. Interested authors should contact the Editorial Office at eswater-rsc@rsc.org with an abstract or brief synopsis of their intended Review. These must report preliminary research findings that are novel and original, of immediate interest and are likely to have a high impact on the Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology community. Authors must provide a short paragraph explaining why their work justifies rapid publication as a communication. Original research papers on any of the subjects outlined in the scope section and related areas are encouraged and welcomed. All papers should give due attention to overcoming limitations and to underlying principles. All contributions will be judged on the following four criteria.1. Novelty and insight2. Quality of scientific work and content3. Clarity of objectives and aims of the work4. Appropriateness of length to content of new science These may be articles providing a personal view of part of one discipline associated with Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology or a philosophical look at a topic of relevance. Alternatively, Perspectives may be historical articles covering a particular subject area or the development of particular legislation, technologies, methodologies or other subjects within the scope of the journal. Critical reviews must be a critical evaluation of the existing state of knowledge on a particular facet of water research or water technologies as they affect environmental science. They should be timely and provide insights based on existing literature. They should be of general interest to the journal's wide readership. All Critical reviews undergo a rigorous and full peer review procedure, in the same way as regular research papers. Authors are encouraged to identify areas in the field where further developments are imminent or of urgent need, and any areas that may be of significance to the community in general. Critical reviews should not contain any unpublished original research. These are shorter, more focused versions of Critical reviews on a well-defined, specific topic area covering approximately the last two-three years. Articles should cover only the most interesting/significant developments in that specific subject area. The article should be highly critical and selective in referencing published work. One or two paragraphs of speculation about possible future developments may also be appropriate in the conclusion section. Frontier reviews may also cover techniques/technologies that are too new for a Critical review or may address a subset of technologies available for a given area of research within the journal scope. Frontier reviews should not contain unpublished original research. Tutorial reviews should provide an introduction and overview of an important topic of relevance to the journal readership. The topic should be of relevance to both researchers who are new to the field as well as experts and provide a good introduction to the development of a subject, its current state and indications of future directions the field is expected to take.Tutorial reviews should not contain unpublished original research. Comments and Replies are a medium for the discussion and exchange of scientific opinions between authors and readers concerning material published in Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology. For publication, a Comment should present an alternative analysis of and/or new insight into the previously published material. Any Reply should further the discussion presented in the original article and the Comment. Comments and Replies that contain any form of personal attack are not suitable for publication.  Comments that are acceptable for publication will be forwarded to the authors of the work being discussed, and these authors will be given the opportunity to submit a Reply. The Comment and Reply will both be subject to rigorous peer review in consultation with the journal’s Editorial Board where appropriate. The Comment and Reply will be published together. 

The following guidelines are journal specific. For general guidance on preparing an article please visit our Prepare your article and Resources for authors pages, the content of which is relevant to all of our journals.

See a summary of ESWRT’s journal-specific guidelines. More details are also provided below.
Use of RSC template
There are no submission specifics regarding formatting; use of Royal Society of Chemistry template is not required. Bibliographies should be formatted according to the following Endnote and Zotero style files to include the cited article’s title.
Authors are encouraged to include line numbering in submitted manuscripts. Although there is no page limit for Full papers, appropriateness of length to content of new science will be taken into consideration by reviewers.
Water Impact Statement
All submitted manuscripts must include a 'Water Impact Statement' (60 words maximum; approximately three sentences) that clearly states in plain language the broad-scale implications and real-world relevance of the work. True potential for immediate real-world impact may be subject to further study, but the pathways towards achieving that impact in future should at least be envisioned and explained.
Read Professor Michael Templeton’s Editorial Perspective “Achieving real-world impact” for further discussion on expectations for the journal.
Authors should use this statement to show that they have given serious consideration as to how their work addresses current challenges related to water sustainability in a realistic sense. This statement will be carefully considered by the editors and the reviewers and will help ascertain the relevance of the article for a broad audience. Absence of potential for real-world impact is reason for rejection. If the manuscript is accepted this statement will be included in the published article. Please note that manuscripts without this statement will not be peer-reviewed.
Double-anonymised peer review option
Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology is now offering authors the option of double-anonymised peer review. Both single- and double-anonymised peer review are now available to authors.

Single-anonymised peer review - where reviewers are anonymous but author names and affiliations are known to reviewers. (This is the traditional peer review model used on Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology)
Double-anonymised peer review - where authors and reviewers' identities are concealed from each other.

Guidelines for authors and reviewers can be found here
Preparing your article for submission



Organisation of material
Title
An article should have a short, straightforward title directed at the general reader. Lengthy systematic names and complicated and numerous chemical formulae should therefore be avoided where possible. The use of non-standard abbreviations and symbols in a title is not encouraged. Please bear in mind that readers increasingly use search engines to find literature; recognisable, key words should be included in the title where possible, to maximise the impact and discoverability of your work. Brevity in a title, though desirable, should be balanced against its accuracy and usefulness.
The use of series titles and part numbers in titles of papers is discouraged. Instead these can be included as a footnote to the first page together with a reference (reference 1) to the preceding part. When the preceding part has been submitted to a Royal Society of Chemistry journal but is not yet published, the paper reference number should be given.
Author names
Full names for all the authors of an article should be given. To give due acknowledgement to all workers contributing to the work, those who have contributed significantly to the research should be listed as co-authors. Authors who contributed equally can be noted with a Footnote and referenced with a symbol.
On submission of the manuscript, the corresponding author attests to the fact that those named as co-authors have agreed to its submission for publication and accepts the responsibility for having properly included all (and only) co- authors. If there are more than 10 co-authors on the manuscript, the corresponding author should provide a statement to specify the contribution of each co-author. The corresponding author signs a copyright licence on behalf of all the authors.
Table of contents entry
This entry should include a colour image (no larger than 8 cm wide x 4 cm high), and 20-30 words of text that highlight the novel aspects of your work.Graphics should be as clear as possible; simple schematic diagrams or reaction schemes are preferred to ORTEP- style crystal structure depictions and complicated graphs, for example. The graphic used in the table of contents entry need not necessarily appear in the article itself. Authors should bear in mind the final size of any lettering on the graphic. For examples, please see the online version of the journal.
Abstract
Every paper must be accompanied by a summary (50-250 words) setting out briefly and clearly the main objects and results of the work; it should give the reader a clear idea of what has been achieved. The summary should be essentially independent of the main text; however, names, partial names or linear formulae of compounds may be accompanied by the numbers referring to the corresponding displayed formulae in the body of the text.
Please bear in mind that readers increasingly use search engines to find literature; recognisable, searchable terms and key words should be included in the abstract to enable readers to more effectively find your paper. The abstract should aim to address the following questions.

What is the problem or research question being addressed?
What experimental approach was used to address the problem or question?
What key data and results were obtained?
What conclusions can be drawn from the experimental results?
What are the broader implications for the study with respect to water sustainability?

Water Impact Statement 
Authors must provide a 'Water Impact Statement' (60 words maximum) that clearly highlights the broad-scale implications and real-world relevance of the work. This statement should be different from the abstract and must set the work in broader context with regards to water sustainability. True potential for immediate real-world impact may be subject to further study, but the pathways towards achieving that impact in future should at least be envisioned and explained in this statement.
Read Professor Michael Templeton’s Editorial Perspective “Achieving real-world impact” for further discussion on expectations for the journal.
When composing your Water Impact Statement, please consider the following points:
1.What is the problem?2.Why is it important?3.How does this translate to real-world applications/scenarios?4.How can this be generalised? 5.Why is this work significant for ensuring sustainable water resources? 
This statement will be seen by the reviewers and will help ascertain the relevance of the article for a broad but technical audience. Authors should use it to show that they have given serious consideration to the impact of their presented study. Absence of potential for real-world impact is reason for rejection. If the paper is accepted this statement will also be published. Please note that papers cannot be peer-reviewed without this statement.
Introduction
This should give clearly and briefly, with relevant references, both the nature of the problem under investigation and its background.
Methods
Descriptions of methods and/or experiments should be given in detail sufficient to enable experienced experimental workers to repeat them.Standard techniques and methods used throughout the work should be stated at the beginning of the section. Apparatus should be described only if it is non-standard; commercially available instruments are referred to by their stock numbers (for example, Perkin-Elmer 457 or Varian HA-100 spectrometers). The accuracy of primary measurements should be stated. In general there is no need to report unsuccessful experiments. Authors are encouraged to make use of electronic supplementary information (ESI) for lengthy synthetic sections.Any unusual hazards inherent in the use of chemicals, procedures or equipment in the investigation should be clearly identified.In cases where a study involves the use of live animals or human subjects, the author should include a statement that all experiments were performed in compliance with the relevant laws and institutional guidelines, and also state the institutional committee(s) that have approved the experiments. They should also include a statement that informed consent was obtained for any experimentation with human subjects. Referees may be asked to comment specifically on any cases in which concerns arise.
Results and discussion
It is usual for the results to be presented first, followed by a discussion of their significance. Only strictly relevant results should be presented and figures, tables, and equations should be used for purposes of clarity and brevity. The use of flow diagrams and reaction schemes is encouraged. Data must not be reproduced in more than one form - for example, in both figures and tables, without good reason.
Conclusion
This is for interpretation and to highlight the novelty and significance of the work. Authors are encouraged to discuss the real world relevance of the work reported and how it promotes water sustainability. The conclusions should not summarise information already present in the text or abstract.
Acknowledgements
Contributors other than co-authors may be acknowledged in a separate paragraph at the end of the paper; acknowledgements should be as brief as possible. All sources of funding should be declared.
Bibliographic references and notes
These should be listed at the end of the manuscript in numerical order. We encourage the citation of primary research over review articles, where appropriate, in order to give credit to those who first reported a finding. Find out more about our commitments to the principles of  San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA).
Bibliographic details should be cited in the order: year, volume, page, and must include the article title. For example: Lukas Mustajärvi, Ann-Kristin Eriksson-Wiklund, Elena Gorokhova, Annika Jahnke and Anna Sobek, Transferring mixtures of chemicals from sediment to a bioassay using silicone-based passive sampling and dosing, Environ. Sci.: Processes Impacts, 2017, 19, 1404-1413. See Endnote style files. For Zotero, please use the Royal Society of Chemistry (with titles) template.
Bibliographic reference to the source of statements in the text is made by use of superior numerals at the appropriate place (for example, Wittig3). The reference numbers should be cited in the correct sequence through the text (including those in tables and figure captions, numbered according to where the table or figure is designated to appear).  Please do not use Harvard style for references.
The references themselves are given at the end of the final printed text along with any notes. The names and initials of all authors are always given in the reference; they must not be replaced by the phrase et al. This does not prevent some, or all, of the names being mentioned at their first citation in the cursive text; initials are not necessary in the text.Notes or footnotes may be used to present material that, if included in the body of the text, would disrupt the flow of the argument but which is, nevertheless, of importance in qualifying or amplifying the textual material. Footnotes are referred to with the following symbols: †, ‡, §, ¶, ║etc.
Alternatively the information may be included as Notes (end-notes) to appear in the Notes/references section of the manuscript. Notes should be numbered using the same numbering system as the bibliographic references.
JournalsThe style of journal abbreviations to be used in RSC publications is that defined in Chemical Abstracts Service Source Index (CASSI) (http://www.cas.org/expertise/cascontent/caplus/corejournals.html).
Bibliographic details should be cited in the order: year, volume, page.Where page numbers are not yet known, articles should be cited by DOI (Digital Object Identifier) - for example, T. J. Hebden, R. R. Schrock, M. K. Takase and P. Müller, Chem. Commun., 2012, DOI: 10.1039/C2CC17634C.
BooksJ. Barker, in Catalyst Deactivation, ed. B. Delmon and C. Froment, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2nd edn., 1987, vol. 1, ch. 4, pp. 253-255.
PatentsBr. Pat., 357 450, 1986. US Pat., 1 171 230, 1990.
Reports and bulletins, etcR. A. Allen, D. B. Smith and J. E. Hiscott, Radioisotope Data, UKAEA Research Group Report AERE-R 2938, H.M.S.O., London, 1961.
Material presented at meetingsH. C. Freeman, Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Coordination Chemistry, Toulouse, 1980.
ThesesA. D. Mount, Ph.D. Thesis, University of London, 1977.
Reference to unpublished materialFor material presented at a meeting, congress or before a Society, etc., but not published, the following form is used: A. R. Jones, presented in part at the 28th Congress of the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry, Vancouver, August, 1981.
For material accepted for publication, but not yet published, the following forms are used.

A. R. Jones, Dalton Trans., 2003, DOI: 10.1039/manuscript number, for RSC journals 
A. R. Jones, Angew. Chem., in press, for non-RSC journals

If DOI numbers are known these should be cited in the form recommended by the publisher.
For material submitted for publication but not yet accepted the following form is used.

A. R. Jones, Angew. Chem., submitted.

For personal communications the following is used.

G. B. Ball, personal communication.

If material is to be published but has yet to be submitted the following form is used.

G. B. Ball, unpublished work.

Reference to unpublished work should not be made without the permission of those by whom the work was performed.
SoftwareF James,  AIM2000, version 1.0, University of Applied Sciences, Bielefeld,  Germany, 2000. T Bellander, M Lewne and B Brunekreef, GAUSSIAN 3 (Revision B.05), Gaussian Inc., Pittsburgh, PA, 2003.
Online resources (including databases)Please note the most important information to include is the URL and the data accessed.

The Merck Index Online, http://www.rsc.org/Merck-lndex/monograph/mono1500000841, (accessed October 2013).
ChemSpider, http://www.chemspider.com/Chemicai-Structure.1906.html, (accessed June 2011).

arXiv referencesV. Krstic and M. Glerup, 2006, arXiv:cond-mat/0601513.
Figures & schemes
Preparation of graphics
Artwork should be submitted at its final size so that reduction is not required. The appearance of graphics is the responsibility of the author.

Graphics should fit within either single column (8.3 cm) or double column (17.1 cm) width, and must be no longer than 23.3 cm.
Graphical abstracts should be no larger than 8 x 4 cm.
Schemes and structures should be drawn to make best use of single and double column widths.

Colour figures
Colour figure reproduction is provided free of charge both online and in print.
Journal covers
Authors who wish to have their artwork featured on a journal cover should contact the editorial office of the journal to which the article is being submitted. A contribution to the additional production costs will be requested.
Use of such artwork is at the editor's discretion; the editor's decision is final. Examples of previous journal covers can be viewed via the journal homepage.
Electronic supplementary information
Introduction
The journal's electronic supplementary information (ESI) service is a free facility that enables authors to enhance and increase the impact of their articles. Authors are encouraged to make the most of the benefits of publishing supplementary information in electronic form. Such data can take full advantage of the electronic medium, allowing use of 3D molecular models and movies.Authors can also improve the readability of their articles by placing appropriate material, such as repetitive experimental details and bulky data, as ESI. All information published as ESI is also fully archived.When preparing their ESI data files, authors should keep in mind the following points.

Supplementary data is peer-reviewed, and should therefore be included with the original submission.
ESI files are published 'as is'; editorial staff will not usually edit the data for style or content.
Data is useful only if readers can access it; use common file formats.
Large files may prove difficult for users to download and access.

Text and graphics
The preferred format for ESI comprising text and graphics is Microsoft Word. Publishing staff will convert Word files to PDF before publication, as this format can be accessed easily and reliably on most computing platforms using the freely available Adobe Acrobat Reader. If other formats are submitted they will also usually be converted to PDF files prior to publication.
Multimedia files
We welcome submission of multimedia files (including videos and animations) alongside articles for publication. Videos are an excellent medium to present elements of your work that can be difficult to communicate only in words. Please note that any videos of general interest are shared with the wider community via the RSC Journals YouTube channel. Please notify the editorial team if you prefer for your video(s) not to be uploaded to YouTube.If you submit a multimedia file alongside your paper, please refer to it within your paper to draw it to the reader’s attention. Also please see the section on submitting multimedia files
FormatAcceptable formats for video or animation clips are listed below.

WMV
AVI
MOV
MPG

Please minimise file sizes where you can, by considering the following points.

The recommended maximum frame size is 640 x 480 pixels.
Our recommended maximum file size is 5 Mb.
Many packages output 30 frames per second (fps) as standard, but it's possible to specify a lower frame rate; this may not noticeably affect the quality of your video but will reduce the file size.
Use a 256 colour palette, if that is suitable for the presentation of the material.

Please consider the use of lower specifications for all these points if the material can still be represented clearly.
If your video is very short (that is, several seconds long) then it is recommended that you loop it and repeat a few times to provide a more detailed view.
Submitting multimedia filesUpload your video online, together with your manuscript under the category 'electronic supplementary material' and please supply the following.

A clear file name for your video.
A short descriptive title for the video, which can be used when uploading the video onto a streaming channel.
A video legend of approximately 30 words long; this caption must be provided to aid discoverability.
Five to 10 keywords that can be used to tag the video; the more accurate the tags are the better discoverability videos will have.

Copies of any relevant 'in press' references
Manuscripts should be submitted with copies of any ‘in press’ articles referenced.



 See a summary of ESWRT’s journal-specific guidelines. More details are also provided below. Use of RSC template There are no submission specifics regarding formatting; use of Royal Society of Chemistry template is not required. Bibliographies should be formatted according to the following Endnote and Zotero style files to include the cited article’s title. Authors are encouraged to include line numbering in submitted manuscripts. Although there is no page limit for Full papers, appropriateness of length to content of new science will be taken into consideration by reviewers. Water Impact Statement All submitted manuscripts must include a 'Water Impact Statement' (60 words maximum; approximately three sentences) that clearly states in plain language the broad-scale implications and real-world relevance of the work. True potential for immediate real-world impact may be subject to further study, but the pathways towards achieving that impact in future should at least be envisioned and explained. Read Professor Michael Templeton’s Editorial Perspective “Achieving real-world impact” for further discussion on expectations for the journal. Authors should use this statement to show that they have given serious consideration as to how their work addresses current challenges related to water sustainability in a realistic sense. This statement will be carefully considered by the editors and the reviewers and will help ascertain the relevance of the article for a broad audience. Absence of potential for real-world impact is reason for rejection. If the manuscript is accepted this statement will be included in the published article. Please note that manuscripts without this statement will not be peer-reviewed. Double-anonymised peer review option Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology is now offering authors the option of double-anonymised peer review. Both single- and double-anonymised peer review are now available to authors. Guidelines for authors and reviewers can be found here An article should have a short, straightforward title directed at the general reader. Lengthy systematic names and complicated and numerous chemical formulae should therefore be avoided where possible. The use of non-standard abbreviations and symbols in a title is not encouraged. Please bear in mind that readers increasingly use search engines to find literature; recognisable, key words should be included in the title where possible, to maximise the impact and discoverability of your work. Brevity in a title, though desirable, should be balanced against its accuracy and usefulness. The use of series titles and part numbers in titles of papers is discouraged. Instead these can be included as a footnote to the first page together with a reference (reference 1) to the preceding part. When the preceding part has been submitted to a Royal Society of Chemistry journal but is not yet published, the paper reference number should be given. Full names for all the authors of an article should be given. To give due acknowledgement to all workers contributing to the work, those who have contributed significantly to the research should be listed as co-authors. Authors who contributed equally can be noted with a Footnote and referenced with a symbol. On submission of the manuscript, the corresponding author attests to the fact that those named as co-authors have agreed to its submission for publication and accepts the responsibility for having properly included all (and only) co- authors. If there are more than 10 co-authors on the manuscript, the corresponding author should provide a statement to specify the contribution of each co-author. The corresponding author signs a copyright licence on behalf of all the authors. This entry should include a colour image (no larger than 8 cm wide x 4 cm high), and 20-30 words of text that highlight the novel aspects of your work.Graphics should be as clear as possible; simple schematic diagrams or reaction schemes are preferred to ORTEP- style crystal structure depictions and complicated graphs, for example. The graphic used in the table of contents entry need not necessarily appear in the article itself. Authors should bear in mind the final size of any lettering on the graphic. For examples, please see the online version of the journal. Every paper must be accompanied by a summary (50-250 words) setting out briefly and clearly the main objects and results of the work; it should give the reader a clear idea of what has been achieved. The summary should be essentially independent of the main text; however, names, partial names or linear formulae of compounds may be accompanied by the numbers referring to the corresponding displayed formulae in the body of the text. Please bear in mind that readers increasingly use search engines to find literature; recognisable, searchable terms and key words should be included in the abstract to enable readers to more effectively find your paper. The abstract should aim to address the following questions. Authors must provide a 'Water Impact Statement' (60 words maximum) that clearly highlights the broad-scale implications and real-world relevance of the work. This statement should be different from the abstract and must set the work in broader context with regards to water sustainability. True potential for immediate real-world impact may be subject to further study, but the pathways towards achieving that impact in future should at least be envisioned and explained in this statement. Read Professor Michael Templeton’s Editorial Perspective “Achieving real-world impact” for further discussion on expectations for the journal. When composing your Water Impact Statement, please consider the following points: 1.What is the problem?2.Why is it important?3.How does this translate to real-world applications/scenarios?4.How can this be generalised? 5.Why is this work significant for ensuring sustainable water resources?  This statement will be seen by the reviewers and will help ascertain the relevance of the article for a broad but technical audience. Authors should use it to show that they have given serious consideration to the impact of their presented study. Absence of potential for real-world impact is reason for rejection. If the paper is accepted this statement will also be published. Please note that papers cannot be peer-reviewed without this statement. This should give clearly and briefly, with relevant references, both the nature of the problem under investigation and its background. Descriptions of methods and/or experiments should be given in detail sufficient to enable experienced experimental workers to repeat them.Standard techniques and methods used throughout the work should be stated at the beginning of the section. Apparatus should be described only if it is non-standard; commercially available instruments are referred to by their stock numbers (for example, Perkin-Elmer 457 or Varian HA-100 spectrometers). The accuracy of primary measurements should be stated. In general there is no need to report unsuccessful experiments. Authors are encouraged to make use of electronic supplementary information (ESI) for lengthy synthetic sections.Any unusual hazards inherent in the use of chemicals, procedures or equipment in the investigation should be clearly identified.In cases where a study involves the use of live animals or human subjects, the author should include a statement that all experiments were performed in compliance with the relevant laws and institutional guidelines, and also state the institutional committee(s) that have approved the experiments. They should also include a statement that informed consent was obtained for any experimentation with human subjects. Referees may be asked to comment specifically on any cases in which concerns arise. It is usual for the results to be presented first, followed by a discussion of their significance. Only strictly relevant results should be presented and figures, tables, and equations should be used for purposes of clarity and brevity. The use of flow diagrams and reaction schemes is encouraged. Data must not be reproduced in more than one form - for example, in both figures and tables, without good reason. This is for interpretation and to highlight the novelty and significance of the work. Authors are encouraged to discuss the real world relevance of the work reported and how it promotes water sustainability. The conclusions should not summarise information already present in the text or abstract. Contributors other than co-authors may be acknowledged in a separate paragraph at the end of the paper; acknowledgements should be as brief as possible. All sources of funding should be declared. These should be listed at the end of the manuscript in numerical order. We encourage the citation of primary research over review articles, where appropriate, in order to give credit to those who first reported a finding. Find out more about our commitments to the principles of  San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA). Bibliographic details should be cited in the order: year, volume, page, and must include the article title. For example: Lukas Mustajärvi, Ann-Kristin Eriksson-Wiklund, Elena Gorokhova, Annika Jahnke and Anna Sobek, Transferring mixtures of chemicals from sediment to a bioassay using silicone-based passive sampling and dosing, Environ. Sci.: Processes Impacts, 2017, 19, 1404-1413. See Endnote style files. For Zotero, please use the Royal Society of Chemistry (with titles) template. Bibliographic reference to the source of statements in the text is made by use of superior numerals at the appropriate place (for example, Wittig3). The reference numbers should be cited in the correct sequence through the text (including those in tables and figure captions, numbered according to where the table or figure is designated to appear).  Please do not use Harvard style for references. The references themselves are given at the end of the final printed text along with any notes. The names and initials of all authors are always given in the reference; they must not be replaced by the phrase et al. This does not prevent some, or all, of the names being mentioned at their first citation in the cursive text; initials are not necessary in the text.Notes or footnotes may be used to present material that, if included in the body of the text, would disrupt the flow of the argument but which is, nevertheless, of importance in qualifying or amplifying the textual material. Footnotes are referred to with the following symbols: †, ‡, §, ¶, ║etc. Alternatively the information may be included as Notes (end-notes) to appear in the Notes/references section of the manuscript. Notes should be numbered using the same numbering system as the bibliographic references. JournalsThe style of journal abbreviations to be used in RSC publications is that defined in Chemical Abstracts Service Source Index (CASSI) (http://www.cas.org/expertise/cascontent/caplus/corejournals.html). Bibliographic details should be cited in the order: year, volume, page.Where page numbers are not yet known, articles should be cited by DOI (Digital Object Identifier) - for example, T. J. Hebden, R. R. Schrock, M. K. Takase and P. Müller, Chem. Commun., 2012, DOI: 10.1039/C2CC17634C. BooksJ. Barker, in Catalyst Deactivation, ed. B. Delmon and C. Froment, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2nd edn., 1987, vol. 1, ch. 4, pp. 253-255. PatentsBr. Pat., 357 450, 1986. US Pat., 1 171 230, 1990. Reports and bulletins, etcR. A. Allen, D. B. Smith and J. E. Hiscott, Radioisotope Data, UKAEA Research Group Report AERE-R 2938, H.M.S.O., London, 1961. Material presented at meetingsH. C. Freeman, Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Coordination Chemistry, Toulouse, 1980. ThesesA. D. Mount, Ph.D. Thesis, University of London, 1977. Reference to unpublished materialFor material presented at a meeting, congress or before a Society, etc., but not published, the following form is used: A. R. Jones, presented in part at the 28th Congress of the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry, Vancouver, August, 1981. For material accepted for publication, but not yet published, the following forms are used. If DOI numbers are known these should be cited in the form recommended by the publisher. For material submitted for publication but not yet accepted the following form is used. For personal communications the following is used. If material is to be published but has yet to be submitted the following form is used. Reference to unpublished work should not be made without the permission of those by whom the work was performed. SoftwareF James,  AIM2000, version 1.0, University of Applied Sciences, Bielefeld,  Germany, 2000. T Bellander, M Lewne and B Brunekreef, GAUSSIAN 3 (Revision B.05), Gaussian Inc., Pittsburgh, PA, 2003. Online resources (including databases)Please note the most important information to include is the URL and the data accessed. arXiv referencesV. Krstic and M. Glerup, 2006, arXiv:cond-mat/0601513. Artwork should be submitted at its final size so that reduction is not required. The appearance of graphics is the responsibility of the author. Colour figure reproduction is provided free of charge both online and in print. Authors who wish to have their artwork featured on a journal cover should contact the editorial office of the journal to which the article is being submitted. A contribution to the additional production costs will be requested. Use of such artwork is at the editor's discretion; the editor's decision is final. Examples of previous journal covers can be viewed via the journal homepage. The journal's electronic supplementary information (ESI) service is a free facility that enables authors to enhance and increase the impact of their articles. Authors are encouraged to make the most of the benefits of publishing supplementary information in electronic form. Such data can take full advantage of the electronic medium, allowing use of 3D molecular models and movies.Authors can also improve the readability of their articles by placing appropriate material, such as repetitive experimental details and bulky data, as ESI. All information published as ESI is also fully archived.When preparing their ESI data files, authors should keep in mind the following points. The preferred format for ESI comprising text and graphics is Microsoft Word. Publishing staff will convert Word files to PDF before publication, as this format can be accessed easily and reliably on most computing platforms using the freely available Adobe Acrobat Reader. If other formats are submitted they will also usually be converted to PDF files prior to publication. We welcome submission of multimedia files (including videos and animations) alongside articles for publication. Videos are an excellent medium to present elements of your work that can be difficult to communicate only in words. Please note that any videos of general interest are shared with the wider community via the RSC Journals YouTube channel. Please notify the editorial team if you prefer for your video(s) not to be uploaded to YouTube.If you submit a multimedia file alongside your paper, please refer to it within your paper to draw it to the reader’s attention. Also please see the section on submitting multimedia files FormatAcceptable formats for video or animation clips are listed below. Please minimise file sizes where you can, by considering the following points. Please consider the use of lower specifications for all these points if the material can still be represented clearly. If your video is very short (that is, several seconds long) then it is recommended that you loop it and repeat a few times to provide a more detailed view. Submitting multimedia filesUpload your video online, together with your manuscript under the category 'electronic supplementary material' and please supply the following. Manuscripts should be submitted with copies of any ‘in press’ articles referenced. Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology is a hybrid (transformative) journal and gives authors the choice of publishing their research either via the traditional subscription-based model or instead by choosing our gold open access option. Find out more about our Transformative Journals. which are Plan S compliant. For authors who want to publish their article gold open access, Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology charges an article processing charge (APC) of £2,750 (+ any applicable tax). Our APC is all-inclusive and makes your article freely available online immediately, permanently, and includes your choice of Creative Commons licence (CC BY or CC BY-NC) at no extra cost. It is not a submission charge, so you only pay if your article is accepted for publication. Learn more about publishing open access. If your institution has a Read & Publish agreement in place with the Royal Society of Chemistry, APCs for gold open access publishing in Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology may already be covered. Use our journal finder to check if your institution has an open access agreement with us. Please use your official institutional email address to submit your manuscript and check you are assigned as the corresponding author; this helps us to identify if you are eligible for Read & Publish or other APC discounts. Authors can also publish in Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology via the traditional subscription model without needing to pay an APC. Articles published via this route are available to institutions and individuals who subscribe to the journal. Our standard licence allows you to make the accepted manuscript of your article freely available after a 12-month embargo period. This is known as the green route to open access. Learn more about green open access.  Online only 2024: ISSN: 2053-1419, £2,031 / $3,352 *2023 Journal Citation Reports (Clarivate Analytics, 2024) **The median time from submission to first decision including manuscripts rejected without peer review from the previous calendar year ***The median time from submission to first decision for peer-reviewed manuscripts from the previous calendar year 



 © Royal Society of Chemistry 2024. Registered charity number 207890. 