Don't Miss a Post! Subscribe Educators Technology Innovative EdTech for teachers, educators, parents, and students By Med Kharbach, PhD | Last Update: May 11, 2024 Mixkit, by Envato,  is a platform that provides access to a huge library of free assets to use in your multimedia projects. These multimedia materials include free stock video clips,  music tracks, sound effects and video templates.  You can download as many assets as you want with no sign-up required. The process is simple and easy. You can use Mixkit assets in your YouTube videos, social media posts, presentations, titles, promotions, logos, and many more.  Mixkit license does not require attribution but adding one is a good way to show gratitude to creators. However, before using any of their assets I highly recommend that you familiarize yourself with Mixkit’ s terms of use. Related: Sources of Free Images for Educational Use Mixkit offers a wide variety of free video clips to use in your own video projects. You can use these clips with no attribution. Video clips are arranged into the following categories: nature, lifestyle, business, animals, food, transport, backgrounds, drones, green screen, Christmas, music, light, countdown, and many more.  You can also use Mixkit’ s video search engine to search for specific video clips. Simply type in your search query and browse through the results. When you find the clip you are interested in, click to view and save it to your local drive. ‘These videos are available for free and are ready to be used as b-roll footage to enhance your video production skills, or to lift the success of your next social media post.’ Mixkit embeds a large collection of free music tracks organized into three main categories: Gentre: Includes Hip-Hop, Jazz, Cinematic, Country , Acoustic, Funk, R&B, Pop, Rock, Percussion, Trap, Ambient, Children, Classical, Corporate, House & Electronica, and Experimental. Mood: Includes: Mysterious, Romantic, Smooth, Upbeat, Happy, Sad, Mellow, Aggressive, Uplifting, Whimsical, Dramatic, and Eerie. Tag: Includes Dance, Relaxation, Workout, House, Synth, Holiday, Aerobics, Electric, Videogame, EDM, Soul, Vocals, Gym, Romantic, Electro, Seasonal, Breakbeat, Rap, Latin, Electronica, Techno, Piano, Fashion, Guitar, Wedding, Drums, Western, Sports, Synthwave, Party, Festival, Chill, and Upbeat. Mixkit’ s audio library offers access to free sound clips that you and your students can use in  different multimedia projects in class. Sound effects are arranged into various categories including: nature, transition, animals, transport, human, warfare, instrument, lifestyle, game, bubbles, movie, cartoon, spell, page, magic, and more. Mixkit offers ‘free video templates to use in your YouTube videos, presentations, or music clips. ‘Choose from transitions and templates across After Effects, Premiere Pro, Final Cut Pro and DaVinci Resolve to lift your video creations. Each template is customizable and easy to use across both commercial and personal projects.’ Offering a veritable treasure trove of high-quality videos, immersive music tracks, evocative sound effects, and professional-grade video templates, Mixkit stands as an invaluable resource for creators at all levels. The ease with which these assets can be browsed and downloaded simplifies the creative process, allowing for a seamless integration into projects ranging from educational presentations to social media splashes.  Although attribution isn’t a requirement, it’s a small gesture that acknowledges the creative efforts behind these resources. In the multitude of categories and the convenience of a well-organized library, Mixkit serves not only as a toolbox for enhancing visual and auditory storytelling but also as an example of how generosity in the digital domain fosters a more vibrant and collaborative community of content creators.  Never miss an EdTech beat! Subscribe now for exclusive insights and resources. Dr. Med Kharbach is an influential voice in the global educational technology landscape, with an extensive background in educational studies and a decade-long experience as a K-12 teacher. Holding a Ph.D. from Mount Saint Vincent University in Halifax, Canada, he brings a unique perspective to the educational world by integrating his profound academic knowledge with his hands-on teaching experience. Dr. Kharbach's academic pursuits encompass curriculum studies, discourse analysis, language learning/teaching, language and identity, emerging literacies, educational technology, and research methodologies. His work has been presented at numerous national and international conferences and published in various esteemed academic journals.  As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases Never miss an EdTech beat! Subscribe now for exclusive insights and resources.  Join our email list for exclusive EdTech content.  © 2024 · Educators Techonology 