39 New Updates Getty Images Former Liverpool and England striker Robbie Fowler has been sacked by Saudi Arabian side Al Qadsiah — despite the club riding high in the league. Fowler took charge of the second tier side in June but departs after just four months. Al Qadsiah, who are second in the Saudi First Division, announced on Thursday that they had terminated Fowler's contract, thanking him for his efforts. Fowler started his managerial career in 2011, taking charge of Thai outfit Muangthong United for one season. He also managed Australian side Brisbane Roar between 2019 and 2020, and took the reins at East Bengal FC in the Indian Super League for the 2020-21 season. Al Qadsiah swiftly named former Spain and Real Madrid midfielder Michel as Fowler's successor. The 60-year-old coach has previously managed Sevilla, Malaga and Getafe among others.  Advertisement Getty Images Ange Postecoglou has joked that the Tottenham's stadium is turning into a "nightclub" as the feel-good factor continues to build around the club. Tottenham fans have serenaded their new manager with a reworked version of Robbie Williams' Angels, while Dolly Parton and Kenny Rogers' Islands in the Stream was recently playing over the stadium tannoy after proving a surprise hit in the dressing room. Speaking ahead of Friday's trip to Crystal Palace, Postecoglou said: "Most clubs want to turn their grounds into a fortress — ours is becoming a nightclub, mate!  "I’m all for it; whatever makes people happy that’s my thing.”  Tottenham are looking to extend their lead at the top of the table, until the weekend at least, and Postecoglou says he is "buzzing" to have the reins in north London. "I get so much satisfaction from what I do," he said. "There isn’t a day I don’t get up and I’m not looking forward to the day ahead. I’m buzzing to do what I do.  "Within that context I also understand that I have a real big responsiblity to lead an organisation, players, staff, people to what I hope will be a successful place.  "The great bit about the end bit, the success, is not what it does for me, it’s what it does for others. Where I have had success it’s usually come off the back of prolonged periods of no success and a lot of people have suffered from that, then you see them enjoy that (the success) and that’s where you get the buzz.  "It’s not what it does for me personally it’s what it does for others and that’s a great motivator because you want to do that more and more in your career." Getty Images Crystal Palace manager Roy Hodgson has praised “outstanding” winger Malcom Ebiowei after his performance in a 3-1 win for Palace Under-21s over Monaco on Tuesday.  Ebiowei scored and played a major role in Palace’s third goal in the Premier League International Cup game, so much so that Hodgson — who attended at Sutton United’s VBS Community Stadium alongside assistant Paddy McCarthy and chairman Steve Parish — singled him out for special praise.  “Malcolm Ebiowei was outstanding,” Hodgson said. “I joked with Steve Parish, ‘You’d better get your chequebook out because Monaco are going to speak to you after the game and buy him'. That’s how good he was. He was outstanding.” The 20-year-old, who played the full 90 minutes against Monaco, is yet to make a Premier League start for Palace since signing from Derby County in July 2022. He spent the second half of last season on loan in the Championship with Hull City, but failed to make a strong impression in 12 appearances. Also involved were Naouirou Ahamada, Matheus Franca, David Ozoh, Remi Matthews and Nathan Ferguson, who, despite completing the 90 minutes, sustained a serious hamstring injury.  Hodgson said his watching brief was with the hope that the players would translate their training performances into a match situation. “A lot of the players who played the other night, I worked with them in training and am impressed by what they're able to do and how they’re looking,” he said. “But the question always comes, yeah but we haven’t seen him in a game. The Monaco game in particular, we knew they were quite a good side with good quality and it would be a good opportunity to watch them. It gave me a chance to put in Ahamada, Franca, Ozoh, Ebiowei, Remi Matthews and Ferguson — I’ve not seen him play for a long time. “I had an opportunity to watch the game and see how what I've seen out there, at a higher standard playing against our first team, translates when they play against an unknown opposition. It was a very good game and I was very impressed with the guys I put in and many of the Under-21 players.” GO FURTHER  Liverpool have made winning at Anfield look straightforward this season – and it was no different against Toulouse on Thursday. Jurgen Klopp’s side maintained their perfect record in this season’s Europa League with an emphatic 5-1 victory over the Ligue 1 side in an entertaining encounter. From Ryan Gravenberch showing why Klopp wanted him, to six chaotic seconds that summed up Darwin Nunez, we dissect the big talking points from another satisfying night for the Merseysiders. GO FURTHER  Getty Images David Moyes defended his team selection after West Ham lost 2-1 at Olympiakos — their first loss in continental competition in 18 matches.  Moyes, who led his side to the Europa Conference League title last season, made seven changes for the Europa League Group A clash in Athens, with one eye on Sunday's visit of Everton. But his tinkering backfired as a soft goal from Olympiakos captain Kostas Fortounis and an own goal from stand-in skipper Angelo Ogbonna brought their undefeated run to a halt, despite Lucas Paqueta's late strike. "Look, we changed a lot of players tonight, we've got the Premier League coming up and we've got a League Cup game next week and we'd won the first two games in the group, which gave us leeway to make changes tonight," Moyes said. "But maybe I have to recognise that while we didn't win the Conference League games easily, as they were all tough games, coming to Olympiakos after winning away in Freiburg, this wasn't a good result and wasn't a good performance. "In our heads we certainly had a bigger picture in our heads and that was going into Sunday. "I don't think anybody could say the team we started with wasn't a good team and wasn't a team capable of winning or performing. "Many of them have been very good players for us over the years and still are." Getty Images Manchester United took care of their more pressing contract situations towards the end of 2022-23 and over the summer with Bruno Fernandes, Luke Shaw and Marcus Rashford signing long-term deals. Tom Heaton, Jonny Evans, Victor Lindelof, Aaron Wan-Bissaka, Anthony Martial and Hannibal Mejbri will be out of contract at United in June. Bar Heaton and Evans, United retain an option to extend all of those contracts by a further year. Erik ten Hag is short on centre-forward options, but Martial’s continued injury problems and high wages (thought to be more than £200,000 a week) may see United decide to cut their losses. After nine seasons at Old Trafford, the 27-year-old could depart on a free transfer. Sergio Reguilon and Sofyan Amrabat’s loan deals also conclude in June, though it is expected United will look to sort out a permanent deal for the Moroccan defensive midfielder before this season is complete. GO FURTHER  Advertisement Getty Images Thiago, Joel Matip and Adrian are out of contract in the summer of 2024, but there is no urgency to sort out their futures. Thiago, who will be 33 by the end of the season, is expected to leave as a free agent. The former Bayern Munich midfielder has not played since April due to injury and has suffered setbacks in his rehab. It would also be a major surprise if Matip, 32, signed an extension, but he has been in excellent form in the opening months of the season. As the third-choice goalkeeper, Adrian’s situation is reassessed at the end of each season. The biggest priority for Liverpool in terms of contracts is Trent Alexander-Arnold, whose current deal runs until 2025. Those talks have yet to start. Mohamed Salah and Virgil van Dijk — the club’s two highest earners — are also in the final two years of their contracts. Some big decisions lie ahead. Liverpool turned down a bid rising to £150million for Salah from Saudi Arabia in August and it remains to be seen whether that resolve will be tested again next summer. GO FURTHER   Technical director Edu has been busy.  Since the start of last season, Arsenal have renewed the contracts of Gabriel, Mohamed Elneny, Gabriel Martinelli, Aaron Ramsdale, Bukayo Saka, William Saliba, Reiss Nelson and club captain Martin Odegaard. The next name on the agenda is defender Ben White, whose deal expires in 2026. After two impressive seasons in north London, Arsenal are looking to tie the 26-year-old down to a long-term contract. Constructive talks have already taken place, and Arsenal are confident of reaching an agreement. That will leave the club in a strong position. Cedric and Elneny’s deals expire in June 2024, but with both players on the fringes of the squad, that will not concern Arsenal. Jorginho’s deal will also be up, but the club retain an option to extend the 31-year-old’s stay at the Emirates Stadium by an additional 12 months. More below on the key contract situations at Premier League clubs... GO FURTHER  Crystal Palace defender Nathan Ferguson is facing another spell on the sidelines after suffering a serious hamstring injury. Ferguson, who has dogged by injuries since joining Palace in 2020, had been recovering from a hamstring problem before playing in an under-21s game on Tuesday. But despite completing the full 90 minutes for the first time in a competitive game at any level since January 2022 — and only the second time since January 2020 — he sustained further damage in a Premier League International Cup game against Monaco and is set for another significant lay-off. The 23-year-old has played just eight minutes of Premier League football since arriving from West Brom. GO FURTHER  Andre Onana has defender Manchester United team-mate Alejandro Garnacho over a social media post. Garnacho, 19, posted a celebratory post on Twitter following Manchester United's 1-0 Champions League win over FC Copenhagen on Tuesday night where Onana saved a stoppage-time penalty to ensure victory. The Argentina international included two gorilla emojis in the since deleted post alongside a picture of Onana, team-mates and himself celebrating. The FA is aware of the post in question and has sought Garnacho’s observations on it. Manchester United have been approached for comment, but Onana has now posted on social media in defence of his team-mate. He wrote on Instagram: "People cannot choose what I should be offended by. I know exactly what @garnacho7 meant: power and strength. This matter should go no further." GO FURTHER  Getty Images Everton midfielder Abdoulaye Doucoure is in talks with the club over a new contract.   Doucoure’s current deal is set to expire at end of the season after the club exercised an option to extend it by 12 months at the end of the 2022-23 campaign. But both parties are edging closer to an agreement that would keep the 30-year-old on Merseyside for two more years, with the option of a third. Everton have moved to secure the future of a player who has become key for manager Sean Dyche. Doucoure scored a crucial winner against Bournemouth last season to preserve the club's top-flight status and has netted three goals in nine Premier League appearances so far this term.  Advertisement The fact Manchester United posted record revenues and still made a loss sums up a lot about the club at the moment. United’s ability to generate income, with £648.4million ($784m) coming into the club for the financial year ended June 30, remains something to be applauded, especially given their lack of on-field success over the past decade. But to still post a £28.7m loss, even if it is an improvement on the previous year’s £115.5m deficit, is indicative of the club’s inefficiency at almost every level. Commercially, they are brilliant. When it comes to filling Old Trafford, there are no issues shifting tickets. They are even selling more football shirts than ever before. United’s ability to generate enormous revenues, even during an era with limited success, is so often the envy of other clubs in England and across Europe. Yet debt and inefficiency, which stem from the Glazer family’s controversial ownership, are holding them back. Should Sir Jim Ratcliffe’s deal to purchase a minority 25 per cent shareholding from the Glazers go through, the British billionaire is not in business to lose money — and will almost certainly be looking at ways to turn the loss-making club into a profit-turning one. How he plans to do that, however, is yet to become clear. Read more below about what United’s latest set of accounts reveal about the club’s state of financial health. GO FURTHER  Alejandro Garnacho is at risk of a Football Association ban over a social media post regarding Manchester United team-mate Andre Onana. Garnacho, 19, posted a celebratory post on Twitter following Manchester United’s 1-0 Champions League win over FC Copenhagen on Tuesday night where Onana saved a stoppage-time penalty to ensure victory. The Argentina international included two gorilla emojis in the since deleted post alongside a picture of Onana, team-mates and himself celebrating. The FA are aware of the post in question and have sought Garnacho’s observations on it. Manchester United have been approached for comment. Full story below (Additional reporting: Mark Critchley) GO FURTHER  Richard Arnold is expected to leave his role as Manchester United chief executive in the event Sir Jim Ratcliffe succeeds in his bid for a minority stake. Arnold has held the position since taking over from Ed Woodward in February 2022. However, with the club’s board set to vote on selling a 25 per cent share in the club to British billionaire Ratcliffe, Arnold’s future has been discussed. Ratcliffe wants sporting control for his proposed £1.3billion investment and part of his plan is to shake up the club structure. While not technically a football decision, Arnold understands his departure would be likely in that scenario. The exact timeline for his exit should a deal go through remains unclear, though. Given the complexities of Ratcliffe’s bid, the process could yet take several weeks and in that period Arnold will continue to lead the club. Full story below. GO FURTHER  (Photo: Getty Images) Roy Hodgson says Ange Postecoglou's strong start to life in the Premier League is "no surprise." Since being appointed Tottenham head coach in June, Postecoglou has lost only one of his first ten games at his new club, with the north London side sitting at the top of the Premier League two months into the new season. The 58-year-old Australian coach will take his Tottenham side to Selhurst Park to take on Crystal Palace on Friday and ahead of the game, Hodgson spoke on Postecoglou's success. He said: "I think needing time to adapt to the Premier League is more relevant to players than coaches or managers. "I think sometimes they do, especially when they come from a different country, come from abroad, a totally different culture, because of the intensity of the Premier League, the fierceness, the lack of time and space that's there for you and the physicality, that can be very different to a player. "Coming from Celtic, playing in front of 60,000 or 70,000 people every week, being in the Champions League, coaching Australia, being at the very best club in Japan, I don't know if you need a lot of adaptation to come to the Premier League. "He might have been a bit of an unknown or a surprise to a lot of people in the country, but he certainly was no surprise to me." The Premier League focus is firmly back on the pitch but some clubs took advantage of the recent international break to rubberstamp important contract business off the field. Several futures have been settled for now but others will come under scrutiny with the January transfer window — and opportunities for pre-contract agreements — on the horizon. Here, The Athletic checks in on the contract situations at each top-flight club to see who’s committed to the cause, which deals are up next summer and the plans in place for the key terms running down… GO FURTHER  Advertisement  Aston Villa midfielder Omari Kellyman has signed a new long-term contract with the club. The 18-year-old who joined Villa from Derby in 2022, agreed a new deal upon his 18th birthday in April after signing his first professional contract aged 17. The teenager has made three first-team appearances including being named on the bench for the 1-0 victory over Chelsea at Stamford Bridge last month. Kellyman received an England Under-19s call-up and made his debut five days later, before deciding to switch allegiances from Northern Ireland. Despite making his first Villa start in the UEFA Conference League qualifying round against Hibernian — providing an assist for Leon Bailey on the night — Kellyman’s participation in the competition has been curbed. Was omitted from the group-stage squad as he had not been at Villa long enough to qualify as an academy graduate. Aston Villa are next in action against AZ Alkmaar in the Europa Conference League later today.  GO FURTHER  Getty Images  The Premier League's decision to schedule Chelsea's game at Wolves on Christmas Eve has been labelled "totally unacceptable" by the London club's supporters' trust. The game was originally scheduled to be played on December 23 but has been moved to December 24 for a 1pm GMT kick-off, marking the first time a Premier League game will be held on Christmas Eve since 1995. The Chelsea Supporters' Trust (CST) said match-going fans would face issues travelling to Wolves on a holiday weekend. "It is totally unacceptable that Wolves v Chelsea has been scheduled for Christmas Eve," CST said in a statement. "Not only could this lead to staffing issues at Molineux, but holiday transport timetables will further inconvenience supporters." The Football Supporters' Association said it was "shocking scheduling" by the Premier League, adding that they stood with supporters' trusts from both clubs in opposing Christmas Eve fixtures. The Wolves supporters trust had previously said the scheduling showed a "complete lack of consideration and respect for fans".   GO FURTHER  Manchester City have suspended two supporters from all home and away fixtures following offensive chants about Sir Bobby Charlton.   Charlton, the former Manchester United player, passed away at the age of 86 last Saturday. He also achieved World Cup glory with England in 1966.   Chants were heard in parts of the Etihad Stadium during City’s victory over Brighton & Hove Albion.    The Premier League champions expressed their “disappointment” and moved to condemn the chants, adding that the security team would study “CCTV footage of the concourse areas” to identify those responsible. GO FURTHER 