eCommerce platform providers have historically catered to the enterprise merchants of online retail, leaving small- and medium-sized businesses struggling to magnify their online presence. Now that SMBs are making their mark by launching multiple storefronts to attract the attention of a wider array of consumers, SaaS providers are just starting to take notice by providing fledgling eCommerce Dashboards for smaller retailers. Mikel Lindsaar, founder and CEO of StoreConnect, began and continues his mission to provide affordable and accessible eCommerce 3.0 solutions for SMBs to scale, expand, and close the gap between the Davids and Goliaths of the virtual marketplace. SAN FRANCISCO (PRWEB) March 27, 2023   More small- and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) are expanding their reach within the eCommerce ecosystem by developing multiple storefronts to appeal to a greater audience of consumers. For instance, one website might garner traffic from buyers accustomed to a more generalized window-shopping approach. At the same time, another, more targeted site would be more attractive for customers looking for more niche products or services. Whether a business is looking to explore new markets or grow its brand internationally, managing multiple storefronts requires a comprehensive content management system (CMS) with a powerful backend. One capable of synchronizing inventory, brands, customer details, and data management across a diversely designed yet unified system of virtual storefronts. Mikel Lindsaar, CEO and Founder of StoreConnect, advises SMBs, "The building blocks of eCommerce should not require duplication of products and pricing that generates wasted time and money. Consolidation saves time, enables management of several storefronts, integrates point-of-sale, various languages, and interactive payment solutions." Using a multi-platform approach generates more opportunities for SMBs to amplify their brand awareness, which increases their relevance in a crowded online retail space and can lead to exponential sales growth. Amazon, the Goliath of eCommerce, sells over 12 million products, and when their marketplace sellers are factored in, that figure leaps to 353 million.(1) For the SMB Davids of eCommerce retail, multi-channel marketing personalizes their sales approach. Presenting a different face for the same product or service will resonate with a broader range of shoppers by catering to individual tastes and internet search habits. And customers appreciate the extra effort, with 73% preferring to do business with a retailer that personalizes their shopping experience.(2) Multi-Store eCommerce allows businesses to divide and conquer by segmenting consumer personalities and shopping behaviors while housing everything under one roof.  To accomplish this, SMBs need a CMS platform with a proven track record of delivering integrated solutions that allow SMBs to compete on a global scale, which is precisely what StoreConnect has been doing for years. StoreConnect is Salesforce-native, meaning data and data processing occurs within the world's most successful customer relationship management (CRM) platform rather than a third-party server.  Overseeing more than one website as a collective enterprise requires an integrated solution that is fully connected, acting as a single repository supporting numerous websites. It's about simplicity. SMBs thrive when they employ eCommerce 3.0, which provides a single source of truth for all eCommerce and marketing. Lindsaar says, "Many companies can do point-of-sale and multi-store and multi-countries ... but what good is that if you have to do it across ten different systems. StoreConnect with Salesforce can do it all in ONE system, saving BUCKETS of time and money."  StoreConnect already supports their clients who operate multiple storefronts by connecting and managing their different customer or brand-targeted eCommerce stores — all from one system — eliminating the chore of overseeing disconnected software platforms, services, and price books. The differentiator for StoreConnect is that they act upon the realization that SMB customers don't have any time to waste. One StoreConnect client has expanded their business to 46 stores across 23 brands in three countries and currencies, all on the single StoreConnect platform. Another client has migrated over 80 separate brands and stores to StoreConnect across four countries and currencies. StoreConnect's partnership with Salesforce makes it a natural for companies seeking to leverage the overwhelming importance of the customer experience in retail success and profitability by having all the information in one space. Their customer service teams can actually help customers across multiple storefronts with relevant, accessible, and up-to-date information. Lindsaar explains, "Eliminating data silos and integrating all of their systems into one solution — run from a single platform — resolve the headache of trying to manually get isolated systems to talk to one another. And for small- and medium-sized businesses — Time is Money. And StoreConnect is Time. Well Spent." About StoreConnect Mikel Lindsaar, CEO and Founder of StoreConnect, is an experienced technology entrepreneur whose mission is to infuse small- and medium-sized businesses with the power to be successful in eCommerce 3.0 and scale to meet growing demand. Small companies can't waste time setting up their business on a platform only to repeat the process by changing platforms when they want to scale, nor do they want to waste time figuring out how to integrate multiple platforms. StoreConnect (built on the World's Number 1 CRM, Salesforce) gives clients a complete, powerful, configurable eCommerce and CRM solution where they can manage their website, online and in-store sales, provide amazing customer service, run all their digital marketing campaigns and have up-to-date detailed metrics, reporting and full understanding of their customer. They were awarded Salesforce's 2021 International Partner Innovation Award of the year for the Retail sector and are changing the ease with which small businesses are run ─ with a manageable price tag. StoreConnect is Time. Well Spent. Visit https://getStoreConnect.com/.   References:
1. How many products does Amazon Carry? Retail TouchPoints. (2020, January 8). Retrieved March 13, 2023, from retailtouchpoints.com/resources/how-many-products-does-amazon-carry 
2. Z. E., says:, H. C., Name, Y. R. (2023, January 3). The ultimate list of online business statistics (2023). WPForms. Retrieved March 13, 2023, from wpforms.com/the-ultimate-list-of-online-business-statistics  For the original version on PRWeb visit: https://www.prweb.com/releases/smbs_magnify_their_online_presence_with_multiple_storefronts_for_maximum_exposure/prweb19247389.htm © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.