After 12 seasons, long-time MLS defender and former Nashville SC center back Jalil Anibaba is retiring from professional soccer, he announced Monday on Twitter. However, the 34-year-old is coming back to Nashville — as an official club ambassador. The club confirmed Anibaba, who scored one goal in 21 appearances and 13 starts with Nashville (2020-21), will contribute to the club's community efforts across Middle Tennessee, its digital and social content platforms, and debut this season as Nashville's radio broadcast analyst. “The years I spent in Nashville as a player were so special to me and my family that I always had my heart set on returning,” Anibaba in that statement. “Truthfully, I couldn’t have imagined being welcomed back through such a warm embrace from the club. Playing the sport you love for a living is a blessing unmatched, while the opportunity to transition directly into your off-the-field passions is just not how it happens for a lot of athletes. I am exactly where I should be, doing exactly what I was called to do. For that, I am extremely grateful.” Nashville selected Anibaba third in the 2019 MLS Expansion Draft. His last Nashville appearance was an Eastern Conference semifinal playoff game against the Philadelphia Union on Nov. 28, 2021. He played for the Columbus Crew in 2022. Over the course of his career, Anibaba played for seven MLS clubs: Nashville, Columbus, Chicago Fire FC, Seattle Sounders FC, Sporting Kansas City, Houston Dynamo FC, New England Revolution. Nashville goalkeeper coach Matt Pickens played for Nashville during its USL era (2018-19) before joining coach Gary Smith's MLS staff. Since the league transition, Anibaba becomes the first to return home. “Jalil represents the first of our former players to come back to the club in a business role," Nashville CEO Ian Ayre said in the club statement. "His experience in our sport, our league, our club and our community make him the perfect ambassador for Nashville SC. Knowing how popular Jalil was as a team member and with our fans makes me feel sure he will quickly re-establish himself here and we could not be more excited about this appointment.”  More:Jalil Anibaba retires from soccer Anibaba was known in Nashville as a "locker-room guy." He is a co-founder of Black Players for Change, an independent organization comprised of more than 170 Black players, coaches and staff devoted to closing the racial wealth equity gap and combatting racial injustices that've limited Black people from an equitable stake in soccer and society. Anibaba is a member of BPC's executive board. In January 2021, Anibaba was elected to the MLS Players Association executive board. More:Defender Jalil Anibaba first career goal (2011). In January 2011, Chicago selected Anibaba with the ninth overall pick in the MLS SuperDraft out of North Carolina. He played one season there after transferring from Santa Clara University. For stories about Nashville SC or Soccer in Tennessee, contact Drake Hills at DHills@gannett.com. Follow Drake on Twitter at @LiveLifeDrake. Connect with Drake on Instagram at @drakehillssoccer and on Facebook.