 Telekom Malaysia (TM) and Korean carrier SK Telecom inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to jointly develop the Multi-Access Edge Computing (MEC) business in Malaysia. The signing took place at SK Telecom’s headquarters in Seoul in the presence of Fahmi Fadzil, Malaysia’s minister of communications and digital. “I am happy to have witnessed the MoU signing between TM and SK Telecom as there are many opportunities that can be gained from such close cooperation and collaboration. I believe this MoU is a step in the right direction,” said Fahmi. “Telekom Malaysia remains steadfast in solidifying its stature as Malaysia’s preferred network infrastructure provider, catalyzing digital industry and 4G/5G ecosystem while simultaneously positioning the country to become a digital hub for ASEAN,” said Khairul Liza Ibrahim, TM’s executive vice president. “Our next step is to provide the means to empower all our customers in Malaysia and the region with multi-access edge computing from all our data centers around the country. Through this collaboration with SK Telecom, TM is stepping up its game to accelerate innovation for the nation’s progress towards a Digital Malaysia,” he added. In May, Telekom Malaysia announced its withdrawal from a deal to acquire a stake in Malaysia’s 5G network Digital Nasional Berhad (DNB), following the previous announcement by the Malaysian government that it will permit the rollout of a second 5G network in the country from next year. Telekom Malaysia said it had filed an announcement with the local stock exchange to notify it that the longstop date to fulfill all conditions precedent in the share subscription agreement (SSA) for the subscription of a 20% equity stake in DNB had lapsed. Consequently, the carrier said it had issued a termination notice to DNB, effective immediately. “Nonetheless, Telekom Malaysia looks forward to the next process and discussion with the Government and the industry on 5G participation across Phase 1 [in which the Government expects DNB’s 5G network to reach 80% service coverage] and Phase 2 [in which the country will shift to two 5G networks], as announced by the Government. Telekom Malaysia is committed to continue playing an active role in the 5G implementation, leveraging its nationwide fiber infrastructure, extensive digital platforms and rollout experience,” the telco said. The telco said its customers will continue to enjoy 5G services and solutions, as the 5G wholesale access agreement with DNB remains in place. ABOUT AUTHOR 

 Yes No Depends   Since 1982, RCR Wireless News has been providing wireless and mobile industry news, insights, and analysis to mobile and wireless industry professionals, decision makers, policy makers, analysts and investors. © 2024 RCR Wireless News

Powered by Eight Hats