GPRS acquires Existing Conditions, Oracle releases Primavera Unifier Accelerator and BuiltWorlds offers a robust energy storage technology discussion at its Midwest Forum.   Jobsite Intelligence Solutions can help improve your company for the long-term by analyzing the results of the information that you decide to gather from your jobsite.   The software company's design and project coordination products will be used for construction and retrofits related to the 2028 Games in Los Angeles. Ground Penetrating Radar Systems recently released a mobile app for SiteMap, its cloud platform that can bring GIS and BIM project data together in one workflow.  The software company known for ProjectWise, MicroStation and Synchro will continue its focus on the tools that enable engineers to design and build critical infrastructure.  Originally known as Bid2Win when it was founded in the 1990s, B2W has grown from an estimation and field tracking tool to a cloud platform for heavy civil contractors that includes equipment maintenance and management, scheduling and electronic forms to its list of tools. Autodesk has acquired data-sharing platform Datum360 and has opened up its data model API via its Autodesk Docs data sharing platform.  The company will change how it books multiyear software subscriptions after audit finds revenue from such deals was accounted for incorrectly. The Trimble Unity suite bundles together several of its software offerings with improved data compatibility across the board. Autodesk, Buildots and NVIDIA are all further developing AI tools and experiments that could inform, iterate and automate construction.  
	Sponsored Content is a special paid section where industry companies provide high quality, objective, non-commercial content around topics of interest to the ENR audience. All Sponsored Content is supplied by the advertising company and any opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily reflect the views of ENR or its parent company, BNP Media. Interested in participating in our Sponsored Content section? Contact your local rep!
 
 
 

 

 This case-study webinar explores the collaboration between Vanderweil Engineers and Payette in the creation of a new science center on the campus of Cape Cod Community College. We'll delve into the innovative design and engineering strategies that brought this project to life, showcasing the synergy between two industry-leading firms. Sponsored by:  Sponsored by: 
 Special Ad Section 
 CANADA CONSTRUCTION & ENGINEERING
 View all Special Ad Sections
 Archives   Copyright ©2024. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing