41
New Articles








 
New Articles Since the late December 2022 seismic shift in the legal landscape for cosmetic companies – when Congress passed and President Biden signed the Modernization of Cosmetics Regulation Act, or MOCRA, into law (see our prior post here) – the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has been relatively subdued in providing guidance to the affected industries regarding questions around “what happens next.” The most significant public announcements made by FDA since the law was passed are arguably that: (1) the voluntary cosmetic establishment registration program would be shuttered in favor of the yet-to-be-explained mandatory registration and listing system for cosmetic facilities; and (2) cosmetic manufacturers that want to report adverse events to the agency now should do so via the existing MedWatch program, which is currently used for drugs, biologics, and medical devices. However, on April 26, 2023, the FDA announced that it would be convening a virtual “listening session” on June 1 to hear directly from stakeholders in order “to inform FDA’s efforts in developing regulations to establish good manufacturing practices (GMPs) for facilities that manufacture, or process cosmetic products distributed in the United States.” The agency is specifically calling for engagement by participants in the cosmetic and personal care industry who are small businesses and contract manufacturers, as well as consumer organizations. This kind of consultation with affected industries and other stakeholders was mandated by Congress in MOCRA, before FDA promulgates the proposed cosmetic GMP regulations (which are expected to be issued within two years of the law’s passage, by December 2024). Registration in advance of the June 1 listening session is required and can be done on the FDA’s registration webpage. Attendees who wish to make a presentation or otherwise speak during the meeting must register by May 18 and submit their presentations by May 22. Non-presenting attendees can register at any time, and the deadline for submitting written comments to the docket (Docket No. FDA-2023-N-1466) in response to FDA’s requests for information is June 3, 2023. FDA’s meeting notice and request for comments identifies several topics of interest to federal regulators, and seeks to focus stakeholder input on several different topics. While the majority of the topics relate to developing GMPs, others focus on the economic impact of GMPs and MOCRA. The topics include the following: “Identify any national or international standard (e.g., International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard 22716:2007) and the extent to which it would be practicable for good manufacturing practice regulations for cosmetic products to be consistent with such standard. Please include whether there are specific items in the standard which are perceived to be burdensome or for which a less burdensome alternative exists that would protect the public health and ensure that cosmetic products are not adulterated.” “Describe what constitutes sufficient flexibility within good manufacturing practices for cosmetic products to ensure regulations are practicable for all sizes and types of facilities to which such practices may apply. Please take into account the size and scope of the businesses engaged in the manufacture of cosmetic products and the risks to public health posed by cosmetic products.” “Describe what constitutes simplified good manufacturing practices requirements for cosmetic products for smaller businesses to ensure regulations do not impose undue economic hardship.”  “Describe appropriate compliance times for good manufacturing practices regulations.” “To what extent are manufacturers of cosmetic products already following a national or international standard for good manufacturing practices? For manufacturers of cosmetic products that are not currently following such a national or international standard, what would it cost to implement good manufacturing practices consistent with such a standard?” “Please provide reports or examples of adverse events or recalls associated with a cosmetic product that were linked to manufacturing practices. How would implementing good manufacturing practices impact the likelihood of a recall of cosmetics products? How would implementing good manufacturing practices impact the likelihood of consumers experiencing adverse events from the use of cosmetics products? How would these impacts differ by type of cosmetic product?” The new MOCRA regulatory regime will impose significant additional requirements, processes, and procedures on affected entities. We therefore encourage everyone with relevant experiences or other information to share with the FDA to engage by presenting at the June 1st listening session and/or through written comments to the docket, which can be submitted as early as April 27. This listening session and the creation of an e-docket represent the first steps of a lengthy rulemaking process that will culminate in mandatory GMP regulations for this universally utilized class of consumer products.   Sign Up for e-NewsBulletins   You are responsible for reading, understanding, and agreeing to the National Law Review's (NLR’s) and the National Law Forum LLC's  Terms of Use and Privacy Policy before using the National Law Review website. The National Law Review is a free-to-use, no-log-in database of legal and business articles. The content and links on www.NatLawReview.com are intended for general information purposes only. Any legal analysis, legislative updates, or other content and links should not be construed as legal or professional advice or a substitute for such advice. No attorney-client or confidential relationship is formed by the transmission of information between you and the National Law Review website or any of the law firms, attorneys, or other professionals or organizations who include content on the National Law Review website. If you require legal or professional advice, kindly contact an attorney or other suitable professional advisor.   Some states have laws and ethical rules regarding solicitation and advertisement practices by attorneys and/or other professionals. The National Law Review is not a law firm nor is www.NatLawReview.com  intended to be a referral service for attorneys and/or other professionals. The NLR does not wish, nor does it intend, to solicit the business of anyone or to refer anyone to an attorney or other professional.  NLR does not answer legal questions nor will we refer you to an attorney or other professional if you request such information from us.  Under certain state laws, the following statements may be required on this website and we have included them in order to be in full compliance with these rules. The choice of a lawyer or other professional is an important decision and should not be based solely upon advertisements. Attorney Advertising Notice: Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Statement in compliance with Texas Rules of Professional Conduct. Unless otherwise noted, attorneys are not certified by the Texas Board of Legal Specialization, nor can NLR attest to the accuracy of any notation of Legal Specialization or other Professional Credentials. The National Law Review - National Law Forum LLC 2070 Green Bay Rd., Suite 178, Highland Park, IL 60035  Telephone  (708) 357-3317 or toll-free (877) 357-3317.  If you would like to contact us via email please click here. Copyright ©2024 National Law Forum, LLC