JavaScript is turned off in your web browser. Turn it on to take full advantage of this site, then refresh the page. NRS Healthcare data breach The Family Information Service (FIS) provides free, impartial information and advice on a variety of services for children and young people (from birth to 18 years old or 25 years old for people with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND)), parents and families. The service operates a telephone helpline (020 7332 1002) or you can contact the FIS team from Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. The FIS provides an outreach service in a variety of settings and also at events. The term childcare covers a number of different types of provision, but one thing they should all have in common is that they are good for children and good for families. High quality childcare and early years education give children a head start in primary school. Research shows that it improves their educational, emotional and social development. Your decision to use childcare might be driven by a need to work or undertake training, or you could be looking for somewhere for your child to socialise with other children and get ready for school. Entrusting the care of your child to someone else is a big decision, and it can be stressful, but whatever your needs there will be a childcare option that is right for you. Our aim at the FIS is to help you find it by giving you all you need to make an informed choice. Information about childcare options in around the City; help paying for childcare, and setting up a childcare business is available here: Childcare - City of London Family Information Service In the Children and Families section, Square Mile families can access information, advice and guidance on services, activities and events in the local area for children and young people age 0-19 (and up to 25 for children and young people with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND). This area offers information about childcare, nurseries, preschools, childminders, out of school clubs, children centres, education, SEND, school admissions, leisure, health and wellbeing and family support. The FIS Directory is an alphabetised and searchable list of local and national organisations which support family, children and young people. The FIS SEND Hub and Early Years Hub support Early Years practitioners and settings, schools, colleges, governors and those who are working in and across our settings in the Square Mile. For more information, please see: Practitioners - City of London Family Information Service The Local Offer provides signposting and information on the types of support you can access for children and young people from birth to 25 with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND). This includes information about the City Parent Carer Forum, safeguarding, health, Short Breaks, personal budgets, the Disabled Children's Register, the City of London's Virtual School, SEND policies, legislation and newsletters; as well as information about the transition to adulthood for young people with SEND in the Preparing for Adulthood section of the Local Offer, and more useful information, guidance and support. The purpose of the local offer is to enable parents and young people to see more clearly what services are available in their area and how to access them. The offer will include provision from birth to 25 years old, across education, health and social care and leisure. On the Local Offer, you will find free impartial information about local events and services available to children, young people and families living and working in the Square Mile. Local providers have also provided comprehensive information City of London's SEND Local Offer about how they meet the needs of children and young people with SEND, and this can be found in their listings in the Local Offer section of the FIS Directory. The FIS website's What's on section provides: