Sustainable Development and Sustainability: In 2015, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) also known as the Global Goals were adopted by the United Nations. It is a universal call to action to end poverty and to protect the planet. Also, to ensure that by 2030, all people enjoy peace and prosperity. Nature has supported and maintained life on earth since time immemorial and will continue to do so in the future. This capacity of the earth is known as the sustainability of nature or ecosystems or the environment. But, once the alteration of nature’s initial state occurs, its ability to revert back is lost. The anthropocentric activities of development like industrialization have led to the indiscriminate exploitation of natural resources. The problem has attained global dimensions. It has brought us to a position where not only the life forms on this planet but also the very existence of mankind is being affected. 1. What is sustainable development? A. The development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. B. To conserve natural resources and to develop alternate sources of power while reducing pollution and harm to the environment. C. It is the practice of developing land and construction projects in a manner that reduces their impact on the environment by allowing them to create energy-efficient models of self-sufficiency.  D. All of the above Ans: D Explanation: The development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Also, to conserve natural resources and to develop alternate sources of power while reducing pollution and harm to the environment.  Sustainable development is the practice of developing land and construction projects in a manner that reduces their impact on the environment by allowing them to create energy-efficient models of self-sufficiency. So, all the three options provided are correct. 2. Which of the following is correct, if we only achieve two out of three pillars of Sustainable Development? A. Social + Economic Sustainability = Equitable B. Social + Environmental Sustainability = Bearable C. Economic + Environmental Sustainability = Viable D. All of the above Ans: D Explanation: Social + Economic Sustainability = Equitable                              Social + Environmental Sustainability = Bearable                               Economic + Environmental Sustainability = Viable Practice| GK Questions and Answers on Environment Degradation and Management 3. Consider the following statement (s) related to Sustainability. I. It refers to a process or state that can be maintained indefinitely. II. Natural resources must use in ways that do not create ecological debts by over-exploiting the carrying and productive capacity of the earth. III. A minimum necessary condition for sustainability is the maintenance of the total natural capital stock at or above the current level. Code: A. Only I B. Only II C. Only II & III D. I, II & III Ans: D Explanation: Sustainability refers to a process or state that can be maintained indefinitely. Natural resources should be used in such a way that don't create ecological debts by over-exploiting the carrying and productive capacity of the earth. The minimum condition for sustainability is the maintenance of the total natural capital stock at or above the current level. 4. Which of the following is/are not an objective (s) of sustainable development? A. Continue to implement the family planning program. B. Maintain a dynamic balance of arable land (not less than 123 million hectares) and implement an agricultural development strategy C. Maintain a dynamic balance of water resources by reducing water consumption for every unit of gross development product growth and agricultural value-added D. To bring about a gradual and sometimes catastrophic transformation of the environment Ans: D Explanation: The objectives of sustainable development are: continue to implement the family planning program, maintain a dynamic balance of arable land (not less than 123 million hectares) and implement an agricultural development strategy, and also to maintain a dynamic balance of water resources by reducing water consumption for every unit of gross development product growth and agricultural value-added. Practice| GK Questions and Answers on the Biodiversity and Legislation 5. What are the Primary Goals of Sustainability? I. The end of poverty and hunger II. Better standards of education and healthcare - particularly as it pertains to water quality and better sanitation III. To achieve gender equality IV. Sustainable economic growth while promoting jobs and stronger economies Code: A. I, II & III B. I, III & IV C. I & III D. I, II, III & IV Ans: D Explanation: Primary goals of sustainability are to achieve gender equality, end of poverty and hunger; better standards of education and healthcare mainly as it pertains to water quality and better sanitation, and sustainable economic growth while promoting jobs and stronger economies. 6. In which year the term ‘Sustainable Development’ came into existence? A. 1987 B. 1980 C. 1978 D. 1992 Ans: B Explanation: In 1980,  ‘Sustainable Development’ came into existence. Practice| GK Questions and Answers on Ecological Succession and Pyramid 7. The United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD) was established by the UN General Assembly in the year  A. 1992 B. 1993 C. 1994 D. 1995 Ans: A Explanation: The United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD) was established by the UN General Assembly in 1992 to ensure the effective follow-up of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) which is also known as the Earth Summit. 8. Which of the following UN commission is responsible for reviewing progress in the implementation of Agenda 21 and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development? A. United Nation Disarmament Commission B. United Nations Statistical Commission C. United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD) D. United Nations Commission on Human Rights Ans: C Explanation: United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD) is responsible for reviewing progress in the implementation of Agenda 21 and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. Practice| GK Questions and Answers on the Hot Spots of Biodiversity 9. Consider the following statement (s) related to the parameters of sustainable development refer to the guiding principles. I. Help in understanding the concept of sustainable development II. Point the problems associated with it III. Help to take active policy measures Code: A. Both I & II B. Bot II & III C. Both I & IV D. I, II & III Ans: D Explanation: The parameters of sustainable development that refer to the guiding principles are helpful in understanding the concept of sustainable development, pointing to the problems associated with it, and helping to take active policy measures. 10. Which of the following is not included in the parameters of sustainable development? A. Carrying capacity B. Inter and Intra-generation equity C. Gender disparity and diversity D. None of the above Ans: D Explanation: Parameters of sustainable development include carrying capacity, inter and intra-generation equity, and gender disparity and diversity. Ans. Interdependence of economic, social, and environmental factors Explanation: The key principle of Sustainable development is the conservation of the ecosystem and environment. 12. What does the "triple bottom line" concept in sustainability refer to? Ans. B Explanation: The triple bottom line (TBL) maintains that companies should commit to focusing as much on social and environmental concerns as they do on profits. You can access more questions on the environment and ecology from the link provided below: 350+ GK Questions and Answers on Environment & Ecology Get here current GK and GK quiz questions in English and Hindi for India, World, Sports and Competitive exam preparation. Download the Jagran Josh Current Affairs App. UP Police Admit Card 2024 Tomorrow: Download UPPRPB Constable Call Letter at uppbpb.gov.in  Picture Puzzle IQ Test: Spot the Seal Hidden Among Penguins in Just 12 Seconds!  Dr MGR Medical University Result 2024 OUT at tnmgrmu.ac.in; Direct Link to Download UG and PG Marksheet  Optical Illusion IQ Test: Only 1% With Eagle Eyes Can Spot the Snail in 5 Seconds!  Visual Skill Test: Find the odd rose in the picture in 5 seconds!  Happy Rakhi 2024: 40+ Unique Bonding Quotes, Wishes, Messages for Brother and Sisters  Happy Raksha Bandhan 2024: 50+ Images, Quotes, Wishes, Messages to Share with be Loved Brother and Sisters  Challenge Your Raksha Bandhan IQ: Test Your Festive Knowledge  Seek and Find Puzzle: Sharpen Your Eyes and Test Your Wit By Finding the Hidden Mouse in 11 Seconds  Brain Teaser: Can Your High IQ Help You Find the Four-Leaf Clover in This Puzzle?  Tripura NEET UG Counselling 2024 Registration Begin, Apply at dmeonline.tripura.gov.in   10 Interesting Facts About Raksha Bandhan  AP EAPCET Counselling 2024 Final Phase Registration Begin, Apply Until August 21 at eapcet-sche.aptonline.in  Happy Raksha Bandhan 2024 Quotes in Hindi: इस रक्षाबंधन भाई-बहन के रिश्ते में इन शुभकामनाएं और संदेश से घोलें मिठास  भारत में कैसे हुई थी रक्षा बंधन पर्व की शुरुआत, यहां जानें   IQ Test: Find 525 among 555’s in 5 seconds!  India Post GDS Result 2024:1st Merit List to Release Anytime at indiapostgdsonline.gov.in  MH CET Law 3-year LLB 2024 Round 2 Allotment Result Out, Download at cetcell.mahacet.org  Karnataka NEET UG Counselling 2024: Round 1 Registration Close Today, Apply at cetonline.karnataka.gov.in  Odisha NEET UG Counselling 2024 Round 1 Provisional Merit List Released at ojee.nic.in, Get Direct Link Here 