A Memorandum of Understanding has been signed between Kenya and the United Nation’s Development Programme to support the country’s digital identity program, which has a new name, reports Capital News. The Unique Personal Identifier (UPI) which has been presented by the Kenyan government elected last year as a replacement for the scuttled Huduma Namba will be known as “Maisha Namba.” “Maisha” in Swahili translates to “life” in English, while the “huduma” in Huduma Namba translates to “services.” Maisha Namba and an accompanying digital ID are now scheduled to be presented on October 2. An immigration department official told Kenyans.co.ke that “Maisha Namba will be a number that will replace the current birth entry number which is currently issued with birth certificates. Maisha Namba will be the reference number for future identity for all subsequent stages: school, national ID, KRA pin.” A “Maisha Card” will be issued under the new system, and a National Master Population Register established to consolidate government databases. This was a key takeaway identified by Principal Secretary of Immigration and Citizen Services Julius Bitok from a visit to NADRA in Pakistan. “The digital identity system will provide Kenyans with a secure and reliable way to verify their identity for a variety of purposes, including accessing gov’t services, opening bank accounts, and traveling,” says Bitok in a tweet. “It will also help to reduce fraud and corruption, and improve efficiency.” Bitok says the digital ID will enable Kenyans to carry out online transactions with service providers from around the world. The Maisha Namba will also be used by the National Health Insurance Fund and Kenya Revenue Authority, according to Pulselive Kenya. UNDP Resident Representative Anthony Ngororano praised Kenya’s government for engaging with non-governmental organizations, and said UNDP intends to ensure “a whole of society approach” to implementing the national digital ID. Africa  |  biometrics  |  digital ID  |  Kenya  |  Maisha Namba  |  UNDP  |  Unique Personal Identifier (UPI) Authorities in Pakistan have begun blocking SIM cards registered to national digital ID cards found to be invalid or fraudulent… Facial recognition is increasingly being adopted at events and large venues to improve security and streamline access. Technology suppliers like… New legislation in Pennsylvania puts new emphasis on age verification technology as a means of preventing alcohol sales to underage… By Neville Pattinson, Head of Federal Government Sales at Thales Group’s DIS Identity & Biometric Solutions When Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR)… New Zealand police have published a policy on facial recognition technology (FRT), which lays out how and when authorities can… Malawi is in full pursuit of its digital transformation drive which includes the construction of a National Data Center with… This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Continue Reading Learn More Copyright © 2024 Biometrics Research Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Web Design by Studio1337