With positive results and a 21% growth compared to the previous year, LATAM Cargo closes the Mother’s Day season, the period between April 17th and May 7th, transporting around 20,000 tonnes of flowers from Ecuador and Colombia, to celebrate all mothers on their day. Mother’s Day is one of the most important dates for the air cargo industry together with Valentine’s Day due to the high demand for flowers, which is why the cargo subsidiary prepared to offer its clients more than 115 weekly frequencies, increasing by 120% compared to the regular operation to North America, allowing it to supply the necessary capacity to provide North America and Europe with flowers such as roses, carnations and chrysanthemums, on this holiday. READ: IATA recognises LATAM Cargo for its innovative solutions “Every year we have the challenge to continue improving and significantly increase our flight frequencies in order to meet our customer’s needs during this date. In march we had the arrival of a new cargo aircraft as part of our growth plan, which allowed us to offer more capacity during this mother’s season, and thus surpass the one million boxes of flowers transported. We will continue working to bring flowers closer to their final destination and continue contributing to the development of the flower industry,” Claudio Torres, LATAM Cargo’s International Commercial Director for South America, said. READ: LATAM Cargo announces the addition of a new Boeing 767 BCF LATAM Cargo also increased by 23% the flight frequencies offered to its customers for this date, compared to the same season in 2022. This expansion in its air operations in part allowed for increased flower delivery, providing customers with greater capacity. Colombia and Ecuador continue to be the main flower exporting countries which allows millions of mothers to enjoy the freshness of this product on their day every year. In the case of Colombia, more than 12,000 tons of flowers were transported from Bogota and Medellin, a figure that reflects a 14% increase over the previous year’s season. On the other hand, in the case of Ecuador, the number of flights increased by 32% compared to the same holiday in 2022, which allowed the transportation of more than 7,800 tons of flowers to destinations such as Miami, Los Angeles and Amsterdam. Stay informed. Stay ahead. To get the latest air cargo news and industry trends delivered directly to your inbox, sign up now! Improve your visibility for your brand and products! Advertising opportunities are available to suit any requirement.
Click below to be connected to a member of our sales team.