Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     American aerospace manufacturer Pratt & Whitney will develop engines for LATAM Airlines’ remaining Airbus A320neo orders, the company announced on Sunday. The order comes after LATAM’s initial order in 2013, in which it chose Pratt & Whitney’s GTF engines to power over 40 aircraft.
                         The company announced that the fuel-efficient engines will power 146 LATAM A320neo family aircraft. Through a service agreement, Pratt & Whitney will also provide LATAM with long-term engine maintenance services.
                         Roberto Alvo, CEO of LATAM Airlines Group, said the announcement enhances its partnership with the engine manufacturer.
                         "At LATAM we are committed not only to connecting South America to the world, but doing so caring for the environment and reducing our carbon footprint. We are proud to enhance our partnership with Pratt & Whitney to power our A320neo family, which will allow us to do so, as we expect to grow this fleet over 100 strong in the coming years.”
                         In 2013, LATAM selected Pratt & Whitney’s PurePower PW1100G-JM engines, also known as GTF (geared turbo-fan), to power its order of 42 A320neos, along with a 12-year fleet management plan. With the most recent announcement, the company said LATAM would be provided with engine maintenance through a long-term EngineWise Comprehensive service agreement.
                         We'd love to see you on Instagram - follow us here!
                         According to Pratt & Whitney, GTF engines offer the A320neo family of aircraft the greatest fuel efficiency and emit the lowest greenhouse gas levels, thanks to its complete nacelle system from Collins Aerospace. Aircraft powered by the engine reportedly have reduced fuel consumption and CO2 emissions by 16% to 20%, and 50% of nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions are reduced. The engines are also quieter, with a noise footprint reduction of 75%, compared to prior-generation aircraft.
                         GTF engines also support sustainable aviation practices. According to the company, the engines have been certified to operate with 50% of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), although the engine has been successfully tested using 100% SAF. With the industry’s goal to reach net zero emissions by the 2050 decade, the engines will positively contribute to the goal with further reductions in carbon footprint and lay the foundation for more efficient and sustainable technology in the future.
                         Rick Deurloo, Commercial Engines President at Pratt & Whitney, said the engines already benefit LATAM.
                         “Our relationship with LATAM, including their predecessor LAN Airlines, dates back more than seven decades with the Twin Wasp engine on Douglas DC-3 aircraft. GTF engines are already delivering exceptional economic and sustainability benefits to LATAM and we look forward to providing even greater value in the years to come.”
                         LATAM is considered the largest airline in Latin America, with subsidiaries in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Paraguay. The carrier also serves international destinations within Latin America, the US, the Caribbean, Europe, and Oceania. Currently, LATAM operates more than 80 A320ceo aircraft powered by IAE V2500 engines. The airline became the first airline in the Americas to operate the A320neo, with 16 aircraft currently in its fleet equipped with GTF engines.
                         LATAM’s A320neos are spread out among three of its six subsidiaries. According to data from ch-aviation, ten aircraft are operated by LATAM Brazil. The remaining six are operated by LATAM Perú, with two aircraft that reportedly support LATAM Chile’s operations.
                         Source: ch-aviation
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Emirates has ordered additional 90 Boeing 777X and made changes to its Boeing 787 order. Condor's new Airbus A330neo was damaged by a loading vehicle less than one month into service. The airline's long-awaited rebrand is finally here, and it is a huge change.  The sudden loss of the deactivated exit door led to rapid decompression and forced a diversion. This expands Turkish's total order book for Airbus to 504 aircraft.  The airline has not revealed details of the financing or the number of aircraft ordered.