Ismael Awad-Risk 02/02/2023 Between January and October 2022, LATAM Cargo transported almost 130 thousand tons of cargo to and from Brazil. The total was achieved thanks to transportation both on dedicated aircraft and in the hold of passenger flights. According to the airline, 68% of Brazil’s imports come from the United States and Spain. The main gateways for goods entering the country are the airports of Guarulhos, Viracopos, and Manaus. Meanwhile, 90% of the country’s exports originate in Guarulhos, Viracopos, and Porto Alegre, and their main destinations are Mexico, Bogota, and Miami. According to the airline, the main international cargo is auto parts, footwear, and machinery. This type of cargo represents more than half of the volume exported from Brazil to foreign countries and 70% of imports to the domestic market. The ranking continues with miscellaneous items: fruits, flowers, vegetables, fish, textiles, medicines, and vaccines. Otávio Meneguette, director of LATAM Cargo in Brazil, indicated that since 2019 (before the pandemic) auto parts, footwear/textiles, and machinery are the items most transported between the country and the international market by the company. “These statistics show that we connect Brazil with the foreign market, supplying the supply and consumption chains. We also offer solutions that provide speed, safety, reliability, and tight deadlines, something that these products demand,” said the executive. In total, in 2022 LATAM Cargo transported almost 130,000 tons of cargo between Brazil and 19 airports abroad. Of the total tonnage, 40% corresponds to exports, and of this volume, 54% is automotive parts, footwear, and machinery. In exports, 90% of the cargo comes from São Paulo/Guarulhos (54%), Campinas/Viracopos (33%), and Porto Alegre (3%). The main destinations account for 33% and are Mexico (13% share), Bogota (12%), and Miami (8%). Of the volume of cargo moved between Brazil and foreign countries, 60% corresponds to imports. Of these shipments, 70% correspond to auto parts, footwear, and machinery. In imports, shipments come mainly from the United States (55% share) and Spain (13%). Comentario  

 SOMOS EL medio especializado en aviación líder en idioma español info@aviacionline.com © 2024 Aviacionline. todos los derechos reservados.