Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Shauna Armitage
          

            Edited by 
                          
                Micah Zimmerman
              


            Jan 5, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   Not all lead generation is created equal. As digital marketing continues to evolve, marketers are doubling down on social media. While those platforms may be great for brand awareness, they still fall short regarding one of the most critical growth metrics for a budding business — engaging your audience. One of the biggest reasons creating engagement is tough on these platforms comes down to supply and demand — every friend, family member and company is also on these platforms, competing for your potential customer's attention. There's a lot of noise, and the algorithm ultimately decides who sees what. Building an audience and selling to them is essential for any company to grow, which is why business owners need to focus on generating leads through channels they own and control. Related: 6 Marketing Pitfalls That Can Haunt Your Company We know that to sell to a potential customer or an existing one, you need to be able to reach them. We can identify success in reaching our leads by tracking engagement and open rates. Instagram users will spend an average of 30 minutes daily on the platform. While that's a significant amount of time, businesses aren't getting that much of their attention. According to BazaarVoice, the average reach rate for brands with large followings is 12% for posts and 2% for stories. The median engagement rate across all industries on Facebook is 0.08%. Those numbers are sobering and a big wake-up call for small businesses and startups spending energy and budget trying to drive revenue through organic social media channels. Instead, let's focus on the channels we own and can control. Related: 5 Ways Businesses Can Get Traffic and Generate Leads When you build an email list, you own those emails and have a direct way to communicate with your audience — but it's not the only way. You can also capture a person's phone number or address. The key is gathering contact information so you can communicate 1:1 instead of relying on an algorithm. Here are a few ways that you can use contact information to nurture and convert leads successfully: Social media can be a great tool for building an audience. Still, if your audience is only accessible via social media, you are always at risk of losing control of the conversation. If Instagram shuts down tomorrow, you can't reach that massive audience you worked so hard to build. If TikTok decides to prioritize advertising in the future, your organic reach could disappear overnight. Businesses in today's digital climate, it must be a top priority to move prospects from social media to a place where the business can capture contact information. Nurturing potential customers via direct communication will help you build trust, value, and community, ultimately leading to sales and growth in your business. Co-Owner of World Spice 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          Generative AI can give us mountains of information on any topic under the sun in seconds — but is it any good at marketing? I had to find out.
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          Sean Hall needed a solution for his health struggles — so he came up with his own.
         
          If you want to see improvement, you have to put in the work.
         
          Streamline operations, access AI updates, and stay secure with this duo.
         
          Save up to 90% on domestic and international flights forever.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
