MoreThanPanel.com was founded in 2020 in London by two graduates of the same university, ( Middlesex University ) Efe Onsoy and James Hayter. Both of them studied computer engineering, and they shared a passion for technology and innovation. As avid social media users themselves, Efe and James were well aware of the challenges faced by individuals and businesses looking to increase their visibility on social media platforms. They knew that it could be a costly and time-consuming process, and that many people simply couldn't afford it. Determined to make a difference, Efe and James decided to take matters into their own hands. They put their heads together and started working on a coding system that would make it easier and more affordable for people to boost their profiles and engagement on social media. After months of hard work and dedication, Efe and James finally came up with the perfect solution - Morethanpanel.com. This innovative platform offers a range of social media services that are designed to help individuals, influencers, and businesses to increase their visibility and engagement on social media. From Instagram followers to YouTube views,Tiktok engagement to spotify streams MoreThanPanel.com provides high-quality social media solutions that are both affordable and effective. Thanks to Efe and James' expertise in computer engineering, they were able to create a platform that is user-friendly and easy to navigate. Since its launch in 2020, MoreThanPanel.com has experienced most fatest growing smm panel and has become one of the leading providers of social media services in the world. Its success can be attributed to Efe and James' dedication and commitment to helping people achieve their goals on social media. Today, MoreThanPanel.com continues to innovate and expand its services,serve Daily more than 40.000 order and its founders remain passionate about helping people to build their profiles and succeed on social media. MORETHANPANEL MISSION With a small team of enthusiastic individuals, Efe and James embarked on a mission to disrupt the status quo and redefine the SMM panel landscape. The goal was clear – to create a platform that would simplify the process of purchasing social media engagement via Smm panel, making it easy for businesses to boost their online presence and connect with their target audience effortlessly. WHY MORETHANPANEL’S SERVICES SUCH A CHEAP We do not claim to be the main provider for all services on Morethanpanel. We are the provider of %15 of our services. Despite appearing as a newbrand- young website, we have actually operated as a closed registration system panel, exclusively selling to major smm panels for over 8 years. Our 8 years of experience as a provider, coupled with being pioneers in the industry, have given us a unique advantage in knowing + working all main providers of different services. As a result, instead of passing on the increased prices caused by reseller sellers, we directly sell services from the main providers and offer them to you with only a 15% profit margin. This way, you can access services at reasonable prices without compromising on quality. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.