Business Spotlight 
              The token has already generated over $24 million and is looking to draw whales from the Shiba Inu (SHIB) and ApeCoin (APE) communities.
             The star Memecoin of 2022, Big Eyes (BIG) , will be rounding up its presale in a few weeks, and the developers have launched a giveaway event to push most of the coins into circulation. The token has already generated over $24 million and is looking to draw whales from the Shiba Inu (SHIB) and ApeCoin (APE) communities. Read on as we gather news on the latest developments.  Shiba Inu (SHIB) has been a close competitor with Dogecoin since its launch in 2020, as it aimed to overtake the pioneer memecoin with its Ethereum-based launch. Although it hasn't managed to match Dogecoin's market cap, it certainly has established a following in the cryptocurrency market, despite its deficient protocol.  Shiba Inu (SHIB) launched on the Ethereum network with a proof of stake protocol, allowing its users to get incentives for delegating their tokens for platform security. The token looked to harness the vast community of users on Ethereum to build its meme user base; consequently, its launch phase saw the coin spike by over 4000 times its presale price, attracting most users in the market.  Shiba Inu's protocol features an exchange platform, Shibaswap, where users can exchange any ERC-20 token for other assets on the Ethereum blockchain. The exchange serves to increase the demand for the SHIB token, raising its value on the crypto charts. There is also an NFT incubator that allows users to create their NFT tokens, although they won't be able to sell them.   Since its early stages, Shiba Inu (SHIB) has experienced a plateaued development, which is probably due to its inefficient protocol. The developers plan to make system upgrades that will feature more relevant elements for users to access.  Currently, Shiba Inu (SHIB) is benefiting from the bull run, listing at $0.000012 on CoinMarketCap.  ApeCoin (APE) is the blockchain platform floated by the Bored Ape Yacht Club, a group of NFT traders that spearheaded the popularization of NFTs in 2020. The group sought to find more uses for their NFTs and devised a Metaverse-based protocol to expand into ApeCoin.  ApeCoin (APE) links to Ethereum via its ERC-20 token, APE. The platform is typically run on a  proof of stake protocol, permitting the staking of tokens for improved platform security. The APE token also functions as a governance token, allowing users to vote on protocol alterations with their coin holdings.   ApeCoin (APE) features a blockchain gaming interface that users pay to access. The game is also play-to-earn, allowing users to accumulate assets on the platform. The NFT marketplace on the ApeCoin network facilitates NFT creation and trade while allowing users to incorporate their NFTs in their gaming experience as avatars.  ApeCoin (APE) is also a DAO community where users with staked assets can vote on the project's future. The DAO oversees protocol upgrades, allowing only user-friendly features to be added to the code.   ApeCoin (APE) has also experienced a spike in valuation, selling for about $5.10 on CoinMarketCap.  Big Eyes (BIG) has been regarded by many as the star of the memecoin sector, as its presale has broken records set by prominent crypto projects in the industry. The developers have released another presale stunt, allowing their users to gain double tokens on the presale page whenever they buy using a promotion code. Here are some of the platform's outstanding elements.  Big Eyes (BIG) plans to place its community first at every stage of policymaking. The token launched about 70% of its initial token supply for the presale, thus placing most of the token in the community's hands. While it is not a DAO, the developers have announced that they will only be making decisions after the community has voted on those policies. In an attempt to integrate new users, the developers will also give basic tutorials on DeFi and its principles to newbie traders.  Another key feature is the anticipated Sushi Crew project, which is an NFT club. Users will be able to buy tokens directly from the platform and create theirs from various multimedia content. The NFT trade also promises to be zero cost, thus attracting even more users to the network.  Click here  to get your BIG tokens before the presale ends.  Check out Big Eyes:  Presale: https://buy.bigeyes.space/   Website: https://bigeyes.space/   Telegram: https://t.me/BIGEYESOFFICIAL  
Unsung Heroes Of India's Freedom Struggle
 
“An Artist has no Caste": Chinki Sinha in conversation with Madhubani artist Shanti Devi
 
Freedom Of Fantasy | Chinki Sinha In Conversation With Activist And Author Anand Teltumbde
 
Kohli’s T20 journey: Debut Se Domination Tak
 
In Photos: Raksha Bandhan Celebrated Across India
 
Day In Pics: August 19, 2024
 
Napoli 0-3 Hellas Verona, Serie A: Antonio Conte’s Men Falter As Dailon Livramento, Daniel Mosquera Shine On Debut - In Pics
 
Real Madrid 1-1 Mallorca, La Liga: Kylian Mbappe's Debut Ends In Draw,  Rodrygo Finds Net - In Pics
 
       Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd.
      
       Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd. All pages of the Website are subject to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You must not reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, resell or exploit any material on the Website for any commercial purposes.
     