NEW DELHI: Cloud communications provider Route Mobile on Wednesday said it has launched an artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML)-based chatbot solution – Roubot – for businesses to facilitate conversations with customers, facilitate lead generation, sales, and issue resolution. Route Mobile said that businesses can also design their own chatbot with Roubot’s “Flow Builder” through a drag-and-drop user interface. It lets businesses integrate this customer engagement solution seamlessly and securely with CRM systems, payment gateways, and third-party messaging platforms such as WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. 

Advt





Once the customized chatbot is live, customers can engage with the business over a secure connection to get answers to their sales and support queries in real-time. The company also claims that the no-code chatbot can integrate with ChatGPT and natural language processing (NLP) engines. “Our enterprise partners now have access to one of the fastest no-code chatbot flow builders that integrates with multiple payment gateways, CRMs and multiple platforms for seamless customer engagement and conversational experiences between enterprises and consumers while achieving much-needed operational and cost efficiencies,” said Rajdipkumar Gupta, Managing Director & Group CEO, Route Mobile.The cloud communications company is pitching the utility of its chatbot in several verticals such as BFSI, ecommerce, education, retail, hospitality, healthcare, and others. Roubot features a real-time tracking system to let businesses track agent performance, and decision makers can access detailed reports, measure KPIs, and derive actionable insights to ensure quality of service at all times.“We have built Roubot on the core principles of build, reach, analytics, integration and end-to-end security. This means the chatbot is easy to build, ensures rapid reach, provides smooth consumer conversation with generative AI/ML & Natural Language Processing (“NLP”) automation, with seamless third party integration and end-to-end security,” said Milind Pathak, Chief Business Officer, Route Mobile.

Advt





The global chatbot market size was valued at US $525.7 million in 2021 and is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 25.7% up to 2030. It is estimated that retail chatbot interactions will reach $22 billion by 2023, up from an estimated $2.6 billion in 2019, according to the company’s statement.  By commenting, you agree to the Prohibited Content Policy By commenting, you agree to the Prohibited Content Policy 

News 

 See whats happening in Telecom sector right now 

Exclusive 

 Read and get insights from specially curated unique stories from editorial 

Leaders Speak

 Business leaders sharing their insights 

Events

 Explore and discuss challenges & trends in India's leading B2B events 

Awards 

 Recognise work that not only stood out but was also purposeful 

Webinars 

 Join leaders & experts for roundtables, conferences, panels and discussions Subscribe to our Daily Newsletter  By continuing you agree to our Privacy Policy & Terms & Conditions 
Advertise With Us
 We have various options to advertise with us including Events, Advertorials, Banners, Mailers, etc. 
Download ETTelecom App 
 Save your favourite articles with seamless reading experience 
Get updates on your preferred social platform
 Follow us for the latest news, insider access to events and more. About Us Contact Us Newsletters