Somalia’s largest telecommunication company-Hormuud has inked a new deal with GSMA Mobile for Humanitarian Innovation Programme (M4H). GSMA M4H will provide technical support and facilitate partnerships with humanitarian organizations, while Hormuud will share best practices and insights from their experience in mobile money cash transfers and other mobile-enabled services.   The aim is to improve access to mobile-enabled services for digitally excluded populations, such as Hormuud’s Humanitarian Portal.   The Portal is underpinned by Hormuud’s mobile money platform, EVC Plus, which allows humanitarian organizations to distribute up to US$ 1 million with a single click of a button. It has become an essential tool to help INGOs distribute cash-aid in-country.   The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) estimates that 8.25 million people require humanitarian assistance in the Horn of African country, hence this new deal with help in delivering the much needed humanitarian aid. The adoption of Hormuud’s services by the humanitarian sector has never been more important.   According to Hormuud CEO, Ahmed Yusef ,“At Hormuud, we recognise the pressing humanitarian needs in our country and are committed to making a difference by leveraging our technology to address these challenges head-on.”   Ahmed further added that “Through strategic partnerships like the one with GSMA, we are confident that we, alongside humanitarian agencies, can uplift communities in Somalia and enhance their well-being, providing them with the necessary support and connectivity they need to thrive."  The M4H programme accelerates the delivery and impact of digital humanitarian assistance by catalyzing partnerships and innovation for new digital humanitarian services. The programme works with partners to tackle issues such as natural hazard disasters, food insecurity, and forced displacement – all being exacerbated by the climate crisis. The programme is funded by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, and is supported by the GSMA and its members.  A new roadmap strategy will be developed to ensure the goals set out in the partnership are achieved.   “Hormuud is a leading purpose-driven, digitally inclusive company in Somalia and we are delighted to work alongside them. This partnership will strengthen our work in the Horn of Africa, where pressing humanitarian challenges call for new collaboration and innovation. Their award-winning technology demonstrates their existing leadership in this area, “comments Kimberly Brown, GSMA Head of Mobile for Humanitarian Innovation. It also highlighted that “Our partnership is a prime example of our commitment to leveraging digital solutions for positive impact. By combining our expertise, we will help address the needs of underserved populations and ensure that crucial humanitarian services reach those who need them the most.”  Hormuud Telecom has a proven track record of driving digital inclusivity in Somalia. It was the first company to introduce mobile money services in Somalia in 2011 and the first company to obtain the GSMA's Mobile Money Certification last year, for following internationally-recognized standards.  The groundbreaking Humanitarian Portal also won the GSMA GLOMO Changing Lives award in 2022, having revolutionized mobile money cash transfers, providing essential financial services to millions of Somalis.   The Partnership reinforces Hormuud Telecom's commitment to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by delivering connectivity and innovative (SDG 9) products and services to provide unmatched solutions that meet the unique needs of Somalis by enabling access (SDG10) through technologies and partners (SDG 17).  GAROWE ONLINE Advertise with GaroweOnline and expose your brand to a global audience of loyal visitors from across the world Videos 29-11-2020 Videos 16-11-2020 Videos 01-11-2020 Videos 23-10-2020 Experts also pointed out that key drivers will propel the adoption and growth of cryptocurrency and blockchain technology across Africa in the next decade. Business 10-06-2024 The African Development Bank’s 2024 Annual Meetings will run from 27-31 May in Nairobi. Click here for more information.   Business 28-05-2024 Business 30-11-2023 Business 10-10-2023 Business 18-09-2023 Business 17-09-2023 Copyright © GAROWONLINE  All Rights Reserved Advertise with GaroweOnline and expose your brand to a global audience of loyal visitors from across the world To manage your cookie choices now, including how to opt out where our partners rely on legitimate interests to use your information.
            
            