My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now Grasim Industries has acquired leasehold rights to approximately 220 acres from Century Textiles and Industries for Rs 254.70 crore. This acquisition will allow Grasim Industries to set up manufacturing facilities in the future, and the land parcel is located at the Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation's Vilayat Industrial Estate in Bharuch district, Gujarat. “The said transaction has been completed today i.e. 24th March 2023 and is not a related party transaction,” Grasim Industries said in an exchange notification on Friday, March 24. At 10:13 am, shares of the company were trading 0.9 percent higher at Rs 1,607.65 on the BSE. The scrip has shot up 249 percent in the past three years but is down 7 percent YTD. Catch up on all LIVE stock market updates here In the December quarter, the company reported consolidated net sales at Rs 28,637.86 crore, up 17 percent YoY while net profit surged 44 percent YoY to Rs 2,515.78 crore. Earlier this month, the management of Grasim Industries highlighted growth opportunities in core businesses, near-term challenges, strengths and market positioning, diversified chemical portfolio, sustainability initiatives, and progress in high-growth businesses, said analysts. Read more | Paint stocks: Should Asian Paints and Berger fear Grasim’s entry? Sharekhan by BNP Paribas said that the company’s Viscose business is expected to see gradual improvement with bottoming out of prices while its long-term growth outlook remains intact outpacing cotton and synthetic fibre growth rates. The company’s chemical business continues to fare well, with expediting chlorine integration and capacity expansions. Its expedited expansion in paints is likely to provide the next leg of growth for the company. Further, the outlook for its key subsidiary UltraTech remains healthy, the brokerage firm added.
         Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.