Nepal Telecom (Ntc) has been providing fiber internet service to its customers and expanding it to more areas. Now, customers can use unlimited high-speed internet up to 200 Mbps, Telephone, and TV service through the FTTH (Fiber to the home) service. Similarly, the offers also include voice call rental and FTTH combo packs. Here you can find all the information about Ntc fiber net service, updated price [2024], offers, speed, installation process, recharge, & more. FTTH is a next-generation access technology to provide high-speed, reliable, and quality internet service to your fixed locations (home or office) through the use of optical fiber. Acronym for Fiber to the Home, FTTH connects customer premises with optical fiber instead of coaxial cable or telephone lines. Similarly, the speed that you can get with FTTH broadband internet ranges from 1 Mbps to 100 Mbps, along with IP-based voice and multimedia (IPTV video) services. Fiber to the home service is one of the most reliable home internet solutions that is being used worldwide. Nepal Telecom launched the FTTH service back in 2072 from limited areas of Kathmandu. And they tried to expand the service to more areas. Currently, Nepal Telecom fiber internet service is available in 77 districts of the country. The latest district for Ntc fiber network expansion is Humla. FTTH customers need to pay Rs 250 as a monthly rental for the voice service only. The monthly rental will enable 250-minute calls to the NTC network. Furthermore, you can buy combo packs if you want a telephone line from the FTTH fiber. The combo packs also include the monthly 250 Rs offer for the phone. Whereas for other network operators, the same old voice call tariff will apply. There is also an option of adding 50 Mbps data to its existing voice only customers at just Rs 7499. Nepal Telecom has several fiber packages for customers, which includes either all or a combination of TV, Phone, and internet.  Now you can also request for a free trial of 50 Mbps internet for a month, if you already have a Nepal Telecom’s fiber line connected to your home and using telephone service only. Likewise, we have also presented tricks for how to check if the fiber net is available in your place below. Let’s find the details of the Ntc Fiber Net packs.  First, if you are subscribing to the NTC fiber net for the first time, the total cost of the subscription for one year is given below. This amount is for new subscribers only, find the renewable offer in Ntc Fiber below. There are 50 Mbps, 100 Mbps, 150 Mbps and 200 Mbps with upgraded FUP data volume. Whose reduced cost are as per table below for both Basic TV package, Premium TV package. The first-time subscription and renewal cost for the triple play packages is as below: Now with the yearly subscription to the triple-play FTTH pack, you will be entitled to a free Set-top box.  For the renewable offer, the fiber package of 50 Mbps, 100 Mbps, 150 Mbps and 200 Mbps triple play unlimited internet becomes affordable by Rs 1 thousand. FTTH service with voice and unlimited internet has also got five packages: 50 Mbps, 75Mbps, 100 Mbps, 150 and 200 Mbps. And the price of the 50 Mbps unlimited fiber with the phone is Rs 815 while the 75 Mbps. 100 Mbps and 150 Mbps combo pack (with voice) cost Rs 1010, Rs 1150, Rs 1250 respectively. And the 200 Mbps FTTH combo with telephone costs Rs 16,499. The price becomes cheaper if you subscribe for 3 months or 12 months. The package will also include 250 minutes, 750 minutes, and 3000 minutes of on-net telephone calls for free with the combo pack. If you just need a telephone line over FTTH, you need to pay Rs 250 per month for 250 mins on-net call. For customers who require internet service only from FTTH, there are also three Premium Internet service packs of speeds 100 Mbps, 150 Mbps, and 200 Mbps. The price of the premium internet via Ntc FTTH is Rs 5900, Rs 7500, and Rs 9600 respectively. The cost will go down if you subscribe for 3 months or 12 months. The price of premium internet with IPTV packages does not include the cost of STB and CPE. As the cost of basic TV package and premium TV package is different, the cost of premium internet package with IPTV combo is separate. The cost of premium fiber internet package of Ntc with basic TV package is as below. Likewise, the price of premium internet packages with premium TV packages is as follow: The installation charge for the subscription of the Ntc FTTH service (without telephone) is Rs 500 whereas, for the combo pack (with telephone) you need to pay ownership charge of Rs 665. So, the registration charge is Rs 1165, due to the ownership charge incurred in the telephone line. So,if you want to add another number from the same fiber, then the installation charge is Rs 1830. The telephone number in the combo pack will have Rs 100 and get 250 minutes to call within the NT network. For those who buy the FTTH internet package for a year, Ntc will provide free CPE for the new FTTH line.  For a monthly or three months subscription, the cost of the CPE modem is Rs 2825. So, we suggest you register for a yearly package. The CPE will have a warranty for one month during which it will replace or repair for free. Whereas after that if something goes wrong with the device, you can replace it by paying the whole sum. If you buy the NTTV package with the Internet for a year, you will get the Set Top Box for free. If you subscribe to the Ntc FTTH TV for less than a year, you have to pay for the STB, which costs Rs 3230.  If you need to add one more TV connection for basic package, then you need to pay Rs 498.60 per month together with the price of the set-top box (STB) per TV as Rs 3,230 per box. The cost of premium TV package for 1 month is Rs 718.50. The new FTTH customer will also get 100-meter fiber for free for the first installation. The cost of the fiber for longer than 100 meters and for maintenance purposes is Rs 10 per meter. NTC has also started to provide free CPE and cable for those landline users who want to shift their phone line and internet to FTTH. Charges for installation and the set-top box will be free if you subscribe for a year. Similarly, it is also free for those people who migrate from traditional landline phones. Find the process to change your ADSL and landline to the FTTH service for free. Here is the summary of the total cost for a yearly FTTH subscription of 50Mbps. Here is the summary of the total cost for a 50 Mbps FTTH with telephone subscription for 3 months. Summary of One-Time Charge of NT FTTH Fiber Internet Service In addition to the above information, Nepal Telecom provides free mobile data to the users who subscribe to their fiber net package for a year. The free mobile data is applicable for a single user whose mobile number is registered for the NT fiber. However, its applicable for the yearly subscription of 50 Mbps fiber internet and above speed. As the minimum speed available in NT fiber is 50 Mbps, this is a great offer and now all yearly subscriptions are entitled to this free data. Here are the details of the free data up to 1GB per day in Ntc fiber subscription, which includes All-time data and nighttime data. Although previously it was heard that there was no FUP (Fair usage policy) in Ntc FTTH, Nepal Telecom now reveals the following data volume after which the internet speed decreases. The FUP of the Ntc fiber net also got increased with the recent increase in Fiber speed. The premium FTTH internet packages do not have any FUP limit. That means the speed of these premium fiber internet packages will not degrade with higher data volume usage. However, in case of the Fiber net packs with telephone, the FUP has been set at 25GB per day for 50 Mbps to 100GB per day for 200 Mbps, after which the speed throttles to 5 Mbps and 50 Mbps respectively. Similarly, for XGPON of 500 Mbps and 1 Gbps fiber net, the speed degrades to 100 Mbps and 200 Mbps respectively. If you want to know if the Ntc fiber service is available in your area, there are two tricks. As FTTH uses optical fiber for connectivity from its office to customer premises, it provides triple-play services, including high-speed internet, voice, and Video (IPTV) service. To connect to Ntc FTTH Fiber internet service for your place, you need to follow the steps: Now you can make a call to Ntc by dialing 198 and then 1 to connect the fiber net in your place. With this, you can also make a demand of NT fiber in your place. We suggest you read a review of the NTC FTTH service. To recharge the fiber service, you can use the same procedure as you use for a traditional landline phone. You can also check FTTH validity and balance. Here are some of the methods to pay the bill or recharge. To complain about Ntc FTTH service, you need to call 198 and file a complaint by talking with the staff over the call. So, you do not need to visit the Ntc office to complain about your fiber internet service. We suggest you read: How to improve internet speed at your home, DIY? Here are the Frequently asked questions for Ntc fiber internet service. The price of NT fiber in Nepal ranges from Rs 815 to 1600 based on several speed offers and add on’s of Telephone, TV. If you subscribe to one year, it will be cheaper. To subscribe to Ntc fiber internet service, you need to dial 198 and press 1 to ask for fiber connection from your home. You can also visit to nearest Ntc office for more info and payment. The speed of Ntc fiber internet service ranges from 50 Mbps to 75 Mbps to 100 Mbps to 150 Mbps. Then you also have 500 Mbps, 1Gbps for corporate users. You get 4 in 1 service with Ntc fiber, which are unlimited internet, telephone, TV and free mobile data. You can get 600 MB to 1GB mobile data on your Ntc SIM, with the yearly subscription of Ntc fiber service. Tell us what you think of Ntc fiber internet service, in the comment box below. Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Viber to get the latest news, and information about Nepal Telecom, Ncell, Smart Cell, ISPs, mobile apps, and phones in Nepal.   
 Nepalitelecom.com is a website/blog which provides information regarding telecommunication in Nepal along with Gadgets and has been doing some research for the telecom market in Nepal. We intend to do more of such survey/research in the Nepalese Telecom sector.SiteMap 📢 Follow us on Viber to get the latest news, and information about Nepal Telecom, Ncell, ISPs, mobile apps, and phones in Nepal. Ntc | Ncell | Telco News | ISP | NTA | Gadgets  © 2024 Nepalitelecom  © 2024 Nepalitelecom