The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 There is a lot to consider when looking for the best internet-only plans on the market. We’ve done the research, combed through dozens of plans, analyzed data speeds, customer reviews and other factors to come up with the 10 best internet-only plans. Many people search for the fastest speed internet for the best price, but network reliability has to factor into that as well as service stipulations. 
Key Takeaways 
 The best internet only plans include Optimum 300, Optimum 1G, AT&T Internet 300 and more. Optimum 300 scored 4.5 out of 5 stars when reviewed against our detailed methodology with 36 years in business, available from $29.99 per month and including additional perks. It’s an option worth your consideration. Optimum: Optimum 300    We recommend Optimum’s 300 Mbps plan for its good value. At $29.99 per month with autopay and paperless billing, it’s an attractive option, and the additional perks like the $200 Visa prepaid card and three months of HBO Max make it even more appealing. The initial offer includes a free Wi-Fi extender and free installation when you order online. There are drawbacks to Optimum, though. Optimum is only available in Connecticut, New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania. According to the BBB, Optimum has closed 5,089 complaints in the last 12 months and a whopping 18,842 in three years. Optimum: Optimum 500    The good part about Optimum’s 500 Mpbs plan is that it only costs an additional $10 per month, however, the same upload speed of 200 Mpbs remains. That upload speed might not mean much for some customers but for those who work from home, it might make a difference. Despite a poor BBB rating, Optimum does go out of its way to provide low-cost internet service and even extends steeper discounts to students, seniors and veterans.  Optimum: Optimum 1 Gig    Optimum packs on the promos and with its 1 gig service, customers get Optimum Stream for free. The streaming package includes Netflix, Peacock, Prime Video, YouTube, Discovery+, Google Play, HBO Max and Paramount+. The up speed is 940 Mbps over fiber. Of course, fiber might not be available everywhere and that up speed dwindles to 35 Mbps when delivered over a cable network. AT&T Internet: INTERNET 300    AT&T’s 300 Mbps plan will handle the internet needs of most customers and comes at a reasonable price. AT&T has more locations available than Optimum and rates better with the BBB and in reviews. AT&T does have installation fees, though, and it’s promo offer also means signing up for auto payment and paperless billing.  AT&T Internet: INTERNET 500    AT&T ranked at the top of the American Customer Satisfaction Index in 2021 with Verizon Fios for internet service providers and there’s a lot to like about the service. AT&T is best where fiber is available, though it’s not available everywhere — just in 21 states. AT&T has 30,000-plus hotspots around the country, which means customers can connect to them whenever in range. AT&T also offers a $200 reward card for customers who order AT&T fiber online. AT&T does require customers to use its modems rather than their own to save on monthly fees, plus there’s usually a $99 installation fee, though some customers can qualify for a self-install kit or find an online promo that will waive the fee.  AT&T Internet, INTERNET 100    AT&T offers a more affordable internet pan with its Internet 100, but interestingly, customers can pay the same price for 300 Mbps. AT&T gets high marks for its customer service and its hotspot availability, but this plan includes a data cap of 1 TB. If the cap is exceeded, customers get charged an extra $10 per 50 GB  you use. Unlimited plans are available for an additional $30 a month.  CenturyLink: CenturyLink Fiber Internet    CenturyLink offers up to 940 Mbps download speed for a reasonable rate along with unlimited data and no activation fees. Plus, you can purchase a modem from CenturyLink for further savings, rather than paying a monthly rental charge. CenturyLink typically provides an adequate connection, though some customers have noticed slower than anticipated speeds at times. One of the rubs with CenturyLink are the modems it sends out. If it’s a rental modem, it can be refurbished or older. If you purchase a modem, CenturyLink will send you a new modem. CenturyLink doesn’t have the best track record for customer service. Customers have complained about long wait times on the phone and spotty technician appearances.  AT&T Internet, INTERNET 1000    AT&T’s fastest internet plan comes with an increased price, but that comes with AT&T’s 99% service reliability and its Smart Home Manager app, which can operate smart home devices, rather than use a different app for each device. AT&T does have an installation fee of $99, but there are often online promotions that offer free installation.  Google Fiber: 1 Gig    Google Fiber draws good reviews, but it’s availability still lags behind competitors. Google Fiber offers either 1 GB or 2 GB plans, which are the fastest on the market and it offers unlimited data. Customers can either use Google’s equipment or their own, which is nice for those who want to own their own modem. There is a $300 construction fee  depending on what customers subscribe to with Google Fiber. T-Mobile Home Internet, T-Mobile 5G Home Internet    T-Mobile is an intriguing internet option because it doesn’t rely on fiber or cable connections. It’s a good option in rural areas where there are few internet service providers. But don’t expect fast speeds in those areas because it’s 5G, and T-Mobile still leans on its 4G LTE network.  When picking out an internet-only plan like Optimum or AT&T, you might have limited options depending on your locale. But if you have a few options, you need to consider speed, pricing, fees, equipment and customer service. Some Internet Service Providers (ISPs) can advertise high speeds, but not all of them can deliver. Additionally, some ISPs can only offer those high speeds through a fiber connection and your area might not have that capability. Internet speed might factor more for some than others. If you have several devices connected to the internet, you’ll want to find a plan with enough speed so you don’t have slow download times or trouble connecting to websites. For others, a lower speed might work well and can also mean a less expensive plan. Consider how often you download things and the size of those things you download. The last thing you want is waiting for things to download or upload ISPs can offer an attractive advertised rate, but you always have to read the fine print. Some ISPs will include installation fees or the advertised rate includes a discount for using autopay. Often, ISPs will have a monthly rental charge for a modem and additional fees if you exceed a data cap. Most ISPs don’t require contracts and operate month-to-month, but some providers do require a contract. Getting out of those contracts can sometimes be tricky and might come with additional fees. Most ISPs that have month-to-month agreements won’t prorate the monthly fee if you cancel before the end of the month. Some ISPs require that you use their modems or routers and that usually means a monthly rental charge. Some providers will allow you to use your own modem, or router or you can purchase a modem from them, which is important if you want to save some money. Customer service can’t be overlooked when picking an internet plan. Inevitably, you’ll need tech support at some time and customer service is a key differentiator between ISPs. A provider that can solve your tech issues over the phone is an important factor. The speed in which they can send out a technician for bigger problems is also a big consideration, so check out customer service reviews before choosing a carrier.
 These days, with ample streaming options, there is little need for a traditional cable plan. An internet-only plan can cut your expenses and still provide you with all the viewing options that you need. Internet-only plans run far cheaper than bundled packages. Many ISPs offer gift cards or introductory streaming subscriptions like Max. You can find promotions that offer up to $200 in gift cards. An internet-only plan can provide reliable service and you don’t have to worry about your internet going out when your cable goes out. If you only have a few ISP options in your area, they might not offer the savings that an internet-only plan can offer. Providers like T-Mobile can allow customers to get internet service in rural areas and places with few providers. If you’re a serious gamer, an internet-only plan might fit you best because a bundle package might not give you the internet speeds you need. Unfortunately, not all internet providers are transparent about their fees. Typically buried within the fine print, hidden fees can quickly add up, causing your final bill to increase significantly. Although some providers state they have “no hidden fees,” it is always important to be vigilant while reading the contract you are signing for your internet-only plan. An internet-only plan is typically worth it for people who prefer watching streaming services like Netflix and Hulu over cable TV. Just be sure you sign up for a reliable, high speed internet plan to stream without interruption. To determine the best internet-only plans ranking, the Forbes Advisor editorial team analyzed data on 80 plans, with each plan’s rating determined by evaluating a variety of metrics, including: Yes, most internet service providers offer internet-only plans. Most ISPs will try to bundle internet service with phone and cable service, but you can choose an internet-only plan. It varies depending upon the speed that you want and other options. The cheapest plans start at $20 per month while the most expensive can be $300. Most internet-only plans cost around $50 per month. Most internet-only plans use existing telephone or cable jacks to connect to a modem. There is no cost to run internet lines because they already exist. ISPs can, however, charge installation or connection fees, along with modem rental fees. The right internet speed depends on your needs and the size of your household. Any speed of 10 Mbps or more will work great for streaming video. Online gaming might need faster speeds and streaming on multiple devices might need 25 Mbps or greater. A good download speed is 25 Mbps and a good upload speed is at least 3 Mbps. 
				Nick spent 10 years in print journalism before landing in digital publishing within the home improvement space. In addition to writing for Forbes Home, Nick contributes to publications like Angi, Trusted Company Reviews and Family Handyman. Through this, he has developed a wealth of knowledge in a variety of topics ranging from solar and home security to moving and home warranties.
			 
				Sami Allen is an editor with a decade of experience in editorial and who is currently the managing editor at Forbes Home. She got her start in lifestyle writing and editing at Oprah Magazine and more recently sharpened her home repair and design skills at websites like The Spruce and HomeAdvisor.
			 
				Lexie is a deputy editor at Forbes Home and has over 6 years of professional experience as a writer and editor in the home improvement space. She's previously worked at sites such as HomeAdvisor and Angi (formerly Angie's List).
			