  Tue 20 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters Belarus is training up its own force of Moscow-backed mercenaries similar to Russia’s notorious Wagner Group for possible deployment against Ukraine, according to a new study.  Alexander Lukashenko, the Belarusian president and de facto dictator, has been accused of giving orders for the massive expansion of Gardservis or GuardService, a private military contractor with links to the country’s special forces.  It is claimed that more than 1,000 personnel are currently undergoing training in Belarus and Russia with funding from the Kremlin and the involvement of commanders from Wagner Group, the paramilitary group run by Yevgeny Prigozhin, a former military catering contractor turned member of Vladimir Putin’s inner circle who has emerged as a key figure in the Ukraine war.  Molfar, a Kyiv-based open-source intelligence group, said it had obtained a trove of mobile phone tracking data for Gardservis personnel which showed the group is concentrated on a known Belarusian special services base and a nearby military training camp south of the capital, Minsk.  It said the data also showed multiple journeys by individuals and small Gardservis groups to Moscow, to the Belarusian border with Ukraine and into the territory of Nato members Latvia and Lithuania. In one case, an individual thought to be a Gardservis commander or aide was tracked directly to the Kremlin.  The findings follow claims earlier this month by a senior Belarusian opposition figure that Gardservis is being prepared as a potential combat force and should be seen as “Belarusian equivalent of Wagner Group”. The use of mercenary forces has been a singular feature of Russian strategy in Ukraine with Wagner fighters, many of them convicts recruited from prisons with a promise of amnesty, on the frontline in brutal fighting for the cities of Soledar and Bakhmut.  In its report, Molfar said: “We can testify to the intensification of the private military company GuardService’s development in Belarus. The mercenaries are being trained with the consent, support, and management of high-ranking representatives of the Kremlin government. We have every reason to believe that these are mercenaries whom the terrorist leadership of the Russian Federation and Belarus wants to use for war.”  The OSINT group said its analysis of mobile phone mast locations and other undisclosed sources suggested Gardservis personnel were being trained as “assault troops” both in Russia and at the headquarters of the Belarusian 5th Separate Special Forces Brigade near Minsk.  It said the force appeared to looking to produce “infantrymen who will work in reconnaissance units or highly mobile combat units” with the potential to be sent to “Ukraine or other countries”. Recruits to the private military contractor are being enticed with offers of €3,700 (£3,300) per month when deployed on “business trips”, according to the report.  Separate Belarusian opposition and Western security sources have raised the possibility that an expanded Gardservis force could be used for “deniable” actions such as sabotage or reconnaissance operations along Belarus’s 670-mile border with Ukraine. A Western security source told i: “One of the benefits of PMCs [private military contractors] for someone like Putin or Lukashenko is that they can be claimed to be somehow autonomous. They offer a useful deniability, however blatant the link [with the Russian or Belarusian authorities].”  Valeriy Sakhashchik, a former Belarusian commander who is now the defence and security representative of the Belarusian opposition in exile, led by former presidential candidate Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, said earlier this month that he believed the Kremlin was providing financing to enable Minsk to provide a “Belarusian analogue of Wagner”.  Mr Sakhashchik told German broadcaster Deutsche Welle: “Preparation and recruitment have been going on for several months. The staff was increased by officers… sergeants and soldiers who had served in the forces of special operations and in special units of the law enforcement agencies of Belarus.”  Other Belarusian sources have played down the significance of Gardservis, pointing out that it is relatively lightly armed and would be unlikely to make a strategic difference in either Ukraine or any direct confrontation between Kyiv and Minsk.  Molfar said its research nonetheless suggested further scenarios in which a mercenary force might be usefully deployed by Belarus. It said one tactic being pursued by Minsk might be the creation of an agile force capable of distracting Ukrainian and Western intelligence agencies with forays towards the borders of Ukraine, Latvia and Lithuania.  Similarly, the mercenary force could be posted on the Ukrainian border as part of a larger contingent designed to require Kyiv to maintain a significant deployment to defend against a renewed thrust by Moscow from Belarus into northern Ukraine.  The OSINT group said it was also possible that Gardservis mercenaries could be deployed to operate Russian anti-aircraft systems being used to fire missiles into Ukraine from Belarus. Moscow has a surfeit of S-400 air defence systems which it can use to target Kyiv and would be likely to see an advantage in using Belarusian personnel to man the systems, Molfar said.  All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.