  Tue 20 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters More than 20 Russian mercenary groups, some with links to senior politicians and even the Kremlin-supporting Orthodox church, have been deployed in Ukraine to bolster Moscow’s faltering military campaign, according to a new study.  The number of so-called “private military companies” (PMCs) operating out of Russia has proliferated since Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Crimea in 2014 as the Kremlin increasingly relies on mercenary groups as a key tool of its war in Ukraine and muscular foreign policy beyond Europe.  An analysis of 37 known Russian PMCs shows that 25 are operating, or have recently operated, in Ukraine alongside the Kremlin’s regular forces. The study by Molfar, a Ukraine-based open source intelligence think-tank, found that the companies range from organisations such as the Wagner Group, which has recruited convicts in bulk to fight as de facto cannon fodder in the key city of Bakhmut, to more specialist contractors supplying battlefield medics or technology experts.  Several of the groups sending soldiers of fortune to Ukraine, such the Wagner-linked Rusich force currently active in Crimea, have also been identified as having links with the extreme right and white supremacist or neo-Nazi ideology. Molfar said that as well PMCs being used across a range of African and Middle Eastern countries including Sudan, it had also found 12 mercenary organisations which appeared to have been created solely for deployment to the Ukraine conflict, with 11 having been created since the Russian invasion in February last year.  Experts argue that the growth in PMCs is a symptom of the system of rivalries and patronages at the heart of Russian president Vladimir Putin’s regime. The rise in the profile of the Wagner Group, headed by one-time Putin confidant Yevgeny Prigozhin, has seen Russia’s defence minister, Sergei Shoigu, a bitter rival of Prigozhin, set up his own mercenary group – Patriot – in recent months.  Molfar said the 25 mercenary groups linked with operations in Ukraine offered the Kremlin several advantages, including private funding provided for many PMCs by private sector backers and the fact that casualties incurred by the contractors do not feature on official records of battlefield losses.  In its report, Molfar said: “PMCs provide very short training for fighters and often use them as ‘cannon fodder’ – they are sent to storm fortified positions without training and support from aviation and artillery. The main goal is to exhaust the [opposing] fighters before the main body of regular troops attacks… People join PMCs voluntarily, so the state is not responsible to the families of the victims.”  The investigative group said the PMCs active in Ukraine were divided between organisations supplying large numbers of minimally trained personnel such as Wagner and Storm, which appears to be at least in part financed by the Russian defence ministry, and others supplying more specialist personnel. These include contractors such as Tsarski Volkie or the Tsar’s Wolves, which supplies and tests new weaponry for use on the front line, and Private Military Medical Company, headed by a former Moscow defence official, which provides battlefield medics.  A large proportion of the mercenary groups have direct links with key pillars of the Putin regime, including the FSB security service. Another group, St Andrew’s Cross, which is run by a branch of the Russian orthodox church near St Petersburg, insists it is not a PMC but has acknowledged that it provides military training for volunteers who are sent to Ukraine.  Despite the fact that PMCs are technically illegal under Russian laws which ban non-state military groups, according to Ukrainian intelligence officials, a growing number of major Russian companies, including state-owned oil and gas giant Gazprom, have also been linked with claims that they are  setting up their own armed units. They claimed in February that the units were being set up to protect manufacturing and production installations both abroad but also on Russian territory.   Western experts argue that such moves are part of a wider and disturbing trend of parts of Russian society gaining their own private militias to safeguard assets or power in the event of political instability.  One US-based think-tank has suggested that efforts by Mr Shoigu to set up PMCs controlled by his defence ministry are to provide an insurance policy if Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is ultimately deemed a failure.  In a report, the centrist Robert Lansing Institute said: “The reason why Russia’s defence minister is joining the PMC spree is that he does realise he will eventually be blamed for the failing invasion plans. Shoigu is trying to build a force that would protect him if the security agencies decide to force [him] out of Russian politics.”  All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.