The West holds "more than enough" tanks Ukraine needs in its war against Russia with a stock of around 10,000, a new study suggests. An independent Ukrainian study suggests Western countries are "more than capable" of meeting demands, the i reports. However, Ukraine is yet to receive over half of the Western tanks needed on the ground. The study by Molfar, a Kyiv-based research and investigations group, suggests Western countries have a bank of 10,141 main battle tanks, those Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has asked for. Artem Starosiek, head investigator said those nations are "more than capable" of meeting Ukranie's needs but suggested the reluctance could be down to "political" reasons. "While there are logistical challenges to consider when it comes to transferring and maintaining tanks, the fact remains that Western countries have the capacity to assist Ukraine in defending itself," he added.   The study also suggests that the West's bank of tanks rises to 17,000 when older and decommissioned tanks are included. It comes as Prime Minister Rishi Sunak tells world leaders they must help arm Ukraine and boost its long-term future. In a speech at the Munich Security Conference said that Ukraine needed military backing from allies to counter any spring offensive by Russian president Vladimir Putin's troops. He told the Bavarian summit there was a need to "bolster" Kyiv's armed forces immediately and to "double down" on the West's backing for its defence against Russia's invasion. READ MORE: Putin travelling by train as he fears plane will be ‘shot down’   He said: "We need to do more to boost Ukraine's long-term security. "We must give them the advanced, Nato-standard capabilities that they need for the future. "And we must demonstrate that we'll remain by their side, willing and able to help them defend their country again and again." Last month the UK pledged to send a further 14 British Army Challenger 2 battle tanks.   During a visit from Volodmyr Zelensky Mr Sunak said "nothing is off the table" when asked if the UK would send more support to Ukraine in the form of fighter jets. The UK has provided £2.3billion of military support to Ukraine and Mr Sunak said he was committed to matching or exceeding that contribution this year.  SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?