The Manipur government on Tuesday announced the conditional restoration of broadband services in the state, 83 days after the internet shutdown was imposed in response to the violence that broke out on May 3. Mobile internet services, however, remain suspended. The internet ban, first imposed for a period of five days, continued to be extended for five days at a time for nearly three months, with the government citing the law-and-order situation in the state.   On Tuesday, an order issued by the Home Department of the state government announced that the suspension of internet services is “lifted conditionally in a liberalised manner”, subject to several conditions. According to the list of conditions, social media websites and VPNs at the local level will be blocked; no WiFi or hotspot will be allowed from any of the routers and systems using an internet connection; and the login ID and password for a system will have to be changed on a daily basis. There will also be physical monitoring of internet subscribers by officials to ensure that they are following the terms and conditions, according to the order. The order also said that mobile internet services would remain suspended because “there are still apprehensions” regarding the spread of “disinformation and false rumours through various social media platforms” as well as regarding the sending of bulk SMS “for facilitating and or/mobilisation of mobs of agitators and demonstrations, which can cause loss of life and/or damage to public/private property”. Last week, the Supreme Court had refused to interfere with a Manipur High Court order that had directed the state to partially lift the ban on internet services, subject to restriction decided on by an expert committee. In its July 7 order, the High Court had said that it was of the view that its directions would help mitigate the hardships faced by the public with regard to the complete ban on internet services, while at the same time, “ensuring the security of the state and safety of the life and properties of the citizens”. Challenging the order in the Supreme Court, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the state government, had argued that the circulation of rumours could ignite riots. A three-judge Bench presided by Chief Justice of India, D Y Chandrachud, refused to interfere with the High Court’s order, but allowed the state government to approach the High Court in case there were difficulties in implementing its direction. Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates Kolkata rape-murder case: Why it’s not enough to hold protestsSubscriber Only Why PM Modi’s I-Day speech this year was uninspiringSubscriber Only Protests, suspensions to Chomsky: Decline of South Asian UniversitySubscriber Only UPSC Key | Mpox outbreak, Global Development Compact, Lateral entrySubscriber Only Why Bangladesh’s Mujib-focused history came under attackSubscriber Only IMD rain forecasts for Mumbai wrong by 42% in July.Subscriber Only China & supply of electronic components for ‘made in India’Subscriber Only After Hasina, the road ahead for BangladeshSubscriber Only All that freedom has given usSubscriber Only Vinesh Phogat's disqualification from the women's 50kg event at Paris 2024 Olympics due to being 100 grams over the weight limit on the day of the gold medal match has been deemed 'draconian' by the Court of Arbitration for Sport. The detailed report highlighted the challenges faced by Phogat, including a short time between bouts and being in her pre-menstrual phase.   