Indian weddings are all about dancing with relatives and friends, especially during a baraat procession. The groom’s family and friends are supposed to make a grand entry by dancing their hearts out to the beats of dhol. And Indian weddings are the same no matter which part of the world they are being held. A video posted on Twitter shows a marriage procession of Punjabis in London and what left netizens astonished is that the band engaged in making music are supposedly Englishmen. “Angrezon se band and dhol bajwa rahe hain Punjabi. Classic Revenge by Indians (Punjabis are making Englishmen play the dhol and perform at their weddings),” says the caption of the video that was posted by Gurmeet Chadha. He also added the words “on a lighter note” in the caption. It shows wedding guests dancing to the music and the groom sitting on a horse holding a ceremonial sword in the air. What is even more unbelievable than the Englishmen playing the music is their choice of song. They are playing the tune of AP Dhillon’s song Insane. Angrezon se band and dhol bajwa rahe hain Punjabi :). Classic Revenge by Indians. ( on a lighter note guys) pic.twitter.com/DPmp5UByRZ — Gurmeet Chadha (@connectgurmeet) January 20, 2023 Posted on January 20, the clip has amassed more than 1.40 lakh views so far.
“It’s time for Indians to conquer the world. Way to go as Punjabis will lead the way. Jai Hind,” commented a user. “Punjabian di Balle Balle,” said another. “U always bring super and unique stuff. Super like,” appreciated a third. Kolkata rape-murder case: Why it’s not enough to hold protestsSubscriber Only Why PM Modi’s I-Day speech this year was uninspiringSubscriber Only Protests, suspensions to Chomsky: Decline of South Asian UniversitySubscriber Only UPSC Key | Mpox outbreak, Global Development Compact, Lateral entrySubscriber Only Why Bangladesh’s Mujib-focused history came under attackSubscriber Only IMD rain forecasts for Mumbai wrong by 42% in July.Subscriber Only China & supply of electronic components for ‘made in India’Subscriber Only After Hasina, the road ahead for BangladeshSubscriber Only All that freedom has given usSubscriber Only BJP suspends Bardoli taluka panchayat vice-president Bipinchandra Chaudhary for six years due to "anti-party activities". Chaudhary lost the Sumul Dairy bypolls to BJP leader Jitendra Patel by 20 votes. BJP leaders tried to convince him to withdraw his nomination, but he refused. A no confidence motion was passed against him and he has been removed from his post.  