GURUGRAM: Mobile internet service has been restored in the Nuh district of Haryana, two weeks after it was suspended following communal clashes that claimed six lives, police said on Monday. According to the police, the service was restored Sunday at midnight. Following the violence on July 31, mobile internet service was completely stopped by the government till 8 August. The suspension was subsequently extended till 13 August. Six people, including two home guards and a cleric, died in the clashes that erupted in Nuh after a procession of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) was attacked by mobs on July 31 and spread to adjoining areas, including Gurugram. ALSO READ: Over 200 arrested, 102 FIRs lodged in Nuh violence: Haryana minister Following sustained efforts by the Nuh district administration to restore normalcy, markets are now open in the violence-affected areas and people are visiting them. Ten days after the violence, orders were given by the district magistrate to open all educational institutions. Schools are now functioning as usual. Students are busy preparing for Independence Day celebrations. Police parade units are also preparing for the programme to be held at the district level. "People have got a lot of relief after the services of Haryana State Transport buses were restored and they are not facing any kind of problem in visiting other destinations. Now the situation is quite normal," Deputy Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said. On Sunday, a 'mahapanchayat' organised by Hindu outfits at Pondri village in the neighbouring Palwal district decided to resume on August 28 the VHP's Braj Mandal Yatra in Nuh was disrupted after communal violence. The mahapanchayat also made several demands, which included an NIA probe into the attack on the VHP yatra in Nuh on July 31 and declaring Nuh a cow slaughter-free district. Follow The New Indian Express channel on WhatsApp  Download the TNIE app to stay with us and follow the latest  Copyright - newindianexpress.com 2024. All rights reserved.  