Michael Molina, 39, of Fayetteville, is the MDM/RNI (Meter Data Management/Regional Network Interface) supervisor for the Fayetteville Public Works Commission He was nominated for 40 Under 40 because "he has volunteered in the community in many capacities over the years. His volunteering has included Meals on Wheels, food bank, mentoring at-risk youth with life skills, Habitat for Humanity, United Way, PWC Jay Walkers-Walk to End Alzheimer and Fayetteville Urban Ministry. Mike has served on the Board of CBYA which mentors at-risk youth and from 2001 to the present, he has coached numerous sports within the Fayetteville Parks and Recreation organization," a nominator writes. "Mike is a proud member of our community and continues to seek out volunteer opportunities as well as working with the youth either through sports or mentorship. He believes that stewardship, cohesiveness and volunteerism is key to the success of a healthy community." Here's what else you should know about this member of The Fayetteville Observer's 40 Under 40 Class of 2023. My wife of 14 years, Brandy Molina; daughter, Aniyah Molina, 14; and son, Michael Molina, 10 My department is responsible for ensuring the completion of remote activities that are created. These activities include disconnects for nonpay, reconnects for payment, start services and stop services, as well as analyzing all of the alerts and alarms that trigger from the meter. Also, ensuring that there are billable reads for all meters to be billed correctly. I attended Fayetteville Technical Community College for Electrical and Electronics Technology. Also, Liberty University and the University of North Carolina at Pembroke for Business Management. CBYA; LYNC Athletics; SPAN; Superdads Group I volunteer throughout the year in various capacities via the United Way. I also volunteer my time as a coach through Fayetteville Parks and Recreation and have done so for the past 20 years. I wish that people understood how much PWC as a company works to serve the community. We pride ourselves in being Fayetteville's hometown utility and we work very hard to maintain a high level of professionalism. We work for the community and we are proud to do so. The best advice that anyone could have given me was to "learn how to do things for yourself." If you take the initiative to learn a new skill to add to your toolbox it will make you a very well-rounded individual with skills that last a lifetime. Being in management was a goal that I strived to achieve since starting my career at PWC. I was able to achieve that goal by learning everything I could, working hard and volunteering to take on tasks that would help me stand out from others. If I weren't employed at PWC I would probably be in the military. Five things that I can't live without are a sound mind, peace, coaching/teaching others, self-improvement literature, and the thought that I am not done. Outside of work, I do a lot of self-improvement and learning how to do new things to enrich myself. I read and do research on how to create T-shirt designs. Some responses may have been edited for style and grammar. This article originally appeared on The Fayetteville Observer: 40 Under 40: Michael Molina, Fayetteville Public Works Commission New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.