New York City Department of Correction Commissioner Louis Molina pleaded with the federal monitor overseeing jails not to release a disturbing report exposing apparent attempts to cover up five serious incidents in the jails over two weeks in May — including a suicide and a beating that left a man paralyzed. Molina claimed Friday in emails the report would “cause great harm to the department when we are making great strides.” He added disclosure will “fuel the flames of those who believe we cannot govern ourselves,” according to the monitoring report released later on Friday. The monitor declined. “The commissioner’s communication raises significant concerns about whether the commissioner and the department fully appreciate the gravity of the issues at hand,” the report said. Department sources said Molina vehemently disagreed with the decision to release the report. “Our sin in those matters, it seems, was not reporting them to the deputy monitor quickly enough,” Molina wrote in a letter to the lead monitor, Steve Martin. “I do not believe that any delay in notification impeded your work,” Molina’s letter said. The monitor first learned of the five incidents days later either through media reports or other means, not the Correction Department, as required, the report said. “These cases represent a troubling state of affairs,” said the report compiled by Martin and his staff. It added that the cases raise “serious concerns” about the department’s ability to accurately report serious incident in a timely manner. Among the incidents cited in the report: * After detainee Rubu Zhao jumped from an upper tier in a mental health unit at the George R. Vierno Center and suffered a skull fracture on May 14, correction officials held off disclosing his suicide attempt for 33 hours until just after midnight May 16, the report said. Zhao died at Elmhurst Hospital Center at 11:51 p.m. on May 16. The report confirms a sequence first disclosed in a May 17 Daily News article. It then took the Correction Department another 24 hours to notify the monitoring team, which first learned about the incident via The News’ article, the report said. The department first claimed it did not need to disclose the incident. Then Molina wrote that the monitor’s emailed inquiry — sent to top correction officials — went into a “spam folder.” Finally, Molina argued DOC doesn’t have to report in-custody deaths to the monitor, the report said. But the monitor cited court orders that direct the department to do so in 24 hours. * Detainee James Carlton, 39, was tackled on May 11 by a group of correction officers at the Vernon C. Bain Center in Hunts Point, the Bronx — the East River jail barge — after refusing to leave an elevator. With blood on his face, his arms and legs were shackled. When his leg jerked near an officer he was taken down again and couldn’t stop his fall. Carlton is now paralyzed from the neck down and has undergone three surgeries. At first, no one advised the Correction Department’s Central Operations Desk that Carlton was seriously injured and in the hospital, the report said. Despite serious uses of force being central to the court orders governing the monitor’s work, the monitor only learned of the incident 11 days after it happened from a media report. Correction officials said Carlton’s injuries came from a preexisting spinal condition “exacerbated when he fell” — a claim the monitor said was “questionable at best.” * On May 17, a man in a crowded intake pen at the Eric M. Taylor Center was jumped by several other detainees. He was seriously injured, but left in a different pen naked without help from staff for several hours. He was given just underwear right before he was taken to the medical clinic and then to the hospital. He suffered internal bleeding, broken ribs, and a ruptured spleen that needed emergency surgery. The monitor found out about it May 19 from an outside source. Three days after the assault, on May 20, it was finally reported to DOC’s Central Operations Desk when it should have been reported within one hour under department policy. As of Friday, correction officials still had yet to brief the monitor on the incident, the report said. Molina told the monitoring team, “Briefings on ongoing investigations are hardly the norm.” But the monitor said, in fact, that Molina’s claim was “not consistent with the record or the court orders.” “Further, it is not for commissioner, or any employee or agent of any party [in the case] to determine what the monitor may need to perform his duties,” the report said. The monitor said its review of video of the incident “suggests that there are aspects of this incident that may be criminal in nature.” The monitor referred the incident on May 24 to the city Department of Investigation. * On May 20 at the Anna M. Kross Center, a small entry in a log book reported a man was taken to the hospital complaining about headaches, the report said. Once there, his condition plummeted, and he was placed on life support where he remains, not expected to survive. Two days later, once again, the monitor learned about this from an outside source. And once again, the incident wasn’t reported to the Central Operations Desk as required, the report said. In that case Molina contended there was “no official wrongdoing,” and that the victim was released while he lay in the coma, but had no other information to report. “It is unclear how the department was able to reach the conclusion that there was ‘no departmental wrongdoing’ given the limited information available,” the report said. * Also on May 20, an ailing 80-year-old man being admitted in the Taylor Center intake area was roughed up by officers and then handcuffed behind his back in a pen alone for at least four hours. He developed a serious medical condition that led him to be sent to the hospital. The monitor didn’t find out about the incident for four days, again from an outside source. Video obtained by the monitor on May 25 and 26 showed the man lay on the ground and refused to enter a holding pen in the clinic area. When the elderly man resisted, officers picked him up and forced him to sit in a wheelchair by twisting his arms behind his back. He was handcuffed and left alone in a cell for about four hours. A Correction Department assistant commissioner looked in on him but did nothing, the report said. The man suffered a blood clot, and he was taken to Bellevue, where he is in intensive care. In a letter to the court, the Legal Aid Society called for an outside receiver to take control of the jails. “The culture of impunity and violence in New York City jails persists unabated and will continue to do so until an authority independent of the city is permitted to intervene,” the society said. In a statement Tuesday, DOC did not reply to specific questions but instead touted improvements in the jail system. “Simply put, the Department of Correction is in a much better place today than it was during the last administration,” he said. Correction officers union President Benny Boscio called the report “biased and one-sided” and said the monitor should step down. “The reality is that the federal monitor and his team have strayed very far from their original mission, and this new report conveniently excludes key data showing any progress that is being made to combat jail violence, which is largely the result of the dedication and hard work of our officers serving on the front lines,” he said. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.