MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  COMMENTARY Creating a co-branded alcoholic beverage is an effort to gain immediate attention and market share for a product by drawing in consumers to the co-branded product who have loyalty to the nonalcoholic beverage. February 11, 2023 at 12:42 PM  10 minute read Food and Beverage Consumer tastes are generally fickle. Styles and preferences are always changing, often from season to season or year to year. One moment wide-collared jackets and wide ties are all the rage, until they’re replaced by skinny collars and ties. The fickle nature of tastes and preferences is certainly not limited to fashion. In fact, perhaps nowhere is the fickle nature of tastes and preferences more notable and noticeable than in the alcohol beverage world. If you are a manufacturer, how do you spot and get ahead of the next big trend? And can you create trends on your own? For those who are watching the industry closely, to generate sales and buzz, for new product development alcohol manufacturers are combining a perceived safe choice with what may prove to be a risky move—co-branding. Co-branding, in the alcohol beverage setting, joins an existing alcohol beverage or manufacturer with a well-known existing nonalcohol beverage brand owned by a third party. Creating a co-branded alcoholic beverage is an effort to gain immediate attention and market share for a product by drawing in consumers to the co-branded product who have loyalty to the nonalcoholic beverage. There are high profile co-branding examples in this new world of creative alcohol brands, like Pepsi partnering with Boston Beer to produce Hard Mountain Dew and Coke partnering with Jack Daniels to produce Jack and Coke in a can. Then there are significant, but perhaps less splashy examples of co-branding, such as Coke partnering with Molson Coors to produce a hard Topo Chico seltzer and a hard Fresca. And finally, there are the more novel examples of co-branding, like the Harpoon Brewing-produced hard Dunkin Coffee Porter and COOP Beverage Works-produced Sonic Hard Seltzers. If a soft drink or other nonalcoholic brand owner would like to extend its brand into an alcoholic beverage, the arrangement is complex and will be set forth in an agreement, typically styled as a licensing or production agreement. One challenge for extending a nonalcohol brand into alcohol is that only holders of state and federal alcohol-manufacturing permits are allowed to produce alcoholic beverages in the United States. Nonalcohol brand owners cannot produce alcoholic beverages that are based on their nonalcohol brands. On the other hand, brand owners always want to protect their brands by retaining control over all products that carry their brand names and brand images. They want to control the recipe and taste profile, the marketing and labelling, and some may want to control the price and the method and manner of sales and the sales channels. It can be a difficult for a brand owner to partner with an alcohol manufacturer if the brand owner cannot satisfy itself that it can sufficiently protect its brand and control the alcoholic beverage being produced by a third-party manufacturer. Licensing agreements between brand owners and alcohol manufacturers usually give the alcohol manufacturer a limited license to make an agreed-upon alcohol beverage within certain parameters. Under applicable law, alcohol manufacturers are required to retain “ownership” of the alcohol beverages they produce, to establish the prices, to pay all the relevant taxes, and to sell the products to wholesalers. Manufacturers of alcohol are also responsible—and are legally liable for—how the alcohol they produce is marketed and advertised. This responsibility includes the creation and implementation of point of sale (POS) advertising materials, such as signs and lights in retail on- and off-premises locations, of radio, TV, print and social media advertising and marketing, as well as other promotional efforts in on- and off-premises retail accounts. But brand owners have strong opinions on all of these topics and actions that the alcohol manufacturers are legally responsible for. How are these two conflicting interests—the manufacturer as responsible party for alcohol products that carry brand names owned by another company versus the brand owner who desires total control over products that carry its brand names—resolved? The answer is unclear and can vary from deal to deal, but the resolution of this conflict of interests may determine whether these partnerships are sustainable in the long term. To further complicate matters, the way in which these conflicting interests are resolved in the licensing agreement may by questioned by federal and state liquor licensing authorities. If a brand owner retains too much control over the manufactured alcohol beverage, the authorities may well object. Pepsi Co. is attempting to resolve its control issues, when it comes to Hard Mountain Dew, for example, in part by becoming a licensed alcohol wholesaler and by requiring the contracted manufacturer (Boston Beer) to use Pepsi Co’s. subsidiary as its exclusive distributor of Pepsi-branded alcohol products. Its efforts to become a wholesaler is raising additional legal issues, or at least questions, in the broader alcohol manufacturing and distribution community, and becoming an alcohol wholesaler may not solve Pepsi’s challenges in the long run. Pepsi Co. created a subsidiary called Blue Cloud Distribution, and its agreement with Boston Beer, which is producing Hard Mountain Dew, requires Boston Beer to distribute Hard Mountain Dew exclusively through Blue Cloud. Blue Cloud has obtained federal alcohol distribution permits for about 30 states and has obtained state distribution licenses for at least half that many. (Federal permits are issued before state-level permits are issued; if a state refuses to issue a wholesale permit to an entity that already has a federal permit for that state, the company will not be permitted to distribute alcohol within that state.) A few states, notably Virginia, has refused to issue Pepsi Co. a permit, and other states are scrutinizing the applications. From Pepsi Co’s perspective, its Blue Cloud subsidiary is being established and will operate within the framework of applicable state and federal alcohol beverage laws. But members of the alcohol industry, wholesalers in particular, have lots of questions and concerns. In fact, the powerful industry association, the National Beer Wholesalers Association, has raised strong objections to Pepsi’s wholly owned subsidiary becoming an alcohol wholesaler. One objection, for instance, is that if Pepsi is in fact retaining control of the product produced by Boston Beer, should it be deemed to be a manufacturer of alcohol? If so, under state and federal tied house laws, it cannot also be a wholesaler of alcohol. (Tied house laws prohibit a person or entity from simultaneously holding any financial or controlling interest in more than one tier of the alcohol industry and that the lines between the tiers cannot be allowed to be “blurred.” The tiers are manufacturing, wholesaling and retailing.) If Pepsi Co. is requiring Boston Beer to use Pepsi’s Blue Cloud Distribution company for all off-premises accounts is that not evidence that Pepsi is dictating how the product will be distributed and isn’t that, in fact, a decision that the manufacturer should make? Perhaps as significant is the fact that Pepsi Co. is a global manufacturer of nonalcoholic beverages and numerous other food stuffs sold to consumers in grocery and convenience stores and to support the sales of such products it is permitted to pay slotting or placement fees to retailers. These are fees that a manufacturer outside the alcohol industry is permitted to pay to, essentially, purchase shelf space in grocery and convenience stores. In fact, food and nonalcoholic beverage manufacturers pay billions of dollars a year to retailers to buy shelf space, to buy the most sought-after product placements in retailers’ stores (end caps and space near registers), to buy “island” displays, and to guarantee retention of such spaces. Outside the alcohol industry, food and nonalcoholic beverage manufacturers also pay for the right to organize the appearance and arrangement of particular departments within grocery and convenience stores—such as the frozen food section. All of which is perfectly legal. It has been estimated that food and nonalcohol beverage manufacturers pay grocery and convenience stores as much as $9 billion dollars a year in placement fees. (See, Center for Science in the Public Interest Report, Temptation at Checkout, Gary Rivlin, Jessica Almy, J.D., M.S., Margo Wootan, D.Sc., 2015. And see Rigged, Supermarket Shelves for Sale, Center for Science in the Public Interest, 2016.) But in the alcohol industry, slotting fees are strictly prohibited. Manufacturers and wholesalers of alcohol are prohibited from providing anything of value to retail licensees, including the provision of services or equipment as well as the payment of slotting fees. The prohibition exists to protect a free market in alcohol beverages, to maintain retailer independence from manufacturers and wholesalers, and to curtail intemperance resulting from overly aggressive promotion of alcohol beverages. The question with regard to Pepsi Co. is, then, if it pays significant slotting fees to a retail licensee for placement of its soda, snacks and other food products, fees that can be impactful on a grocer’s or convenience store’s bottom line, is it violating state and federal prohibitions against alcohol wholesalers and manufacturers from paying slotting fees? Although such payments could only be considered indirect slotting fees, existing wholesalers argue that such payments should be prohibited because they create an unfair market, unfavorable to them, as alcohol manufacturers and wholesalers who are strictly prohibited from paying slotting fees. The balance of the wholesale tier, as well as public health officials, are expressing legitimate concerns with the entrance into the alcohol industry of such a global food and soft drink behemoth as Pepsi Co. The concerns are heightened because Pepsi and other nonalcohol brand owners are contracting with alcohol manufacturers to produce co-branded alcohol beverages that carry very well-established brand names and images that already appear on soft drinks and other nonalcohol products. It is argued that these co-branded products will accidentally, or intentionally, confuse consumers and wind up in the hands of minors. It is unclear how or whether Pepsi Co.’s subsidiary, Blue Cloud, or the nonalcohol brands owned by other companies will integrate into the alcohol industry, but it is clear that there will be strong objections if Blue Cloud becomes fully licensed nationally, and it is clear that it will shake things up in the industry if it is successful. Will Coke follow suit and become a licensed alcohol manufacturer or wholesaler? Will lesser brands follow suit? Will three tier objections and the possibility of tied house concerns over indirect slotting fees paid by parties like Pepsi and Coke be ignored? These questions are likely to be answered in the not-too-distant future. Robert “R.J.” O’Hara is president of Flaherty & O’Hara, a Pennsylvania-based boutique law firm with 12 attorneys and numerous support staff practicing exclusively in the alcohol beverage space. He represents members of all three tiers of the alcohol industry, representing clients on general liquor licensing matters, complex ownership changes, in litigation and hearings, on multistate license acquisitions, on administrative citations and on tied house and trade practice matters.   NOT FOR REPRINT © 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved.
    Request academic re-use from 
        www.copyright.com.
        All other uses, submit a request to 
         [email protected]. 
        For more information visit 
        Asset & Logo Licensing.
 By Jerry M. Lehocky By Maria Dinzeo By Integreon (Sponsored) By Helen Lawless 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder 'If Only We Had Full Staffing': This Legal Sector Is Spread Thin, but Negotiating Higher Rates The American Lawyer Presented by BigVoodoo  The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. Consulting Magazine identifies the best firms to work for in the consulting profession. 
                                        JOB DESCRIPTION SUMMARY      Pulsar Title Insurance Company Inc., a commercial and residential title insurance underwriter based in the Bato...
                                 
                                        RECRUITMENT BONUS Newly hired employees from this recruitment may be eligible to receive bonus payments up to $3,000!*   FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE: ...
                                 
                                        Morristown, NJ; New York, NY Description: Fox Rothschild has an opening in multiple offices for a Counsel in our Litigation Department. The ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join The Legal Intelligencer now! Already have an account? Sign In The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.