Advertisement 
                February 13, 2023 | 41 min read
             

                     Listen to article
                 
4 min
 Welcome to The Drum’s ad scoreboard. Here's everything you need to know about marketing's biggest plays during Super Bowl LVII. Here’s who is suiting up and sitting out in 2023 / Credit: The Drum Anheuser-Busch Anheuser-Busch will return to Super Bowl with four spots for its leading portfolio brands Budweiser, Bud Light, Michelob Ultra and Busch Light, totaling three minutes of national air time. However, AB’s brands will not be alone; they will be sharing the limelight with other alcoholic brands for the first time since 1988 after it gave up its exclusive advertising rights this year. Budweiser A recent announcement from Anheuser-Busch revealed that many spots will include celebrities. Take Kevin Bacon, for example, who is confirmed to narrate Budweiser’s spot, and Grammy-nominated producer Metro Boomin, who will star in the ad. Budweiser’s game-day ad, which was released on January 31, will revive the brand‘s iconic tagline, ‘This Bud’s for you.’ Boomin both produced the ad’s soundtrack and is seen recording a song in a bedroom. But the other five stars of the ad are not so well-known; there’s rapper PineappleCITI, an amateur basketball player, a construction worker, a food truck owner and a woman who founded a community support group in the midst of the pandemic. The casting sends a message that Budweiser is a brand for everyone. Bud Light Bud Light’s Super Bowl campaign ushers in a significant shift in the beer’s branding: a more serious approach, as opposed to the brand’s historically comedic campaigns, as well as a new tagline, ’Easy to drink. Easy to enjoy.’ The ad stars actor Miles Teller, known for his role in the 2022 thriller Spiderhead, along with his wife Keleigh and a silver puppy. Keleigh, on the phone, appears to be stuck on hold, so Teller takes it upon himself to crack open a few Bud Lights to enjoy the moment with his wife. The pair then begin to dance to the immediately recognizable hold music.  In ’The Bud Light carry’ the brand’s second spot, a woman navigates a crowded bar while holding five pint glasses of Bud Light in her hands as Hypnotize by Notorious B.I.G. plays. Still, despite nearly spilling on herself many times, she chooses to enjoy the moment. Both spots present slightly annoying situations that we can all relate to, suggesting that Bud Light is positioning itself as a brand that helps consumers have fun, no matter the circumstance. The spot was developed by Anomaly. Busch Light Singer-songwriter Sarah McLachlan also stars in Busch Light’s hilarious spot, which the brand leaked early on January 30. In the spot, McLachlan attempts her routine ASPCA campaign script, until the brand‘s ‘Busch Guy’ mascot corrects her.  Bush’s Beans Bush’s Beans has a new ambassador: NFL legend Peyton Manning, according to a teaser spot, called ’Beautiful bean tryouts,’ unveiled on February 8.  In the teaser, Bush’s iconic spokesdog, Duke Bush, his pal Jay Bush and the great-grandson of Bush’s founder work with Manning as he preps for his Super Bowl appearance. Manning marks the third spokesperson to ever utter the phrase, “roll that beautiful bean footage” in a Bush’s TV ad – following in the footsteps of Jay and Duke. The campaign, developed by the agency Carmichael Lynch, will air during the second half of the big game. Michelob Ultra Michelob Ultra’s star-studded campaign channels the classic 1980 comedy Caddyshack. The two spots, produced by Weiden+Kennedy, were released early on February 1. In one spot, titled ’New Members Day,’ athlete Serena Williams and Succession’s Brian Cox go head-to-head in a golf tournament at Bushwood Country Club. The pair are then joined by a large entourage of superstar athletes, including Tony Romo, who plays Bill Murray’s character, Jimmy Butler, Alex Morgan, Nneka Ogwumike and Canelo Alvarez. The second spot promotes Full Swing, a new golf docuseries coming to Netflix immediately after the big game. A QR code in the spot will grant fans early access to the first episode. Each brand will have the Super Bowl serve as the launch point for year-long campaigns encompassing TV, digital, social, out-of-home, e-comm and trade programming. Astellas  Pharmaceutical company Astellas announced it will run a 30-second spot in the Big Game aimed to raise awareness about menopause. According to an Endpoints News report, the campaign will center around vasomotor symptoms (VMS), which include night sweats and hot flashes. Avocados from Mexico  Avocados from Mexico is ripe for its eighth appearance in the big game. On February 8, the nonprofit released its full spot featuring Anna Faris, the actress known for her work in the Scary Movie film franchise. The spot riffs on biblical themes, like Adam and Eve, as Faris and her co-star find themselves naked in the Garden of Eden. Produced by Dallas-based ad agency Lerma, the ad will support the brand’s new campaign designed to celebrate how Avocados From Mexico make everything better, and it will air during the largest consumption period of avocados during the year. The brand initially had plans to use AI chatbot ChatGPT in its Super Bowl campaign, however, as of February 3, the brand has decided to nix those plans. Booking.com Booking.com is bringing its second-ever in-game ad to the Super Bowl’s fourth quarter: a 30-second spot starring Melissa McCarthy. The ad, titled ‘Somewhere, Anywhere,’ was released early on February 6 and puts the Emmy Award-winning actress at the center of a musical number. In the ad, McCarthy books a vacation on the Booking.com mobile app, which transports her to a swath of destinations, from a beach-side villa to a fancy hotel and everywhere in between. A teaser released by the travel brand on February 1 hinted towards one scene in the spot, in which she dons a green clay mask while getting a foot massage. The spot, produced by Canadian agency Zulu Alpha Kilo, will continue the brand‘s ‘Booking.yeah’ campaign. Crown Royal Liquor giant Diageo will make its Super Bowl debut with a 60-second spot for Crown Royal whiskey featuring Dave Grohl. To date, the brand has released two teaser spots with the Foo Fighters frontman.  In one, titled ‘Dave Grohl thanks Studio 606,‘ Grohl is seated at a mixing board with a bottle of Crown Royal at his side. He gives thanks for a number of random objects around him, like a flannel jacket on his seat. ”Thank you, flannel, for keeping the grunge dream alive,” he says wistfully. ”Thank you, tiny guitar pick.” In ‘Dave Grohl learns something new,’ the rocker glances at a piece of paper and reads off a list of seemingly random items: peanut butter, paint rollers, egg cartons and Hawaiian pizza. Neither teaser spot makes much sense at this point; so the brand encourages fans to stay tuned for the official in-game spot, which airs during the third quarter. The campaign was developed by Anomaly and directed by HBO Voyeur Project director Jake Scott. Disney To mark its impending centennial anniversary in October, Disney is premiering ‘Disney100 - Special Look‘ during Super Bowl LVII. The 90 second spot features scenes from iconic Disney films, theme parks, and more, as well as some words from Walt Disney, elucidating the shared nostalgia the company has created for people around the world. In addition to the big game appearance, the spot is being shown via Disney’s social and TV channels across EMEA, as well as on Disney+.  Dexcom Glucose monitoring brand Dexcom is returning to the Super Bowl this year with a spot starring singer and Type 1 diabetic, Nick Jonas. ‘Feels like magic‘ is a 30-second spot meant to show the ease and comfort of the brand‘s new G7 CGM System, a glucose monitoring device that received FDA clearance in December. The campaign was created by the agency Marcus Thomas. DoorDash DoorDash tapped celebrity chef Matty Matheson and Wu-Tang Clan member Raekwon the Chef to peddle its grocery delivery services this Super Bowl. Co-developed by The Martin Agency and DoorDash‘s in-house creative team, Superette, ‘We get groceries‘ is meant to tell the masses about the brand‘s offerings beyond restaurant delivery. In the 30-second ad, Matheson helps customers select the ripest pineapple, while Raekwon the Chef helps a customer shop for groceries. Raekwon hands her a carton of cream, which prompts her to quote a Wu-Tang classic: “Because cream rules every thing around me?“  Doritos Rock & Roll Hall of Famer Elton John and rapper Jack Harlow will show off their triangle-playing chops in Doritos‘ Super Bowl LVII spot, ‘Jack‘s new angle.‘  Joined by rap royalty Missy Elliott, Harlow becomes transfixed by the triangle and abandons his entire rap career for the instrument conveniently shaped like the brand‘s new Sweet and Tangy BBQ chips. However, Harlow is soon upstaged by none other than Elton John, who in the ad wins Triangle Player of the Year.  The commercial is slated to run during the second quarter of Super Bowl LVII. It was directed by Wayne McClammy, who is known for his work on the 2015 Geico James Bond parody campaign. Three teaser clips from Doritos revealed that big-league rappers Jack Harlow and Missy Elliott would star in its Super Bowl spot. However, the brand kept Elton John’s appearance hidden until it released the official spot on February 8. The snack brand previously offered fans a chance to appear in the game day ad by participating in a TikTok dance contest. The challenge, which kicked off on January 9 and closed on January 11, encouraged fans to upload “their best triangle-inspired dance,” like popular TikToker @vibin.wit.tay, along with the hashtags #DoritosTriangleTryout and #Entry. Three finalists and a single winner have not yet been announced. Downy On February 6, Downy released its Super Bowl spot, which reveals Danny McBride as the mystery man under the sweatshirt. In the ad, the Eastbound & Down star is so impressed by the brand‘s freshness pledge that he asks to be called ‘Downy McBride‘ from now on, and takes to the street to deliver the product to all of his neighbors. The brand previously released five sneak peeks that kept McBride‘s identity hidden in the 12 weeks leading up to the big game. “Downy Unstopables wants to use my face in [its] Super Bowl ad, but I haven‘t agreed because I don‘t believe it yet,” he said in the spot. The campaign, which is slated to run right before halftime, was ideated and developed by Woven Collaborative and Saatchi & Saatchi. DraftKings Sports betting and fantasy platform DraftKings is launching its third big game campaign with a 30-second spot starring comedian Kevin Hart. DraftKings made its Super Bowl debut in 2021 when it aired two 15-second ads. Both created in-house, the spots offered viewers the chance to bet for free on fourth-quarter action. In 2022, DraftKings ran a commercial titled ’Fortune: Life’s a gamble,’ which introduced a new risk-taking spokescharacter, the Goddess of Fortune, played by actress Emily James. DraftKings’ internal team worked on the creative concept, while Hartbeat, Hart’s newly formed production company, produced the spot. Dunkin’ Donuts During Super Bowl LVII, preeminent donut chain Dunkin‘ released its first-ever in-game spot starring and directed by longtime fan, Ben Affleck. In the 30-second ad, the award-winning actor dons a Dunkin‘ uniform and works the drive-thru window of a real restaurant in Medford, Massachusetts. During his shift, he shares one of the latest offers to hit the menu: the Dunkin’ Run, which offers a $1 classic donut with any medium or larger coffee. The spot closes as he takes a surprise order from his wife, Jennifer Lopez. The spot was developed in partnership with agency Anomaly. E.l.f. Cosmetics Cruelty-free beauty brand Elf Cosmetics will make its television debut with a 30-second spot featuring Jennifer Coolidge of The White Lotus and A Cinderella Story.  A teaser spot released on February 9 took viewers on a comedic journey with the award-winning actress, as she discovers how dewy, glowy and baby dolphin-like her skin looks after trialing the brand’s makeup primer, the ’Power Grip Primer.’  The script was co-written by Shadow and award-winning filmmaker Mike White, also known for his work on The White Lotus. Meanwhile, Maggie Carey and Neal Brennan co-directed the campaign, and Caviar produced. The full ad, developed with creative agency Shadow, is slated to premiere during the second quarter of the game. E*Trade Online brokerage E*trade will make its third Super Bowl appearance during the first quarter with a 30-second spot produced by its longtime creative agency, MullenLowe. The spot will bring back the now-famous E*trade baby, which the brand resurrected in last year’s game. In a teaser spot released on February 2, the baby is seen getting dressed in business attire. Like an adult, he removes the lint from his suit, secures cufflinks and parts his hair to the side. FanDuel Online sports betting platform FanDuel is taking a gamble of its own by announcing its Super Bowl ad debut: ‘Kick of Destiny.’ The campaign, ideated and developed by Wieden+Kennedy New York, features Super Bowl champion and five-time NFL pro-bowler, Rob Gronkowski (or as fans know him, Gronk). He will attempt to kick a 25-yard field goal live during a third-quarter commercial break in the big game. If Gronk makes the kick, fans who placed a bet on the Super Bowl on FanDuel’s sportsbook will win a share of the brand‘s $10m giveaway. Instead of a traditional Super Bowl ad, the campaign will encapsulate an event within the Super Bowl, providing fans with another entertaining experience during the big game. While Gronk continues to practice for his big moment, FanDuel will also release three spots throughout the month of January: ‘Agent,‘ which premiered on January 9, as well as ‘Training‘ and ‘Media,‘ which haven‘t been released yet. The spots document Gronk‘s training, as he enlists the help of the legendary NFL kicker with the most number of kicked points (and the most Super Bowl wins of any kicker), Adam Vinatieri. The Farmer‘s Dog Direct-to-consumer fresh pet-food company, The Farmer‘s Dog, tugs at animal lovers’ heartstrings in its first-ever Super Bowl spot, ’Forever.’ Set to Lee Fields’ soul track Forever, the spot follows a young girl who grows up with a chocolate lab as she navigates life’s pivotal moments - from childhood, to leaving for college, to marriage and parenthood. ’Forever’ was created in-house and directed by Goh Iromoto of Sanctuary Content. It also kicks off a multi-platform campaign that will roll out on TV, social media, OOH and other channels in the weeks following the big game. Google Google plans to air a star-studded spot with Team Pixel athlete and NBA All-Star Giannis Antetokoumnpo, pop star Doja Cat and actress Amy Schumer. In the 90-second spot, ’Fixed on Pixel,’ the stars demonstrate the photo editing capabilities of the Google Pixel 7 smartphones, which boast AI-powered photo-editing tools, like Magic Eraser and Photo Unblur. Take Schumer, who in the ad unabashedly removes her ex from a photo. Developed and created by the tech giant’s in-house creative teams, the commercial will air during the game’s second quarter. Heineken Paul Rudd’s Ant-Man will star in a 30-second Super Bowl ad that co-promotes Heineken’s non-alcoholic beer, Heineken 0.0, as well as Marvel’s upcoming Ant-Man and The Wasp: Quantumania, which premieres in theaters on February 17. According to Heineken officials, the brand will stand out in the game as the first non-alcoholic adult beverage to run a Super Bowl ad. The spot, which is slated to run in the game’s first half, was co-produced by Marvel Studios’ partnerships team, Heineken 0.0, Publicis agency Le Pub and production company Bullitt.  Hellmann’s Hellmann’s will make a Super Bowl comeback for the third consecutive year with a 30-second spot titled ’Make taste, not waste,’ airing during the game’s third quarter. On February 1, the Unilever-owned mayonnaise brand revealed the spot’s stars: Jon Hamm and Brie Larson. In the teaser, the award-winning actors are trapped in a mysterious, dimly lit box. Surrounding them are what appears to be a jar of mayonnaise, a lemon and other food, suggesting the pair is stuck in a giant refrigerator. Like last year’s spot, the new ad will focus on tackling food waste. It was also created by Wunderman Thompson, the agency behind the brand’s in-game spots for the last two years.  Jeep Stellantis-owned automaker Jeep has unveiled its first sustainability-minded Super Bowl spot this year: a 60-second commercial titled ’Electric boogie.’ The ad, which debuts during Super Bowl LVII on Feb. 12, spotlights Jeep’s expansion into electric models with the Wrangler 4xe, surrounded by exotic animals from around the world. The characters, which include a sloth, a walrus and a snake, dance to a custom version of Marcia Griffiths’ 1983 classic, Electric Boogie, which reggae artist Shaggy helped create. The video will debut during the Super Bowl in North America and then roll out globally across the Jeep brand’s social-media landscape.  Jersey Mike’s On February 6, Jersey Mike’s Subs released a teaser spot for its Super Bowl LVII campaign starring New Jersey native Danny Devito. The teaser is a preview into what Devito is dreaming up for a hypothetical ad, "someday." Using a green screen, the It’s Always Sunny star shows consumers what they could possibly see and hear during the sandwich chain’s big game ad, from wrestling a bear to stealing crown jewels. All of these are merely ideas at this point. To rally public engagement, Jersey Mike’s is offering one lucky winner free subs for a year, every year, until the day the brand runs its official big game commercial. Between February 6 and February 8, fans can share their ideas about what they would do if they were the stars of Jersey Mike’s Big Game ad on the brand’s Instagram. The top four finalists will receive Jersey Mike’s gift cards and have their idea turned into a graphic for others to vote on. The winning idea will get free subs until the brand’s official Super Bowl campaign. The campaign was produced by the independent Chicago-based agency, Highdive. Kia Kia’s 14th Super Bowl ad will take audiences on a multi-screen adventure. The spot, which debuted on the TODAY Show on Feb. 9, follows a new character called ’Binky Dad,’ who saves the day in his new, all-wheel drive Telluride X-Pro SUV. In the ad, Binky Dad, who forgets his baby’s favorite binky at a mountain resort. Driving the SUV, he embarks on an odyssey of heroic proportions, taking a variety of precarious shortcuts in order to swiftly retrieve the binky. He makes it home to find a huge crowd of fans, firemen, police and reporters on his doorstep. He triumphantly recovers the binky, and arrives back at the resort with it, only for the baby to spit it out immediately. Therefore, Binky Dad turns around to retrieve the right one: the blue binky. The adventure is set to the classic Rocky theme, Gonna Fly Now. The cliffhanger is part of Kia’s desire to create the first-ever Super Bowl commercial that ends on a TikTok. Audiences are encouraged see what happens when Binky Dad makes it home to get the blue binky, with three alternate endings that went live on the brand’s TikTok on February 9. The campaign was created by the brand’s agency of record, David & Goliath. On February 3, the Korean-owned automaker released a teaser image of pacifiers and an accompanying statement stating the following: “They have provided soothing comfort to millions around the world for over 100 years. And yet, with literally thousands of emojis available on computers and mobile devices, this one stands out as being conspicuously absent – the Binky.” The brand also urged consumers to sign a petition to make a binky emoji at Change.org/KiaBinkyEmoji. Limit Break Web3 game developer Limit Break is airing a 30-second Super Bowl ad that will give away 10,000 NFTs. The free tokens, available through a QR code in the ad, are intended to promote the company’s forthcoming online fantasy mobile game, DigiDaigaku, which rolls out later this year. McDonald’s ‘Knowing their order’ at McDonald’s is the ultimate sign of love, according to the burger giant’s Super Bowl LVII spot. Despite being only 30 seconds long, the ad includes multiple couples, who try to recall their love’s default food order. Amid numerous everyday couples, the spot also includes cameos from married celebrity couple Cardi B and Offset.  According to the brand, the ad ushers in a multi-channel Valentine’s campaign that includes an official date night order from the famous couple, a McDonald’s-themed icebreak on dating apps like Tinder, BLK and Chispa, a “truth or dare” game on the McDonald’s app and a kissing booth in New York City’s Times Square. Molson Coors Is it an ad for Coors Lite or Miller Lite? In a surprise twist, Molson Coors' first Super Bowl spot in 30 years is actually an ad for Blue Moon. The brewer planned to keep fans guessing whether Coors Light or Miller Lite would star in the spot. A teaser released on January 27 reported that consumers could bet on sportsbook DraftKings for a chance to win a portion of a $500,000 prize pool. However, in a plot twist that not even Molson Coors CEO could guess, nobody won. The brand’s agency of record, Droga5, developed the campaign. M&M’s M&M’s is returning to the big game after a year-long absence with a new 30-second spot during the second quarter. After M&M’s faced backlash about its green and purple candies, the brand hinted that Emmy-winning actress Maya Rudolph may take the place of its legendary ‘spokescandies,’ which have been around since 1954. Another teaser released on Feb. 2 alleged that Rudolph was replacing the candy filling with clams. However, as many have speculated, M&M’s confirmed that the drastic change is, in fact, a stunt, and the brand’s iconic mascots aren’t going anywhere. The spot, produced by BBDO New York, will air during the third commercial break in the second quarter of Super Bowl LVII. Netflix, General Motors Streaming giant Netflix and General Motors have teamed up on a 60-second ad, campaign fronted by actor Will Ferrell. The spot, titled ‘EVs on Screen,‘ heralds a recent partnership between the two brands, which will facilitate EV appearances in a number of original Netflix shows and films. In the Super Bowl spot, Ferrell navigates a GM EV through various scenes of popular Netflix titles, like Bridgerton, Squid Game, Stranger Things and Army of the Dead. The spot first premiered on the Today Show on February 7, and it is slated to air during the second quarter of the Super Bowl. On February 2, General Motors released two teaser spots, each starring Ferrell. NFL This year, the NFL is leveraging its Super Bowl platform to spotlight Flag football star Diana Flores, and other powerful women athletes, in a two-minute spot titled ’Run with it.’ Set to a cover of Iggy Pop’s Wild One, the spot tricks the audience into thinking the spot was filmed live, as Fox Sports anchor Erin Andrews appears to interview Flores “live” on the sideline. During the interview, she tries to take Flores’ flag, but Flores is too fast. The commercial was created by 72andSunny Los Angeles and directed by Bryan Buckley, dubbed the “King of the Super Bowl” after directing over 60 big game spots. It airs immediately after the Apple Music Super Bowl Halftime Show.  On January 27, the league released two teaser clips. In the first, entitled ’Housekeeping,’ Cameron Heyward of the Steelers and Aidan Hutchinson of the Lions pose as bellhops. In ’It’s all about the sauce,’ the Rams’ Jalen Ramsey and the Jets’ Sauce Gardner play security guards who snack on fries and sauce in a dune buggy. The spot will air after the Apple Music Super Bowl LVII Halftime Show. Oikos Oikos is returning to the Super Bowl for its fourth year with an ad starring former NFL star and coach Deion Sanders and his family. In the ad, titled ’Family reunion,’ a family picnic turns into an epic cross-generational competition that simultaneously promotes the health benefits of Greek yogurt. The spot will run before and during the game, as well as on the Fox Sports app, the Fox Now app and across Oikos’ social media. Peacock On February 9, Comcast-owned streamer Peacock released its 30-second Super Bowl ad that not only promotes its new show, Poker Face, but calls M&M’s bluff. In the spot, Poker Face’s main character Charlie Cale (played by Natasha Lyonne) sits at a bar watching the Kansas City Chiefs go up against the Philadelphia Eagles at the Big Game. The man seated next to her strikes up a conversation with her, and asks her whether or not M&M’s ever planned on doing away with its mascots. This is a direct reference M&M’s recent political controversy, which prompted the brand to announce a number of administrative changes, like getting rid of its mascots and enlisting comedian Maya Rudolph as its spokesperson instead. Cale shakes her head, indicating that she always believed it was a stunt. PepsiCo PepsiCo’s first Super Bowl campaign in three years promotes its new-and-improved Pepsi Zero Sugar in two 60-second spots, one starring Steve Martin and another starring Ben Stiller. In the brand’s ’Great Acting or Great Taste’ campaign, the comedic icons tell viewers how delicious Pepsi Zero Sugar is, until they state the obvious that they are both actors. They cycle through some familiar acting techniques to demonstrate that their on-camera emotions are not in fact real, and instead encourage viewers to try the brand’s sugar-free cola for themselves. The ads come from VaynerMedia and Caviar production. On February 2, the brand dropped two teaser spots showing the comic actors insulting one another on set. In the first clip, after Stiller introduces himself as “actor Ben Stiller,” Martin jumps in by introducing himself as “better actor Steve Martin.” Apple Music will be the sponsor of this year’s Super Bowl Halftime Show, a niche that has been filled by Pepsi for the past 11 years. Planters Hormel Foods snack brand Planters has unveiled its 30-second spot that will see its mascot, Mr. Peanut, obliterated on stage by “Roastmaster General” Jeff Ross, Natasha Leggero and a panel of other comedians.  The campaign, developed by VaynerMedia, will bring back the legendary legume, who in previous campaigns, died and came back as “Baby Nut.“ A teaser spot released on January 31 alluded to what fans can expect during the big game crackdown. ”Nice outfit. Where are you going, tap dancing in 1924?” he asks Mr. Peanut in the clip. The full spot will air during the third quarter of Super Bowl LVII. The brand also plans to release a full-length Mr. Peanut roast on Feb. 12 at PlantersMadeToBeRoasted.com. Advertisement PopCorners Frito Lay’s popped-corn brand PopCorners has revived not one but two beloved characters from Breaking Bad in its first-ever Super Bowl ad: Walter White and Jesse Pinkman, each played by the actors in the show, Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul. The official ad, ‘Breaking good,’ follows White and Pinkman who cook and eal the popped corn snack instead of their claim to fame in the show: meth. Two teaser spots previously released by the brand hinted at the campaign’s concept. In a teaser released on Jan. 27, White and Pinkman sit in their RV (the original, seen in the show). When Pinkman attempts to start the vehicle, the two begin bickering about whether he is flooding the engine, reviving the tense yet comedic dynamic between the two characters in the show. In another teaser clip released on January 19, Pinkman snacks on PopCorners White Cheddar while he sits in his iconic lawn chair in the desert. The official spot will premiere in the first commercial break of the third quarter. Pringles Pringles will make its sixth consecutive ad appearance in the Super Bowl this year with a 48-second spot featuring Meghan Trainor. The campaign, produced by Grey, will mark the first time the Kellogg’s owned snack brand has enlisted a celebrity in an ad in five years. The official spot, titled ’Best of us,’ was released early on Feb. 7. In the ad, the Grammy Award-winning singer-songwriter is one of many people whose hand is stuck in a can of Pringles. Aside from Trainer, there’s a surgeon, a judge and a bowler, each of whom live their lives with a Pringles can stuck to them, as if it were an appendage they were born with. Before the spot’s early release, Pringles dropped a teaser ad showing how Trainor got her hand stuck. In the clip, Trainor was filming a now-famous TikTkok dance to her hit song, Made You Look, while snacking on some Pringles. The campaign continues the “stuck in” theme that the brand introduced last year.  Publicis Groupe On Feb. 12, Publicis Groupe will become the first holding company to ever purchase and invest in a Super Bowl spot. Directed by Elena Petitti Di Roreto and Martin de Thurah, ‘Monday,’ is designed to drive awareness of the company‘s newly-formed coalition, Working with Cancer. The group aims to help those suffering with cancer in the workplace and eradicate stigma surrounding the disease. Publicis initiated Working with Cancer after the company’s own chief executive officer, Arthur Sadoun, was diagnosed and treated for cancer last year. Rakuten E-commerce company Rakuten will return to Super Bowl screens this February with none other than actress Alicia Silverstone, who will revive her role as Cher in the 1995 cult classic, Clueless. The official game-day spot, released on February 6, shows Silverstone and her Clueless co-star Elisa Donovan as they debate economics. Silverstone makes the case for Rakuten, because the site‘s savings allow her to do more of what she does best: shopping. The ad will emphasize savings at a time when rising inflation and a looming recession will affect consumer spending. The spot, titled ‘Not so Clueless,‘ will air during the game‘s first quarter. Like Rakuten‘s previous Super Bowl LVI ad, the new spot was developed by its own in-house creative team. Rémy Cointreau Rémy Cointreau is returning to the Super Bowl for a third consecutive year following a recent rise in popularity. However, this time around, the cognac house is highlighting Rémy Martin in the big game for the first time. The campaign, called ‘Inch by Inch,‘ stars tennis legend Serena Williams, who takes on a coaching role. She gleans some insights she has acquired through her illustrious career through an inspiring soliloquy about going the extra inch. Meanwhile as athletes, dancers and culinary artists alike are seen working together towards success. The spot ends with Williams indulging in a glass of freshly poured cognac. The 60-second spot, created by independent agency Fred & Farid New York, is set to run during the first quarter of the game. In addition to the TV spot, the brand will host a series of sampling events in over 2,000 liquor stores and wine shops, and visibility in 60 big events leading up to the big game, according to a Variety report.  Advertisement Skechers Skecher’s Super Bowl LVII spot will bring on two icons, Snoop Dogg and Martha Stewart for its campaign promoting Skechers Slip-Ins, according to a teaser spot released by the shoe brand on February 8. Featuring Snoop’s megahit Who am I? (What’s my name?), the spot follows Snoop through a whirlwind day as he demonstrates how Skechers fits every part of his lavish lifestyle. Along for the ride are fellow brand ambassadors Stewart, Howie Long and Tony Romo. Produced by SKX Studios, the 30-second spot will air during the fourth quarter of the game. Stellantis Global automaker Stellantis is back in the Super Bowl after a one-year hiatus with two 60-second ads for Jeep and Ram, according to Ad Age reports. The spots will run during the fourth quarter of the game. The creative agency handling the campaign has not yet been disclosed. The Servant Christian Foundation Christian advocacy group The Servant Christian Foundation plans to make its big game debut with two advertisements — a 30-second and 60-second spot — “showing how the teachings and example of Jesus demonstrate that radical love, generosity, and kindness have the power to change the world,” according to a statement shared with AdAge. The spots represent a continuation of the group‘s ‘He gets us‘ campaign and were created by agency Lerma. Squarespace Website building platform Squarespace will run its ninth Super Bowl campaign this year: ‘The Singularity,’ starring Adam Driver, and only Adam Driver. In the 30-second spot, Driver explores the premise of Squarespace’s brand - a website that builds other websites. As he follows this line of thinking down the rabbit hole, he loses touch with reality and creates a ’website-ception’ for himself. The campaign, developed by Squarespace’s in-house creative team, is meant to commemorate 20 years since its inception. It will air between the first and second quarters of Super Bowl LVII. Temu Boston-based e-commerce startup Temu became one of the youngest companies to debut at the Super Bowl with their 30-second commercial, ’Shop like a billionaire.’ Developed in partnership with agency Saatchi + Saatchi, the ad focuses on a woman using her smartphone to try on a variety of clothes. Although only four-months old, the Temu app has recently been one of the most downloaded free apps in the U.S. on Apple’s App Store and Google Play. T-Mobile Mobile carrier T-Mobile is making its 10th appearance in the Super Bowl with two spots: one that revives Grease with John Travolta and another starring Bradley Cooper and his mother. In the first ad, titled ‘New year, new neighbor,’ Scrubs co-stars Zach Braff and Donald Faison tell the Grease star about T-Mobile’s Home Internet to the tune of Summer Nights. “Tell me more, tell me more,” sings Travolta, as the trio hand-jive, sing and snap their way through the commercial’s 60 seconds. The spot, developed with agency partner Panay Films, will air during the game’s fourth quarter. In the second ad, Bradley Cooper and his mother Gloria attempt A T-Mobile commercial, demonstrating the hilarious and relatable dynamic between the two. Aside from ample giggles, Gloria repeatedly puts her son in his place. When attempting to give his mother acting tips, he reminds her that he has been nominated for Academy Awards nine times. She quips: “Yeah, but you never won any.“ Tubi This year, ad-supported streaming platform Tubi is hopping into the Big Game for the first time with a campaign developed by its new agency of record, Mischief.  Tubi’s three-part Super Bowl LVII campaign centers around large, monstrous rabbits that take over the city. In the 60-second spot, ’Rabbit Holes,’ various townspeople are terrorized by these rowdy rodents. Meanwhile, in a 15-second spot, ‘Gardener,’ a mysterious crunching sound interrupts a woman tending to her garden. She looks over to see a massive carrot with a chunk bitten out of it. The final spot took viewers by surprise, disguised as a broadcast interference. At the end of the Super Bowl, the campaign became one of the winning ads selected by The Drum’s panel of experts. The campaign introduces the brand’s new personality and long-term creative strategy. The spots were directed by the award-winning Tom Kuntz, known for his recent work for Apple TV with Timothée Chalamet. They will air during the first quarter, halftime block and fourth quarter of the game. Prior to the official debut, Tubi released a teaser titled ’Bleachers,’ in which two high school sweethearts seek refuge under the bleachers for some alone time. Their romance is quickly foiled when they notice a massive hole materialize next to them. TurboTax The Super Bowl isn’t the only national event around the corner – lest we forget, tax season starts in late January. To commemorate both moments, assisted tax platform TurboTax launched ’Come to TurboTax,’ a campaign comprising seven short films that culminates in the 45-second Super Bowl spot, ’Dancer.’ ’Dancer’ celebrates the joy and freedom consumers feel once they hand off their taxes to a TurboTax Expert who, in one meeting files their taxes for them and allows them to get back to what they do best: not taxes. The campaign, created in partnership with Wieden+Kennedy, marks the brand’s 10th consecutive year advertising at the Super Bowl. Uber Ride-sharing service Uber is teaming up with legendary hip-hop mogul and record producer Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs, Montell Jordan, Kelis, Donna Lewis, Haddaway and Ylvis for its third consecutive Super Bowl appearance. In the ad, the artists are tasked with writing an unforgettable jingle for Uber One, a membership offering that includes Uber and food delivery service, Uber Eats. Kelis attempts to remix her hit, Milkshake, while the Ylvis duo tries to make their single, What Does the Fox Say, work, in a hilarious sequence of events. The creative, developed in partnership with creative agency Special US, will air nationally during the second quarter of the game. In addition to Super Bowl spot, Uber will be debuting ’The One Party’ by Uber in Phoenix on February 10 leading up to Super Bowl 57. The event, which will be open to all Uber One members. A teaser spot released on January 31 shows a trio of nervous-looking Uber marketers asking Diddy for a jingle. The teaser will run during the NFL Pro Bowl (February 5), the Grammy Awards (also February 5) and NCAA men’s basketball games. Uber plans to release the full in-game ad on February 7. Warner Bros. Discovery Warner Bros. will make its return to the big game after a 17-year absence to premiere a trailer for The Flash – a feature film based on the superhero television series, according to The Wrap. The studio last appeared at the Super Bowl in 2006, with promo spots for 16 Blocks, V for Vendetta and Poseidon. WeatherTech Car accessory brand WeatherTech announced it would be a Super Bowl advertiser for the 10th straight year, according to a Marketing Dive report. Catch up on the most important stories of the day, curated by our editorial team. See the best ads of the last week - all in one place. Learn how to pitch to our editors and get published on The Drum. Workday Workday promises to put on a memorable show for its Super Bowl advertising debut. On February 6, the enterprise software company leaked its official big game spot, ’Rock Star,’ which features five rock icons: Gary Clark Jr., Billy Idol, Joan Jett, Ozzy Osbourne and Paul Stanley. In the ad, the rockers ask employers who use Workday to stop calling corporate workers “rock stars”. “We know that using Workday for finance and HR makes you great at your job,” one musician says, while another one finishes: “But that won’t make you a rock star.” The spot will air during the third quarter of the game. It was produced by Ogilvy and directed by Jim Jenkins. Apple Music BMW, Coca-Cola, Meta, Taco Bell, Toyota, Vroom For more, sign up for The Drums daily US newsletter here. 
        © Carnyx Group Ltd 2024 | The Drum is a Registered Trademark and property of Carnyx Group Limited. All rights reserved.
    