Color Scheme Subscriber Actions Staff Options Connect With Us Support Local Journalism This one’s for the kids who grew up on Otter Pops. On Tuesday, Molson Coors Beverage Co. debuted Coors-icles, a line of frozen beer popsicles that look just like the aforementioned children’s treat. These pops won’t give you a buzz though, since they’re nonalcoholic. While popsicles are traditionally a summer snack, Coors Light released theirs to pair with March Madness – “to make sure fans 21+ stay chill when things get heated,” per an announcement. Even though Coors-icles do not contain alcohol, they’re intended for folks of drinking age. Plus, the beverage company contends the treats “can (and should!) be enjoyed with a crisp, cold Coors Light,” said a spokesperson. The college basketball tournament comes to Denver’s Ball Arena March 17-19, but the pops won’t be available for purchase at concession stands. Instead, Coors Light said basketball fans can buy Coors-icles at 800 bars nationwide throughout the tournament’s run, including several near Ball Arena. If you’d prefer to watch your favorite team from the comfort of home, you can order them online at shop.coorslight.com. A six-pack of Coors Light-flavored Coors-icles will set you back about $20. Local journalism is essential. Give directly to The Spokesman-Review's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below. Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible, but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds.  Get the day’s top entertainment headlines delivered to your inbox Thursday afternoons. In August 2022, Rick Hosmer was mountain biking in Mount Spokane State Park, one of his favorite hobbies. Follow Us Support Local Journalism Subscribe Help User 
Advertising
 More Contact Us © Copyright 2024, The Spokesman-Review | Community Guidelines | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Copyright Policy