
			By Rosy Cordero, Natalie Sitek, Anthony D'Alessandro  
	Harrison Ford may say he’s done with Indiana Jones, but look out for Phoebe Waller-Bridge’s Helena Shaw, the archeologist’s goddaughter, who makes her debut in the franchise’s fifth title, Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny.  
	With a Disney+ Indiana Jones series planned and the notion that franchises never die many deaths, it stands to reason that Waller-Bridge is picking up the whip and the hat, right? 
	“First, I ever heard of it!” confessed the 3x Fleabag Emmy winner to Deadline tonight at the Disney premiere. 





	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	













	News
	



	
		
					'The Office' Australia: Prime Video Reveals Premiere Date & First-Look At New Boss		
			















	News
	



	
		
					'The Boys' Creator Warns Fans To Expect "Lots Of Death" In Final Season		
			





 
	In the wake of the success of Amazon’s Fleabag, fans have been eagerly waiting for Waller-Bridge’s next big act on Prime Video. Amazon promptly signed her to a deal post Fleabag‘s Emmy wins. A new series was greenlit in March 2022 and set to shoot at the end of that year. Then in January she renewed her overall deal with the streamer with a series adaptation of the Claudia Lux novel, Sign Here, being first in development. 

	










			Watch on Deadline		




 
	So what’s next at Amazon for Waller-Bridge? And when? 

 
	Says multi-hyphenate tonight at the Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny premiere, “It’s all very much the Writers Strike at the moment, so, we’re all taking a break. But if that all gets sorted, I’m working on Tomb Raider.” 
Amazon Studios back in January tapped Waller-Bridge to write a TV series as part of a potential Tomb Raider universe that would span television, film and games. She’d also be involved in the potential movie. 
	Tonight, Waller-Bridge called Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny a “beautiful closing chapter.”  
	When it came to joining the franchise, she said “It’s not something I’d ever imagine I’d be a part of, so every single day felt like a dream.” Phoebe Waller-Bridge on coming aboard #IndianaJones and what’s coming next for her pic.twitter.com/snaBwj7wnU Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	