Alabama head basketball coach Nate Oats has not shied away from showing emotion following a big win. There was the solo handshake last season after Alabama’s 83-82 win over then-No. 14 Houston in Tuscaloosa, and who could forget his choice words for former LSU head coach Will Wade after Alabama’s SEC Tournament championship win over the Tigers in 2021? After No. 3 Alabama’s come-from-behind win over Auburn on Saturday, he added another infamous moment to his list. Oats was asked if it felt better to be booed by Auburn fans as his team walks off the court as winners, as opposed to losing and having to navigate to the locker room through the court-storming crowd. “I think we’d get booed whether we win, lose, or whatever. They don’t like Alabama very well,” Oats said following Alabama’s 77-69 win over Auburn on Saturday. “But it is a lot better to be booed than to have the court-storming and try to figure out how to get off (the court).” He then followed with a quote that will for sure be used as bulletin board material for Auburn ahead of next month’s rematch in Tuscaloosa. “I know it was their Super Bowl, so it was nice to win over here,” Oats said. After leading for a total of 24:56 of game time on Saturday, Auburn ran out of gas late. The Crimson Tide took their final lead of the game with 5:59 to go in the game, and they would not relinquish it. Auburn will have a shot at payback on Wednesday, March 1 at Coleman Coliseum in Tuscaloosa. Story originally appeared on Auburn Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week.