People who know and love Montgomery native JB Somers were probably the least surprised by his blind audition song choice for NBC’s “The Voice.” The writing on Joni Mitchell’s “A Case of You” floored Somers the first time he heard it. “I’ve been playing it since I was 19,” said Somers, 31, a pop vocalist who previously told the Advertiser that Mitchell’s works are what put him on track as a songwriter with substance. “It was an awesome opportunity to play it on such a large stage, and I pray I did Joni Mitchell proud.” He did something right. The Nashville resident’s rendition of “A Case of You” moved both celebrity coaches Kelly Clarkson and Chance the Rapper to turn their chairs. That didn’t distract Somers, though. For him, the blind auditions were blind as well. “Honestly, I had my eyes closed for most of it, so I wouldn’t get nervous,” Somers said. “But when I did open my eyes and saw that Kelly Clarkson had turned around, I felt immense relief come over me, and excitement as well. And then when Chance the Rapper turned, I was even more excited. It was a huge, beautiful moment that I’ll always remember.” Beautiful, yes, but it wasn’t a calm performance at all. “Emotions were racing. I was nervous as heck. Excited,” Somers said. “It was a lot of adrenaline.” Somers, who went to Montgomery Academy with his brother and sister, has very personal motivation to do well. His sister’s death in 2016 is what made him choose a career in music. “I just wanted to honor my sister, and I wanted to do a good job to represent my family and my hometown,” Somers said. He offered his thanks to everyone back in Montgomery who have been supportive and have given him opportunities since he was a child. While Team Kelly was Somers’ first choice before the audition, he said Chance the Rapper made a really good offer that he almost accepted. “Chance gave (Clarkson) a run for her money with his pitch to me,” Somers said. “The fact that he was focusing more on my artistry, and it was close. It was a close call.” In the end, Somers picked Clarkson because of her singing competition history.  “She’d have a lot of tips and wisdom for me,” he said. What Somers said he hopes people take away from his appearances on “The Voice” is that he’s not just a singer. He’s an artist. “I’m a songwriter, and I try to live that throughout my life,” he said. “Also, the way that I sing on stage, even though I’m singing covers, I just want people to know that my music and my songwriting is what really drives my decisions and how I perform.” That will continue to be with a pop sound, he said. “I am pursuing more of a dance pop kind of vibe moving forward,” said Somers, who has been in Nashville for about three years.  Over the past couple of months, he said he’s performed a ton of live shows there, including writers rounds. “This feels more and more like home every day,” Somers said of Music City. Somers said his 2022 debut single “There For Me” has been doing really well. “I’ve been writing a bunch of songs,” he said. “I’m really excited for after the show, when I can release some music. We’ll see what happens. I’ve been working the past couple of months with some of my closest friends. I’m hoping to release a couple of singles and an EP in the summertime.” “The Voice” airs Mondays and Tuesdays on NBC. “I want to make a career out of this,” Somers said. “I know that the show will catapult me forward.” Something really unique about season 23 of “The Voice” is how much Montgomery is represented — four contestants are linked to the “Capital of Dreams." Somers and Ryley Tate Wilson, 15, are both Montgomery natives. D.Smooth, 25, lives in Montgomery, and is a native of Mulga, a town just north of Birmingham. Jerome Godwin III, 20, is a native of Ashford, who lives in Montgomery and is a pre-dentistry student at Auburn University Montgomery. “It was wild meeting Ryley Tate for the first time,” Somers said. “His mother was with him when we were out there for the audition process. We got to speaking about Montgomery, and it was cool to reminisce on similarities. And then we found out that they actually live off the same street, in the same neighborhood that my parents live in as well. That was wild to see how small the world is.” The four are divided evenly between Team Kelly (Somers and D.Smooth), and Niall Horan’s team (Wilson and Godwin). Somers said this season of “The Voice” is a testament to the dormant musical talent in Montgomery. “It’s a beautiful thing to be on and share that with these guys,” Somers said. Montgomery Advertiser reporter Shannon Heupel covers things to do in the River Region. Contact him at sheupel@gannett.com This article originally appeared on Montgomery Advertiser: Montgomery native JB Somers had huge, beautiful moment on 'The Voice' New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.