In a candid photo shared by the King of Spain, Prince William, Kate Middleton and their children Prince George and Princess Charlotte can be seen in one of the private areas at Wimbledon congratulating champion Carlos Alcaraz A beaming Princess of Wales has been captured in a behind-the-scenes snap at Wimbledon alongside Prince George and Princess Charlotte - and it has been shared by a fellow royal. The candid yet joyful picture shows Kate proudly standing alongside her two older children and husband Prince William in the prestigious All England Club's Players' Lounge clapping as they congratulate new Wimbledon men's champion Carlos Alcaraz. In the photo, Kate can be seen smiling broadly and clapping in her eye-popping green Roland Mouret dress while William also smiles and applauds. Ten-year-old George and Charlotte, eight, also join in with the clapping as they greet Alcaraz just moments after his thrilling victory.  Also in the heartwarming shot is King Felipe of Spain, who also attended the men's Wimbledon final to cheer on his fellow countryman Alcaraz and was on hand to attend him. And it was the official Twitter page of the Spanish Royal Family that shared the behind-the-scenes shot.  It comes as King Felipe joined William, Kate, George and Charlotte in the royal box for the epic five-set match between Alcaraz and Novak Djokovic. During a break in play, William could be seen chatting with the monarch, who also made time to exchange words with future King George and Charlotte. At Wimbledon on Sunday, Kate presented world number one Alcaraz with his first Wimbledon championship trophy, marking the Spaniard’s win against Djokovic who was battling for a record-equalling eighth Wimbledon title. Both players bowed in front of Kate ahead of receiving their gongs and chatted with the princess briefly before she stepped back and joined the crowd in applauding each of them. The Waleses arrived in SW19 around noon for Charlotte’s first-ever visit to the tournament. Wearing a blue dress, she held Kate’s hand and walked ahead of George and William to reach the Players’ Lawn and greeted Wimbledon staff, police dog Stella and British wheelchair doubles champion Gordon Reid. In the Player’s Lawn, Kate told Ella Ottaway, who runs the All England Club's young people programme, that Prince Louis was "very upset" that he was not attending. The princess said: "It's Charlotte’s first time, George came last year. They've been eagerly watching. Charlotte, you've been getting to grips with the scoring. Louis was very upset he wasn’t coming today." The princess also told 16-year-old ball boy Joel that Louis has been practising being a ball boy. After their conversation, Joel said: "He (Louis) tries to practise the standing and staying serious, like us. "He tries to practise the stands and how we stand at the back of the court and next to the players." Charlotte petted Stella the springer spaniel, who searched Centre Court on Sunday morning on her last day at Wimbledon before retiring. The young princess was also introduced to eight-year-old Mu’awwiz Anwar who is representing the charity WaterAid and who performed the coin toss at the match. Sunday marked Kate’s third visit to Wimbledon over the course of this year's tournament. The princess attended on Saturday and consoled a tearful Ons Jabeur after the Tunisian lost the ladies' singles final against Czech player Marketa Vondrousova. Get our daily royal round-up direct to your inbox