Walking around Black Mountain, one may come upon dozens of pieces of artwork, ranging from murals to sculptures, designed by local artists. The Black Mountain Center for the Arts has designed and curated a map that takes participants on a public art walking tour throughout town to highlight some of these pieces. Black Mountain Center for the Arts Executive Director Lori Cozzi said the project originated during the pandemic. “We started it during COVID when we kind of had some more time on our hands and we were just noticing how much more art was going in around town,” Cozzi said. “So it was a COVID project.” Participants can pick up a physical copy of the map at BMCA or scan the QR code on the physical map to view a Google Maps version of the tour. Cozzi said it isn’t necessary to follow a particular route on the map. Instead, the map shows participants where the art pieces are located and they can go at their own pace. “We think it’s a great way to feature the artists that are part of the tour,” Cozzi said. “We like that it’s something that visitors or residents can participate in. We’ve been really focused the last two years on adding outdoor art to the art center itself.” Two three-story murals on the BMCA building are featured on the tour. Cozzi said she would consider the mural on the back of the building to be her favorite piece on the tour. The two-part mural collectively titled “Beautiful Migration” by Lara Nguyen consists of two murals inspired by two Black Mountain College artists. The first, “Mighty Migrants,” is inspired by Anni Albers and features monarch butterflies. The second, “Universal Citizen,” is inspired by Ruth Asawa. Cozzi said the murals feature a theme of immigration. “That’s significant historically because those were women that were creating art here at Black Mountain College and there’s  a theme of immigration and migration in the mural,” Cozzi said. “Both of these women were immigrants and Lara’s family immigrated here.” Nguyen died in May, and Cozzi said having the mural at the center “means a lot” not only to Cozzi and the center, but also to Nguyen’s legacy. Cozzi said Nguyen, a professor at Warren Wilson College, has art displayed in Asheville and Swannanoa, but, as far as she knows, “Beautiful Migration” is her only piece in Black Mountain. When choosing pieces to feature on the tour, Cozzi said the selection team “was looking for notable pieces, kind of fine art.” “Not every single thing in town could be included,” Cozzi said. “I would say it’s more substantial pieces.” Cozzi also said she does not think the tour will ever be complete. Instead, she said the tour will be a working project to reflect new art as it appears in Black Mountain. “I don’t feel like it’s every going to be finished,” Cozzi said. “I think we will constantly revise it as new art emerges in our town.”  Karrigan Monk is the Swannanoa Valley communities reporter for Black Mountain News, part of the USA TODAY Network. Reach her at kmonk@blackmountainnews.com. This article originally appeared on Asheville Citizen Times: Public art walking tour offered by Black Mountain Center for the Arts New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.