July 11, 2023   Vietnamese companies embrace cage-free eggs to meet consumer demand and promote animal welfare    In response to growing consumer demand, numerous companies in Vietnam have made the switch to using cage-free eggs in their production processes, according to experts, Vietnam Net reported.   Over 40 multinational and domestic companies operating in sectors such as hotels, restaurants, retail, and manufacturing have committed to using cage-free eggs in their operations.   Renowned brands including Mondelez International, Fusion Hotel Group, and Pizza4P's have all pledged to source only cage-free eggs in Vietnam by 2025, as highlighted by Hang Le, the regional farm animal welfare manager for Humane Society International (HIS) in Southeast Asia.   Companies attribute various benefits to choosing cage-free eggs. Specifically, cage-free production improves animal welfare conditions by allowing laying hens to move freely and engage in natural behaviours. This approach has garnered support from human organisations and consumers.    Mondelez Kinh Do Vietnam became a trailblazer in the use of cage-free eggs for cake production, launching the Solite Nature Fresh cake, which is made with 100% cage-free eggs.   According to the company's third Annual State of Snacking Report, consumers are becoming more intentional in their purchasing decisions as they align with their values. The report revealed that customers are increasingly inclined to learn about the brands and companies they support and are more discerning when it comes to the sustainability practices of their chosen snacks. Globally, 85% of consumers expressed a desire to purchase snacks from companies that offset their environmental footprint.   Hang said free-cage eggs are an essential trend chosen by customers, adding that products made from eggs laid by hens raised in small cages will not attract consumers.   In Vietnam, there is a growing number of producers supplying cage-free eggs to companies such as Nam Huong, Vinh Thanh Dat, and Green Connect.   Green Connect, a social enterprise, has taken steps towards fulfilling its commitment by collaborating with its in-house farm production brand, Larva Yum. In response to consumer demands for animal welfare and environmental sustainability, Larva Yum introduced its free-range egg product.   As of April 2023, Larva Yum had raised 6,500 hens in both free-range and cage-free barns, providing them the freedom to engage in natural behaviours like perching and dustbathing.   In addition to transitioning hens out of cages, Humane Society International is collaborating with pork producer Nguyen Khoi and eight food retailers to eliminate the production or procurement of pork from systems that confine sows to crates, depriving them of the ability to turn around for the majority of their lives.   A crate-free production system allow sows to have more space to move and turn around compared to the intensive and long-term confinement of gestation and farrowing crate systems. These examples highlight how companies are responding to Vietnamese consumer demand to end some of the most inhumane practices inflicted on animals. The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations said that Vietnam had nearly 77 million laying hens that produced 8.2 billion eggs in 2021. The country is home to thousands of egg producers, varying in size.   -      Vietnam Net To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video