The Birmingham chocolate giant, based in Bournville and now owned by Mondelez International, was taken to court by rival Nestle. Sign up to our email newsletter for daily updates on what's happening in and around Birmingham We have more newsletters Sign up to our email newsletter for daily updates on what's happening in and around Birmingham We have more newsletters People are only just realising why Cadbury’s packaging is purple. Cadbury fans admit their minds have been blown by the reason for the chocolate giant's packaging colour. The purple packaging has been used by the British-based company since 1914. A court case has revealed the secrets behind Cadbury's distinctive packaging. The Birmingham chocolate giant, based in Bournville and now owned by Mondelez International, was taken to court by rival Nestle. The row erupted over Nestle trying to use the colour on its chocolate. READ MORE Channel 4 'sever ties' with Dick Strawbridge and wife Angel after investigation Cadbury chocolate is packaged in a colour called Pantone 2865c. Judge Colin Birss ruled that colours can be legally protected as they "are capable of being signs". He ruled the shade was iconic for being the colour of Cadbury. The judge further ruled that he was protecting just the specific shade, not the colour purple as a whole. Only "milk chocolate in bar and tablet form, milk chocolate for eating, drinking chocolate and preparations for making drinking chocolate" was protected. It means Nestle can still use purple - in things like the Purple One in Quality Street - but can't copy the shade from the Birmingham maker. Judge Colin Birss ruled this week that colours “are capable of being signs” and quite rightly that the specific shade of purple used by Cadbury has become distinctive of the company in relation to its products. Nestlé opposed Cadbury’s initial application and challenged a trade mark ruling in 2011 which covered chocolate bars and drinks, arguing that a colour should not be protected. Cadbury introduced the colour as a tribute to Queen Victoria, according to reports. The chocolate giant - known for its Dairy Milk bars, as well as the Twirl, Flake and more - introduced the colour over 100 years ago and it is still going strong to this day. 