Cadbury's business model was failing before it was taken over by a US firm, the chocolate giant's current chief executive has claimed. Mondelez launched a successful £11.5billion takeover bid for Cadbury in 2009 that saw the company become part of Kraft Foods - an American food manufacturing and processing conglomerate. (Kraft Foods' chocolate and biscuit brands were spun off as Mondelez in 2012.) With annual revenues of approximately $50 billion (£40billion), the combined company became the world's second largest food firm at the time. However, the deal sparked a fierce backlash, with trade unions, politicians and even investors opposing the deal. Lord Mandelson, the business secretary at the time, accused the hostile takeover of seeking to “turn round a short-term profit and make a quick buck”. READ MORE: Food cargo theft, including 200,000 Creme Eggs, hits £700m Now, Dirk Van de Put, chief executive of Mondelez, the Chicago-owner of Cadbury, has made his view clear. The chief executive said his company had improved the ailing British chocolate maker since its controversial 2010 takeover. He told The Sunday Telegraph: “It’s like you’re sick and you need to take some medicine. We took some medicine but in the end, the business is in a much better position than it was when we took it over.” The jury is out on whether Cadbury was struggling when Kraft Foods launched a bid for the company in 2009.  The chocolate maker controlled about 10 percent of the global confectionery sales and around a third of the market in Britain. Global sales were up 11 percent in 2009 and it took £1.36billion in Britain alone despite the global economy reeling from the financial crisis. Today Cadbury’s market share is more or less flat in Britain compared to when it was taken over - at around 31 percent. Sales were around £1.8billion last year in Britain, according to industry estimates. However, Mr Van de Put argued that Cadbury has only been able to maintain its market share because of Kraft's vast investment. Mr Van de Put said: “Look at the health of Cadbury as a brand and as a business now and when we took it over. The numbers, the consumers… It's night and day.” Fears that the American giant would crush the heritage brand became crystalised when it almost immediately shut a Cadbury factory in Bristol, despite promising not to do so during the takeover process. The incident was roundly condemned by Britain’s takeover regulator at the time. We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy  A decision in 2017 to move production of some Dairy Milk products to Poland also sparked backlash given Kraft had vowed to keep making the brand at Cadbury's Bournville headquarters in the aftermath of the takeover. Mondelez defended the move as a temporary measure as it upgraded the Birmingham factory. Mondelez’s UK boss Louise Stigant said a small handful of Dairy Milk products continue to be made in Poland today, but “the majority” is now once again being made in the brand's historic home. Despite putting the company on a surer footing, its future remains uncertain. Like all businesses, Mondelez is being hobbled by rising costs, with Mr Van de Put buffeted by “labour inflation, transportation inflation, commodities inflation” as the biggest headaches. Follow our social media accounts here on facebook.com/ExpressUSNews and @expressusnews  SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?