Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  Personal loans are known for being used to cover big-ticket expenses like weddings, funerals and home renovations. However, they can also be used to cover things that may be a little less costly but that you don't have the money to cover on your own — like a small emergency or a car fix that, luckily, won't run you thousands. Many personal loan lenders offer funding amounts that start at around $5,000. However, that isn't ideal for someone who needs to borrow significantly less since it forces them to apply for more money than they'll actually need (which means higher monthly payments and interest charges). CNBC Select dug through dozens of personal lenders to find ones that allow you to apply for as little as $1,000. We looked at key factors like interest rates, fees, loan amounts and term lengths offered, plus other features including how your funds are distributed, autopay discounts, customer service and how fast you can get your funds. (Read more about our methodology below.) This tool is provided and powered by Engine by MoneyLion, a search and comparison engine that matches you with third-party lenders. Any information you provide is given directly to Engine by MoneyLion and it may use this information in accordance with its own privacy policies and terms of service. By submitting your information, you agree to receive emails from Engine by MoneyLion. Select does not control and is not responsible for third party policies or practices, nor does Select have access to any data you provide. Select may receive an affiliate commission from partner offers in the Engine by MoneyLion tool. The commission does not influence the selection in order of offers. 7.8% - 35.99% Debt consolidation, credit card refinancing, wedding, moving or medical $1,000 to $50,000 36 and 60 months Credit score of 300 on at least one credit report (but will accept applicants whose credit history is so insufficient they don't have a credit score) 0% to 12% of the target amount None The greater of 5% of last amount due or $15, whichever is greater Terms apply. Who's this for? Upstart approves borrowers with credit scores as low as 300 or even no credit history at all, making it an appealing choice for those with a credit score that's less than ideal. Just keep in mind that if you are approved for the loan with a lower credit score, you may be subject to a higher interest rate — just like with any other financial product that charges interest. While there are no penalties for paying off your balance early, Upstart does charge an origination fee (up to 12% of the amount you borrow) and late fees ($15 or 5% of the past due balance, whichever is greater). When it comes to repaying the balance, loan terms range from 36 to 60 months, which can be appealing to borrowers who think they may need a longer time horizon to repay the entire loan. 7.99% to 17.99% APR Debt consolidation, home improvement, medical expenses, auto financing and more $600 to $50,000 1 to 5 years Good/Excellent None None $29 Terms apply. Who's this for? PenFed loans can be used for a variety of reasons, including debt consolidation, home improvement, medical expenses, auto financing and more. This lender is a credit union and while you don't need to be a member to apply, you will need to sign up for a PenFed membership and keep $5 in a qualifying savings account to receive your funds. You can actually get approved for a loan as little as $600 with this lender, which makes it the lender with the lowest minimum funding amount on this list. So this might ensure that you don't borrow more than you can afford to pay back if you don't necessarily need $1,000 or more. Personal loan interest rates range from 4.99% to 17.99%. Not all applicants will qualify for the lowest rate, since it will depend on your creditworthiness, but the higher your credit score the more likely you are to receive a lower interest rate. One thing to keep in mind, though, is that PenFed provides its funds in the form of a paper check. If you know a nearby PenFed location, you can pick up your check at any time directly from the bank. Otherwise, you can receive your funds as early as the next day if you pay for expedited shipping. 9.99% - 35.99% Debt consolidation/refinancing, home improvement, major purchase $1,000 to $50,000  24 to 84* months 600+ 1.85% to 9.99%, deducted from loan proceeds None Up to $10 (with 15-day grace period) Terms apply. Why Upgrade is the best for financial literacy: Who's this for? Upgrade loans are fast and easy to secure, and all the funds will arrive in your checking account within one business day of submitting the required documents. This lender is also more flexible when it comes to who can qualify for this loan — it approves qualified borrowers with fair or good credit. All Upgrade personal loans have an origination fee of up to 9.99%, which is deducted directly from your loan proceeds so if you know you'll need $1,000, you should account for the origination fee and apply for a loan amount closer to $1,080. Upgrade doesn't have any repayment penalties, but it does have a late fee: if you pay late or miss a payment, you could be hit with a $10 late fee if your payment is not received in full within 15 calendar days of the due date.  And, like most of the other lenders on this list, Upgrade personal loans start at just $1,000, but qualified applicants can apply for as much as $50,000. Upgrade loans come with repayment terms of 24 to 84 months. 5.99% to 28.74% APR (0.25% APR discount when you sign up for autopay) Debt consolidation, home improvement, wedding, moving and relocation or vacation $1,000 to $35,000 Up to 60 months Not disclosed None None 10% of the payment or $40, whichever is greater Terms apply. Who's this for? PNC Bank gives borrowers the potential for having a longer repayment term — the terms can be as long as 60 months. This can be an appealing option for borrowers who would prefer to have smaller monthly payments stretched out over longer periods of time (although, you'll end up paying more in interest over time). Generally, the higher your credit score, the more likely you are to have a longer repayment period. The interest rate and terms you receive will vary based on your location (you can enter your ZIP code on their website to get an idea of what the rates in your area are like). Also, you'll want to make sure your credit score is in a healthy range in order to increase your chances of getting approved for the lowest possible rate. On the flip side, funding from this lender is generally not the fastest — it can take up to 10 business days to receive funding in some cases. There are no origination or prepayment fees but there is a late fee, which amounts to 10% of the payment or $40, whichever is greater. Still, though, this could be an option for potential borrowers who are PNC Bank customers who feel more comfortable taking on a loan from their current bank. See if you're pre-approved for a personal loan offer. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every personal loan review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of loan products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best personal loans. To determine which personal loans are the best, CNBC Select analyzed dozens of U.S. personal loans offered by both online and brick-and-mortar banks, including large credit unions, that come with no origination or signup fees, fixed-rate APRs and flexible loan amounts and terms to suit an array of financing needs. When narrowing down and ranking the best personal loans, we focused on the following features: After reviewing the above features, we sorted our recommendations by best for overall financing needs, debt consolidation and refinancing, small loans and next-day funding. Note that the rates and fee structures advertised for personal loans are subject to fluctuate in accordance with the Fed rate. However, once you accept your loan agreement, a fixed-rate APR will guarantee interest rate and monthly payment will remain consistent throughout the entire term of the loan. Your APR, monthly payment and loan amount depend on your credit history and creditworthiness. To take out a loan, lenders will conduct a hard credit inquiry and request a full application, which could require proof of income, identity verification, proof of address and more.  Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.