
                
                    
                        Let CFO's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Natalie Knight Automaker Stellantis hired Natalie Knight as its new finance chief. Knight is currently chief financial offer at Ahold Delhaize, a food retailer headquartered in the Netherlands. Before joining Ahold in 2020, Knight was CFO at Arla Foods in Denmark and held several senior finance positions during her 17 years at Adidas AG in Germany and the U.S. She previously held investor relations roles at BASF and Bankgesellschaft Berlin. Knight replaces Richard Palmer, who is leaving after a 20-year career with the company. Samita Mannapperuma was promoted to CFO of NBC Sports. Mannapperuma has been senior vice president of business development at NBCUniversal television and streaming since October 2020. Before joining NBC, she spent three years working at the National Football League in business development. She started her career as an investment banker at Goldman Sachs. Jonathan Ojany Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) named Jonathan Ojany as chief financial officer of its U.S. business. Ojany joins the fast-food chain from The Coca-Cola Company, where he has worked for the last eight years, most recently as vice president and head of center strategy and operations. At Coca-Cola, he also held roles as chief operating officer and head of strategy, planning, insights, and analytics for a majority of its business in Africa. Ojany previously spent two years in the hospitality industry with Intercontinental Hotels Group as their director of global strategy and planning. Dollar General promoted Kelly Dilts to chief financial officer. Dilts has been senior vice president of finance at the retailer since she joined in July 2019. Before joining Dollar General, she was CFO of women’s apparel retailer Francesca's and held roles of increasing responsibility at Tailored Brands, including chief accounting officer and senior vice president of finance and investor relations. Dilts replaces John Garratt, who will remain as president of the company until his retirement in June.  Carl Mellander Carl Mellander will step down as CFO of Ericsson at the end of the first quarter of 2024. Mellander has worked at the telecom equipment maker for over 25 years and spent the last seven years as finance chief. The company has initiated a search to find his successor.  Dan Kaltenbach Aware, an AI platform that analyzes human behavior, hired Dan Kaltenbach as its first CFO. Kaltenbach joins the company from Owl Labs, an AI-powered insurance claims monitoring platform. During his time as CFO, Owl secured $30 million in Series-B funding helping the company advance its technology to serve some of the largest insurance carriers in North America. Kaltenbach was also the first CFO of Icertis and CFO of Blue Box. Jon Mortimore Dr. Martens’ CFO Jon Mortimore is retiring. Mortimore, who joined the company in 2016, will step down once the British footwear maker appoints his replacement. Mortimore has previously held CFO positions at Liberty Living, Avant Homes Group, and Travelodge Hotels Limited.  Ascent Industries appointed Bill Steckel as chief financial officer of the Industrial tubular products and specialty chemicals company. Steckel was most recently interim CFO of software developer Zilliant. He has previously held chief financial officer roles at Great Kitchens Food Company, Telular, and Great Lakes Dredge & Dock.   George Schutter Food for the Hungry, a Christian nonprofit that serves those affected by poverty, appointed George Schutter as CFO. Most recently, Schutter was chief procurement officer for the District of Columbia, leading the DC office of contracting and procurement and managing more than $11.7 billion in acquisitions for over 79 district agencies. Before that, he was CFO for other non-profits and independent agencies such as TechnoServe and Peace Corps. Schutter is a former Major in the U.S. Marine Corps. Global public health and safety organization NSF named Jose Luis Borrero as its new finance chief. Borrero joins NSF from ChemTreat, an industrial water and process treatment provider, where he was CFO. He has previously held chief financial officer roles at Deluxe Corporation and 3M and held financial leadership positions at The Quaker Oats Company, Coca-Cola, and Gillette. Get the free daily newsletter with financial industry insights and practical advice for CFOs. CFO’s annual conference and events calendar tracker ensures finance executives know about the most essential in-person events. Get the free daily newsletter with financial industry insights and practical advice for CFOs. Get the free daily newsletter with financial industry insights and practical advice for CFOs. Want to share a company announcement with your peers? 

                                
                                    Get started
                                
                                ➔

 CFO’s annual conference and events calendar tracker ensures finance executives know about the most essential in-person events. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines