Radio Schuman This is Radio Schuman, your new go-to podcast to spice up your weekday mornings with relevant news, insights, and behind-the-scenes from Brussels and beyond. No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question From entrepreneurs to world leaders and academics, we discuss what makes them tick and see the bigger picture of what’s going on in the world of business. Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions.   Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. Radio Schuman This is Radio Schuman, your new go-to podcast to spice up your weekday mornings with relevant news, insights, and behind-the-scenes from Brussels and beyond. No Comment No agenda, no argument, no bias, No Comment. Get the story without commentary. My Wildest Prediction Dare to imagine the future with business and tech visionaries The Big Question From entrepreneurs to world leaders and academics, we discuss what makes them tick and see the bigger picture of what’s going on in the world of business. Euronews Tech Talks Euronews Tech Talks goes beyond discussions to explore the impact of new technologies on our lives. With explanations, engaging Q&As, and lively conversations, the podcast provides valuable insights into the intersection of technology and society. Water Matters Europe's water is under increasing pressure. Pollution, droughts, floods are taking their toll on our drinking water, lakes, rivers and coastlines. Join us on a journey around Europe to see why protecting ecosystems matters, how our wastewater can be better managed, and to discover some of the best water solutions.   Video reports, an animated explainer series and live debate - find out why Water Matters, from Euronews. Climate Now We give you the latest climate facts from the world’s leading source, analyse the trends and explain how our planet is changing. We meet the experts on the front line of climate change who explore new strategies to mitigate and adapt. 
        How much do you know ex-Monkee Davy Jones? And who was Number 1 in the charts on this day in 1967?
     30 December 1945: Davy Jones, English singer-songwriter and actor, ex-Monkee was born on this day in 1945. From 1966 to 1970, Jones was a member of The Monkees, a pop-rock band formed expressly for a television show of the same name. Jones sang lead vocals on many of the Monkees' recordings, including 'I Wanna Be Free' and 'Daydream Believer'. As the Monkees were becoming a pop phenomenon, another rock legend was getting his start in England. Davie Jones fronted a beat combo called the King Bees, and as he pursued a solo career, industry folks advised he change his name, so as to avoid confusion with the far more popular Monkee Davy Jones. Inspired by American pioneer Jim Bowie and his eponymous knife, Davie Jones changed his name to David Bowie. So you could say that he forced David Bowie to be named David Bowie. Jones enjoyed a successful solo career before and after the Monkees, and made memorable television appearances as a solo artist. But did you know he was also a successful horse racer? He originally trained to be a jockey and remained a horse-lover his entire life. In 1996 at the age of 50, Jones won his first horse race, the Ontario Amateur Riders' Handicap. He died in 2012 aged 66, one year after The Monkees celebrated their 45th anniversary.    Also on this day: **"To flee or not to flee, that is the question... Going away is such sweet sorrow."** 1948: Broadway show 'Kiss Me, Kate' – which is based on Shakespeare’s play 'The Taming of the Shrew' (much like one of the greatest teen comedies of all time, 10 Things I Hate About You) - premiered on 30 December 1948. "I say 'High', you say 'Low'..." 1967: The #1 Hit on this day in 1967 to 19 January 1968 was The Beatles’ 'Hello, Goodbye'. On that earworm, Euronews Culture wish you a happy goodbye to 2022 and a wonderful hello to 2023!  