Audrey Diwan, director of the 2021 Venice Golden Lion winner “Happening,” has been named jury president of the 62nd annual Critics Week. The jury members include Portuguese director of photography Rui Poças (“Tabu,” “Zama”); German actor, choreographer and dancer Franz Rogowski (“A Hidden Life”); Indian journalist, curator and Berlinale programming advisor Meenakshi Shedde; and Sundance programming director Kim Yutani. More from Variety Pedro Almodovar's 'Strange Way of Life' to World Premiere at Cannes Film Festival Anthony Hopkins Plays Sigmund Freud in 'Freud's Last Session,' First Look Revealed Cannes Festival Partner Brut Raises Nearly $40 Million From Rodolphe Saadé's CMA CGM, MoonPay in Fourth Funding Round The Critics Week sidebar runs parallel to the Cannes Film Festival, and focuses on first and second films. Tunisian director Kaouther Ben Hania (“The Man who Sold his Skin”) served as last year’s jury president. Diwan, a former journalist, made her debut with “Losing It” in 2019. Two years later, the filmmaker took home the Venice Film Festival’s top prize for her sophomore feature, the searing 2021 abortion drama “Happening,” which was snapped up for distribution by IFC Films. She became only the second woman (after 2020’s “Nomadland” helmer Chloe Zhao) to win the Golden Lion since Agnès Varda, who won in 1985 for “Vagabond.” Critics Week described Diwan in press materials as belonging to a “new generation of female filmmakers whose sharpness and formal freedom are reinventing the codes and redefining the boundaries of international cinema.” Diwan’s jury will award the Critics Week Grand Prize for best feature film, the French Touch Prize of the Jury, the Louis Roederer Foundation Rising Star Award for best actor and actress, and the Leitz Ciné Discovery Prize for best short film. The 2022 edition saw Andrés Ramírez Pulido’s “La Jauría” take the Grand Prize, while Charlotte Wells picked up the French Touch Prize for “Aftersun,” which went on to earn its co-lead Paul Mescal his first Oscar nomination. Elsewhere, the Louis Roederer Foundation Rising Star Award went to Zelda Samson for “Love according to Dalva” by Emmanuelle Nicot, while the Leitz Cine Discovery Prize was awarded to “Ice Merchants” by João Gonzalez. The program runs from May 17-25. Best of Variety Emmy Predictions: TV Movie - 'Fire Island' and 'Reality' Bring Fresh Takes to the Category What's Coming to Disney+ in April 2023 What's Coming to Netflix in April 2023 Sign up for Variety’s Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.