Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	May 11, 2023   	
				         Aloha, the private and secure Web3 browser has announced a partnership with the Web3 infrastructure company MoonPay, to integrate crypto on-ramps to the browser.
MoonPay will provide a dependable infrastructure service that will further improve the offering currently available on the Aloha Browser. Its on-ramp service in particular offers support for all major payment methods including debit and credit cards, local bank transfers, Apple Pay, Google Pay, and Samsung Pay.
With this integration, Aloha further reinforces its Web3 approach with its browser platform and enhances the capabilities of its integrated crypto wallet. The inclusion of the ramping service will also solidify Aloha’s wallet as a full-service cryptocurrency solution used by hundreds of millions of users worldwide.
Aloha Founder Andrew Frost sees the integration as an important step forward for the brand, “Web3 remains a focal point for Aloha Browser, and so we are proud to have a preferred partnership with MoonPay to enhance our current offering. Together, we can continue to make the Aloha Crypto Wallet a competitive and useful tool for our users. This on-ramp alliance is a great reinforcement point for that.”
“We are thrilled to partner with Aloha to create a seamless user experience that enables effortless access to the world of Web3,” said Bree Blazak, VP of Partnerships at MoonPay. “This partnership goes beyond the mere transactional value and represents a shared vision for a more accessible, secure, and integrated Web3 world.”
Aloha currently offers several key Web3 services through its browser platform. Notably, this includes Aloha Crypto Wallet, a native fully featured cryptocurrency wallet where users can access services such as buying and swapping crypto.
 Aloha, the private and secure Web3 browser has announced a partnership with the Web3 infrastructure company MoonPay, to integrate crypto on-ramps to the browser. MoonPay will provide a dependable infrastructure service that will further improve the offering currently available on the Aloha Browser. Its on-ramp service in particular offers support for all major payment methods including debit and credit cards, local bank transfers, Apple Pay, Google Pay, and Samsung Pay. With this integration, Aloha further reinforces its Web3 approach with its browser platform and enhances the capabilities of its integrated crypto wallet. The inclusion of the ramping service will also solidify Aloha’s wallet as a full-service cryptocurrency solution used by hundreds of millions of users worldwide. Aloha Founder Andrew Frost sees the integration as an important step forward for the brand, “Web3 remains a focal point for Aloha Browser, and so we are proud to have a preferred partnership with MoonPay to enhance our current offering. Together, we can continue to make the Aloha Crypto Wallet a competitive and useful tool for our users. This on-ramp alliance is a great reinforcement point for that.” “We are thrilled to partner with Aloha to create a seamless user experience that enables effortless access to the world of Web3,” said Bree Blazak, VP of Partnerships at MoonPay. “This partnership goes beyond the mere transactional value and represents a shared vision for a more accessible, secure, and integrated Web3 world.” Aloha currently offers several key Web3 services through its browser platform. Notably, this includes Aloha Crypto Wallet, a native fully featured cryptocurrency wallet where users can access services such as buying and swapping crypto. May 11, 2023 May 12, 2023 July 19, 2024 Aloha Today  Today  Today  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
