LET US HELP Welcome to Capella Select your program and we'll help guide you through important information as you prepare for the application process. FIND YOUR PROGRAM    Connect with us A team of dedicated enrollment counselors is standing by, ready to answer your questions and help you get started.  CALL EMAIL  Turn your IT potential into a reality. Develop technology-oriented skills to address today’s technical and organizational challenges. Information Technology is a dynamic and fast-changing field. The MS in IT program at Capella is designed to elevate your fundamental skills and help you build advanced IT expertise in one of five specializations. Master of Science in Information Technology Master of Science in Information Technology Master of Science in Information Technology Master of Science in Information Technology Master of Science in Information Technology Our online MS in IT program builds on your current knowledge, helps you develop advanced skills in existing and emerging technologies and gives you a jump on meeting organizational challenges in the field. As an MS in Information Technology student, you’ll begin with core courses that lay the foundation for your program and strengthen your skills in key areas of IT theory and practice. From there, you’ll move into the coursework for your chosen specialization to grow your expertise and advance toward your final project. Capella University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Accreditation and recognitions provide assurance that we meet standards for quality of faculty, curriculum, learner services, and fiscal stability. See all our accreditations and recognitions. Applicants to the MS in IT program must provide the following information for admission: GRE and GMAT are not required for admission. International applicants will be subject to additional admission requirements. View full admission requirements for each specialization: General Information Technology, IT Analytics, Cybersecurity, Enterprise Networks and Cloud Computing, Project Management The total cost of your MS in IT program will depend on your specialization, scholarships and finances, transfer credits, academic performance and other factors. Find detailed tuition information and cost scenarios for each specialization: General Information Technology, IT Analytics, Cybersecurity, Enterprise Networks and Cloud Computing, Project Management Every professional journey is different. Your chosen specialization can help you leverage your unique passions and interests to build advanced expertise for the next phases of your IT career.* Learn more » Learn more » Learn more » Learn more » Learn more » Learn more » Learn more » Learn more » Learn more » Learn more » *Capella cannot guarantee any specific job, promotion, salary increase or other career outcomes. You will need to conduct your own research to understand what opportunities may be available to you. Note that some career paths may prefer or even require previous experience, licensure, certifications or other designations along with a degree. Enroll in a qualified program and apply for a $2.5K Capella Progress Reward, a scholarship to help fund your master’s degree. Earn credits through Credit for Prior Learning  by demonstrating mastery of IT competencies. You could potentially save $13,950 on your Master of Science in Information Technology in the GuidedPath learning format with your CISSPÒ – Certified Information Systems Security Professional.* See what you could save on your IT degree. *Savings inclusive of fees charged by Capella to evaluate and award academic credit for your prior learning. The documented credit fee of $50 is assessed each quarter you request documented credit. Capella reserves the right to change fees at any time.  Capella offers eligible students certification exam vouchers from CompTIA, Cisco and SAS. Focus on technology as you build soft skills, such as communicating tech ideas with non-tech audiences, that can help you advance as a leader. “While working toward my master’s in information technology, Capella allowed me to expand my skills, knowledge and experience when it came to using a variety of tools and working with a real-world client and project team.” Actual Capella graduate who agreed to appear in Capella promotional materials. Your internet browser is in private browsing mode. Please turn off private browsing mode if you wish to use this site.     