Tue, Aug 20, 2024 | Safar 16, 1446 Published: Fri 28 Apr 2023, 9:12 PM In recent years, the institutional push has elevated the UAE to the top of the Web 3.0 value chain. There is a broad consensus among the proponents that for companies hoping to innovate on Web 3.0 and associated platforms such as the metaverse, all roads inadvertently lead to Dubai. Such companies are incentivized by Emirate’s exemplary “technology absorption” — the measure of an entity’s ability to adopt sophisticated technologies and ingrain them into the socio-economic fabric. The launch of the ambitious Dubai Metaverse Strategy set precedents for constitutional bodies such as DEWA to follow suit. Most importantly, the UAE leadership has taken earnest measures to address regulatory concerns surrounding digital assets. The timely establishment of the Dubai Virtual Assets Regulatory Authority (VARA) is a good case in point. As a validation of the efficacy of such measures, global companies have ramped up their efforts in harnessing the full potential of Web 3.0. A recent development in this regard is the induction of seasoned diplomat and business strategist  Dr Ahmed Abdul Rahman AlBanna into the advisory board of YAAP, a specialised content and influencer marketing company with a strong focus on Web 3.0. Dr AlBanna’s reputation in the public sector precedes him, marked by his well-known stints in multiple apex bodies, particularly the UAE Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In an advisory capacity, Dr AlBanna’s  will contribute to YAAP’s key strategic initiatives, including but not limited to Web 3.0 projects. “The next evolutionary phase of technology, Web 3.0, has essentially levelled the playing field globally. Web 3.0 is the eventuality that no part of the civilized world can escape. So, an early-mover advantage in such platforms will determine where one stands in the impending change in the global order. Middle Eastern economies, particularly the UAE, have excelled in attaining a competitive edge thus far. In the next growth cycle, as the UAE reinforces and strengthens its leading position, the contributions of companies specialising in these transformative technologies will be key,” opined Dr AlBanna. Atul Hegde, Founder of YAAP, said that increased digitalization has blurred age-old lines between customer- and business-facing models. “The ubiquity of digital-first experiences — exemplified by the UAE — necessitates continuous differentiation in marketing. That need-gap can be bridged by embracing the next iteration of the internet: Web 3.0. The pivot to platforms such as the metaverse brings a step change to marketing outreach and efficiency, whereas the existing iteration only allows piecemeal strategies. Fortunately, brands in the region are increasingly subscribing to this notion,” Hegde explained. Get news and views from the world of golf delivered to your inbox every Wednesday.  metaverse Crypto Oasis has identified over 1,650 blockchain organisations in the country at the end of the last quarter of 2022 metaverse metaverse Strategy aims to add $4 billion to GDP, support creation of 40,000 virtual jobs, attract 1,000 technology companies to the emirate metaverse metaverse It is important to educate ourselves and make sure the metaverse is 'open and transparent, and not owned by few,' Dr. Mark van Rijmenam asserts metaverse metaverse More than 120 speakers will participate in the conference across four stages in over 60 sessions metaverse metaverse Adnan M Kashwani says that it will enhance the workplace experience, transform the future of work, and raise new questions to be answered metaverse metaverse This initiative is aimed at connecting people globally and cutting the costs that entrepreneurs have to face when doing an on-site event metaverse metaverse The centre is open to the public from Saturday to Thursday and the experience also includes innovative shows using drones and hologram technology metaverse metaverse Facebook parent Meta is spending billions of dollars each year to build what it sees as the next evolution of social computing. New York Times technology reporter Kashmir Hill spent two months in this immersive, three-dimensional world to find out why metaverse