Comment OpenSea, one of the largest NFT marketplaces, is well known for its trading platform, which allows users to buy and sell digital assets. But the company is continuing to expand its product footprint to appeal to other audiences like Web 2.0 brands, said Shiva Rajaraman, OpenSea’s chief business officer. “We look at the rest of this year, and there’s been a lot of talk about what the potential can look like,” Rajaraman told TechCrunch+. “This is the year we launch projects or surface some projects that actually have real benefit or utility.” The big journey right now is to “make bigger bets with key Web 2.0 and web3 creators or brands,” Rajaraman said. “And do whatever it takes to make that product come to life and be clear. Don’t just work on the front stage, work on the back stage, too.” OpenSea was founded in 2017 and has grown to become home for over 2 million collections composed of 80 million NFTs. It’s seen more than $20 billion in volume transacted on its platform, according to its website. One of the biggest friction spots in the NFT space right now is the need for tools for non-crypto-native brands, Rajaraman said. “It’s too complicated, so if we can be a platform that reduces that friction and makes it easier then a creator can do what they do, which is be creative, and we’ll take care of the rest.” There are many non-web3 verticals out there, including fashion, luxury, gaming, media and entertainment, Rajaraman noted. For example, loyalty and membership are two big areas that transcend from Web 2.0 into the web3 space. The startup intends to focus on just two or three verticals this year, working to prove that the brand engagement it can engender with its service is worth the effort. In order for the company to onboard more brands, it needs to offer the tooling that they want so the platform feels familiar and “they can see what the utility is behind the art and bring that front and center,” Rajaraman said during the panel “Here Comes Everybody: Consumer Web3 Is Having Its Moment” at Consensus 2023. “I think that’s going to be a fun design journey over the next six months.” For example, if someone buys an NFT and uses it to redeem a luxury good like jewelry, that data isn’t available on OpenSea — yet, Rajaraman told TechCrunch+. But the platform hopes that over time it can highlight how the digital-physical divide is being crossed. “How can I find the most important things that I own that translates to IRL experiences or cool collabs out there?” he said. “That type of world is important and servicing that is important; otherwise it’s just a square piece of art,” Rajaraman said. “What if we brought that to all surfaces on OpenSea and get a space not just the story and actions around that?” All in all, there may be a large opportunity for brands to diversify their engagement efforts with fans and superfans alike, if they access the right platforms and agencies to get into the web3 space. It’s one thing to try and do it by yourself, but another to engage with web3 companies that know how to do it in a proper way. Even if big social media platforms like Instagram are backing out of the NFT space, people still want relationships with brands and the ability to express themselves, collect and share with others, Rajaraman said. “It’s not just enough to remove friction,” Rajaraman said. “There needs to be access, inspiration and guidance, too.” Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP