The second generation of the Web, now widely dubbed “Web2,” evolved to help users interact with data, leading to the rise of user-generated content, social media and easy peer-to-peer communication and collaboration. It allows businesses to reach and engage with new audiences and store, access and manage important data in the cloud, among other business-centric functions. Now, many of us are hearing about the emergence of Web3, which is touted as “decentralized,” “transparent” and “user-controlled.” But what exactly does that mean for businesses and consumers? Below, 15 members of Forbes Technology Council explore and explain specific features that differentiate Web3 from Web2. Read on to discover how Web3 could change the way people and businesses interact with the world online. Members pictured from left to right.  Web3 is also known as the “semantic Web” or “decentralized Web.” It is built on the principles of decentralization, where data and applications are not controlled by a single entity. It gives users more control over their data. Web3 aims to create a more open and equitable internet, where users have greater control and ownership over their data and online activities. - Faisal Fareed, Amazon Web Services The primary way Web3 differs from Web2 is native decentralization. This would make the internet more open, transparent, secure and democratic. The internet was supposed to eliminate the middleman and bring users together. But it has just replaced old middlemen with new ones. Web3 is the best option to deliver on the internet’s original promise. - Aji Abraham, Armia Systems Inc. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? Web3 aims to bring power back to users in the digital world, similar to how real-world communities have local control and decision making. In Web3, users own their data and digital assets, just as individuals own property in the real world. This is a shift from Web2, where corporations and governments control and profit from user data. Web3 creates a more democratic and secure digital environment. - Bhanu Jagasia, bladestack.io A major differentiator in Web3 is the focus on creating information on the Web, as opposed to the pure dissemination of information in Web2. This moves the internet away from the “one-way interaction” system in Web2, where the creator of information makes it available to consumers. Web3 offers “two-way interaction,” enabling the creation and consumption of information and experiences simultaneously. - Sanjeev Sularia, Intelligence Node Web3 can be seen partly as a combination of Web1 and Web2. Its goal is to enable users to control their data, money and identities through a decentralized system. Web3 will distance itself from centralized systems, such as social networks and other big companies that collect our information. Instead, it will allow companies and individuals to work with each other based on mutual trust. - Andrew Sever, Sumsub Web3 promises to be based on decentralized technology for the storage and processing of data, making it more resistant to censorship and hacking. It also enables new forms of online transactions, such as smart contracts, facilitating decentralized exchanges and creating new decentralized apps and platforms. Whether Web3 will hold to its promises is the big question. - Vitaly Kleban, Everynet The promise of Web3 is changing the balance of power and the current Web2 economic model of who owns and earns revenue from data. Web3 is expected to usher in decentralized apps and modularity. Unlike the centralization of Web2, Web3 allows for trustless interactions on a decentralized network. Web3 users will control their data, allowing them to decide how it is used and shared. - Tracy Levine, SonKsuru Web3 is a consumer-first movement, whereas Web2 was a business-first movement. Everything developed on Web3 has consumers’ rights in mind, including in terms of data, privacy, experience and utility. Commerce and business are the secondary functions—hence the mass adoption of Web3 by artists and independent thought leaders before medium-sized and large organizations. - Amanda Dorenberg, COMMB Think of Web1 as the first stages of the internet: It was one way, offering just search. Web2 provides social media communication, but the data is owned by the social media (internet) companies. Web3 brings the decentralization of data and peer-to-peer communication with more immersive experiences. Think of Web3 as Roblox Web pages: You are in control of the virtual world and the real world. - Giovanni Punzo, Streann Media Web3 is expected to embrace decentralized and distributed edge computing with corresponding edge technologies yet to be invented, rather than a centralized cloud. We should also expect a different flavor of generative AI to apply to Web3. When these two things merge, it could create a new playground for developer creativity, resulting in new solutions and business models. - Ganesh Sundaram, Alef Innovations Web3 is decentralized, allowing for greater user autonomy and control. Unlike Web2, it doesn’t rely on centralized servers and intermediaries to manage data. Web3 uses blockchain technology to create a decentralized network where users can directly control and manage their own data and transactions, leading to increased security, privacy and transparency. - Imane Adel, Paymob Web2 was about the birth of Web exploration and apps that you interact with. Web3 is all about how the internet interfaces with one’s everyday life in a more integrated fashion—from finances to healthcare and more. We’re going to see data transit speeds dramatically increase with Web3. This will make us radically rethink how we create apps and share technology. - Arjun Bhatnagar, Cloaked Web3 is a decentralized version of the internet, where power is distributed among users and their devices. This allows for greater privacy, security and control for individuals and eliminates the need for intermediaries in online transactions and data storage. This is a major departure from Web2, where most data is stored on centralized servers and controlled by a small number of tech giants. - Madhavi Shankar, SpaceBasic A key difference is that Web3 is designed to be more inclusive and accessible. Web2 is often limited by factors such as cost, location and technical expertise. Web3 technologies, such as peer-to-peer networks and blockchain-based systems, have the potential to help bridge these gaps by making it possible for individuals and communities to share resources and access regardless of economic status. - Nick Newsom, Ytel Communications. Due to the wide adoption of blockchain technology across mobile applications and websites, the 3.0 version of the Web is getting more evolved. The main difference between Web2 and Web3 is that Web3 is going to be built decentralized. Users will own their content and have control over it when browsing the internet, which is a revolutionary advantage allowing for the full adoption of the metaverse. - Aleks Farseev, SoMin.ai 