Comment Time flies, doesn’t it? We’re nearly through the first month of Q3, which means we can finally start taking note of the trends that will define the rest of the year, or whether long-lasting trends are set to continue. One such long-running trend shows no signs of reversing: Unfortunately for crypto, a former darling of startup land, funding to web3 startups continues to decline and will likely do so for the foreseeable future. The Exchange explores startups, markets and money.  Read it every morning on TechCrunch+ or get The Exchange newsletter every Saturday. According to the Crunchbase Web3 Tracker, funding to crypto startups around the world is on pace to decline for the seventh straight quarter — with investments in Q3 on track to land quite a bit below the $1.9 billion crypto companies raised in Q2. In fact, Q2 actually felt kind of stable, since crypto startups raised only slightly less than the $2 billion they did in Q1. The current quarter is shaping up to be shakier. VC investments in web3 so far have totaled $412.7 million, and if things don’t improve, that will add up to about $1.2 billion or so by the end of September.  We’re certainly not going to see investors behaving as they were during 2021. But the ad market is recovering, startup valuations are getting slightly better, and we’re even seeing some early signals that the IPO market is not completely dead, so you might expect venture activity to sort of bounce back, too. After all, since peaking at $10.6 billion in Q4 2021, venture investment in crypto has trended downward for six consecutive quarters. Surely it’s time for a break? Perhaps not. There are several compounding factors to consider when projecting the crypto market’s future. First, regulatory uncertainty is making it harder for web3 companies to operate in as many countries as they would like. This, in turn, limits these startups’ applicable TAM (total addressable market), and thus their potential viability as venture-backed entities. Second, consumer demand for crypto assets isn’t very strong. NFT activity isn’t improving, and crypto trading is down when compared to historical levels and is perhaps slowing even further. It’s certainly a crypto winter, but not only because the external climate is chilly — consumers also don’t seem as engaged as they’d need to be for investors to be excited again about crypto projects. There’s a natural corollary to web3 being less appealing to customers and investors alike: Crypto funds are smaller today. And existing capital pools appear to be shrinking, too: Sequoia Capital reportedly has slashed the size of its cryptocurrency fund to $200 million, down from $585 million. “We made these changes to sharpen our focus on seed-stage opportunities and to provide liquidity to our limited partners,” a Sequoia spokesperson told TechCrunch+ in an emailed statement. “The crypto fund will primarily focus on new company formation, with the opportunity to supplement these investments from our seed, venture, growth, and expansion funds as the companies mature.” The fact that Sequoia still aims to invest in early-stage crypto startups shows that the firm sees a future in crypto. But this would also be a tactic that ensures it makes much smaller bets than its infamous $150 million investment in FTX, for which it reportedly apologized to its LPs after marking the investment down to zero. Sequoia isn’t the only generalist firm that’s been partially turned off by crypto after getting burned. Even more specialized funds are slowing down. Coinbase Ventures makes for a good example: Described by the Block Pro as “one of the most active investors in crypto with an average of 30 deals per quarter, and more than 400 investments in 376 unique startups,” the fund has made only 27 investments this year, compared to 150 in 2022. We do have Coinbase reporting its quarterly results next week, so that’s going to be illustrative. But for now, it appears that limited activity on the blockchain is also limiting capital flow into the space. Bitcoin maxis rejoice. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  Powered by WordPress VIP