    New Orleans-based Key Real Estate Company has acquired the historic American Can Company apartments on Orleans Avenue in Mid City from the out-of-state investor group that had owned the building since 2013. The sale price was not disclosed. But mortgage documents filed with the Orleans Parish Clerk of Court show Key borrowed $44.46 million to finance the deal. It is unclear whether additional funds were used for the acquisition, which was finalized April 3. Michael Lang, managing principle with Key, declined to comment on the purchase price. But he said his firm wanted to add the complex to its growing portfolio of more than two dozen apartment and condominium developments across the South because it is an attractive property in a great location. Key is planning to begin an extensive renovation of the complex’s 1-, 2- and 3-bedroom units later this year, he said. “We love the property and love the area and think it will be a great addition,” said Lang, who could not provide a specific timeline for the renovation but said it will be done in phases, with upgrades to the first batch of units starting soon. Andrew Schwarz, whose Georgia-based investment firm, Audubon, was part of the previous ownership group, said the decision to sell was not a reflection of local market conditions or the building itself but, rather, because 10 years is part of the typical “investment cycle for investors.” “It’s a happy day but a sad day to part with an asset like this,” said Schwarz, who, along with his partners in investment group ACV VII, purchased the building from local developer Pres Kabacoff a decade ago. “It has performed extremely well for us, but it was just time to sell.” ACV VII invested more than $10 million over the past decade in upkeep and improvements to the property, including upgrades to about 20% of the units and an exterior renovation and paint job that were completed in 2019, Schwarz said. The building is 97% occupied, and monthly rents average around $1.80 per square foot, which puts the complex among the more expensive properties in the market, according to Larry Schedler, a commercial real estate broker at Larry G. Schedler & Associates who specializes in the multi-family market. But ACV VII’s decade-long ownership of the building was not without its controversies. In 2016, when tax credits that had subsidized the building's original renovation expired, the group came under fire for doing away with the building's rent-reduced apartments that had been set aside for low- and moderate-income tenants.   More recently, tenants who were paying, in some cases, more than $2,000 per month in rent, sued ACV VII for damages, alleging a decade of deteriorating conditions at the building, including: lack of security, lack of adequate AC; improper upkeep of common areas and grounds; low water pressure, and mold in common areas, among other things. The suit, filed in state court in 2019, sought class action status. No pleadings have been filed in nearly a year, though the tenants' attorney, Fred Herman, said the case is still ongoing.  ACV VII has denied the allegations in court documents. Schwarz declined to comment on the suit, as did Lang. The four-story American Can Co. building has stood on the site for more than a century. At its peak in the mid-20th century, the plant employed three shifts of 1,400 employees each, and produced 600 million cans a year. The factory closed in 1988 and was badly damaged by fire a year later. It sat vacant for several more years until Kabacoff’s HRI Properties acquired the property and led a $44.5 million renovation project. In return for city and federal loans, grants and tax credits that supported the project, 20% of the units were set aside for low- and moderate-income tenants. In the years since, much of the neighborhood around the complex has been redeveloped, including construction of the Lafitte Greenway. The area is now home to several hip bars and restaurants, and lease rates in surrounding duplexes and shotgun doubles have soared, according to Schedler.  He noted that the building is one of just three large complexes of 100 units or more in the Mid-City area, which adds to its appeal both to investors and tenants.  "People love that area but there is very little inventory," he said. "Besides American Can, the only other large complexes are the Esplanade at City Park and the Lumina on the Greenway. That adds to the desirability."  Key Real Estate counts the National Rice Mills Lofts apartments in the Bywater and 2424 Tulane Avenue among its New Orleans complexes. It also owns and as developed complexes in Baton Rouge, Lafayette, Texas and Mississippi. Email Stephanie Riegel at stephanie.riegel@theadvocate.com.   News Tips:nolanewstips@theadvocate.com Other questions:subscriberservices@theadvocate.com Need help?  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: