It makes up to four cups of coffee at once. Avid coffee drinkers are probably well aware of how easily daily or even weekly coffee runs can start to add up. If you’re trying to save money on your morning beverages, then you might consider making your own coffee at home. We’re not saying you have to settle for an ordinary hot black coffee, either. The Bean Envy Cold Brew Coffee Maker allows you to make a satisfying cold brew without even leaving your house or spending extra money. The best part is you can add one to your kitchen for just $27 while it’s on sale—that’s only about five Starbucks drinks. Here at Parade.com, we're all about sharing products we love with our audience. When you make a purchase on an item seen on this page, we may earn a commission, however, all picks are independently chosen unless otherwise mentioned. Making your own cold brew might sound intimidating, but the good news is you can customize it to taste exactly how you want. It only takes five easy steps and will be ready to enjoy in as little as 12 hours depending on how cold you like it. The machine comes with a 32-ounce carafe with a non-slip base, an air-tight silicone cap and a stainless steel filter. All you have to do is add coarse ground coffee to the filter, fill it with water, and set the pitcher in the refrigerator for up to 24 hours until you’re ready to drink it. Shop it: Bean Envy Cold Brew Coffee Maker, Was $30, Now $27 on Amazon Cold brew typically has a stronger flavor than a normal cup of joe that’s made with an electric coffee maker since it steeps for an entire day. We suggest adding your preferred milk, sugar or sweetener to enhance the flavor if you don’t like the taste of coffee on its own. So far after almost 6 months, I've found that the quality of the materials that this brewer is made of is good and the cold brew coffee that it yields is similar to that of what I get at outside coffee specialty stores,” wrote a 5-star reviewer. “It saves me a lot of money!” Another person went as far as to say that it allows them to “make coffee that tastes better than Starbucks for a lot less money.” RELATED: This Retro Kitchen Collection on Amazon Looks Just Like More Expensive Brands, but Costs Way Less For a cold brew coffee maker that costs less than $30 and makes store-quality coffee, you really can’t go wrong. Plus, you don’t even need an outlet and it’s easy to clean and store. These Bath Towels Are ‘Softer Than Anything Else’ and Are on Sale for $2.79 Apiece Katie Holmes Spotted This Hot 2023 Trend—You Can Too This Full-Coverage Bra is So Comfy Shoppers 'Want to Cry' New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.