Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Lily Rose, 
                              
              Kaylyn McKenna
 
    Edited By
                        
              Lily Rose
 
Updated on:  August 30, 2023 / 12:56 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Labor Day 2023 is almost here. The holiday weekend is traditionally full of great discounts on home goods, including coffee and espresso makers. But you don't have to wait until Sept. 4 to get shopping. The internet is already filled with coffee maker and espresso makers on sale now. Your morning cup of Joe will taste even sweeter with the knowledge that you got the best coffee maker deal possible -- and we're not just talking drip coffee. These top-rated kitchen appliances can help you craft barista-quality espressos, lattes, cappuccinos, Americanos, hot chocolate and so much more. The experts at CBS Essentials have rounded up the best coffee and espresso maker Labor Day discounts that we could find. These customer-loved kitchen devices all have a four-star rating or better and receive tons of positive reviews from coffee drinkers like you.  The 5-inch-wide Keurig coffee maker lets you brew up to 12 ounces of coffee, hot chocolate, tea and more. Its removable drip tray accommodates travel mugs up to seven inches tall and can even hold a full accidental brew for easy cleanup. It's 20% off at Amazon now.   "I love that it is compact, I chose mint green as a color and it looks great. Overall great addition to my countertops. I like the versatility -- coffee, tea, hot chocolate...which I can't do with my Nespresso," an Amazon customer says.   Why we like the Keurig K-Mini coffee maker:  CBS Essentials readers have bought more of this coffee maker than any other coffee and espresso maker on our site. This versatile kitchen gadget is a must-have for any coffee drinker. It's compatible with K-Cup pods, Nespresso capsules and any ground coffee you like, when used with the included reusable pod. Brew up to 12 ounces of coffee and up to 6 ounces of espresso at a time.    "I am in love with this product. I raved about it so much my husband told me I had to write a review," an Amazon buyer says. "The frother is easy to use, set up, clean, does hot and cold, is quick and so versatile. I have been frothing every beverage in my house (least it seems that way)."   It's on sale now for 9% off.   Why we like the Instant Dual Pod Plus:  This slim Nespresso machine won't take up precious counter space. "I love how much space this saves on my countertops," said CBS Essentials editorial director Leslie Gornstein. "It's amazingly easy to use and very easy to maintain." The Nespresso device features a high pressure pump and perfect heat control.    "Nespresso is constantly putting out new and interesting coffee flavors, including iced-latte pods for warmer seasons and -- my favorite -- Hawaiian Kona, so there's always something fun to try if you're a Nespresso owner," said Gornstein.    It's currently on sale for just $180 -- a nice discount from it's regular price of $229.   Why we like the Nespresso Pixie:  Say goodbye to watery iced coffee. This Mr. Coffee coffee maker includes an integrated measuring system that makes it easy to brew the perfect ratio of coffee to ice.    "[The coffee maker is] easy to use, easy to clean and a nice compact size," one Amazon reviewer says. Iced coffee is perfect! I customize my drinks exactly as I like. This purchase will pay for itself very quickly by not spending five plus dollars at Starbucks or Dunkin.'"   It's 47% off right now at Amazon.   Why we like Mr. Coffee iced and hot coffee maker:  If you're looking to refresh your kitchen (and your morning routine) for spring, then check out this great Keurig deal from Amazon. The Keurig K-Cafe Smart promises to help you create more than 70 coffeehouse drinks at home using coffee pods. This model looks like a standard Keurig but has an attached milk frother and more brewing options.   The Keurig K-Cafe Smart connects to the Keurig app. You can schedule a brew in advance, brew remotely and more. The coffeemaker's BrewID tech, meanwhile, selects the ideal settings for whichever K-Cup you choose to use.   Right now you can get this coffee maker for just $200 (regularly $250).   Why we like the Keurig K-Cafe Smart:  This 4.3-star-rated De'Longhi Espresso Machine makes shots of espresso with 15 bars of pressure. It features an advanced cappuccino system with a hot milk or cappuccino selector to mix and steam milk for evenly textured drinks. Other features include a double layer drip tray, removable water tank and stainless-steel accents. It's 21% off at Amazon.   "I love this so much," an Amazon customer says. "It's so easy to use and makes coffee so quickly. It was affordable compared to most espresso makers and the quality is amazing."   Why we like the De'Longhi espresso machine:  The Nespresso Vertuo Next allows you to brew single serve coffee or espresso at the touch of a button. The espresso maker can brew three different cup sizes and offer an ultra-fast, 25-second heat-up time.  "I found myself spending close to $35 per week on coffee at Starbucks. Not anymore." writes one Amazon reviewer. "The Nespresso machine generates a beautiful thick espresso by centrifugal force which gives the end result a nice layer of crema. Totally worth the money to get the milk frothed as well for a nice latte or cappuccino."  The best-selling espresso machine typically retails for $209 on Amazon, but right now it's marked down to $169. Why we like the Nespresso Vertuo Next espresso maker: Lily Rose is a senior writer for CBS Essentials and the site's expert in home appliances such as washers, dryers, refrigerators and ranges. When she's not writing about how you can upgrade your laundry room, she's writing about home and kitchen essentials that will transform your space. Her favorite appliance is her air fryer. She firmly believes that it can make the crispiest sweet potato fries. 
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          Outdoor grilling season is still in full swing. Check out the top propane grills of 2024 to keep the flavor going all year long.
         
          Hinge and Bumble are two of the most popular dating apps of 2024. We compare the two to see which is better.
         
          Here's how and when to watch the New Orleans Saints face the San Francisco 49es for NFL preseason Week 2 tonight.
         
          Here's how and when to watch the Green Bay Packers face the Denver Broncos for NFL preseason Week 2 tonight.
         
          The Premier League Chelsea vs. Manchester City soccer game will be played today. Find out how and when to watch.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          The new U.S. strategy to combat plastics waste covers five areas: plastic production, product design, waste generation, waste management and plastic capture and removal.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          Drivers could continue to see higher car insurance rates in 2024, with the average U.S. rate projected to jump 22% this year.
         
          Jaden Brunz, an 18-year-old artist, turned a risky graffiti project into a promising opportunity with the help of Sioux Falls Mayor Paul TenHaken.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Drivers could continue to see higher car insurance rates in 2024, with the average U.S. rate projected to jump 22% this year.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Labor Day weekend will mark the end of the summer travel season. Here's how Americans are capping it off.
         
          A U.S. district judge said in her ruling that FuboTV was likely to be successful in proving that the joint venture would violate antitrust laws.
         
          The new U.S. strategy to combat plastics waste covers five areas: plastic production, product design, waste generation, waste management and plastic capture and removal.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          As Democrats gather in Chicago for their national convention, parallels to the turbulent 1968 Democratic National Convention are apparent.
         
          Three presidents, leaders in Congress and other prominent members of the party are expected to address the Democratic National Convention.
         
          Democrats from across the country are descending on Chicago for the convention, where the party will rally around Harris — and her new running mate — as the party's nominees.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          Italy's Coast Guard says a boat sank after being hit by a storm off Sicily, leaving U.S. nationals among six people missing.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Joro spiders have hearts that are able to withstand the loud and bustling noises of big cities​, according to a study published on Monday.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          Mark Twitchell, a Canadian filmmaker, is dubbed "The Dexter Killer" because of the numerous links between the TV series and his real-life crimes.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          Secretary of State Antony Blinken is back in the Middle East and warned of a potentially final opportunity to rescue Israeli hostages in Gaza and establish a cease-fire in the war with Hamas. Wyre Davies with BBC News, a CBS News partner, has more.
         
          Vice President Kamala Harris will accept the Democratic nomination for president this week at the DNC in Chicago. Meanwhile, former President Donald Trump will hit battleground states to rally voters. CBS News campaign reporters Aaron Navarro and Jake Rosen have more.
         
          Three shot outside county courthouse in Kentucky; Two women dead after being swept away by flooding in Connecticut.
         
          Former New York Rep. George Santos is expected to plead guilty to several felony fraud charges Monday, CBS News has learned. Santos has been facing criticism for fabricating details about his past and allegedly misusing donor credit card information. CBS News' Scott MacFarlane has more.
         
          Legendary daytime talk show host Phil Donahue has died at age 88, his publicist confirmed to CBS News. The White House called Donahue's show one of the most influential TV programs of its time. Donahue received the Presidential Medal of Freedom earlier this year for his contributions to American television. Dave Quinn, a senior news editor at People, joins CBS News with more.
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.