June 16, 2023  This summer, a free public art trail of over 50 uniquely designed supersized Morph sculptures will pop up alongside iconic London landmarks to raise awareness of Whizz Kidz, a UK charity for young people in wheelchairs. Morph’s Epic Art Adventure step-free trail will be in full swing across the capital from June 19th to August 20th. Sky Kids and Sky VIP will sponsor the trail, bringing to life one of the most beloved characters on Sky Kids screens in a series of bold designs. Using a Trail Map and interactive App, the public will journey past the South Bank of the Thames and through the City of London, discovering facts and unlocking rewards along the way. Passers-by can also keep their eyes peeled for Sky’s very own Morph sculptures, designed by Rob Biddulph and Amanda Quellin. Blaze A Trail will be located in front of Tower Bridge, whilst Mega Messy Morph will be in full view next to Tate Modern. Lucy Murphy, Director of Kids Content at Sky UK, commented: “We’re delighted to be sponsoring Morph’s Epic Art Adventure trail and supporting the important work of Whizz Kidz. This is the perfect free activity to get families out and about together as they hunt across the city for sculptures of one of Sky Kids most popular characters. And the fact it’s step-free will mean everyone can take part.” Sarah Pugh, CEO of Whizz Kidz, added: “We are thrilled to have Sky’s support in this step-free art trail, which provides accessibility for all to experience the beauty of art. This trail means that the whole family can get involved and enjoy a summer holiday experience all together. Both Whizz Kidz and Sky strongly believe in the power of art to bring about positive change, and this project is a wonderful way to draw attention to Whizz Kidz’s mission and impact the lives of more young wheelchair users in the UK.” Morph’s Epic Art Adventure is the UK’s first step free trail which aims to raise awareness of the need for young wheelchair-users to be mobile, enabled and included in society. The project is a collaboration between creators of Morph, Aardman Animations, Whizz Kidz and Wild in Art. Once the trail ends on August 20th, the Morphs will be auctioned off to raise funds for Whizz Kidz. Related posts:  Categories: Articles, Content Tags: London, Morph, sky kids, Sky VIP Creative Media CentreHastingsEast SussexTN34 1HLTel: +44 7900 196870 Copyright © 2001-2024. Advanced Television Ltd.