Just practicing my Barbie look for the 100th time!  We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we love. Promise. You'd never know I was a procrastinator based on the Halloween costumes I've pulled together last minute. Most years, I'm grabbing things out of my closet for a homemade DIY costume moments before heading out to a party or ordering gallons of fake blood and face paint on Amazon two days before. But my costumes always look immaculate. My hack? An easy af Halloween makeup look that mostly takes the place of a costume entirely (minus a few simple additions).  Trust: Some Halloween eye makeup or a Halloween hairstyle can entirely turn your look into a full-blown costume with very little effort (see: #20, I promise anyone can do it). And you don't even need to be a whiz with a blending brush, either. Just scroll through this list of 57 Halloween makeup-look tutorials and start practicing—before you know it, you'll be winning best costume.   So to the naysayers who swear you can’t come up with a cheap Halloween costume within a few hours, give ‘em some ~spooky~ hell with one of these Halloween makeup ideas: After Greta Gerwig's Barbie masterpiece, I guarantee we're about to see a whole lotta Barbies walking down the street this Halloween. And I wouldn't want anything different! Here's the thing: You really just need a pink makeup look and a pink outfit to match. But you can totally match it to your vibes, whether you go for a rosy eye and lip or this full-blown bright look. IDK about you, but I spent the majority of my time watching The Idol just contemplating how I'd redo Lily-Rose Depp's makeup for a Halloween costume. It's fairly natural and simple, yet looks so unmistakably "her." Just make sure to opt for a waterproof eyeliner that gives you a lil time to smudge it out but then sets in place (my go-to is the Makeup By Mario Master Pigment Pro Eyeliner Pencil, FWIW).  The Little Mermaid remake coming out this year means we're probably going to see a lot of fishtails walking  swimming down the street. Spice it up by being Ursula à la this look created by Ash Levi. Start by coating your face and neck with a light layer of purple face and body paint. Contour with a deeper shade of purple blush or purple eyeshadow, and don't forget to add Ursula's signature beauty mark just below your lip. If you didn’t make it to one of those Shrek raves this/last summer (yes, they were a thing), you can at least cosplay as Princess Fiona this Halloween to make up for it. Before you pop on your red wig and ogre ears, swipe a shimmery bronze eyeshadow across your lids, then dot fake freckles across your nose with an eyeliner brush and a matte shade from your neutral eyeshadow palette that’s three shades darker than your skin tone. Wanna get a lil scary this Halloween? Then check out this demon girl tutorial by Ellie Macs SFX. Get yourself a foundation three to four shades lighter than your skin tone for a washed-out look, a black lipstick, and a black smokey eyeshadow for a basic and quick demon look. This tutorial amps it up a notch with some liquid liner face veins, black eyeshadow contour for dimension, and some subtle red eyeshadow shading. Let's be real, Jenna Ortega killed it as Wednesday Addams, and considering Wednesday didn't premiere until November of 2022, that means this is the first year to dress up as this rendition of her. Grab your favorite black eyeliner and smudge it out on your top and bottom waterlines. Grab some black hair paint and give yourself two cute lil braids. All the glimpses of Ariana Grande as Glinda in the upcoming Wicked movie are getting me real excited, so I might just have to give this costume a go. Just snag a few key makeup products, including a pink-toned eyeshadow palette, a light-pink lip gloss, and a whole bunch of adhesive rhinestones. And if you're v committed, put on a long, pink dress and wave around a wand. You're a good witch, after all.  You basically already have the makings of this look if you have a gold cream eyeshadow to pat across your lids, lips, and cheeks. It's v pigmented, but you can also blend it out where you want a more diffused look. But if you want to go even further, stick on a pair of gold false lashes like YouTuber WitJasmine.  If you're more of a "throw on a spooky T-shirt and call it a day" Halloween celebrator, just up the ante on your makeup look with one of these eyeliner ideas. Whether you want a spooky vibe (hi, bloody floating liner) or a cutesy look (@ those adorable devil horns), you won't get yelled at for not looking festive but still get to keep a lil bit of your peace. If your vibe is "yee-haw, but make it shiny and pink," consider this the easiest costume on this list. This look is heavy on the glitter, so don't be shy and cover your entire face (eyes, lips, and cheeks) with a mix of metallics and glitter eyeshadows in varying shades and consistencies. And I guarantee if you went to a bachelorette party this year, you already have a cowgirl hat (probably in pink... with rhinestones).  If you didn't get enough of recreating Blondie's makeup on the Eras Tour this summer (I mean, there's a lot of content to choose from, mmk?), the Lover-era heart is probably the most recognizable for Swifties and bystanders alike. Here's a lil trick tho from when I copied this look recently: Outline the shape of your heart with a beige or white eyeliner pencil first to get the shape right, then dab the glitter on top—you'll avoid having to re-do the glitter a bajillion times like I did.   All you need for this look is a steady hand, liquid eyeliner, and a foundation or concealer two to three shades lighter than your skin tone to get this look. Then, all you gotta do is throw on a black dress and put on your best regency-era voice. Make haste!  I’m low-key obsessed with this Halloween makeup tutorial from YouTuber Cydnee Black that recreates a creepy scientist after an experiment gone wrong (yes, a pair of protective glasses will be required). To get the smoked-out look around your face, trace gray or black eyeshadow along the outside rim of your glasses while you’re wearing them, blend the lines out with a fluffy brush, then add bits of darker smoke around your face with the same brush for a haphazard finish.  Though you can wear graphic eyeliner any day of the week, try zhuzhing it up even more for Halloween with exaggerated false lashes and a white eyeshadow cut crease, as in YouTuber Dacey Cash’s ‘60s makeup tutorial. If you’re new to fake eyelashes, try grabbing a pair of magnetic lashes instead, then draw on a few lash strokes with black liquid eyeliner along your bottom lashes for the ultimate Twiggy look.  Not ready to stop talking about Stranger Things 4? Try this super-easy Eleven costume from season three that just requires a little fake blood under your nose. Keep the rest of your makeup natural (like, a little brown mascara on your top lashes and clear brow gel). Bonus points if you spring for an ‘80s-printed button-down and beach waves. This soft, pink-toned makeup look would absolutely wow Lady Whistledown (or at least, one can hope). The Bridgerton ladies keep it natural and sweet on the show, so copy their look this Halloween by blending a few rose-toned eyeshadows all over your eyes and cheeks, and keeping your skin super glowy (using a luminescent makeup primer and lots of highlighter on your cheekbones) as YouTuber Sophie Schumann does in the tutorial above. Lots of cream blush and faux freckles create the base for this adorable fairy costume by Eve frsr, which you probably already know how to do if you’re a makeup lover. Still, if you don’t already own a faux freckle pen (which, tbh, I highly recommend you do), you can also get the look by dotting a brown lip liner or eyebrow pencil across your nose and cheeks. Thank you to Euphoria season two for giving us even more Halloween makeup looks to copy this year, like this Cassie look in episode one that was a cornerstone of *that* bathtub scene. And luckily, it’s super easy to DIY: Dot eyelash glue in a winged-out shape, wait 10 seconds until it’s tacky, then stick on tiny rhinestones. If you have hooded eyes, you can follow YouTuber Crystal Chou’s trick of placing your rhinestones just above your natural crease to make the wing stand out. Expect all the Barbie looks this Halloween season (tysm, Greta Gerwig and Margot Robbie). But if you’re not into the cutesy vibe, how about this scary, RIP version? YouTuber Roxette Arisa took a classic pink Barbie eye look to another level with liquid latex and special effects makeup. But you can also achieve the look a bit more easily by smudging red and black face paint around your mouth for the lazy-yet-effective version. While I wouldn’t call Robert Pattinson’s The Batman my favorite film in the franchise’s long list, I will say Zoë Kravitz’s Catwoman had some of the best makeup I’ve ever seen. This cool, fresh costume requires nothing more than a smudge-y black eyeliner, some liquid glitter, and an all-black outfit. Does Black Swan still live in your head rent-free 12 years later, or is it just me? Pay some respect to the movie with this Halloween makeup that only really requires black eyeliner—just lots of it. If you dread doing your brows, you’ll get a lil reprieve with this costume, since you’ll be drawing over them with black liner. Pro tip: First outline the shape with a liquid eyeliner pen, then fill in larger areas with a flat brush and gel eyeliner pot to save time. Scar is low-key the scariest Disney villain, IMO. Aside from the drawn-on eyeliner whiskers and nose, the key to this look is, obviously, the scar. After filling in your brows (creating a strong arch to match Scar’s perpetual scowl), draw a line through the brow and under your eyelid with a skinny brush dipped in full-coverage concealer.  If you ordered a vat of fake blood on Amazon (weird, but okay) for Halloween this year, you’ve got nearly everything you need for this Carrie costume. But you don’t want to just douse your entire face in blood (or, IDK, you do you)—take a hint from YouTuber LesleyMarie1213 who recreated realistic blood splatters using red liquid lipstick and a toothbrush. Trust, the tutorial is worth watching.  Seems like everyone on my FYP is planning to dress up as Cupid for Halloween this year, so I found this very cute makeup tutorial to match. This look is all about the red tones: red lipstick, red blush, and red eyeliner. YouTuber Glownicky also added a white graphic line above her crease with a single red heart on one side (which you should def copy because it’s cute AF), or add your own touch with a heart gemstone. Expect to see lots of iterations of Marilyn this Halloween in honor of the film, Blonde, starring Ana De Armas. Regardless of how you feel about the movie, it’s still an excuse to go full glam this October, with contour, red lipstick, winged eyeliner, neutral eyeshadow, and Marilyn’s iconic beauty mark. But don’t worry if you think all this makeup will look harsh: Makeup artist Jordi of ItsLikelyMakeup layered a translucent powder over her entire face to diffuse any edges and keep the look soft. If you have a strong black liquid eyeliner you swear by (read: it applies evenly, doesn’t smudge, and is super opaque), you’ve already got the basics needed for this Carmen San Diego look by drag queen Krisa Gonna. If a blocked-out glue-stick brow is a little too time-intensive for you, cover your brows with concealer and brush them through with a spoolie to blend them into your skin tone before drawing on your black Carmen brows. Everyone will immediately start singing the theme song the second you walk in their midst with this costume, so beware if you don’t like sudden outbursts of song. Basically the CEO of Gen Z, Olivia Rodrigo is the ultimate inspo for Halloween makeup this year, and this tutorial demonstrates four looks that make for an iconic group costume. But if you’re going with the OG Sour cover at minute 6:20, grab a mix of flat and 3D stickers for some contrast and dimension on your face. And don’t forget Liv’s signature winged eyeliner and glossy lip. You don’t have to be a stan of The Craft to get on with this ‘90s goth girl costume (but I mean, it’ll definitely give you some street cred if you can quote a few lines). Get the look (a gray smokey eye and vampy lip) with a few basics: a cool-tone eyeshadow palette and a dark, purple lipstick. If you have a contour palette laying around that you barely touch, now’s the chance to use it, as this zombie look is quite literally all about intense shadows and highlights. Start with a full-coverage foundation two to three shades lighter than your natural skin tone for that ~dead~ look, then go HAM with a dark, cool-toned contour on your cheekbones, nose, and temples for a sunken-in effect. YouTuber Melissa Alatorre also added a black smokey eye and red lipstick to mimic blood around the mouth to finish off the look. If you wanna go more cutesy this Halloween than scary demons, try this fall-themed sunflower eye look. Layer on an eye primer (necessary for keeping this look intact past midnight) before sketching out the flower petals with a yellow eyeliner. Then, fill each petal in with yellow eye paint and deepen it with a warm-toned brown eyeshadow stick.  If you’ve got a steady hand and an array of sunset-toned eyeshadows, you can create this butterfly look like makeup artist Lauren Brown of RaggedyRoyal. To keep the shades bright and pigmented, dab a white eyeshadow base across your lids and along the lower lash line, then pack your eyeshadow on top with a dense brush. Whether you watched Pam and Tommy or not (I’m begging you, pls watch), you can’t deny that Pamela Anderson is a beauty icon, and she makes a fantastic ‘90s bombshell costume. The foundation of any ‘90s look is skinny-AF brows, so to DIY them for Halloween, cover them first with the glue stick method (watch the tutorial from Jackie Wyers), or simply draw a thin line with an eyebrow pencil through just the tail of your brow for a skinnier look. Don’t forget the blonde wig either! Sry, but I can’t go through a bunch of easy Halloween makeup tutorials without the ultimate classic: a witch. The basis of this look is a gray-toned smokey eye with winged eyeliner and matte black lipstick. But you can amp it up like Maryam Maquillage with a bit of green eyeshadow as blush, duo-chrome highlighter, and intense nose contour (see minutes 17:37 for the tutorial). For all my Team Jacob #Twihards, this one’s for you (even though you are emphatically wrong, but w/e). To get the lifted eye look seen on YouTuber Kelsie Kristine, you’ll need a thick layer of concealer and powder to hide the tail of your natural brows so you can draw your own straight, thick eyebrows with a dark brow pencil. To intensify the wolf vibes even more, try adding a widow’s peak (if you don’t already have one) with a brow pomade, like in the tutorial. A costume that gives me the excuse to queue up yet another Black Panther rewatch? I’m in. To recreate this look, all you’ll need is gold eyeshadow, black eyeliner, and white liquid eyeliner. A nail-dotting pen will help you get symmetrical circles, but you can also dip a Q-tip into your white eyeshadow if you don’t already have a dotting tool.  If 2009 Tumblr were a costume, it’d be this. To get the look, blend purple and blue eyeshadow across your eyes and nose with a fluffy blending brush to create a soft gradient. Then, as YouTuber Ronkeraji does in this tutorial, create your dots, constellations, and highlights with a thin white eyeliner and a jumbo pencil. David Bowie’s alter-ego Ziggy Stardust is, like, my dream costume because it doesn’t even really require clothes (however, pls wear clothes…or don’t? You do you on Hallows Eve). If you want to copy the classic Bowie, whose skin was kept matte except for red and blue face paint, make sure to powder your face before drawing on your face paint, then opt for water-based paints that’ll stay glossy on your skin all night. The best part of this Halloween makeup look is that it pairs well with literally any eye makeup you wear underneath, whether that's a natural look, a soft-glam look, or, as seen here, a fully blacked-out eye look. As long as you've got some black liquid liner to draw across your mouth and some dark eyeshadows to shade your cheeks, you'll be set—promise.  There are approximately one-zillion Cruella de Vil makeup tutorials floating around the interwebs right now, thanks to Emma Stone's Cruella, but I'm not gonna lie—most of them are hard af to recreate if you're a total makeup newb. Which is why I love this one from YouTuber Laura Gilbert, who plays up a smokey eye, a red lip, and some powdered skin to cash in on the Cruella vibes, all without requiring you to put glue on your eyebrows (IYKYK).  If you’re one of those people who doesn’t need a theme for a costume other than blood, guts, and gore, here’s an easy tutorial for making fake skin for scars and realistic-looking blood for your pretend wounds. For the skin, mix together flour, petroleum jelly, and a full-coverage foundation that matches your skin to create a tinted wax that you can use to sculpt however you want on your body. Then, jump to 5:14 and learn how to whip up a batch of blood with food coloring, cocoa powder, and honey.  If you, too, have been binge-watching Dexter for the millionth time, here’s a spooky Halloween eye makeup look for ya. To create this believable blood splatter, start with white eyeliner all over your eyelid, then set with white or translucent setting powder. Trick: Create a shield out of a piece of paper towel with a hole cut out around your eye. Then, mix a little water into a red pigment (but not too much water because, ironically enough, you don’t want the blood to bleed) with a small eyeshadow brush and flick the wet red mixture onto the area.   Possibly the only person who wears more black than I do, Wednesday Addams is classic (and really, truly easy!) Halloween costume idea. All you need is a matte lipstick and eyeshadow in gray tones.  If you’re one of the many who watched WandaVision this year, channel the superhero with this red-hair Halloween costume and easy Halloween makeup look that’s truly as simple as it gets. Apply minimal, everyday eye makeup and a red lipstick, and you’re ready to fight some crime or something (IDK I didn't watch it).  Maleficent’s cheekbones, tho! For this look, you’re gonna need all your contour kits and finally learn how to contour so you can sculpt some chiseled features worthy of the evil fairy.  Your animal ears you wear every year are fine and all, but what if you paired that with a matching, exaggerated cat eye, and cute kitten nose, like the look here? Purrrrrfect.  Here’s the trick for old-age makeup that looks scary-real: Scrunch your face and fake some static wrinkles with a small makeup brush and matte taupe eyeshadow. Be sure to use a lot of powder foundation to make your skin look extra old and crepe-y. Maybe this will be the thing to finally convince you to start wearing sunscreen?!  Was the Joker from Suicide Squad the best Joker? Arguably, no, but the smokey eye, face tattoo, and overdrawn lips make for an amazing (and surprisingly easy) Halloween makeup idea. To really sell it though, grab some bright green temporary hair dye too.   The most underrated Halloween movie makes for a pretty understated Halloween makeup idea. To copy this Megan Fox look, start with soft, pretty everyday makeup, and top it with drips of blood around your mouth and neck. And, of course, don’t forget the lighter from *that* iconic scene.  For this doll makeup look (or any doll makeup, really) you need super-dramatic false eyelashes and loads of lip liner, lipstick, and lip gloss to exaggerate your features.  Everything from the Y2K era is now cool again, so if you lived through it back then, bust out those Hollister tiered skirts and tube tops from back in the day, and follow this tutorial inspired by early 2000s makeup trends for the frostiest, shimmeriest, easiest Halloween makeup idea ever.  Barbie loves pink, and that is an understatement. Scour through your makeup bag for pink lipstick, pink eyeshadow—anything and everything glittery, shiny, and pink, and you’re ready to follow this tutorial.  This meta costume is for the true Euphoria stans, since it takes Jules from Euphoria and mixes it with Julia from Romeo and Juliet. Blend a whole lotta pink eyeshadow around your eyes to create the base of the look, then top it with gold glitter eyeshadow and loose flecks around your temples and eyebrows.  If you want a disco-inspired makeup idea this Halloween, look to '70s beauty icons like Cher for your costume inspiration. To DIY it, think all things feathered: feathered bangs, feathered brows, and feathered eyeshadow strokes. Use soft, pastel, shimmery shades and really layer on the mascara for a diffused, glam eye makeup look.  Is it Halloween without a vampire makeup look in the mix? To slay your makeup like Buffy slays those vampires, stick with sultry shades of dark berries and black. Long fangs are optional, but a dribble of blood around your mouth made from red lip stain is not.  If you love the ethereal feel and romanticism of the soft girl aesthetic, try it this Halloween. Your soft girl starter pack should include blush (and more blush) for all over, highlighter for your nose, and eyeliner for accentuated eyes.  Ah, the ‘90s. Back when grunge was everything and both the eyes and lips were always heavily outlined. Grab all your brown lipsticks, pencil eyeliners, and matte shadows, then follow along to this easy Halloween makeup tutorial.  I mean, come on. A bunch of blue makeup on the center of your face—how easy can Halloween costume makeup get?! In the movie Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Violet’s face is almost completely blue, but you can do a slightly toned-down version, like this one, and pair it with whatever makeup you want. Use colored eyeliner if you’ve got it or even blend a cream eyeshadow over your nose to get the same effect.  To do easy Halloween makeup, you only really need your regular makeup bag and a few household items. You can easily DIY all the special effects makeup of your dreams (nightmares?), like fake scars, cuts, and blood with flour, petroleum jelly, and honey (as shown above). So, you can put down the overpriced, bad-quality Halloween makeup kit! You don’t need it.  Siena Gagliano is an associate editor at Cosmopolitan who writes beauty, with over three years of experience writing in the makeup, skin, and hair spaces. Her stories range from the Day of the Dead makeup tutorials and American Horror Story Halloween costumes. Siena regularly tests out new easy Halloween makeup tutorials on herself, while working with the industry’s top makeup artists for new tips and techniques.  Beth Gillette is the beauty editor at Cosmopolitan with four years of experience researching, writing, and editing makeup stories that range from Native American makeup brands to microblading. She’s an authority in all makeup categories, but is an expert when it comes to Halloween makeup, thanks to years of binge-watching Halloween tutorials on YouTube. Chloe Metzger is the deputy beauty director at Cosmopolitan with nearly 10 years of experience researching, writing, and editing skin, makeup, hair, and nail stories across print and digital, including airbrush makeup and how to clean a makeup sponge. Her Halloween makeup picks were based on product reviews, ratings, and personal testing, along with information from experts. Brooke Shunatona is a contributing writer for Cosmopolitan with more than 10 years of experience writing about beauty, fashion, and lifestyle articles, including ‘80s Halloween costumes and eyebrow serums. Her Halloween makeup picks were based on product reviews, ratings, and personal testing, along with information from experts. Siena Gagliano is the associate editor at Cosmopolitan, where she primarily covers beauty, fashion, travel, and lifestyle. Wanna know how to get the best brows of your life? Gotchu. What about how to find the best fashion deals of the season, the softest sheets on the market, or exactly how to use retinol without irritating your skin? Check, check, and check. Before joining Cosmopolitan, Siena was a writer at Bustle and several other media outlets. As her 2024 goal, she has vowed to find the best (extra) dirty martini NYC has to offer—and yes, that means ~attempting~ to try every cute cocktail spot in the city (hit her up with some recs, pls). Follow Siena on Instagram for a behind-the-scenes look at that magazine life. Beth Gillette is the beauty editor at Cosmopolitan, where she covers skincare, makeup, hair, nails, and more across digital and print. She can generally be found in bright eyeshadow furiously typing her latest feature or hemming and hawing about a new product you "have to try." Prior to Cosmopolitan, she wrote and edited beauty content as an Editor at The Everygirl for four years. Follow her on Instagram for makeup selfies and a new hair 'do every few months.  Chloe Metzger is the deputy beauty director at Cosmopolitan, overseeing the editorial content and growth strategy of the hair, makeup, and skin space on digital, while also obsessively writing about the best hair products for every hair type (curly girl here; whattup), and the skincare routines that really, truly work (follow her on Instagram to see behind-the-scenes pics of that magazine life). She brings nearly a decade of writing and editing expertise, and her work has appeared in Allure, Health, Fitness, Marie Claire, StyleCaster, and Parents. She also has an unhealthy adoration for Tom Hanks and would like to please meet him one day, if you could arrange that. Thanks. It’s Not Too Early to Shop Halloween Decorations You and Your BFF Wanna Crush Halloween? Read This Presenting: The 50 G.O.A.T. Halloween Costumes 40 Hilarious Halloween Costumes to Make You LOL Halloween Costumes for When It's Way Too Cold Out 40 Cheap Halloween Costumes Anyone Can Pull Off 30 Downright Terrifying Halloween Costume Ideas 60 Iconic Movie Costumes to DIY for Halloween  Just a Whole Bunch of Taylor Swift Costume Inspo Call the Coven: The 37 TV Shows About Witches 45 Horror Comedies to Make You Laugh and Scream The Best Celeb Halloween Costumes Right This Way A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.