 The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved lab-grown meat—also called cell-cultured meat or cultivated meat—for human consumption in 2022. Meat grown in a lab is food created from cultivating animal cells. The FDA stated that it had "no further questions" regarding the production of cell-cultured chicken meat by California's Upside Foods.
  There are several possible benefits of cultivated meat. Research has shown that meat grown in a lab is more environmentally friendly than conventional meat. Lab-grown meat is also cruelty-free and does not involve killing animals. Plenty of people have speculated about why lab-grown meat may be bad, including worries about microbial contamination and allergens.
  As of April 2024, lab-grown meat was not widely available for purchase. There are still plenty of questions surrounding its production, safety, and availability. Read on to learn about lab-grown meat, including how it's made and its possible benefits.
 Upside Foods  Growing meat in a lab is a different process than traditional farming, to say the least. The meat it creates is biologically the same as "real" animals. The FDA has granted approval to several companies that manufacture lab-grown livestock, poultry, and seafood. It's important to note that cultured meat is biologically identical to regular meat, so it's not technically vegetarian.
  The process starts with a cell sample from a live animal. Scientists extract the cells that have the ability to grow into animal tissue or meat. They place these cells into a cultivator, a large stainless steel tank where the cells receive the nutrients they need to grow and multiply.
  Cultivating meat is similar to the biological process that naturally happens inside an animal. The cultivated cells get warmth and the basic elements needed to build muscle and fat: water, proteins, carbohydrates, fats, vitamins, and minerals.
  The FDA's ruling means that Upside Food's lab-grown chicken is safe for humans to eat. The meat doesn't differ from regular chicken on a cellular level, according to the FDA.
  More research is needed, but benefits of lab-grown may include:
  The FDA has approved some lab-grown meat as safe for human consumption. Eating meat created in a lab may still sound a little odd. You're not alone if you're skeptical about the prospect of lab-grown poultry. Some people have expressed concern that cell-cultured meat could pose unforeseen health risks.
  It's unknown whether lab-grown meat poses more risks or fewer safety concerns than traditional meat. The United Nations (UN) World Health Organization (WHO) says there may be some concerns with microbial contamination and allergens. Keep in mind that conventional meat also carries these risks.
  The FDA has approved lab-grown meat, but it's unclear when it will become widely available for everyday consumption. As of April 2024, no lab-grown meat was available in grocery stores in the United States.
  It likely will not be clear how much lab-grown meat costs until it hits the market, but cultivating meat comes with high production costs. Research has shown that the first lab-grown beef burger cost $333,000 in 2013, and a meatball cultivated in a lab in 2016 cost $1,200.
  Lab-grown meat may be one key to solving issues of animal welfare, resource usage, and food safety associated with farmed meat. More research is needed to learn the benefits of lab-grown meat, but some studies suggest it can reduce the risk of foodborne illness. It is cruelty-free and may be more sustainable than raising livestock.
  The FDA approved Upside Food's lab-grown chicken meat for human consumption in 2022. It's unclear when it'll become widely available as of April 2024. High production costs, as well as concerns with microbial contamination and allergens, are a few obstacles.
 Food and Drug Administration. FDA completes first pre-market consultation for human food made using animal cell culture technology. Rodríguez Escobar MI, Cadena E, Nhu TT, et al. Analysis of the cultured meat production system in function of its environmental footprint: Current status, gaps and recommendations. Foods. 2021;10(12):2941. doi:10.3390/foods10122941 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and World Health Organization. Food safety aspects of cell-based food. Food and Drug Administration. Human food made with cultured animal cells. Morris AL, Mohiuddin SS. Biochemistry, nutrients. In: StatPearls. StatPearls Publishing; 2024. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Zoonotic diseases. Fernandes AM, de Souza Teixeira O, Palma Revillion JP, et al. Conceptual evolution and scientific approaches about synthetic meat. J Food Sci Technol. 2020;57(6):1991-1999. doi:10.1007/s13197-019-04155-0