Or wait...  
News
 
Business 
 
Market trends 
 
Science 
 
Policy 
 
Food safety & quality 
 
Views 
 
Promotional features 
 Site Archive Multimedia 
Sectors
 
Bakery 
 
Beverage 
 
Confectionery 
 
Dairy 
 
Healthy foods 
 
Meat 
 
Prepared foods 
 
Snacks 
 Site Archive Multimedia 
Trends
 
Diet & health 
 
Sustainability 
 
Reformulation 
 
Alternative proteins 
 
Food tech 
 
Start-ups 
 
Innovation & NPD 
 
Packaging & labelling 
 Site Archive Multimedia Resources
 Type of resources Events
 
All events 
 
Shows & conferences 
 
Online events 
 
Editorial webinars 
 Events 

 
07-Mar-2023
                            - Last updated on
                                18-Jul-2023 at 08:32 GMT                         Related tags
cultivated meat
media

 In cultivated meat production, basal or base media (cell feed) is used to describe the media from which the meat cells grow. This media has previously been comprised of ‘very costly’ pharma-grade ingredients, but a collaboration in the Netherlands is working to dramatically reduce this price tag. Cultivated meat player Mosa Meat – whose co-founder Mark Post was behind the world’s first cultured beef burger in 2013 – is collaborating with animal nutrition and aqua feed company Nutreco, an existing investor in the cell-based meat pioneer. Having signed a letter of intent (LOI), the duo is committed to reducing the cost of cell feed and scaling up production. The LOI follows confirmation from scientists at both companies that a basal media formulated with food-grade ingredients instead of pharma-grade ones performs ‘equally well’ at a ‘substantially’ lower cost. Key components of the basal media include amino acids, minerals, vitamins and glucose, Mosa Meat CEO Maarten Bosch explained. “These are derived from the food industry and sustainable crops, such as pea and wheat.”​ So far, the collaboration has seen 99.2% of the basal media by weight been successfully replaced by food-grade components in the serum-free cell feed. Mosa Meat did not disclose details on cost savings from switching to food-grade from pharma-grade ingredients but told us it expects to see a cost reduction in the order of 100x or more. “Our partnership with Nutreco represents our commitment to further develop the cellular agriculture supply chain and bring down costs,”​ Bosch. “Our scientific results are an industry first, proving that food-grade ingredients perform equivalent to pharma-grade in cell feed. This will represent a significant cost savings are we scale up production.”​ The LOI comes less than two years after the duo received a European REACT-EU grant for their joint basal media-focused ‘Feed for Meat’ project, worth close to €2m. Copyright - Unless otherwise stated all contents of this web site are © 2024 - William Reed Ltd - All Rights Reserved - Full details for the use of materials on this site can be found in the Terms & Conditions Related topics
Business
Alternative proteins
Sustainability
Meat, fish and savoury ingredients
Proteins
Food safety
Start-ups
Food tech
Meat
 Show more 




 
Content provided by Rethink Events Ltd | 16-Aug-2024
                     | Product Brochure                
 
                            Future Food-Tech’s European summit returns to London on October 2-3, to dig into the latest trends, innovations and obstacles shaping the future of food.
         




 
Content provided by ADM | 04-Jul-2024
                     | Insight Guide                
 
                            The future of protein is now! Discover how blended plant + meat solutions deliver the protein diversity consumers are hungry for.
         




 
Content provided by Corbion | 11-Jun-2024
                     | White Paper                
 
                            If you’ve been trying to decide between the consumer appeal of a natural solution and the efficacy of a conventional preservative, there's good news....
         




 
Content provided by Griffith Foods | 04-Jun-2024
                     | Product Brochure                
 
                            Download the Protein Solutions brochure and embark on a journey of culinary inspiration!
         Show
                        more Upcoming editorial webinars On-demand webinars More promotional features