NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT Keanu Reeves is enjoying a relaxing holiday in Italy’s celeb hangout spot off the Amalfi Coast.  The 58-year-old John Wick star chilled out in Capri on a boat while slurping on a bubbly beverage.  Holidaying with his sister Kim, the megastar seemed totally at ease, as he enjoyed the water and pottered around on a fun yellow vesper.  One snap shows The Matrix actor perching on the side of a boat having taken a dip, as he sipped on a pink drink.  In another, Keanu reclines on the front of a boat, taking in the sights, with his rather long hair and beard. The star’s scooter is kind of iconic, and we love that he seems to be running errands in a typically Italian fashion.  Rumour has it, the Point Break actor could be joining the Star Wars universe as he is tipped to appear in a cameo role in upcoming Disney Plus series The Acolyte.  If true, Keanu has been a busy chap, as his band Dogstar has reunited to release new music for the first time in two decades.  The band – comprised of Keanu on bass guitar, Bret Domrose on vocals, and drummer Rob Mailhouse – announced their return last month after treating fans to their first live vocal performance since 2002 back in May.   To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web
							browser that
							supports HTML5
								video 

										Read the full story »									
 Keanu is known to be one of the nicest men in Hollywood, and he proved it earlier this year when a nine-year-old met him when he was signing copies of his BRZRKR comic book in LA.  Keanu Reeves' 'highly underrated' 00s horror film finally comes to streaming Hollywood icon says he has daddy issues and ‘thinks about death all the time’ at age 59 James Bond star, 84, frail and walking with frame after retiring from showbiz Sharon Osbourne makes bold statement at Taylor Swift's Wembley concert ‘I’m such a big fan,’ said the youngster, to which Keanu – without hesitation – introduced himself.  Little Noah enthused, ‘You’re probably my favorite actor in the whole world, you’re the best!’ to which Keanu responded: ‘Oh my gosh, Noah, thank you.’  ‘Did you see Duke Caboom in Toy Story 4?’ the actor asked, before doing his best impression of the character, to the delight of the boy.  So if any man in Hollywood deserves a nice Italian holiday, it’s Keanu.  Got a story? If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you. 

	MORE : Keanu Reeves might be going to a galaxy far, far away and entering the Star Wars universe

 

	MORE : Keanu Reeves returns to rock band Dogstar to release first album in 23 years

 

	MORE : Keanu Reeves joins ex-girlfriend Sofia Coppola after teaming up for whisky ad

  Get us in your feed