Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                      Stellantis has quietly teased the new Ram Promaster EV in a corporate results presentation which alluded to an imminent introduction and market release.
                         First spotted by Carscoops, the shadowy image gives us a glimpse at the electric van's front end. The battery-powered variant will retain the inoffensive styling of the ICE model but may receive an illuminated logo to differentiate it from combustion-engined siblings.
                         The model shown below is a High Roof derivative, but there's a possibility Ram will offer the electric drivetrain in other body styles as well. We first learned of the EV's existence last year when the automaker revealed the updated 2023 range. At the time, details were scant, but we assumed the Promaster EV would borrow heavily from the current brace of electric Stellantis vans for sale in Europe.
                         The ProMaster is based on the Fiat Ducato, which, in turn, shares its underpinnings and components with Peugeot Boxer and Vauxhall/Opel Movano, among other vans.
                         In the UK, the all-electric Movano-e is offered with a 75 kWh battery that provides 154 miles of range on the WLTP cycle. Vauxhall says the light commercial vehicle provides 118 horsepower and 192 lb-ft of torque from a single electric motor. When plugged into a fast charger, the Movano-e can charge from 0 - 80% in an hour.
                         Back in the USA, the Ford E-Transit offers considerably more grunt, with 266 hp and 317 lb-ft sent to the rear wheels. The Cargo Van High Roof derivative has a maximum claimed range of 108 miles. If Stellantis wants to compete with the Blue Oval, it would have to fit another electric motor (and a bigger battery) to make the ProMaster EV appealing to buyers.
                         Ram has plans to introduce the electric ProMaster in the first half of 2023, with deliveries to commence in the second part of the year. The automaker has already said Amazon will be the first commercial customer to take delivery of the Pro Master EV. These vehicles will work alongside the Rivian-built electric delivery vans made exclusively for the e-commerce giant.
                         But it's not only Ford that Ram has to worry about. Mercedes-Benz recently revealed the eSprinter van and has plans to sell the classy commercial vehicle in America. European WLTP figures suggest a range of up to 311 miles for city driving, but these estimates will almost certainly be reduced for the US market.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. While nothing has been confirmed, Toyota is considering an all-hybrid lineup, which means the traditional ICE-powered Toyota may disappear soon.  With an engine forged in the crucible of motorsport, Lamborghini has prioritized the sensations of sound and speed equally. The RAV4 has taken over from the Camry as a Toyota cash cow, and the Japanese automaker doesn't want to ruin that. People are more excited and stay satisfied for longer when they buy a new Kia, whatever niche it falls into. Has Ford cracked the interior ergonomics code? In a world where buttons and knobs are disappearing, it might just have solved the riddle. The company's test for an experimental aero setup went haywire, but good thing the driver walked away unscathed.