Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Soumya Duggal
          

            Dec 14, 2022
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   
    You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   Generative AI startup Hexo has raised $270,000 as pre-seed funding led by Antler India, via the VC firm's Antler India Residency initiative. Hexo is building an open-source image generation API that offers a wide range of controls to make image generation more predictable and accurate. This fine-tuner product for enterprises is targetted at enabling them to easily build custom image generation engines based on the company's design language, products, characters, IP etc. "Our first product is a fine-tuner for enterprises to build custom image generation engines. AI image generation has taken the technology world by storm but is mostly great at creating art for art's sake. For enterprises to make use of this bleeding edge technology, they need a high degree of customisation and image generation within a narrow framework. We are enabling them to do this," said Vignesh Baskaran, co-founder, Hexo. "We have been closely following the developments in the AI space, and the potential of this disruptive technology just cannot be ignored. Generative AI is a new technology platform that will need a set of infrastructure, tooling companies to lay the rails to make it easier for organizations, startups and individuals to leverage its power. We are thrilled to back Hexo, a company formed at our first-ever Antler India Residency, in their journey building the critical infrastructure layer for generative AI. In Kunal and Vignesh, we see a team that is technically adept to keep up with this fast evolving space and has the chops to build a global product for scale," said Nitin Sharma, Partner at Antler India. Former Feature Writer 
          Arsha Jones, founder and CEO of Capital City Mambo Sauce, wanted to satisfy a very specific craving — and it led to a seven-figure business.
         
          I've helped many founders grow and scale their companies, and I've noticed that top business leaders often make a few key decisions early on. 
         
          The problem of misleading AI pictures and videos could be solved with another technology: content credentials.
         
          Vishal Dhawan, chief product and technology officer at Curb, is using technology and product development to help transform the taxi industry.
         
          California is the first state to launch this kind of initiative.
         
          Taking your business idea from "what if" to "wow" requires trusting your instincts and embracing the failures. 
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
