Jonathan Shroyer is the Chief CX Innovation Officer at Arise Virtual Solutions and has 20 years of experience as a business leader.   AI technology and its capabilities are growing every day across all industries as companies try to get ahead of their competitors by implementing more efficient tools to make their businesses run faster and better than ever before. For the customer service industry, this is no different. AI is transforming the customer experience and customer service industries to make them more seamless—for both the customer and the company—to improve communication between the two, which results in happier, returning customers. A few of these emerging tools include AI support chatbots, repeat process automation, AI agents and big data bots. The goal of these technologies is to increase the efficiency of a business. For those who communicate with customers or clients, this largely comes down to approaching them and assessing their needs before the customer can voice their concerns or questions. On the customer-facing side, this is mostly seen through AI chatbots or customer support bots. Depending on business needs, the technology's capabilities range in sophistication from Amazon's Alexa to the chatbots that pop up when you visit smaller websites. Bots can be extremely useful, especially for global companies with international customers and employees. A standard 8 to 5 will look different for everyone in a globalized company, as will a person's preferred language, so having chatbots available 24/7 allows for simple questions to be answered immediately. This is especially beneficial for companies that do not have the budget to hire the number of employees it would take to maintain communication with customers around the clock. In 2019, I attempted to provide a solution to help navigate language barriers for customer service emails. It was my hope that my team and I could develop a bot to handle communication exchanges between two people speaking different languages by training the bot to understand the different language and then building out a set of workflows to manage the exchange. While it was not available for all languages at the time, it was a great learning experience that was successfully implemented in some smaller areas. Now, emerging technologies are more evolved in the AI space, making AI language bots more sophisticated than even four years ago. Based on my firsthand experience, here are some tips for business leaders who might be interested in adopting AI tools to enhance their customer service: • Start small. We tested the AI language bot before implementation and only implemented it in small areas that would improve client relationships and customer satisfaction. • Don't rush to implement without checking the quality. We did not want to use the AI language bot unless it produced 98% or higher accuracy rates. Quality is critical for AI implementation. • Don't put all your eggs in one basket. Leaders and business owners may be eager to use AI, but it is crucial to remember to put people first. Technology is a great tool, but it will never replace human workers in a customer-serving industry. • Properly integrate AI training. AI is growing, and your team needs to be able to understand how the program works. Spending the time and energy to train your team will be a worthwhile investment for future business success. Communication is not just about communicating with customers; it also centers around research. Companies need to know their clients and customers to tap into markets. This knowledge often costs a lot for companies in terms of the time it takes humans to go through data and compile the amount of information required to stay up to date on existing and potential customer markets. AI is available to companies across all industries to better manage their data so that they can make smarter business decisions. This is critical when it comes to connecting with customers, and now companies do not have to dedicate the many hours of work they previously needed to analyze this data. Today, companies can better communicate with their customers and dedicate more time to building client relationships, giving them a competitive advantage. We are seeing emerging technologies like ChatGPT take the world by storm. While every developing technology has positives and negatives, these programs can help companies create branded content. A large component of communication that is done by companies is through social media posts, blog posts and overall languaging on their websites. ChatGPT can be an effective tool to generate new content ideas quickly and fine-tune content to be as relevant as possible. This can help companies communicate more effectively with the world. U.S. businesses are losing $75 billion per year through poor customer service, and I believe AI is poised to fix that. The main benefit of AI technology is that it makes businesses run more efficiently. Employees no longer need to spend hours doing the same mundane tasks. AI can be deployed to free up employees' time, so they can more creatively and proactively build solid relationships with their customers. Customers will go to companies that make them feel valued and heard, and AI better enables companies to do just that. Forbes Communications Council is an invitation-only community for executives in successful public relations, media strategy, creative and advertising agencies. Do I qualify? 