We would like to send you notifications for the latest news and updates. 
                Fightful has been reporting all the latest breaking news from
                the wrestling world since 2016.
             
                Ads have played a big part in being able to keep our content
                free for all to enjoy.
             
                Please consider allowing ads on our site, and help continue to
                support Fightful.
             Ronda Rousey doesn't like being away from her daughter. The newly crowned WWE Women's Tag Team Champion recently sat down with PEOPLE during the promotional tour for her upcoming series, Stars on Mars. During the conversation, Rousey shared that she had a tough time being away from her daughter, La'akea Makalapuaokalanipō Browne, while filming. "That was the most challenging thing, just being away from my baby," Rousey said. "I had a really hard time being away from her, and she was only 1½ when I was gone. It's the cutest age and everything like that." The series, which is hosted by William Shatner, features a cast of "celebronauts" competing in weekly missions on a simulated human colony on Mars.  Ronda added that the "mom guilt" she felt while filming was more difficult than any part of the experience. "I was having a better and better experience, that I felt worse and worse about being away from her," Rousey said. "And so, the mom guilt was compounding by the day, and I think that was more difficult than any part of the experience itself." Continuing on, the WWE Superstar expressed how excited she was to be back home, celebrating by watching Frozen with her daughter before falling asleep with La'akea in her arms. Rousey concluded by sharing how motherhood has changed her, specifically how it has positively impacted her mental health. "I'm just so much happier that I'm no longer ruminating over myself all day," Rousey shared. "I'm always thinking about her and focused on her and... I don't know. Am I more considerate? I think the best part about it is that it's mentally made me more healthy and made me stop beating myself up so much because I'm so concerned with taking care of her." A post shared by Ronda Rousey (@rondarousey) Stars on Mars premieres June 5 on Fox. On the May 29 episode of WWE Raw, Rousey and Shayna Baszler won a four-way match for the vacant WWE Women's Tag Team Championship. During a recent interview, Rousey shared her thoughts on the Women's Tag Division and how they need the company to invest in it. Click here to read more. Fightful provides live coverage of WWE Raw every Monday beginning at 8 pm ET. We also have a post-show review immediately following Raw's conclusion.