Editor's Note: This article has been corrected to indicate that the required gifting amount was up to, not at least, 3,000 New Taiwan Dollars (~$97). A mother in Taiwan was left stunned after her daughter, who is enrolled in a private school, was purportedly invited to a kindergarten classmate’s party and asked to bring a gift that costs up to nearly $100. It is unclear where the alleged incident took place, but the mother shared her story anonymously on a Chinese social media platform on Nov. 20. The daughter received a birthday party invitation from one of her classmates on Nov. 18, according to the anonymous post. After reading the invitation, the mother noticed that it contained some rules, including one that required each guest to bring a gift worth up to 3,000 New Taiwan Dollars (approximately $97). More from NextShark: Korean YouTuber Loses First Fight With Cheese Fondue, Has a Wholesome Rematch “I was so shocked when I saw that because it seems a little steep for us,” the mother wrote. “I was contemplating not letting my daughter attend but she was begging that she wants to attend because the invitation was exclusive and not everyone in her class received the invitation.” In the post, the mother noted that she and her husband worked hard to get their daughter into a good private school. While they managed to do just that despite facing several challenges, the mother admitted that she did not expect the problems they would face following the girl’s enrollment. The mother said they eventually agreed to let their daughter go to the party despite the expensive gift requirement. She also shared that she is afraid of her daughter turning into a spoiled child. More from NextShark: Malaysian father who takes his baby everywhere as he delivers food gives netizens the feels   Featured Image via Rexness (CC BY-SA 2.0) More from NextShark: 'The juice is Dynamite': Trader Joe’s Army employees go viral for BTS-themed marketing Enjoy this content? Read more from NextShark! Taiwanese man berates Indian man for not wearing a mask: 'Indian man, black man, get out of Taiwan' New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.