By Maria Chiorando For Mailonline   Published:  04:57 EDT, 4 May 2023   |  Updated:  04:58 EDT, 4 May 2023      1 View  comments  A mother says she believes her child's preference for eating raw green vegetables supports them being transgender. She made the comments while appearing before the Louisiana State House's Health and Welfare Committee to speak against HB 463 ahead of a vote. A Louisiana legislative committee advanced the bill, which calls for a ban on all  treatments which fall into the category of 'gender-affirming' for minors. These include procedures like top surgery, which removes or adds breast or chest tissue, and seeks to create a more masculine or feminine appearance. It also extends to the use of pharmaceuticals, including medications known colloquially as 'puberty blockers'.  A mother (pictured) told the committee she believes that her child - a trans boy - eating green vegetables was a 'method of his body trying to become who he was meant to be' as these foods can boost testosterone Speaking against the bill, the woman described how her child (a trans boy) had suffered long term issues with sleeping and anxiety, and that they had taken him to neurologists to have brain scans to try and establish why. Then, she said, he started sleeping, but developed what she described as 'odd' food choices. She explained: 'They were always like green vegetables, raw green vegetables, which, if you know kids, most kids don’t like to eat those things.' According to the woman, once they realised the child was transgender, 'the pattern of everything that he had experienced as a child - including eating green vegetables because that boosts testosterone - were just methods of his body trying to become who he was meant to be'. She concluded: 'His brain does not match his physiology.' It is thought that some foods can have an impact on testosterone levels, including green leafy vegetables, fatty fish, avocados, eggs, cocoa products, and certain berries among others. Some of those who oppose the bill have said removing access to these treatments could increase mental health risks for children and young people who identify as trans. According to the mother, her child's brain 'does not match his physiology'. Her child is a trans boy They include Dr. Ryan Pasternak, a professor of paediatric medicine at LSU. He said: 'If HB 463 is passed, it will cause permanent...irreversible changes to children. In worsening our mental health crisis, it will lead to more suicide attempts.' Meanwhile, those in support of banning these treatments have pointed out that procedures like top surgery are irreversible. Because of this, some argue, decisions to make permanent, unalterable changes to the body should be reserved for adults.  They also say that the long term effects of puberty blockers are not fully understood, and could lead to fertility issues and inability to orgasm. Speaking on his bill, Rep. Gabe Firment said HB 463 is 'not about hate', but about protecting minors from treatments he considers 'experimental' at this point. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group