Enter your email below to subscribe to our free newsletters.  

View all newsletters  |  Privacy Policy   
 Thank you! An account has already been registered with this email. Please check your inbox for an authentication link to sign in. Hyperallergic 
					Sensitive to Art & its Discontents				 You can keep reading for free! At Hyperallergic, we strive to make art more inclusive, so you’ll never hit a paywall when reading our articles. But, as an independent publication, we rely on readers like you to keep our high-quality coverage free and accessible.  Please consider joining us as a member to support independent journalism. Already a member? Sign in here. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. If you value our coverage and want to support more of it, consider supporting us as a member.  Join Us There’s something almost intoxicating when an exhibition’s message trickles down so profoundly into daily life. I’m Not Your Mother, a group show at PPOW, pokes holes in fundamental, seldom-questioned aspects of the history of western landscape painting, humanity’s relationship with nature, and the experience of being a mother. Broad as that may seem, the show focuses in on the concept of mother nature and underscores the connection between the feminization and exploitation of the environment. The romanticized idea of nature as the mother of all beings has roots in western landscape painting, a fact made clear by the show’s inclusion of an 1877 work by the Hudson River School artist Jasper Francis Cropsey. The painting shows a fertile landscape encompassing a calm lake surrounded by luscious trees just starting to change color. An elevated bank bends into the lake, providing two figures with easy access to fish or contemplate nature’s beauty. The work stands out amid the contemporary paintings and sculptures. Nearly all were made within the last few years, save for eerie, almost post-apocalyptic landscapes by Mira Schor from 1981 and 1982, more overtly apocalyptic photographs of destroyed medical buildings by LaToya Ruby Frazier from 2011, and the show’s catalyst: “Secret Garden” a 1956 abstract landscape painting by Carolee Schneemann.  Schneemann rejected the notion of nature as maternal. Curator Eden Deering explains in an accompanying essay how Schneemann’s love of Virginia Woolf ingrained in her a perception of women that extended beyond domesticity. Power and agency come through in the frenetic brushstrokes; nature is an autonomous entity bursting with energy.   Get the latest art news, reviews and opinions from Hyperallergic. View our full list of free newsletters. Motherhood, like nature, is not an endless resource. They are, however, both renewable if given the chance to regenerate and restore. In a 2016 work by Schneemann that pairs a photograph of the artist feeding her beloved cat, La Niña, with text from a letter to her friend, fellow painter Ingrid Christie, she writes, “‘mother’ is deprived of self-definition … her energies must go unquestioningly to sustain.” Schneemann goes on to say that male offspring and partners have “vampiric needs,” and rejects the domestic, maternal image of a woman, which she says is part of the “male lexicon.”   Support Hyperallergic’s independent arts journalism for as little as $8 per month. Become a Member The phrase “vampiric needs” sticks out. Contemporary society in the United States normalizes the idea of the exhausted mother, so why wouldn’t mother nature be equally exhausted, depleted, sucked dry of resources as it tries to meet humankind’s demand? An image of care becomes one of plunder. Frazier’s photographs of hospital ruins, merging the destruction of the landscape with the trope of care — female or any such — again come to mind.   The idea of a woman as a passive resource proliferates in popular culture. In Robin F. William’s “Fearscape” (2022), a woman looks into the distance with an expression that seems to combine fear and discovery. The work is based on the “final girl” trope — a female characters in horror films who is often the last survivor, witnessing the horrors as they unfold, sometimes uncovering them. Yet again, the woman serves as a resource and a means to an end.  Williams’s work could also reflect the viewer witnessing the atrocities of climate change and the sucking dry of both woman and land that unfolds within the show and across the globe. Perhaps Cropsey’s lush, idyllic landscape isn’t an outlier after all. All of the works on view represent something worth caring for, something that requires space to regenerate, and something that can lose the capacity to survive. The show reveals how feminizing nature exposes the environment to the same treatments that face women: exploitation, degradation, and plundering.  I’m Not Your Mother continues at PPOW gallery (390 Broadway, Tribeca, Manhattan) through December 3. The exhibition was curated by Eden Deering.    We hope you enjoyed this article! Before you keep reading, we wanted to ask if you would consider supporting Hyperallergic’s journalism during a time when independent, critical reporting is increasingly scarce.   Unlike many in the art world, we are not beholden to large corporations or billionaire board members. Our journalism is funded by readers like you, ensuring integrity and independence in our coverage. We strive to offer trustworthy perspectives on everything from art history to contemporary art, spotlight artist-led social movements, uncover overlooked stories, and challenge established norms to make art more inclusive and accessible. With your support, we can continue to provide global coverage without the elitism often found in art journalism.   If you can, please consider joining our paid membership program. Millions rely on Hyperallergic for free, reliable information. By becoming a member, you help keep our journalism independent and accessible to all. Thank you for reading. 
							Annabel Keenan is a writer based in New York. She specializes in contemporary art and sustainability. Her work has been published in The Art Newspaper and Artillery Magazine among others.															
								More by Annabel Keenan								
 Indigenous symbols reclaimed, rap battles won, and pets in museums in this month’s bite-sized puzzle. Supervision provided me, as a curator/new mom, an entry point into how the labor that is mothering intersects with technology and surveillance.  The San Francisco exhibition illuminates the process and dedication involved in bending neon, as explored through student-teacher artist residencies across the US. New Encounters takes Matisse and Renoir out of their usual spots at the Barnes Foundation to shed light on the relationship between the two artists. At the Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning, an exhibition pays tribute to genres such as jazz, reggae, and bomba through visual mediums. A second-century Roman bust with ties to Tennessee Williams and Gore Vidal leads the summer auction at Swann on August 22. Since being forced to leave South Africa for critiquing Apartheid, the artist has worked from afar to shed light on Black struggles for equality. We can’t promise you won’t get lost in a maze of booths, but we can steer you to the fairs worth the trip. Streaming now on PAMMTV, the hybrid exhibition asks, “How can digital art address accelerating changes across climate, culture, and time?” Steve Wasterval stashes his tiny paintings of Greenpoint locales in traffic cones, behind telephone pole flyers, and even at Citi Bike stations. Out West has no strict or static boundaries, no assumptions about or prescriptions for what 20th-century “queer art” in the region may have been. Hyperallergic is a forum for serious, playful, and radical thinking about art in the world today. Founded in 2009, Hyperallergic is headquartered in Brooklyn, New York. 
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 Subscribe to our newsletters: 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
 

																Privacy Policy																	
