We would like to send you notifications for the latest news and updates. 
                Fightful has been reporting all the latest breaking news from
                the wrestling world since 2016.
             
                Ads have played a big part in being able to keep our content
                free for all to enjoy.
             
                Please consider allowing ads on our site, and help continue to
                support Fightful.
             Here is your Fight Size update for the evening of Apr. 15. - The Miz' dad was with his son, shooting in the gym. You can view The Miz and Papa Miz in Cleveland in the video above. - This is a thing. ---- #impregnationvacation A post shared by  rondarousey (@rondarousey) on Apr 15, 2019 at 1:27pm PDT  - POST Wrestling's John Pollock reports that WWE superstars are experiencing some travel issues ahead of Raw in Montreal. Have heard there are a number of travel issues involving WWE personnel and talent for tonight's show in Montreal. "Things are being rewritten as a result". No word on what effect this will have on tonight's show.  - PWInsider reports that Jeff Jarrett/Global Force Entertainment failed to reach a settlement with Anthem/IMPACT in their ongoing lawsuit. - Tommy Dreamer is teasing signing with a major organization. Cryptic tweet sponsored by @BustedOpenRadio
I will sign a contract w/ a major organization this week@davidlagreca1  - Becky Lynch has been added to San Antonio's Celebrity Fan Fest on Friday, June 14, 2019. - That's The Undertaker's music! Is that...
IT'S THE UNDERTAKER'S MUSIC! pic.twitter.com/TUFQZzLgGQ  - Sports Business Journal did a story on the WWE Performance Center. - Chyna's mom gets her daughter's WWE Hall of Fame ring. When Chyna's Mother Jan received Joanie's WWE Hall Of Fame ring it was very quick right before the ceremony! I shot this video!
She was so happy!! #Chyna #WWE #WWEHOF #TeamChyna @ChynaJoanLaurer #wwehof pic.twitter.com/wxkTnbDjhi  - Sign up to Fightful Select for exclusive news, extra audio, early access to columns, and much more.