Denim is a perfect blank canvas upon which anything is possible. But just like with any classic wardrobe essential, jeans trends come and go. While denim does, indeed, stand apart with the notion that a straight fit in a true-blue colorway will remain in favor, there are certainly head-turning cuts, of-the-moment silhouettes, and specific decades-old washes that cycle in and out of style. And modern touches (for example, an asymmetrical waistband, undone fly, or overly exaggerated slit) mean anything is possible.   In 2023, we're seeing a rise in popularity of the ankle crop and distressed treatments that range from unfinished hems to redone patchwork. Pleated trousers, dramatically pooling wide legs, and formfitting boot-cut flares are also everywhere, with these more standout shapes hailing from the '70s, '80s, and '90s. Meanwhile, the low rise from the early aughts isn't going anywhere, with celebrities favoring the look, particularly when completed with a visible logo brief or a strappy thong pulled high to achieve hip cleavage.   Whether you love to mix up your denim outfits with oversize knits and statement tops or keep the combination understated in a bodysuit or simple white tee, read through the following categories one by one to see the top denim trends of 2023 that you can try on for size. Or feel free to skip ahead to your desired section, and shop a range of styles for all different body types and budgets.  — Additional reporting by Sarah Wasilak Whether you wear yours with ornate, embellished heels; classic ballet flats; or casual sneakers, ankle-cropped jeans expose just a sliver of skin without going for a full-blown pedal-pusher moment. What's more, this silhouette is a seasonless classic that can be styled with skimpy silk camisoles and wool overcoats alike. Old Navy Extra High-Waisted Button-Fly Sky-Hi ($20, originally $50)
 Go '80s with a light, slightly acid-washed treatment. You'll love these slim ankle-cropped jeans for their off-duty vibes and lower price point. Levi's 501 Original Fit Jeans ($58, originally $108)
 There's nothing like a Levi's 501 fit when it comes to the classics, and the American brand has crafted its forever favorite in a flattering ankle crop, offered in nearly every denim wash under the sun. Raey Crop Organic-Cotton Straight Leg ($64, originally $160)
 These grayed jeans are great for morning or night. With a straight-leg fit, they're easeful without being too roomy. The low-rise denim trend from the early aughts isn't going anywhere. While some celebrities are utilizing this fit to reveal briefs and thong straps, you can easily work the slouch with an oversize sweater or bodysuit to give it a more easygoing, covered-up look. Zara ZW Low-Rise Cropped Jeans ($28, originally $50)
 You can easily bare a hint of skin when you rock low-rise jeans with a matching cropped denim bustier. Add a sturdy western boot, and your coordinated outfit will feel easier than ever to construct. Silver Jeans Co. Britt Low Rise Slim Bootcut Jeans ($94)
 The aughts are calling in a big way with the subtle bleaching at the pockets of these low-rise jeans. The slim boot cut also works nicely with a block heel for a more polished look. Rag & Bone Piper Low-Rise Straight-Leg Jeans ($255)
 Just because your jeans are low-rise doesn't mean you're forced to lean into a loose '90s hang. You'll love this classic straight-leg fit that simply boasts a slightly lower rise than the rest. When it comes to this '70s throwback style, search for a slight flare from the knee down to the toe. A boot-cut length means a peek at your shoes, so whether you opt for a pointed-toe flat, an early-aughts look with sporty sneakers, or platform boots to elongate your legs, you'll depend on your footwear for ultimate outfit balance. MOTF Split Flare Leg Jeans ($35)
 The affordable price on these flares makes them an easy sell. Plus, with pockets and a sleek slit at the ankle, they can even be worn to work, or dressed up for dinner. Abercrombie Ultra High Rise Flare Jean ($90)
 Between the ultrahigh rise of the waist and the slight flare of the slim leg, you'll feel taller wearing these jeans, whether you're in heels or off-duty sneakers. Frame Le High Flare in Blue Stripe ($98, originally $258)
 Take the boot-cut flare to eye-catching status with a blue pinstripe print down the leg. J.Crew Skinny Flare Jeans ($158)
 These flares feature a traditional five-pocket design, but what's not visible to the naked eye is that they're made from polyester recycled from plastic, which would have otherwise gone to landfills. If you're going to go big, go big. This season, jump headfirst into the ultrawide leg with jeans that drag behind you and almost entirely cover your shoes. You might even want to size up in your favorite pair to really lean into the look with a fit that's already trustworthy and familiar, since this exaggerated look is for the bold. Abercrombie Curve Love High Rise Wide Leg Jean ($90)
 Many reviewers say these Abercrombie jeans come with the perfect amount of bagginess, helping to achieve the model-off-duty look they've become synonymous with. Reformation Cary High Rise Slouchy Jeans ($198)
 The addition of studs at the seams of these Reformation jeans makes them feel even more timely. Even though they're baggy, they're made from rigid material, so they won't overstretch. Still Here The Walker in Cloud ($260)
 Still Here's denim capsule is unique in that the fabric is lightweight and drapey, but still designed to flatter your butt. The advanced weaving technology used to construct these pants gives them an airy feel for all-day comfort. Go artsy this year with jeans that feature a patchwork design, oftentimes clad with mixed-material panels that incorporate cotton or faux leather. It's a one-and-done way to play with texture wearing nothing but your true blues. Cider Patchy Straight Leg Jeans ($36)
 If you're a fan of colored denim, you'll love the '70s influence of these pink jeans with contrast pockets at the back. Let them fully own the spotlight by coordinating with a fitted white T-shirt. BDG Urban Outfitters Patchwork Puddle Jeans ($79)
 If you want the patchwork look with a slight '70s flair, opt for this style from BDG Urban Outfitters, which has a DIY look and a pooling hem that allows for just a peek of shoe. Rails Getty Paneled Wide-Leg Crop Jeans ($218)
 Marry a mix of denim washes and patch sizes for an overall crafty look in these Rails jeans with a contrast waistband. Finish the look with a white tee and sneakers. The '90s are back in full force, including the utilitarian trend of cargo pants. This season, allow the off-duty look to infiltrate your denim collection, shopping everything from tailored high-waisted styles to slouchy, baggy silhouettes with a nostalgic fervor that is unmatched. ASOS Design Curve Cargo Jeans in Washed Black ($50)
 Go for a casual look with a pair of midrise cargo jeans that also boast oversize pockets but can be worn with a wide range of tops thanks to a dark and versatile wash. Agolde Cooper Relaxed Straight Cargo Jeans ($228)
 Keep it classic with a slim boot cut and a single cargo pocket on either side, just like you did in the '90s. You might even want to mix in a sweet pointelle baby tee to really get into the mood. Isabel Marant Vokayo Pant ($474, originally $790)
 For a more head-turning look, shop these luxe straight-leg jeans that have not one, not two, but nine striking pockets. High-rise, pleat-front trousers in denim are everywhere. With a fitted waistband, these jeans are anything but your dad's favorite pair from the '90s, giving them more leeway to be styled with slim bodysuits and bralettes alike. That said, the roomy leg makes for a fluid silhouette that has dressed-up appeal. Madewell Baggy Straight Jeans in Woodham Wash Pleated Edition ($50, originally $98)
 Go for a darker style that mimics the look of a standard wool trouser but is crafted from good old denim instead. Citizens of Humanity Maritzy Pleated High Waist Wide Leg Organic Cotton Trouser Jeans ($298)
 Opt for a crisp white style with a high waist that allows the pleats to form more of an elevated look, rather than a slightly baggier, low-rise one. The white denim colorway also helps you achieve a quiet-luxury feel. Nili Lotan Flora Trouser Jeans ($425)
 For an off-duty favorite, you'll love these lower-rise wide-leg flares that allow for a slimmer fit in the waist and a roomier leg. If you're looking for a looser leg through the thigh that comes to a polished nip at the ankle, consider another vestige from the '90s by way of a tapered-leg jean. This slightly bow-legged style adds intrigue to your overall outfit and pairs nicely with combat boots. COS Tapered-Leg High-Rise Jeans ($120)
 Style these COS jeans with a pair of loafers to draw attention to their curvature at the bottom of the leg. Made in Tomboy Isabelle Wide Tapered Ankle Jeans ($201, originally $412)
 These heavyweight jeans can be balanced with a lightweight crop top for an effortless daytime look that feels even more relaxed with a distressed hem. Ganni Washed Black Stary Jeans ($215)
 These black jeans offer a twist on your favorite '90s straight leg, featuring a tapered ankle that keeps them from feeling too oversize.