Haylee and Shawn Ladner, the Mississippi couple who welcomed quintuplets in February, have an exciting announcement: Three of their five babies are home! Jake — the one boy — and his sisters Adalyn and Magnolia Mae have been discharged from Children’s of Mississippi Medical Center. Siblings Everleigh and Malley Kate are expected to join them this week. “It’s amazing,” Haylee tells TODAY.com. “It’s definitely challenging at times, but it is the biggest dream come true! I wouldn’t trade for the world. All of the sleepless nights are worth it. I’m overjoyed and blessed with these miracles.” At 2 months old, the infants are developing their own distinct personalities. “Adalyn likes to sleep, but if she’s upset, you’ll know it,” Haylee said in a news release from the hospital. She noted that “Jake is the calmest as long as he’s fed” and rested. Malley Kate, the smallest of the bunch, has a “feisty” disposition, while she described Magnolia Mae as “dainty and calm.” And Everleigh? She likes to eat! The girls' nursery is decorated in a Disney princess motif, while Jake's bedroom has a "gone fishing" theme. “I’m constantly amazed with how strong they are and how beautiful they are, and I’ll always be grateful for that,” Haylee shared in the news release. The four girls are identical quadruplets, which means one fertilized egg divided four ways. Quintuplets occur in roughly one in 60 million births, according to Dr. Rachael Morris, an associate professor of maternal fetal medicine at the University of Mississippi Medical Center. The odds of having identical quadruplets are about one in 15 million. Haylee and Shawn underwent intrauterine insemination (IUI) in 2022 after experiencing two miscarriages. An IUI is when a healthy sperm is placed in the uterus around the time of ovulation to improve the chances of fertilization. Weeks after the procedure, the couple heard five heartbeats on their ultrasound. Haylee carried her babies until 28 weeks gestation; an early birth is common for high-order multiples. Last month, the quintuplets posed together in one crib for Easter pictures. The photo shoot made Haylee emotional. “It was really hard not to cry,” Haylee told TODAY.com at the time. “It was just such a beautiful moment for us.” This article was originally published on TODAY.com New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.