Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Lily Rose
 
Updated on:  December 22, 2022 / 5:06 PM EST
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Need a gift now? Amazon has tons of gift cards you can buy online, print out or have delivered via email just in time for Dec. 25. Gift cards are an easy way to give thanks to teachers and staff or spread holiday cheer to family and friends during the Christmas and Hanukkah season. They're a quick and easy gift -- especially if you've waited until the last minute to find that perfect Christmas gift. Instead of going store to store, you can shop the best gift cards at home. Some can even be printed out and gifted instantly. A wide variety of your favorite retailers are offering gift cards on Amazon right now.  Top products in this article: Amazon gift card reload deal: Reload $100, get a $12 credit Buy an Apple gift card Buy a Best Buy gift card Amazon has gift cards from Apple, Best Buy, Sephora, Starbucks and more. The retailer offers physical gift cards or an emailed version (an e-gift card) for most brands. The nice thing about an e-gift card is that you'll never again have to give someone their holiday gift late. Buy an e-gift card on Amazon, and you can choose your gift card's design, write a special message and have Amazon deliver it to the recipient's inbox whenever you want.  Waited until the last minute? This year, give the gift of Amazon cash. The retailer offers printable gift cards that feature a wide variety of adorable and seasonal designs. You can even add your own photos and frame them with themed banners. Enter the amount you want to give and include a message. The gift card will be ready for you to print from the "your orders" section after purchase. Buy an Amazon print-at-home gift card Amazon offers e-gift cards. Select a gift card design, add an amount and write a special message. Then select a delivery date. Amazon will email your recipient their gift on that day. Send an Amazon e-Gift card Surprise! It's an Amazon gift card. These Amazon card holders open to reveal your gift card. Choose from four options, including this adorable Santa chimney motif. Load $20 to $2,000 on to this gift card. Stuff their stocking ASAP with one-day shipping (where available). Buy an Amazon reveal gift card Your gift card doesn't have to come in a boring envelope. Amazon offers gift cards in holiday boxes, including the above option for Hanukkah. Load $20 to $2,000 on to this gift card. Send your gift with one-day shipping (where available). Buy an Amazon gift card in a Hanukkah box There are nine festive gift card box themes on Amazon to choose from, including the box shown above and this option that comes with a free felt Christmas tree ornament. Amazon gift card box with ornament Buy an Amazon gift card in a holiday box Apple gift card Know someone who wants the new Apple AirPods Pro 2 or the latest Apple Watch? Gift them money towards their purchase with an Apple gift card.  Amazon has Apple gift cards available in denominations of $50, $100 and $200.  Buy an Apple gift card Amazon will also deliver an Apple gift card via email. Select the perfect gift card design, add a gift card amount and write a special message. Then select a delivery date. Amazon will email your recipient their gift on that day. Send an Apple eGift card Amazon has Best Buy gift cards.  Your friends and family can use their Best Buy gift card to update their kitchen or mudroom with a Samsung smart 4-door Flex refrigerator with Family Hub or a GE Profile smart washer and dryer set. Buy a Best Buy gift card Send a Best Buy eGift card Amazon makes it easy to send someone a Starbucks gift card for Thanksgiving, Christmas and Hanukkah.  Select from denominations of $25, $50 and $100.  Buy a Starbucks gift card Amazon will also let you send a Starbucks eGift card. Select the perfect gift card design, add a gift card amount and write a special message. Then select a delivery date. Amazon will email your recipient their gift on that day.  Send a Starbucks eGift card Want more gift ideas for a Starbucks fan? Take a look at our ultimate Starbucks gift guide. Know any beauty and skincare fans? They could use a Sephora gift card to buy a Sol de Janeiro Bum Bum Beats body care set or treat their locks to Oribe's Gold Lust Collection hair set. Buy a Sephora gift card Send a Sephora eGift card 'Tis the season to stay on the couch and order takeout. Amazon has Grubhub gift cards and eGift cards for sale. Buy a Grubhub gift card Send a Grubhub eGift card A Fandango gift card is a great gift idea for any friends or family who love going to the movies.  Fandango has gift card and eGift card options via Amazon. Buy a Fandango gift card Send a Fandango eGift card Gift your friends and family Hulu without commercials.  Amazon has $25, $50 and $100 Hulu gift cards in stock.  Send a Hulu eGift card Amazon has Airbnb gift cards and eGift cards in stock. Gift anywhere from $25 to $500 per-gift card. Buy an Airbnb gift card Send an Airbnb eGift card Amazon is offering a gift card deal that will give you free money.Christmas 2022 gift guide: The best gifts under $50 (with deals) Amazon is offering a $12 credit when you reload an Amazon gift card with $100 or more for the first time. Tap the link below for details. Amazon gift card reload deal: Reload $100, get a $12 credit Read on for our favorite deal picks at Amazon's sale, or tap the button below to see all the deals. Many of these items are available for same-day delivery. Check to see how quickly you can have these last-minute gifts delivered at checkout.  The latest Apple AirPods Pro 2 earbuds have an upgraded wireless chip for improved audio functionality, a new low distortion driver for clearer audio and improved active noise cancelation. The Apple AirPods Pro 2 provide truly custom sound: You can use your iPhone's camera to analyze your unique ear anatomy and find the perfect audio settings for you. The design of the AirPods Pro 2 is fairly similar to the previous generation, but Apple has introduced touch control to the AirPods Pro 2 to help users more seamlessly control their AirPods. Get the second generation Apple AirPods Pro (2022) for their best-ever price at Amazon now. Apple AirPods Pro 2, $200 (reduced from $249) Theragun Pro is a professional-grade device constructed for physical therapists, trainers and other professionals, but it's also great for athletes, however amateur. Like the Theragun Elite, it is equipped with an OLED screen and a customizable speed range of 1,750 to 2,400 PPMs (percussions per minute) with three presets. However, instead of 40 pounds of force, the Pro boasts 60 and is the only model with an adjustable arm, allowing for easier use. The Theragun Pro comes with six attachments: a dampener, standard ball, wedge, thumb, cone and super soft tip. A two-year warranty (compared with just one with the less expensive models) makes it more appealing for anyone who might use the gadget daily.  Theragun Pro, $399 (reduced from $599) The Theragun Elite is really simple to use -- you control the intensity of the massage via an up or down press of a button and by varying the pressure you apply on your muscle. (We recommend, from first-hand experience, starting with a lighter touch.) The triangular design makes it really easy to reach all areas of your body on your own, at just the right angles -- even those otherwise hard-to-reach spots on your back. It includes five attachments -- a dampener, standard ball, thumb, cone and wedge. It's a high-end splurge, to be sure, but trust us -- you'll wind up getting a lot of use out of this massage gun once you know how good it makes you feel after a session. Theragun Elite, $298 (regularly $399) These JBL earbuds feature advanced noise-canceling technology for a solid price. They offer a 40-hour battery life without noise-canceling or 32 hours of battery life with noise-canceling engaged. The earbuds are water-resistant and sweat-proof. CBS Essentials writer Kaylyn McKenna bought these during Amazon Prime Day 2022. "I think that these earbuds do an excellent job with both the active noise canceling and ambient noise cancelling features. They connect really easily and offer a long battery life, plus the sound quality is about the same as AirPods." These JBL earbuds are on sale at Amazon for half off. They're a great AirPod alternative if you want all of the features of the AirPod Pros at a price far lower than the least expensive Apple AirPods. JBL Tune 130NC noise-canceling wireless earbuds, $50 (reduced from $100) The super-thin and light Oasis has the most features of any of the current Kindle models. It has a larger screen, auto-adjusting light sensors, page-turn buttons and an automatic, rotating page orientation. Unlike the Paperwhite, it's made of glass and aluminum. The Kindle Oasis is waterproof, too, making it the perfect e-reader for the poolside or beach reading. The bundle includes a Kindle Oasis, a leather cover and a power adapter. It comes in 8 GB and 32 GB storage options. Kindle Oasis essentials bundle (8 GB), $234 (reduced from $320) This mini coffee device is a great option for small spaces.  The five-inch-wide Keurig coffee maker lets you brew up to 12 ounces of coffee, hot chocolate, tea and more. It offers an energy-efficient feature that automatically turns the coffee maker off 90 seconds after you've brewed your cup.  Keurig K-Mini coffee maker, $69 (regularly $100) The iRobot Roomba j7+ is designed with the issue of dog poop in mind. This smart vacuum includes iRobot's P.O.O.P., or "Pet Owner Official Promise," guarantee. Your Roomba j7+ is guaranteed to avoid pet waste, or iRobot will replace your vacuum for free.  The vacuum features a powerful, three-stage cleaning system with iRobot's most powerful suction. The home-cleaning device uses an edge-sweeping brush to get into corners. The Roomba j7+ features dual multi-surface rubber brushes that flex to adjust to different floor types. Best of all, they don't get tangled with pet hair. When it's done cleaning, the device automatically empties into its included clean base for easy dirt disposal with enclosed bags. Just empty the cleaning station once every 60 days. iRobot Roomba j7+ robot vacuum, $599 (reduced from $800) The iRobot Roomba j7 is a bit more affordable and also offers the P.O.O.P. promise. (A cleaning station is not included.) iRobot Roomba j7 robot vacuum, $399 (reduced from $650) The Roomba 694 is Wi-Fi-enabled. Control the vac with your connected smartphone or device via the iRobot Home app. The Roomba 694 has a 90-minute run time before it automatically docks and recharges.  "We have two dogs, one that sheds moderately," a customer says. "I purchased in hopes that it at least would help between regular vacuuming. I vacuumed first with my Dyson then set it free. When it was done with the job, I didn't expect much in the dust trap... I was wrong! It was full! Super impressed."  iRobot Roomba 694 robot vacuum, $179 (reduced from $274) The fifth-generation Amazon Echo Dot has a number of new-for-2022 features, including improved audio, a temperature sensor and Eero Wi-Fi built in (requires a compatible Eero network).  Use this Amazon smart speaker to control your home via voice commands, make calls hands-free, play music, set an alarm and more. Choose from three colors. "Very cool and speaker sound is superb," wrote an Amazon customer. "The speaker sound is tremendous!" Amazon Echo Dot (5th Gen), $28 (regularly $50) Start or expand your smart home security setup with a two-pack of Blink Mini cameras. They're on sale at Amazon for less than half price when you buy a bundle of two. (You'll get an even better price per camera if you buy three.) The Blink Mini smart home security camera features 1080p video recording (cloud-based saving optional), motion detection and two-way audio. Blink Mini works with Alexa, so you can monitor your cameras from your Amazon Echo Show ($85) via voice command. Blink Mini smart home security camera (2 pack), $30 (reduced from $65) The Blink Outdoor is a water-resistant security camera designed to monitor the outside of your home. It features two-way audio, motion detection and a live video stream. It is battery-operated and has a two-year battery life. Like the Blink Indoor camera, the outdoor offering also comes in a variety of multi-packs and bundles. Blink Outdoor camera kit (1 pc.), $70 (reduced from $100) Blink Outdoor camera kit (3 pc.), $150 (reduced from $250) The Garmin Vivoactive 4 with a 45mm case is 45 percent off right now at Amazon. This Garmin smartwatch uses Garmin's Pulse Ox technology to track your energy levels, respiration, menstrual cycle, stress, sleep, heart rate, hydration levels and more. It can stream downloaded music from Spotify and Amazon Music. When paired with your smartphone, the watch can receive incoming notifications.   This Garmin smartwatch features more than 20 preloaded GPS and indoor-sports apps. Want a personal trainer on your wrist? This watch can show you animated workouts via your watch screen.   Available in a variety of colors. Garmin Vivoactive 4 (black), $180 (reduced from $330) If you've never had sous vide cooked meat and vegetables, well -- you're missing out. The 12.8-inch Anova Nano sous vide precision cooker circulates heated water at exact temperatures to cook foods to perfection. Rated 4.7 stars on Amazon. Anova Nano sous vide precision cooker, $99 (reduced from $149) The Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra features a 6.8-inch screen, compared with the standard S22's 6.1-inch screen. It also offers a 40MP front camera, compared with the standard 10MP front camera, for better selfies. The back camera is also enhanced with a better wide-angle camera and stronger zoom functionality.  Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra (128 GB), $900 (reduced from $1,200)  Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra (512GB), $1,100 (reduced from $1,400)  The Galaxy Z Flip 4 offers enhanced charging support, an upgraded processor chip and some notable camera upgrades. It also includes aesthetic improvements such as a slimmer design and a new Bespoke edition. The Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 4 includes two rear cameras -- a 12-megapixel primary camera and a 12-megapixel ultra-wide. The rear cameras convert to front-facing selfie cameras with a flip of the phone. The Galaxy Flip 4's Flexcam camera captures vivid photos at a wide range angles. It also offers a mode to capture better photos at night. The smartphone features a 6.7-inch foldable display screen with Gorilla Glass Victus Plus. This upgraded Gorilla Glass offers improved scratch resistance and durability. The Galaxy Z Flip 4 supports 25 W wired charging and features 15 W wireless charging support, another upgrade from the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 3. Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 4 (256 GB), $952 (reduced from $1,100) Apple's high-end tablet, the iPad Pro, features a Liquid Retina XDR display, a pro camera system (12 MP wide; 10 MP ultrawide) and a Thunderbolt port for lightning-speed data transfers. Looking for a traditional laptop experience? It's compatible with Apple's Magic Keyboard.  The latest iPad Pro comes with several major upgrades. One of the most notable changes is that the 2022 iPad Pros are equipped with the M2 chip, the same fast and powerful chip included in the latest MacBooks. The M2 chip makes this the fastest iPad yet -- and an excellent choice for video editing, streaming or gaming. 11" Apple iPad Pro 4th generation (WiFi, 128 GB), $729 (regularly $799) This Baggallini backpack makes a great gift for a busy student or working professional that wants a stylish way to take their laptop and supplies on the go. It also features a luggage handle to easily attach to rolling suitcases, making it a great gift for travel enthusiasts as well. Baggallini Soho backpack, $94 (reduced from $118)  Can't decide between Keurig and Nespresso? Instant Pot makes a dual coffee and espresso maker, the 4.4-star-rated Instant Pot Dual Pod Plus.  This kitchen gadget is compatible with K-Cup pods, Nespresso capsules and ground coffee when used with the included reusable pod. It lets you brew up to 12 ounces of coffee and up to six ounces of espresso at a time. Instant Pot Dual Pod Plus, $162 (regularly $230) The KitchenAid Artisan series 5-quart mixer features a 10 speed slide control.  The kitchen device comes with a flat beater, dough hook and wire whip attachments. If "aqua sky" isn't your color, this stand mixer is available in a wide variety of shades.   KitchenAid Artisan series 5-quart stand mixer with pouring shield, $350 (regularly $460) The professional-grade Vitamix 5200 blender has a dial that can be rotated at any point during the blend to achieve the texture you want. Its blades move so fast that you can make hot soup out of cold ingredients, right in the blender. The Vitamix 5200 blender comes with a tamper (a tool that lets you manually move ingredients in the blender) to help with thick blends. Vitamix 5200 blender, $418 (reduced from $550) Clip into a Peloton Bike for a cycling workout like no other. This small-space-friendly bike features delta-compatible pedals, a resistance knob for manual control, a two-channel, rear-facing stereo speaker system with 16W of total power, 10-point multitouch touchscreen, USB micro port, 3.5mm headphone jack, Bluetooth 4.0 connectivity, 5MP front-facing camera, built-in microphone and volume buttons. A Peloton All-Access Membership ($44 monthly) must be purchased separately to access Peloton content on your Bike. Membership offers unlimited access to Peloton's entire library of content available on your new Bike and through the Peloton App.  Original Peloton Bike, $1,245 (regularly $1,445) Looking for the perfect holiday gift for pet owners? Check out the Furbo dog camera.  This camera can help you stay connected with your pets while you're away from home. It features two-way audio and wide-angle video. The best part? You can use the Furbo app to toss your dog treats. You can even create a custom voice recording to play when the Furbo dispenses treats for your pet.  The app also sends you alerts when your furry friend is running, barking, moving around or appears to be throwing up. You can always stay up-to-date on what your pet is up to while you're gone with the Furbo. You even also get a cute video diary of your pet's day at the end of the day. Furbo dog camera, $147 (reduced from $210) The Amazon Fire TV offers a 4K experience with support for Dolby Vision, HDR 10 and HLG. This smart TV is a must-have for Alexa owners. You can go entirely remote free and ask Alexa to play live TV, stream your favorite TV shows and movies, check sports scores, set timers and reminders, start video calls and more. The Amazon Fire TV Omni series gives you access to over 1 million movies and TV episodes, plus the streaming platforms you subscribe to. Want to broadcast whatever's on your phone right into your living room? Use the TV's Airplay function to share videos, photos and music from your compatible smart devices to your Fire TV. The Amazon Fire TV Omni series is available in multiple sizes. Prices vary. 65" Amazon Fire TV Omni series 4K smart TV, $720 (reduced from $830) Check in on your pets while you're at work or out to dinner with the Petcube pet camera. The Petcube streams and records in 1080p video, while providing sound and motion alerts.  If it records anything suspicious or concerning, pet parents can access 24/7 live chat with a veterinarian via the Petcube app.  Petcube pet monitoring camera, $30 (reduced from $50) This espresso machine and coffee maker combo is a great gift for the coffee lovers in your life -- and you can get it for $50 off right now on Amazon. The barista system offers an at-home French café experience with 6 different brewing sizes. L'or barista system coffee and espresso maker, $139 after coupon (reduced from $189) If you're looking for a last-minute holiday gift for the DIY-enthusiast in your life, check out this deal on the Cricut EasyPress 2.  This heat-press machine (available in two sizes, 9 by 9 inches and 12 by 10 inches) eliminates the need for an iron and simplifies heat-transfer projects. In short, it makes applying a decal on a T-shirt a breeze.   Cricut EasyPress 2 (9" x 9"), $99 (reduced from $189)  The larger model is ideal for bigger projects like sweatshirts.   Cricut EasyPress 2 (12" x 10"), $142 (reduced from $239) A robot vacuum is an excellent holiday gift for the busy friends and family members in your life -- and a robot vacuum that can empty itself and mop makes an even better gift. Right now, you can get the Yeedi Vac station robot vacuum and mop for 30% off on Amazon.  Yeedi Vac station robot vacuum and mop, $350 (reduced from $500)   Like other smart thermostats, the Google Nest Learning Thermostat is an energy saver. When you're out of the house, the thermostat turns itself down. And like its competitors, the Google Nest Learning Thermostat can be controlled remotely via an app.  Unlike some other smart thermostats, and even unlike some other Google Nest devices, the Google Nest Learning Thermostat doesn't just process the numbers you feed it every day; it uses them to please you. If you allow it, the thermostat will, say, warm the house to 69 degrees by 7 a.m. because it knows you like the house that way when you wake up.  The battery-powered Google Nest Learning Thermostat is said to be compatible with 95 percent of home heating and air-conditioning systems.  You can get the Google Nest Learning Thermostat on sale at Amazon for $195, a sizable markdown from list price. The thermostat is available in a variety of colors, including brass and stainless steel. Google Nest Learning Thermostat, $199 (reduced from $249) Save 25 percent on Amazon right now on this colorful Waterpik device designed for children.  The water flosser includes an orthodontic tip for braces, a classic jet tip for general cleaning, and 20 customizable, removable cling labels (so your children can decorate their flossers). The water flosser features three pressure settings. Waterpik water flosser for kids, $45 (reduced from $60) This U-Shaped bed provides 270-degree ergonomic cushioning to support your dog's head and neck. This orthopedic memory foam dog bed is up to 33 percent off right now. It comes in four stylish colors and three sizes. Pricing varies by size. Lesure memory foam U-shaped sofa dog bed (medium), $60  Lesure memory foam U-shaped sofa dog bed (large), $70  Lesure memory foam U-shaped sofa dog bed (extra-large), $100 There is also a holiday bundle available with a large bed and a selection of holiday-themed dog toys. Lesure large dog holiday set, $93 (reduced from $113) Features of this touchscreen-operated wearable include a camera, pedometer, calculator, games -- and more then 100 "facial" expressions from its titular robot character. The smartwatch can be connected and used as a remote control for (sold-separately) accessories, such as the Tobi 2 Director's Camera ($50).  It's recommended for ages 6 to 10.  Little Tikes Tobi 2 Robot Smartwatch, $47 (reduced from $68) This 4.5-star beauty fridge is great for your makeup, creams, cosmetics and rollers. It features two shelves and is compact enough to fit on your bathroom counter or other small spaces. Finishing Touch Flawless mini beauty fridge, $51 (reduced from $60) This 10 foot by 10 foot extra large throw blanket is the perfect last-minute cozy gift for friends or family members. It's large enough to fit the whole family but still compact enough to fit into a normal washing machine. Big Blanket Co extra large throw blanket, $169 This adorable children's gift comes with an animal snuggler made with soft minky fabric and hypoallergenic polyester fiberfill and a board book meant to promote emotional learning for young children. You can choose from 13 different animal themese. Slumberkins snuggler and board book, $52 Weighted blankets make excellent holiday gifts. They provide enhanced comfort and can help you sleep better. Right now, you can get this cooling weighted blanket from Luna for 21% off. The Luna weighted blanket is made with high-quality, breathable cotton and premium glass beads. This cooling weighted blanket is available in full, queen and king sizes. Prices vary by size, weight and color. Luna cooling weighted blanket (queen), $77 after coupon (reduced from $125) This timeless stainless steel watch is on sale right now. It features a perpetual calendar and dual time zone capabilities. It is also water resistant. Citizen Eco-drive Classic Chronograph watch, $525 This gift set makes a fun gift for the coffee lovers in your life. It comes with four bags of specialty coffee from four different countries. The gift box also includes a postcard from each country with the story behind the coffee.  Atlas Coffee Club World of Coffee gift set, $35 There is also a World of Tea sampler set if you are buying a gift for someone that prefers tea. Atlas Coffee Club World of Tea gift set, $20 (reduced from $25) Google Pixel Buds A-Series earbuds feature adaptive sound that changes volume in response to your surroundings. They're water-resistant, too, so you can take them to the gym. The battery on the Google Pixel Buds A-Series lasts up to 5 hours of listening time per charge, for a total of 24 hours with the included charging case. Rated 4.5 stars on Amazon. Google Pixel Buds A-Series, $69 (reduced from $99) If you're finishing up your Christmas of Hanukkah shopping and looking for a great deal at Walmart, start here. The retailer is offering deep discounts on a variety of most-wanted holiday gifts, including Apple Watches, Samsung tablets, HP Chromebooks and more.  The latest Apple AirPods Pro 2 earbuds have an upgraded wireless chip for improved audio functionality, a new low distortion driver for clearer audio, touch controls and improved active noise cancellation. The Apple AirPods Pro 2 provide truly custom sound: You can use your iPhone's camera to analyze your unique ear anatomy and find the perfect audio settings for you. Get the 4.4-star-rated second generation Apple AirPods Pro (2022) for their best-ever price at Walmart now. Apple AirPods Pro 2, $200 (reduced from $249) The Apple Watch Series 8 is a durable smartwatch that is swim-proof, dust-proof and crack-resistant. It also comes with a new crash detection feature, which detects when the wearer is in a severe car crash and alerts emergency services of their location. The Apple Watch 8 has a number of health-tracking features, including an optical heart sensor, electrical heart sensor for ECG, blood oxygen sensor and a new body temperature sensor. You can also tap into yoga, meditation and other workout programs via Apple Fitness+. (Apple Fitness+ is a subscription service. It costs $9.99 a month; Apple Watch buyers get the first month free.)  Apple Watch 8 (41mm) (GPS), $369 (reduced from $399) Looking for the perfect budget TV for the holidays? Head over to Walmart -- the retailer has restocked a number of its bestselling budget Roku smart TVs. No matter what size or resolution you need, there's a deal for you. Here's a list of the best Roku TV deals at Walmart. As of publication, all these deals are still available. If you're trying to get a PlayStation 5 console, head over to the Walmart website now -- the console has been going in and out of stock over the past week. You can use the links below to head straight to the PS5 listings at Walmart and see if you can get lucky and find one. PlayStation 5 God of War Ragnarok bundle, $559 Playstation 5 God of War Ragnarok bundle (Digital Edition), $459 The Xbox Series X boasts 4K resolution at 120 Hz, 3D spatial sound, 1 TB of blazing fast storage (and fast load times). It's backwards compatible with thousands of Xbox games -- even your old Xbox 360 and Xbox games.  Xbox Series X console, $499 The Apple Watch Series 8 is a durable smartwatch that is swim-proof, dust-proof and crack-resistant. It also comes with a new crash detection feature, which detects when the wearer is in a severe car crash and alerts emergency services of their location. The Apple Watch 8 has a number of health-tracking features, including an optical heart sensor, electrical heart sensor for ECG, blood oxygen sensor and a new body temperature sensor. You can also tap into yoga, meditation and other workout programs via Apple Fitness+. (Apple Fitness+ is a subscription service. It costs $9.99 a month; Apple Watch buyers get the first month free.)  Apple Watch 8 (41mm) (GPS), $369  It's pretty rare to find a robot vacuum for less than $100 -- never mind a top-rated, voice-activated one like the Anker Eufy 25c robot vacuum. Head over to the Walmart now to get yours now for less than half its usual price. The Anker Eufy 25c robot vacuum doesn't skimp on features -- it connects to your home Wi-Fi and can be controlled through an app or through your home's smart speaker. It has 1,500 Pa of suction, three-layer filtration and a slim profile that helps it get under furniture to clean. It's rated 4.4 stars at Walmart. Anker Eufy 25c robot vacuum, $96 (reduced from $249) This wireless gaming headset by Turtle Beach -- compatible with the Sony PS4 and PS5, Nintendo Switch and PC -- features 48 hours of battery life, a flip-to-mute mic, a low-latency wireless connection, and support for the Sony PlayStation 5's 3D spatial audio. Save $50 at Walmart now. Turtle Beach Stealth 600 headset, $80 (reduced from $130) Lego building sets make great gifts for children of all ages (and adults too!). Here's a small selection of all the top-rated Lego sets available at Walmart right now. Barbie dolls and playsets are time-tested holiday favorites. You can save up to 50% on Barbie at Walmart now. Walmart is rolling back prices on Mattel Hot Wheels toys as well. You can save on track sets, RC toys and more. Shopping for young kids? No problem -- there are plenty of Fisher Price deals at Walmart: If you're looking for an affordable tablet this holiday season, check out the Lenovo Tab M8. The tablet offers an eight-inch HD display that's great for streaming videos. The battery life is fairly long, with up to 15 hours of video playback on a single charge. The tablet also comes with a built-in kids-mode with Google Kids Space, making it a great gift for children. Lenovo Tab M8, $89 (reduced from $119) Just about anyone will love these budget-minded Apple AirPods. They're not the latest model, but they're still one of the most sought-after earbud models on the market.   Retailing for $159 at Apple, they're on sale at Walmart this week for $90. These AirPods boast more than 24 hours total listening time (with the wireless charging case), a foolproof, one-tap setup for Apple device owners and a low-latency wireless connection (for full immersion when consuming movies and music).  Apple AirPods (2nd generation), $90 (reduced from $159) These sweat-resistant earbuds are ideal for avid runners or gym enthusiasts. They offer two levels of noise-canceling; active noise canceling and transparency mode.  Meanwhile, the IPX4 water resistance ensures they're protected even when you're sweating on them every day.  Beats Studio Buds, $90 (regularly $150) As always, check back to CBS Essentials for holiday gift guides for every special someone in your life. Check back for more throughout the season. Lily Rose is a senior writer for CBS Essentials and the site's expert in home appliances such as washers, dryers, refrigerators and ranges. When she's not writing about how you can upgrade your laundry room, she's writing about home and kitchen essentials that will transform your space. Her favorite appliance is her air fryer. She firmly believes that it can make the crispiest sweet potato fries. 
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and first lady Jill Biden are also scheduled to speak.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          What appeared to be just shy of 10,000 people were seen on the march route—and the protest remained peaceful as it reached Park 578.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          The 2024 Democratic National Convention in Chicago will be the first time the Windy City has hosted the convention since 1996. Adriana Diaz breaks down why Chicago was picked to host this year's DNC.
         
          At least two people have died as a result of flash flooding that hit Connecticut and other parts of the Northeast. Parts of New Jersey and New York's Long Island were also hit hard. Nikki Battiste reports.
         
          Democratic Rep. Katherine Clark, the House minority whip, joined CBS News to discuss the Democratic National Convention, President Biden's decision to step aside and former President Donald Trump's continued attacks against Vice President Kamala Harris.
         
          Six people, including two Americans, are missing after a yacht sank off the southern tip of Italy. At least one person has died.
         
          Former President Trump is campaigning in several battleground states as the Democratic National Convention is happening in Chicago. Caitlin Huey-Burns spoke with the former president, who defended his use of personal attacks against Vice President Kamala Harris. Then, Robert Costa helps dissect Trump's strategy.s
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.