Most Popular 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing. When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.  Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers. ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors  thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Learn music production skills with a lifetime subscription to Noiselab, on sale now. Advancing tech has made a career in music much more achievable. You no longer have to score a record deal or rent a studio to make a name for yourself in the industry, since you can do just about everything from your computer. Software like Ableton Live allows you to record and mix music right on your computer -- and you can learn how to use Ableton Live from the pros at Noiselab Music Production Hub. Right now, you can get lifetime access to the platform on StackSocial for only $60 (reg. $360) -- the lowest price available. Noiselab offers more than 600 lectures and 63 hours of content to help you get started in production or advance your existing skills. These materials were created by Ableton Live certified trainers and professionals, some of whom have worked with artists like Train, Carly Rae Jepsen, Nine Inch Nails, and more. You'll discover Ableton Live tools like built-in instruments, audio effects, time stretching, and more. Courses also cover fundamentals of music theory, production workflow tips, using Aldibs and automation, and even how to write songs in your chosen genre. Noiselab Music Production Hub is also an online community for producers and musicians to connect, share techniques, and maximize their creative potential. You might learn more from your peers than you do from the courses. Since this purchase is for a lifetime subscription, you'll get unlimited access to the platform. That means you can create a personalized learning plan and work at your own pace. You'll also get monthly updates that help you stay on top of trends and new tools that may come to Ableton Live. Pursue your musical dreams with a lifetime subscription to Noiselab Music Production Hub, now only $60 (reg. $360).