The 6 Best Encryption Software Choices for 2024 Your email has been sent Encryption secures information by translating it into computer code that’s unreadable to those who don’t have the means to access the information. These means of access can include passwords, credentials and authentication of some form. Though encryption could still be broken or cracked, strong encryption is nearly impenetrable. SEE:  Brute Force and Dictionary Attacks: A Guide for IT Leaders (TechRepublic Premium) Securing data both stored and in-transit through encryption is essential as part of an organization’s cybersecurity strategy. There are various encryption options out there. Here are our top picks. BitLocker is available on server and business editions and contains various encryption tools. The Redmond solution focuses on encrypting files and drives on a device right out of the box. Likewise, you can set up recovery keys to retrieve data if you get firmware problems or errors. It’s an excellent choice for encryption software for Windows. As a Microsoft product, you’ll typically need a Microsoft account or will need to link a device to a Windows domain to use it. You can also configure it for a corporate environment using Group Policy. The settings help you decide which drives you want to encrypt and how to distribute your keys (certificates). Additionally, the computer must have a Trusted Platform Module that can support the encryption process. We chose BitLocker for its easy integration with Windows environments. This is on top of a user-friendly interface and full disk encryption. For users that are already deep into the Windows ecosystem, or are planning to adopt a Windows-centered environment, BitLocker is the best choice for you. 


Visit BitLocker 

 Free as part of Windows software. Figure A Accessing a drive via BitLocker. Image: Microsoft Learn   VeraCrypt is another free disk encryption software that you can use on Linux, macOS and Windows systems. It’s an open-source solution which forks off the TrueCrypt project, adding features to help with secrecy. VeraCrypt is a prime pick for privacy enthusiasts and tech-savvy consumers. This is largely due to it being open-source, wherein its source code is publicly available for easy spotting of vulnerabilities and points for improvement. Businesses that prioritize transparency and regular code audits in an encryption solution should have VeraCrypt high on its list. We selected VeraCrypt as a top solution for hidden encryption. Its feature set allows for easy hiding of encrypted data in sight, making internal resources more secure against prying eyes. In addition, it utilizes popular encryption algorithms and has wide support for multiple platforms. 


Visit VeraCrypt 

 Free. Figure B Mounting a drive on VeraCrypt. Image: VeraCrypt Documentation   Image: AxCrypt AxCrypt Premium allows users to encrypt files locally using the AES-256 encryption algorithm. Sharing is possible with its key-sharing option. The solution protects classified and sensitive information and provides access to a master password generator. We selected AxCrypt for users that want to prioritize local storage encryption above all else. It uses the gold standard AES-256 encryption, has file and key-sharing support and works well with the most popular operating systems and platforms. 


Visit AxCrypt 

 There’s a one-month trial period across its Password Manager, Premium and Business subscriptions. But for organizations and businesses, AxCrypt’s Business plan is priced at $10.42 per month, per user, However, customers can get 20% off if they choose annual billing. Figure C Using a master key in AxCrypt. Image: AxCrypt Info page   Image: Trend Micro Trend Micro Endpoint Encryption offers high quality enterprise-wide full disk encryption, as well as file and database encryption. Not only does it support desktops, macOS and PCs, but it also works with removable media such as USB drives, CDs and DVDs. It’s a separate Trend Micro solution that caters towards businesses needing protection against unauthorized access of private data. Current and former Trend Micro users will be happy to know that it uses the same console as other Trend Micro security products. Trend Micro’s Endpoint Encryption was selected for its ability to work well with a variety of media and file types. Businesses with workflows which regularly deal with diverse media files should consider Endpoint Encryption as a viable option. This includes encryption for full files, volumes and folders. 


Visit Trend Micro 

 A license supporting 251 to up to 500 endpoints averages about $77-$83 per month. Figure D Encryption deployment. Image: Trend Micro Documentation   Image: NordLocker From popular security provider Nord Security, NordLocker is their take on encrypted file storage. Aside from file encryption, it offers data syncing, secure file-sharing and file management across numerous devices. As a cloud-based solution, businesses will be able to easily access their files on their computers or mobile devices. Fans of Nord’s other security products, such as NordVPN and NordPass, should definitely consider NordLocker as a possible encryption solution. NordLocker carved its name on this list for being an all-in-one encryption storage solution. Both businesses and individual users looking for a secure and intuitive way to secure their data will find NordLocker as a fine choice. 


Visit NordLocker 

 NordLocker has two tiers: Personal and Business. For Personal, we get three subscription options with a monthly and annual plan. Here’s a rundown of the 1-year plans: For NordLocker Business, we only get one plan option that lasts a year: Figure E Dragging and dropping folders in NordLocker. Image: NordLocker Support page   Image: Advanced Encryption Package Advanced Encryption Package (AEP) offers a choice between 20 proven encryption algorithms to protect user data. This includes the industry standard AES encryption, Blowfish, Serpent, GOST, Twofish and many others. It’s an easy-to-use data encryption solution that enables users to create a password to access files and choose their own encryption algorithm. Decryption is easy as well. Right now, AEP is available for Windows 10 and 11. We chose Advanced Encryption Package for its ease of use in terms of selecting an encryption algorithm for specific files and folders. The fact that it puts an emphasis on user-friendliness is a big plus for encryption software — a product category that may be intimidating for some users to tackle. 


Visit Advanced Encryption Package 

 Figure F Algorithm selection in AEP. Image: Advanced Encryption Package   When choosing encryption software, you should focus on these key features: You want an easy-to-use interface so that you can manage and access the encrypted data easily. With encryption software, more novice users may find it daunting to implement and use. But an intuitive and user-friendly software experience will encourage users to encrypt more of their data, and in turn, increase their data’s security. Ideally, an encryption tool should automatically backup encrypted files. There’s no point in encrypting data that’s at risk of being lost after a single wipe or crash. Having automatic backup functionality provides another layer of protection in case important user or business data is damaged or lost. At the very least, encryption should support the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) 256-bit algorithm which is military-grade security. This is the standard encryption algorithm that’s widely recognized as the strongest in the world, with many banks and government agencies utilizing it for added protection. Other algorithms include RSA, Blowfish, Twofish, and DES. Encryption software should accommodate a wide range of devices and platforms. Organizations with hundreds to thousands of users may use their own devices to work, or have their own operating system (OS) preferences, which means that encryption should support as many devices as possible. Having wide device support will allow higher adoption of encryption software, and consequently, a higher level of security being implemented in a business. Solid and multiple support options are ideal. Encryption software providers should have quality customer support in place to help users that may not be familiar with how to implement such products. This can come in a variety of forms: online guides and tutorials, community forums, support tickets, email and phone correspondence and many more. The more options an individual user or business has for customer support, the better. We used market research to determine the top encryption software. This research involved studying industry rankings, discussions and product reviews. Finally, we narrowed the list to the most appropriate candidates, choosing based on features like how well the software protects sensitive data, its integration capabilities and the pricing in comparison to the features each offer. Looking at the list of products above, you’ll find bundles, free options and some with trial versions. So it’s easy to try them all out and choose the right file encryption program that meets your needs. BitLocker could be ideal for those who want files encrypted throughout their network and don’t want a huge learning curve to use. However, VeraCrypt and AxCrypt may be better if the focus is on protecting individual files without sharing. Trend Micro is more of an enterprise focused tool because of its business-focused feature set. Meanwhile, NordLocker and AEP may benefit less tech-savvy users or organizations. Additionally, you should look for vendors with free product trials and transparent pricing. 
                    This is your go-to resource for the latest news and tips on the following topics and more, XaaS, AWS, Microsoft Azure, DevOps, virtualization, the hybrid cloud, and cloud security. Delivered Mondays and Wednesdays                 
                    This is your go-to resource for the latest news and tips on the following topics and more, XaaS, AWS, Microsoft Azure, DevOps, virtualization, the hybrid cloud, and cloud security. Delivered Mondays and Wednesdays                 The 6 Best Encryption Software Choices for 2024 Your email has been sent 
            Get the web's best business technology news, tutorials, reviews, trends, and analysis—in 
            your inbox. Let's start with the basics.
         
* - indicates required fields
         
            Lost your password? Request a new password
 
            Please enter your email adress. You will receive an email message with instructions on how to reset your password.
         
            Check your email for a password reset link. If you didn't receive an email don't forgot to check your spam folder, otherwise contact support.
         
            This will help us provide you with customized content.
         
            Thanks for signing up! Keep an eye out for a confirmation email from our team. To ensure any newsletters you subscribed to hit your inbox, make sure to add newsletters@nl.technologyadvice.com to your contacts list.
        