SurfLifesaving New Zealand Search and Rescue says it is increasing safety and efficiency for its inter-agency training exercises with “rugged and reliable” communications from Motorola Solutions. The volunteer agency says it depends on Motorola Solutions’ technologies to deliver rescue and emergency services throughout New Zealand every day, including the agency’s support for communities impacted by Severe Tropical Cyclone Gabrielle in February 2023 - one of the most damaging weather systems to strike New Zealand in decades. To prepare for such events, SLS SAR conducts Search and Rescue Exercises (SAREX) involving multiple public safety and emergency service personnel to test operational efficiency and response in the most challenging and remote environments - and in these “dynamic conditions, reliable communication is essential to helping frontline teams to collaborate seamlessly and coordinate successful operations”. On a recent training exercise amidst towering peaks, waterfalls and narrow fiordlands reaching as high as 1,000 metres in New Zealand’s Milford Sound, Motorola Solutions’ MOTOTRBO SLR 1000 Repeater and rugged, dependable DP4000e and MOTOTRBO R7 two-way radios provided extended and interoperable coverage for all participating agencies. As a fully deployable communications solution, it can be mobilised wherever rescue missions take place.  















 “By placing the repeater on a mountaintop we remained connected while performing search and rescue training exercises in the lakes 1,000 metres below,” said Max Corboy, Search and Rescue Volunteer. “Reliability is crucial to us. We’re deploying to remote locations and we need to make sure our team has the best possible equipment supporting them to get their job done. Motorola Solutions gives us that freedom without anyone needing to worry about the communications network that’s sitting behind them,” he said. Following the successful exercise, Motorola Solutions and NZSAR announced tha they are planning further enhancements to deployable mobile communications, including the introduction of live video streaming, body-worn video cameras and software solutions, and this will further enhance incident awareness and safety for field-based responders during rescue missions. “The importance of clear, reliable and interoperable communication cannot be underestimated for frontline responders working in the most challenging circumstances,” said Daniel Leppos, Motorola Solutions’ Director of Channel Business, for Australia and New Zealand. “Our work to expand SLS SAR’s communication capabilities during training exercises will ultimately lead to safer and more successful rescue missions when it matters most,” he said.     
DOWNLOAD WHITE PAPER! 

PROMOTE YOUR WEBINAR ON ITWIRE
It's all about Webinars.
Marketing budgets are now focused on Webinars combined with Lead Generation.
If you wish to promote a Webinar we recommend at least a 3 to 4 week campaign prior to your event.
The iTWire campaign will include extensive adverts on our News Site itwire.com and prominent Newsletter promotion https://itwire.com/itwire-update.html and Promotional News & Editorial. Plus a video interview of the key speaker on iTWire TV https://www.youtube.com/c/iTWireTV/videos which will be used in Promotional Posts on the iTWire Home Page.
Now we are coming out of Lockdown iTWire will be focussed to assisting with your webinars and campaigns and assistance via part payments and extended terms, a Webinar Business Booster Pack and other supportive programs. We can also create your adverts and written content plus coordinate your video interview.
We look forward to discussing your campaign goals with you. Please click the button below.
MORE INFO HERE!
 

 
MORE INFO HERE! 

 

 
                
                                Everyone got a bit of what they wanted. No one got everything, that sounds like the basis for a good[…]                             
                
                                Is this article ironic?                             
                
                                The safest way not to get snared is to avoid anything financial on your devices plus do not participate in[…]                             
                
                                Who do we trust here? A professional cloud provider with many customers or a monopolistic ticketing agency that can never[…]                             
                
                                I knew this scam was full of shit because it didn't present any actual evidence of the supposed hacker having[…]                              

