To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. If someone asked what kind of pet you want, you’d probably say a cat or a dog. In this analogy, Motorola phones are hamsters. They're still cute and definitely pets, but not necessarily the first or second one that comes to mind. The company’s Android smartphones often play third (or fourth) fiddle to the likes of Samsung and Google. If you’re an interested buyer, picking the best Motorola phone can be tough because the company launches many models in a year. I’ve tested almost every one of them, and in this guide, I break down the pros and cons and steer you toward my favorite Moto models—including the folding Razr+ flip phone. Be sure to check out our other mobile buying guides, including the Best Android Phones, Best iPhones, Best Cheap Phones, Best Pixel Phones, and Best Phones With a Headphone Jack. Updated July 2024: We've added the Motorola Edge, Razr, and Razr+. Power up with unlimited access to WIRED. Get best-in-class reporting that's too important to ignore for just $2.50 $1 per month for 1 year. Includes unlimited digital access and exclusive subscriber-only content. Subscribe Today. If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism. Learn more. Here’s what’s WIRED and TIRED about Motorola phones. This breakdown can help you decide whether to stick with Moto or buy something else. Motorola phones have a simple Android interface. This means the company hasn’t done much to gunk up the software. It’s simple and easy to use. There’s increasingly a lot of bloatware, but you can easily uninstall almost all of it. They have some of the best battery life. The company stuffs big batteries into these slim phones, and they’re frequently able to eke out close to two full days of use on a single charge with average use, besting almost all of the competition. Motorola's 2024 devices aren't as long-lasting as before but they can still go more than a day. There’s broad carrier support. While some Android phones have inconsistent carrier support in the US, Motorola phones often work on most if not all networks (the company lists carrier support details in the Specs section of all its phones). They all work on the big three—T-Mobile, AT&T, and Verizon. Make sure you buy them unlocked. The prices dip quite often. Never buy a Motorola phone at its MSRP. They almost always go on sale a few months (or weeks) after launch, sometimes at steep discounts. Motorola’s software updates are lackluster. The company is slowly improving here—it promises to deliver three Android OS updates and four years of bimonthly security updates to its high-end smartphones—but it still lags behind its peers. Worse yet, the phones in the Moto G series only receive one OS Android update (with three years of security updates), so they miss out on new Android features quickly. Even if a phone is promised updates, they take a long time to arrive. Most Moto G phones lack NFC. Near-field communication sensors are what enable tap-to-pay on your phone, allowing you to use contactless payments at participating retailers. Phones as cheap as $200 have this feature, but Motorola has long excluded it on (most) of its Moto G range. This is starting to change, with many of the 2024 Moto G models sporting NFC. The cameras are lackluster. Among the things putting Motorola behind the likes of Samsung and Google are the cameras. They can take fine photos, but they’re easily eclipsed by the competition. There's some improvement here but only in the high-end devices. There’s no always-on display. Most Android phones have a setting you can toggle on if you want an always-on display that will show a clock on your screen even when the screen is “off.” Motorola has Peek Display, which requires you to move the phone or tap the screen to see anything. It’s not a big deal, but that’s a feature you might miss if you’re coming from another phone. The 2024 Razr devices finally break the mold with always-on displays. Photograph: Julian Chokkattu If you're going to buy a Motorola and money isn't much of a concern, it should be a statement phone like the Razr+ (2024). This third-gen folding flip smartphone (7/10, WIRED Recommends) is much more refined, adding features you've come to expect in a modern-day handset, like an IPX8 water resistance rating that keeps it safe from dips in the pool and a bright 165-Hz OLED screen that is easy to read in sunny conditions. And yes, you can flip open the phone to answer a call and flip it shut to end it. When it’s closed, the enlarged 4-inch OLED cover screen can show you notifications, apps, and handy widgets to check the weather, calendar events, and news. It even lets you play some fun mini-games. You can also use the superior primary cameras—which would typically be on the “back” of the phone but are now at the front—to snap selfies and see previews on this external screen. They’re some of the sharpest selfies you’ll snap. Open it up and you have a 6.9-inch screen that functions like a standard phone. There's still a crease on the screen where the device folds, but I didn't find it annoying. It's powered by Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8s Gen 3 chipset, a slightly lesser-performing processor compared to the flagship Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 found on other high-end Android devices. That said, performance was smooth for me, thanks to the 12 GB of RAM, even when playing games. You get other standard-fare accouterments like NFC for tap-to-pay via Google Wallet, wireless charging, and 256 GB of internal storage. This Razr+ exclusively uses Motorola's new Photo Enhancement Engine, which the company says uses artificial intelligence to produce better images. Indeed, these photos are some of the best you'll snap on any Motorola phone, but it's still playing catch up with much of the competition. Photos take quite a bit of time to process too, so you'll have to get used to that. It's not a perfect camera system, but I was generally happy with many of the results. I just wish Motorola didn't get rid of the ultrawide camera—it was easy to snap selfies with other people using the front screen as a preview on its predecessor, but now it's harder to fit more people in the frame with the default 50-MP main camera. The ultrawide was replaced by a 2X telephoto camera, and while I typically like zooming in, the zoom level doesn't impress and the quality is so-so. There's a 4,000-mAh battery on the Razr+ and it'll get you through a full day with average use, but heavy users most likely will need to top up before the day's end. That's just about the only main gripe I have with this phone. It's super fun and satisfying to use, looks great—especially in the new hot pink color—and runs pretty well with a solid camera system. My pro tip? Wait for a sale. There will likely be a decent discount in a few months; last year's Razr+ stayed at $700 for almost half its shelf life. Motorola promises three Android OS upgrades and four years of bimonthly security updates. Photograph: Julian Chokkattu This is the cheapest folding phone you can buy in the US, and you'll likely see it dip to $500 in a few months. Compared to the Razr+, the Razr (7/10, WIRED Recommends) has a slightly smaller front screen. You can't see as much information at a glance but it's still plenty big enough to view some apps, notifications, and access widgets. Inside is a similar OLED 6.9-inch screen with up to a 120-Hz refresh rate. It retains the ultrawide instead of the telephoto, and the camera system is overall solid—not horrible, not amazing. The 4,200-mAh battery does last longer than the Razr+, though the device falls short in performance. Powered by the MediaTek Dimensity 7300 with 8 GB of RAM, I just encountered more sluggish behavior that at times made it annoying to use. Photograph: Julian Chokkattu If you're looking for a smartphone around the $500 mark, I'd first steer you toward the Google Pixel 8A. Not your jam? Then Motorola's 2024 Edge is a pretty good alternative. It's slightly more expensive at $550, but you get a large 6.6-inch AMOLED screen with a 144-Hz screen refresh rate and speedy performance thanks to the Qualcomm Snapdragon 7s Gen 2 chipset. It's not a flagship chipset but enough to deliver snappy app launches and lag-free gameplay. It has all the basics from NFC so you can pay with your phone via Google Wallet, plus an IP68 water resistance rating, ensuring it won't succumb to a drop in the pool. It supports wireless charging, comes with 256 GB of storage, and packs some pretty loud Dolby Atmos stereo speakers. I used it as my daily phone for two weeks and it performed remarkably well. The 5,000-mAh battery comfortably lasts a full day with average use and often can go well into the second day before a top-up. Use the Edge heavily and it's firmly in the charge-once-a-day territory. I do have a few gripes though. The Edge uses a so-called waterfall display, where the glass on the front curves into the edges for a more immersive look. It certainly looks fancy, but I've had several moments where my fingers holding the phone's edges disrupted an action I was trying to complete with my other hand. This has long been an issue on phones with curved screens. It's easy to get used to and adjust your grip quickly, but it's annoying. Second, the 50-MP main camera has a bit of shutter lag, which can be frustrating when you're trying to capture moving subjects (like my dog, who won't sit still). The pics you can get out of it are solid, perfectly acceptable images during the day. The contrast is a little too strong sometimes, and it doesn't handle high-contrast scenes all that great, but there's good detail. In low light, you'll encounter a few more blurry photos due to that shutter lag and shaky hands, but if the conditions are right, you can get some sharp, in-focus shots. This is where the Pixel 8A handily beats the Edge 2024. Unfortunately, Motorola promises only two Android OS upgrades (up to Android 16) and three years of security updates to the Edge 2024. The Pixel 8A will get seven years of software support and costs less. This is one of Motorola's biggest weaknesses, but if you plan on upgrading within three years or so, then it isn't a big deal. It's worth noting that since Motorola phones go on sale very often, I'd wait to nab the Edge until it starts dipping below $500. Motorola promises two Android OS upgrades and three years of bimonthly security updates. Photograph: Julian Chokkattu This is the best Moto G phone Motorola has ever made (8/10, WIRED Recommends). For under $300, you get a lovely phone with a nice vegan leather textured back that resists fingerprints. The 6.7-inch LCD is sharp and bright, and you get a fingerprint scanner, a 3.5-mm headphone jack, and even wireless charging. It's almost unheard of to see wireless charging on a sub-$400 smartphone, but here we are. More surprising is how this low-priced Moto G finally supports NFC, meaning you can tap to pay anywhere it's supported. Ditch the cable and the wallet! The Moto G Power 2024 is powered by MediaTek's Dimensity 7020 chipset with 8 GB of RAM. While you will see some slowdowns here and there, it's generally smooth sailing. I used it for nearly a month with no qualms, juggling between my favorite apps, navigating, streaming music, and taking pictures. The 5,000-mAh battery doesn't last as long as previous Moto G Powers—you can easily get a full day out of it, and a little extra if you're conservative. The camera system consists of a 50-megapixel main camera and an 8-MP ultrawide, and they're adequate. It can take some decent pictures even in low light (make sure you use night mode), but in general, these photos aren't going to knock your socks off. The problem? While it has everything you need all at a low price, this phone will only get one Android OS update (to Android 15) later this year or early in 2025. It'll still get three years of security updates, so while that means the phone will stay patched and secure, you won't get new Android features past a year. There's also more bloatware on this device than ever before, but at least much of it is easy to uninstall or disable. It comes with 128 GB of internal storage, but you can upgrade that thanks to a microSD card slot. If you can get past those flaws, the Moto G Power 5G 2024 is one of the best phones you can buy for less than $300, and better yet, it has already dipped as low as $282, so wait for a sale. Motorola promises one Android OS upgrade and three years of bimonthly security updates. Photograph: Julian Chokkattu The Moto G Stylus doesn't feel drastically different from the Moto G Power. It's just as nice with the vegan leather back and delivers relatively smooth performance with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 6 Gen 1 chipset and 8 gigs of RAM. Sure, there are some hiccups here and there, particularly when you juggle between apps, but it's an otherwise snappy phone. For $100 more than its sibling, you do get some extra perks. Namely, the stylus. You can pull it out of the bottom of the phone to jot notes, sign documents, or doodle when bored. Motorola doesn't have decent palm rejection, so don't expect comfortable sketching sessions on this handset, but it's handy to have around for those reasons. I eked out slightly better battery life, despite the same 5,000-mAh capacity as the Moto G Power 2024. It comfortably lasted a full day with heavy use, and a day and a half for average use. There's still wireless charging, a headphone jack, NFC for contactless payments, and the same size 6.7-inch screen, though here you're treated to a superior OLED panel that offers deeper blacks and richer colors. The screen has a 120-Hz refresh rate, just like the Moto G Power. Other upgrades include a bump to 256 GB of internal storage, dual stereo speakers, and a nicer camera system: a 50-MP main camera with a 13-MP ultrawide, plus a 32-MP selfie camera. The cameras are better than what you get on the Moto G Power, with more vibrant colors and sharper details, especially with the ultrawide. However, it's still not as good as the Google Pixel 8A. Motorola promises one Android OS upgrade and three years of bimonthly security updates. I suggest you stick to the phones above, but if your budget is tight, the phones below are OK buys. The Moto G phones receive one Android OS update and three years of bimonthly security updates. Motorola Edge 2023 for $350: Last year's 6.7-inch Motorola remains a good buy, especially at this price. You get an OLED screen, a 165-Hz screen refresh rate, and pretty good performance with Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, a flagship-grade processor. It's well-rounded with IP68 water resistance, 512 GB of storage, and a 5,100-mAh battery that can last two full days on average. The camera is just OK, but this device will get two more Android OS upgrades and three more years of security updates, which is more than many of the devices below. Moto G Play 2024 for $150: It works on 4G LTE only and doesn't have NFC for contactless payments, not to mention it receives only one Android OS update. Still, this Moto G Play delivered reasonably decent performance for the money. The Qualcomm Snapdragon 680 feels quick, the 6.5-inch LCD is plenty bright, and there's even a 90-Hz screen refresh rate. Motorola Edge 50 Pro for £600: The new Motorola Edge 50 Pro (7/10, WIRED Review) is a midrange contender with a triple-lens camera, silky smooth screen, and lightning-fast wired and wireless charging in a compact waterproof body, but limited software updates and a lack of processing power let it down. Available globally (except in the US and Canada), it's worth a look for Motorola stans. You should avoid buying any Moto G phone from 2023 or earlier. They won’t get any more Android version updates, and the prices aren’t drastically different from the latest models. The one I mention below is a 2024 model I didn’t like. Moto G 5G 2024 for $200: I wouldn't bother with this Moto G. The performance is just too sluggish and the cameras are noticeably worse than the Moto G Power 5G. Save your cash for one of the above picks. Motorola’s top competition comes from Google, Nothing, and Samsung. If you asked me what phone to buy, I’d point you to the Google Pixel 8A ($499). It has most of the features folks want in a smartphone—including wireless charging. The Nothing Phone 2a ($350) is also a worthy contender, as is the new CMF Phone 1 ($199) if it works on your network. If your budget can stretch, look at the Samsung Galaxy S23 FE ($600) or OnePlus 12R ($500). If you want to spend as little as possible, then the Galaxy A35 5G ($400) is another alternative. Read our Best Cheap Phones and Best Android Phone guides for more options. Moto Gestures: One of the first proper smartphones I bought was the Moto X, and that’s when (then Google-owned) Motorola debuted Moto Actions, which let you use physical gestures to trigger some features on the phone. They are still very much a part of a Motorola phone’s identity, even if they’re now called Moto Gestures. You can head to the Moto app on the phone to find all of them or go to Settings > Gestures. The ones I use most often are the double-chop gesture to trigger the flashlight and the double-twist action to launch the camera. Moto Connect: Formerly known as Ready For, this isn't available on the cheaper Motorola phones. It lets you wirelessly connect the phone to a nearby display, where you can see mobile apps, use your phone as a webcam, and share files. If your Moto is supported, you can find it by heading to Settings > Connected devices > Ready For. If you’re connecting it to a PC, you’ll need to download the desktop client (Windows only), or the Ready For Assistant if you’re connecting an Android tablet. If you’re using a TV, it needs Miracast support to connect wirelessly, but you can use a USB-C or HDMI cable as well. In your inbox: The best and weirdest stories from WIRED’s archive How the brain decides what to remember The Big Story: Meet Priscila, queen of the rideshare mafia Silicon Valley's soulless plutocrats flip for Donald Trump Event: Join us for The Big Interview on December 3 in San Francisco Dyson Airwrap deal: Free $60 Case + $40 Gift Get Up To An Extra 45% Off August Sale Vista Print Coupon Code: 20% Off Select Signage Newegg Coupon 10% Off Peacock Premium Offers Starting at Just $7.99/Month Explore DJI's Student Discounts & Educational Offers For 2024 More From WIRED Reviews and Guides © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices