Vauxhall has updated its Movano-e van with a larger 75kWh battery pack, which provides an extra 15 miles of range compared with the 70kWh model which it replaces.  Total range now stands at 154 miles, and charging speeds have improved. Despite this, the Movano-e’s £57,913 starting price - excluding VAT and after the plug-in vehicle grant - remains unchanged. The Movano-e features the same front-mounted electric motor as before, producing 118bhp and 260Nm of torque. The 75kWh unit is the sole battery option, although buyers can pick between either a standard L3 model or a long-wheelbase L4 version, which costs an extra £900. Whichever model you pick, the Movano-e features improved charging times thanks to optimisations for its electrical systems. An 80 per cent top up from a 22kW AC charger now takes four hours instead of eight, and the Movano-e can take on an 80 per cent charge in around an hour from a 50kW DC rapid charger.  The battery is mounted under the van’s floor, which means there’s no compromise when it comes to practicality. Alongside the two available wheelbase lengths, the van can also carry a payload of up to 2,100kg. As an added benefit, Vauxhall also says that the Movano-e’s battery enhances the van’s cornering ability and improves its stability when fully loaded, as that low-down mounting in the vehicle’s chassis drops its centre of gravity. Every version of the Movano-e is offered in range topping Dynamic equipment grade.This includes forward collision alert, lane departure warning and trailer merge assist, which accounts for the extra length of a trailer when warning drivers of traffic in their blind spot. Parking assist is also standard fit.  For those who need a little more range, Vauxhall also offers two diesel versions of the new Movano, both of which use the same turbocharged 2.2-litre four-cylinder engine.  The diesel line-up opens from £30,755 excluding VAT. The lower-powered option produces 138bhp and 300Nm of torque, while the more powerful model has 163bhp and 370Nm of torque. Both engines meet the latest Euro 6d emissions regulations and send drive to the front wheels via a six-speed manual gearbox. Further body options include chassis cab and chassis crew cab variants, which Vauxhall says are well-suited to conversions such as tipper trucks or dropside loaders. Vauxhall will also supply the van with seating for either three or seven. The standard panel van has a single row up front with three seats, while crew cab versions get a second row in the rear, with space for an extra four passengers. What does the new Vauxhall Movano-e have to beat? Check out our list of the best electric vans on sale by clicking here… Labour could introduce “regressive” pay-per-mile road tax in October’s Autumn Budget Car Deal of the Day: hugely practical Skoda Octavia for an astonishing £152 per month New Peugeot 208 to rip up the rulebook with concept car-inspired interior Copyright © Autovia Ltd 2024. All rights reserved.Auto Express™ is a registered trade mark.