April, 20, 2023 Edotco Services Lanka (Private) Limited (EDOTCO) recently inked a milestone agreement with the National ICT Solutions Provider, SLT-MOBITEL to facilitate infrastructure sharing solutions through its islandwide Multipurpose Smart Street Lamp pole infrastructure network. The partnership succeeds the recent completion of EDOTCO’s 675th multipurpose smart streetlamp pole at the iconic Lotus Tower premises. These smart street lamp poles are built at a unique advantage as they are quick to construct and deploy, revolutionising network rollout plans worldwide. The innovative and sustainable structures will support telecommunication operators overcome data congestion and provide a positive customer experience. Using EDOTCO’s readily available infrastructure, the telecommunications ecosystem providers are able to collectively help contribute to the nation’s digital ambitions of achieving equitable digital access for all citizens. The Chief Executive Officer of Sri Lanka Telecom PLC, Janaka Abeysinghe said, Street lighting that is highly energy efficient and connected plays a key role and part of the backbone of a smart city. As the country’s leading ICT solutions provider our partnership with EDOTCO enables us to transform ‘smart street lighting’ into a ‘smart pole’ serving as a multifunctional node in a smart city and an important facet of digital connectivity. Backed by SLT-MOBITEL’s innovation, technology and networks, together with EDOTCO we will be able to bridge the network coverage gaps as the smart poles will provide indispensable infrastructure for urban development and growth of the economy.” EDOTCO’s Acting Country Managing Director, Gayan Koralage, said, “We are honoured to partner SLT-MOBITEL for their impending fixed wireless roll-out in urban areas using our innovative multipurpose smart streetlamp poles. This milestone is at a time when the country needs strong digital infrastructure and connectivity to spur the digital economy, supplementing macroeconomic recovery following the recent IMF facility grant.  We admire SLT-MOBITEL’s commitment towards identifying innovative connectivity infrastructure models that will accelerate rollout plans, such as EDOTCO’s cost-efficient, sustainable and smart streetlamps, to foster greater economic development for the nation. Our multipurpose smart streetlamps are also a perfect fit to complement city planning - fixed with integrated aesthetic designs and energy-saving LED light facilities supporting smart features such as security surveillance and digital signage.” “Our robust network of shareable infrastructure will provide a critical component in reducing cost per GB by enabling efficient service delivery to a larger customer base. Our key mission at EDOTCO is to ensure that all under-served areas are connected, and no one is to be left behind,” Koralage added. EDOTCO Sri Lanka is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the world’s 6th largest telecommunication tower infrastructure company, EDOTCO Group Sdn Bhd (EDOTCO Group). Since its inception in 2012, EDOTCO Group has established a regional portfolio of over 54,000 telecommunications towers across nine countries in South and Southeast Asia. The award-winning tower company is the first regional integrated telecommunications infrastructure services company in Asia and was ranked sixth amongst the top 100 global telecommunications TowerCos worldwide. EDOTCO Group is also one of three Malaysian unicorns recognised by Credit Suisse in 2021. Video Story