Most Popular 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing. When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.  Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers. ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors  thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. There seems to have been two big shifts regarding wearables in the past year. First, the focus on women's health that we saw, namely with the Apple Watch 8. And second, the move away from smartwatches to a more compact smart ring to track vitals and activity, Oura, the most notable.  Also: CES 2023 tech you can actually buy now Find all the exciting innovation from CES 2023 in this ZDNET special feature. Enter the Evie Ring. It's the brain child of California-based health solution company, Movano Health, and just combined wearable health's two biggest conceptual fronts into reality.  Specifically designed for women, the Evie Ring can monitor resting heart rate, heart rate variability, skin temperature variability,  SpO2, menstrual and ovulation cycle, and sleep stages and duration.  Movano says the intention of the "actionable insights" is to help women understand the "why" behind what they're feeling, and claims the Evie Ring can even "mood track." Of course, the Evie also offers a typical fitness wearable activity profile, showing your total steps taken, continuous movement stats, and calorie output.  Users can access all of this data via a mobile app, much like Oura's current platform. Unlike Oura, however, users won't have to pay a monthly subscription fee to leverage the health data.  Fitness trackers offer a reasonably-priced alternative to smartwatches. Movano Health is also planning on seeking FDA (Federal Drug Administration) clearance for the Evie Ring. "As a medical device, Evie will go beyond the status quo of other wearables on the market, and we believe it has the power to transform women's lives and overall health," said Dr. John Mastrototaro, CEO of Movano Health.  On top of seeking FDA status, Movano also plans to file for the wearable to be a licensed pulse oximeter -- a status other trackers can't currently claim -- following a successful 2022 trial that concluded the ring's SpO2 and heart rate readings were aligned with FDA's accuracy standards.  The ring is set to launch sometime in 2023. But, Movano is giving CES attendees a hands-on look and demonstration this week.  The Evie will be available in sizes 5-11 and in three different polished aluminum finishes. The company also expects the ring will cost under $300 with no added fees. 