Facebook Twitter Instagram Search Menu Webcasts Microphone Icon Events Events Videos Play Icon Podcasts Podcast Icon Movano Health builds board                              Also Noted By HME News Staff Updated 9:36 AM CDT, Mon August 14, 2023 PLEASANTON, Calif. – Movano Health, maker of the Evie Ring, has formed a Medical Advisory Board comprised of health care industry subject matter experts in women’s health, mental health and sleep. The members of the board will serve as trusted advisors and will provide insights to establish the Evie Ring as a highly credible health and wellness resource. “To develop a wearable that is truly medical grade, we needed to make sure we involved the experts,” said Stacy Salvi, vice president of strategy at Movano Health. “This highly regarded group of advisors are in a unique position to provide perspective from their day-to-day interactions with women which will enhance Evie’s product experience. We are honored to work closely with each of them and tap their unparalleled expertise to help women better understand their bodies.” The inaugural members of the board are: Dr. Mary Claire Haver, MD, FACOG, CCMS, a board-certified OB/GYN, author and entrepreneur who has devoted her practice to women’s health; Dr. Ruth C. White, PhD, MPH, MSW, RSW, a mental health expert, stress management advocate and diversity trainer; and Dr. Andrea Matsumura, MD, MS, FACP, a sleep medicine specialist at the Oregon Clinic who has helped thousands of people improve their sleep. Movano recently submitted a 510(k) premarket notification to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the Evie Ring’s pulse oximeter.   Evie Ring, Movano Health, Patient monitoring, wearable Comments To comment on this post, please log in to your account or set up an account now. Need the Latest HME News in the Industry? Want to always have the latest HME news in the industry right in your inbox? Click the button below to subscribe. Subscribe Now VOCIC is Recruiting Distributors at the FIME 2024 exhibition in Miami How Advanced Diabetes Supply is Driving Value-Based Health Outcomes SOS Achieves Remarkable 400% Growth in 2023, Bolsters Team with Director Appointment Cyber Siege: The Financial Vulnerability Healthcare Didn't See Coming Categories Recent Archives News Providers Mobility Specialty Providers Vendors Smart Talk Also Noted Business Development Editorial Guest Blog On the Editor's Desk E-SP Medtrade On the Move Special Report Executive Session Medtrade Show Daily 
ResMed expands board of directors 
 
FDA grants auth to SoClean device 
 
FODAC opens second location 
 
Stryker adds care.ai to health care IT offering 
 
Woman charged with enteral fraud scheme 
 
UHC, Synapse delay to ‘accommodate onboarding’ 
 
SageHome hits stride 
 
On the Mend creates ‘destination store’ 
 
iNRRTS flips switch in Europe 
 
In brief: Quipt’s focus, MobilityWorks’ milestone, RoundTable’s new location 
 
August 2024
 
July 2024
 
June 2024
 
May 2024
 
April 2024
 
March 2024
 
February 2024
 
January 2024
 
December 2023
 
November 2023
 
October 2023
 
September 2023
 
August 2023
 
July 2023
 
June 2023
 
May 2023
 
April 2023
 
March 2023
 
February 2023
 
January 2023
 
December 2022
 
November 2022
 
October 2022
 
September 2022
 
View all Archives
 Operational Efficiency: Don’t overlook wearables In brief: ResMed buys remote monitoring company, investor funds nat’l rollout for orthotics  Remote monitoring company bought by ResMed  
Privacy Policy
                             |
                            Sitemap |
                            Terms
                                of Use |
                            Web
                                Accessibility Guidelines
 © 2024                            HME News. All rights reserved. Web solutions provided by VGM Forbin Media Kit Advertise Advertiser Directory 
Privacy
                        Policy
                     |
                    Sitemap |
                    Terms of
                        Use |
                    Web Accessibility
                        Guidelines
 © 2024                    HME News. All rights reserved. Web solutions provided by VGM Forbin  Webcasts Play Icon Events Events Podcasts Microphone Icon Subscribe Now *  - Indicates required fields Password Requirements