WESTPORT, Conn., March  22, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- HMG Strategy, the World's #1 digital platform for enabling technology executives to reimagine the enterprise and reshape the business world, is excited to be hosting its first in-person 2023 Global Women in Technology Summit at the Harvard Club of New York City on April 13. Now in its 5th year, HMG Strategy's 2023 Global Women in Technology Summit will take place in conjunction with its 2023 New York CIO Summit of America. Business technology executives attending this event will explore the role of female technology leaders as enterprise change agents to enable a digital business. "Female technology executives have an incredible opportunity to act as enterprise change agents as they sit at the intersection of how technology can be leveraged to drive transformative change across the organization," says Hunter Muller, Founder and CEO of HMG Strategy. "We are grateful to have such a spectacular community of dynamic female business technology leaders who are making a difference in their organizations – and in the world." Top-tier business technology executives speaking at the 2023 Global Women in Technology Summit include: To learn more about the 2023 Global Women in Technology Summit and to register for the event, click here. Elite business technology leaders speaking at the 2023 New York CIO Summit of America with the Global Women in Technology Summit will include: Recipients of HMG Strategy's 2023 Global Leadership Institute Awards at the 2023 New York CIO Summit of America with the Global Women in Technology Summit will include: Valued Partners for the 2023 New York CIO Summit of America with the Global Women in Technology Summit include 8x8, Aisera, Akamai, Amazon Web Services, BetterCloud, Box, Darktrace, Delphix, Fortinet, Intuitive.Cloud, LastPass, Moveworks, Netskope, Nutanix, Palo Alto Networks, Ping Identity, Prelude Solutions, Rimini Street, RingCentral, SafeGuard Cyber, SAP, SIM New York Metro, Tangoe, Tanium, Tonkean, Upwork, Zoom, and Zscaler. To learn more about the 2023 New York CIO Summit of America with the Global Women in Technology Summit and to register for the event, click here. HMG Strategy will also be hosting its 2023 Phoenix CIO Executive Leadership Summit on March 24 at the renowned JW Marriott Scottsdale Camelback Inn Resort & Spa in Scottsdale. World-class business technology leaders and industry experts speaking at this popular in-person event will explore valuable opportunities for leveraging technologies such as AI, ChatGPT, cloud platforms and innovative cybersecurity tools to help move the needle for the business and to better safeguard the enterprise. Prominent executives speaking at the 2023 Phoenix CIO Executive Leadership Summit will include: The 2023 Phoenix CIO Executive Leadership Summit will also feature an Innovation Accelerator panel featuring Ed Albanese, COO, Vectara; Hariharan Kolam, Co-Founder and CEO, Findem; Paul Valente, Co-Founder & CEO, VISO Trust; and Saqib E. Awan, Founder and Managing Director of GTM Capital. Executives from these innovative technology start-ups will share the challenges they solve for their clients, the innovation they deliver to companies and how their solutions are differentiated in the market. Valued Partners for the 2023 Phoenix CIO Executive Leadership Summit include 8x8, Aisera, Akamai, Appian, Aryaka, BetterCloud, Box, Darktrace, Delphix, Findem, Fortinet, GTM Capital, Intuitive.Cloud, LastPass, Moveworks, Netskope, Nutanix, OutSystems, Palo Alto Networks, Ping Identity, ReliaQuest, Rimini Street, RingCentral, SafeGuard Cyber, SAP, SentinelOne, SHE Informationtechnologie AG, SIM San Arizona, Tonkean, Upwork, Vectara, VISO Trust, Zoom, and Zscaler. Recipients of HMG Strategy's 2023 Global Leadership Institute Awards at the Phoenix CIO Summit will include: To learn more about the 2023 Phoenix CIO Executive Leadership Summit and to register for the event, click here. HMG Strategy will also be hosting its 2023 Dallas CIO Executive Leadership Summit on April 6 at the Brookhaven Country Club. Prominent CIOs and business technology executives at this event will explore effective ways to foster innovation and invention to spur new revenue growth. Distinguished business technology executives speaking at the 2023 Dallas CIO Executive Leadership Summit on April 6 at the Brookhaven Country Club will include: Recipients of HMG Strategy's 2023 Global Leadership Institute Awards at the Dallas summit will include: Valued Partners for the 2023 Dallas CIO Executive Leadership Summit include 8x8, Aisera, Akamai, Apptio, Aptum, Aryaka, BetterCloud, Box, Cyera, Darktrace, Delphix, Findem, Fortinet, GTM Capital, LastPass, Legit Security, Lightrun, Moveworks, Netskope, Nexthink, NPower, Nutanix, Palo Alto Networks, Ping Identity, Procyon, Rimini Street, RingCentral, SafeGuard Cyber, SAP, SIM Dallas/Fort Worth, Tangoe, Tanium, Tonkean, Upwork, Vectara, VISO Trust, Zoom, and Zscaler. To learn more about the 2023 Dallas CIO Executive Leadership Summit and to register for the event, click here. To learn more about HMG Strategy's upcoming schedule of CIO & CISO summits, click here. About HMG Strategy  HMG Strategy is the world's leading digital platform for technology executives to reimagine the enterprise and reshape the business world. The HMG Strategy global network consists of more than 500,000 CIOs, CTOs, CISOs, CDOs, senior business technology executives, search industry executives, venture capitalists, industry experts and world-class thought leaders. HMG Strategy's global media model generates more than one million impressions per week, providing vast opportunities for business technology leaders and sponsor partners to promote themselves and their brands.  HMG Strategy was founded in 2008 by Hunter Muller, a leadership expert who has worked side-by-side with Fortune 2000 executives with strategic planning and career ascent for the past 30+ years. HMG Strategy's regional CIO and CISO Executive Leadership Series, authored books and Digital Resource Center deliver unique, peer-driven guidance from CIOs, CISOs, CTOs, CDOs and technology executives on leadership, innovation, transformation and career ascent. HMG Strategy offers a range of peer-led advisory services such as its Global CIO & CISO Executive Leadership Alliance (CELA) service which bring together the world's top CIOs, CISOs and technology executives to brainstorm on the top opportunities and challenges facing them in their roles. HMG Strategy's Global Advisory Services are a unique set of peer-driven research services that are designed to keep business technology executives up to speed on the latest leadership, business, technology and global macro-economic trends that are impacting businesses and industries. To learn more about the 7 Pillars of Trust for HMG Strategy's unique business model, click here.  Contact: Tom Hoffman, VP, Research, HMG Strategy: 203-221-2702 or at tomhoffman@hmgstrategy.com  A photo accompanying this announcement is available at https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/a9b65027-e36b-4d96-8dc7-35818e134d01  © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.