Wheel of Fortune hosts Vanna White (L) and Pat Sajak pose for pictures while taping episodes of the game show at Navy Pier on March 7, 2008 in Chicago.   (Photo by Paul Warner/WireImage) New ‘Wheel of Fortune’ host candidates Who will replace Pat Sajak as host of “Wheel of Fortune?” The 76-year-old game show icon announced Monday that he’s retiring after the upcoming 41st season, but he’s expected to remain a consultant on the show for at least three years afterwards. That means he’ll be part of the decision to pick a new host, and ET reports several candidates have emerged as frontrunners for the job. Whoopi Goldberg said she wants to do it, while other favorites include longtime star Vanna White, Ryan Seacrest (who recently exited “Live!” with Kelly Ripa), and Pat’s daughter Maggie Sajak (who joined “Wheel” in 2021 as a social correspondent). Otherwise, it could be a series of guest hosts like “Jeopardy!” did before eventually settling on Mayim Bialik and Ken Jennings. Live-action “Bambi” movie Oscar-winner Sarah Polley (”Women Talking”) is in talks to direct a live-action “Bambi” movie for Disney, according to Deadline. The remake is described as a musical that will feature music from Kacey Musgraves and a script from Micah Fitzerman-Blue and Noah Harpster (”Transparent”), though it’s unclear when it might happen — largely due to the ongoing writers strike — or who it could star. Fans of the original 1942 animated film may also be wondering how it will handle the heartbreaking story with Bambi’s mother, but sources told Deadline it’s in “very early development.” MORE BUZZ: Buzz is a daily roundup of entertainment news about movies, TV, music and celebrities. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices