BMW has said it takes data privacy and security “very seriously” in response to the Mozilla Foundation’s recent research findings that claim vehicles are the worst threat to data privacy that consumers currently face. According to Mozilla, OEMs can collect sexual activity, immigration status, race, facial expression, weight, health, and genetic data as well as where customers drive. The brands evaluated were Mercedes-Benz, Nissan, BMW, Ford, Toyota, Tesla, Kia, Subaru, Chrysler, GMC, Cadillac, Dacia, Jeep, Lincoln, Acura, Fiat, Volkswagen, Dodge, Buick, Lexus, Honda, Audi, Chevrolet, Renault and Hyundai. While customers may be able to opt out, doing so could mean losing the full functionality of connected services — if they work at all without data use consent, according to Mozilla. There is sometimes the option to have personally identifiable information (PII) deleted but not every state in the U.S. gives consumers that right. Nissan was determined to be the worst offender. BMW was considered one of the best. “BMW isn’t actually the worst car company we reviewed,” Mozilla wrote. “Don’t get us wrong, they are far from great. But compared to many of the other car companies’ privacy and security we’ve reviewed, they are better than most. Yes, the bar is low. But alas, we’re looking for something we can point to that isn’t terrible in this bleak landscape. BMW is it.” However, according to Mozilla, data collected by BMW include: “They [car companies] collect your personal information, build a big profile on you, and then make money giving other companies access to that personal information to target you with ads,” Mozilla said. “From our reading of BMW’s privacy policy, they might not do this. But we’re also not 100% sure they don’t — their privacy policy left us some concerns that we haven’t been able to clarify. And unfortunately, BMW didn’t respond to our emailed requests to answer our privacy questions, so we just don’t know.” They added that many car brands engage in “privacy washing” — the act of pretending to protect consumers’ privacy while not actually doing so. “BMW does seem to have had fewer serious security breaches and data leaks than some of the other car companies we’ve reviewed,” Mozilla said. There have been at least two data breaches, one in 2015 and another in 2018, according to Mozilla. Despite that, BMW’s Data Safety page states that data cannot be deleted. BMW stated in a Sept. 14 news release that customers are provided with comprehensive data privacy notices that inform them about the collection of their personal information, which allows vehicle drivers “to make granular choices regarding the collection and processing of their personal information.” “Further, we allow our customers to delete their data whether on their apps, vehicles, or online,” BMW said. “BMW NA [North America] does not sell our customer’s in-vehicle personal information and provides our customers the opportunity to opt out of BMW targeted behavioral advertising on the Internet. “With that, we would also like to clarify a few of the allegations made by Mozilla Foundation in their recent ‘Privacy Not Included’ survey.  While the story published on September 6, 2023, includes several inaccuracies, we wanted to address and correct five important points: BMW also said drivers can, at any time, disable the embedded SIM on their vehicles, which will disable the transfer of any data, by contacting BMW and filling out a form. “However, many customers voluntarily enable this feature, given that eCall and SoS calls would not be possible after the cellular connection to the vehicle is disabled,” BMW said. It also said customers’ data is not sold by BMW NA. Featured image: BMW headquarters in Munich, Bavaria. (Credit: pwmotion/iStock) © 2023 DRIVEN COMMUNICATIONS Inc. All Rights Reserved.