Mozilla Firefox's Total Cookie Protection (TCP) feature, which helps to protect users from being tracked by trackers has forayed into Android.   



 The new feature will be enabled by default and will prevent cross-site tracking. Trackers will be unable to collect data about your browsing behaviour for targeted advertising in this manner, TechCrunch reported. ALSO READ: Google to discontinue 'Glass Enterprise Edition'   TCP on Android has begun to roll out to users and will be available to all users by the end of next month. In 2021, TCP was introduced, but it was only available in Firefox's enhanced tracking protection mode (ETP), so users manually selected that security level to prevent cookie-based tracking. Last year, the company made TCP available and turned on by default in all modes on Firefox for Windows, Mac and Linux, the report said. ALSO READ: How to increase social media followers with ChatGPT?   Meanwhile, Mozilla has also added 3 new extensions for its Android web browser to enhance the browsing experience of its users.    
Related Stories

Microsoft to replace Internet Explorer with new browserPhone makers look to emerging markets for growthFirefox 78 Nightly build fixes a huge problem: Here's all you need to knowMicrosoft Edge surpasses Firefox to take 2nd spot after ChromeMozilla bug may let hackers target Firefox for Android browsersFirefox on Android will soon autofill logins for all appsDuckDuckGo set to launch privacy-focused desktop Mozilla introduces offline machine translation tools to make user's life easyGoogle Chrome and Mozilla Firefox: How to delete history, cookies and cache?Mozilla challenges Microsoft, Google, Apple for anti-market practices Google Pixel Fold is tipped to be heavier than the Galaxy Z Fold4: Know-why?Google 'Chat' to be calling as RCS on Messages appGoogle lays off 12,000 workers and even 100 robots: Know-why?Google, Meta file lawsuit against South Korean data watchdog's rulingGoogle started laying off employees in China: Know moreGoogle I/O 2023 event to take place on May 10: What to expect? These extensions will further include hiding the user's email address when signing up for a website, listening to an article and removing tracking elements before sharing a URL. With the "Firefox Relay" extension, users will be able to hide their real email address to help protect their identity. ALSO READ: Microsoft Teams added a 3D avatar, to go official in May: Know-more   The company stated that it plans to extend this feature to all users and more sites later this year. Inputs from IANS Top News Champai Soren highlights major friction in JMM, says, 'I had no greed for power'  Mohanlal, Malayalam actor, hospitalised following breathing issues | Deets inside Mohammed Shami set to return after 11 months on sidelines; likely to feature in Ranji Trophy games Related Technology News Massive price drop on Google Pixel 8a: Save up to Rs 13,000 on Amazon India Poco Pad 5G tablet set to launch with 10,000mAh battery: Details Realme introduces 320W charging: Phones fully charge in just 4 minutes, but is it safe? OnePlus Buds Pro 3 set to launch on August 20: Expected features and price WhatsApp brings Custom Sticker creation with Meta AI: Here’s how it works Latest News Champai Soren highlights major friction in JMM, says, 'I had no greed for power'   Govt holds high-level meeting on monkeypox preparedness review   Mohammed Shami set to return after 11 months on sidelines; likely to feature in Ranji Trophy games  Kolkata doctor rape-murder: Medics at RIMS Ranchi fight for justice, demand Mamata's resignation  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Paris Olympics 2024: Vinesh Phogat on Olympic Disappointment Pain, says 'Healing time is uncertain'    Virat Kohli completes 16 years in International cricket | SA VS WI Test |18th Aug | Sports Wrap    Kangana says she 'never said anything which isn't true | Imtiaz Ali on SRK | 18 Aug | E Wrap    Kolkata Rape Murder Case: Nirbhaya's Mother counters Mamata, says “Who is she protesting against…”    Hurricane Hits Bermuda: Hurricane Ernesto pounds Bermuda as it moves slowly away    Dhankhar says, 'Those who prioritise individual, political interests over country should be...'   Supreme Court takes suo motu cognizance of Kolkata rape-murder case, hearing on August 20   Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s lateral entry move in top jobs: 'Centre openly snatching reservation...'   Udaipur stabbing case: Mayawati reacts to bulldozer action against student, says 'court must...'   Rapid Rail to run between Delhi-NCR to Meerut from today | Know details   Indian-origin couple, daughter killed in car crash in US, police call it 'worst' crashes in 26 years   Bangladesh: No respite for Sheikh Hasina, case filed against her for carrying 'mass murder' in 2013    'Deeply anguished': Air India after its cabin crew 'sexually' assaulted at 5-star hotel in London   Germany: Ferris wheel catches fire at music festival, leaves more than 18 injured | VIDEO    'I'm much better looking than her': Trump after Time Magazine features Kamala Harris on its cover   Mohanlal, Malayalam actor, hospitalised following breathing issues | Deets inside   Ananya Panday UNVEILS first poster of Prime Video series Call Me Bae, trailer to be out on THIS date   'Got a problem with that?': Amitabh Bachchan REVEALS real reason why he keeps working even at 81   Assamese musician Baba's song 'Hold Me Tonight' touches No 1 spot on iTunes US pop charts   Before Stree 2, THESE 10 Bollywood sequels shattered box office records    Mohammed Shami set to return after 11 months on sidelines; likely to feature in Ranji Trophy games   West Delhi Lions vs North Delhi Strikers, DPL 2024 Live Score: Akhil takes 4 to restrict 144   'Ten years of unfinished business': Nathan Lyon tips Australia to end Border-Gavaskar Trophy drought   PCB shifts venue for second Test against Bangladesh due to concerns over wellbeing of players   South Africa break India and Australia's joint Test record after series win against West Indies   Massive price drop on Google Pixel 8a: Save up to Rs 13,000 on Amazon India   Poco Pad 5G tablet set to launch with 10,000mAh battery: Details    Realme introduces 320W charging: Phones fully charge in just 4 minutes, but is it safe?   OnePlus Buds Pro 3 set to launch on August 20: Expected features and price   WhatsApp brings Custom Sticker creation with Meta AI: Here’s how it works   Why Pakistan celebrates Independence Day on August 14 despite achieving freedom together with India?    Japan all set to pick its next Prime Minister: Who could succeed Fumio Kishida?   What prompted Centre to reconsider draft of Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill? EXPLAINED   Bangladesh unrest: Why Chief Justice Obaidul Hassan was forced to resign? Explained    What is Waqf Board Bill? Why was there a need for amendment?   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list   'India needs to create 148 million additional jobs by 2030': IMF's Gita Gopinath   Union Cabinet gives nod to two new airport, three metro rail projects across India | DETAILS   Saraswati Saree Depot IPO allotment: Key details and step-by-step guide to check status   What is the role of raw garlic in cholesterol management? Know here   Vitamin E deficiency? Include THESE food items in your diet, know benefits   Ketogenic diet may boost treatment outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients, finds study   How can PCOS/PCOD impact female fertility? Know from expert   5 important things men should do in their 20s, 30s and 40s to lower cancer risk  