Pocket, formerly known as Read It Later, has long been hailed as one of the most beloved read-later apps. Enabling users to effortlessly save articles, videos, and social media posts for later perusal, Pocket has now received a significant makeover on the iPhone, as announced by its developer Mozilla in a recent blog post. The focal point of the app’s redesign is the introduction of a brand-new ‘Home’ tab, which acts as a central hub for all the content stored within Pocket. This feature allows users to easily locate their saved posts and articles and serves as a starting point. Available for iOS 16 users, the revamped Pocket app comes with a new user interface and is faster than before. The developers have also added a new feature called ‘Lists’, which is currently accessible on the web version with plans to make it available on the mobile app sometime later this year. In an effort to provide a more tailored experience, Pocket now offers personalized recommendations and an expanded range of discovery content based on users’ saved and discovered items. This means that users can explore more content aligned with their interests, such as ‘Best of the Web’, ‘Editor’s Pick’, ‘In case you missed it’, and more. Simplified navigation and a new ‘settings’ screen are among the other notable improvements featured in the redesigned iOS app. Formerly known as ‘My List’, the tab has been renamed as ‘Saves’ and has received a range of enhancements. In addition to an updated interface, users can now enjoy the convenience of searching for specific items within their saved collection, listening to articles, and swiftly archiving items with a simple swipe. It’s worth noting that the ability to create and view highlights within saved articles has been temporarily removed, but Mozilla says the functionality will be reintroduced in the near future. 

  Amid speculation regarding former Jharkhand chief minister Champai Soren’s next move a day after he said he was “humiliated” by the JMM, BJP state chief Babulal Marandi on Monday said there had been no discussions with the JMM leader regarding a switch to the BJP.  