Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Steve Huff
          

            Jan 27, 2023
          
 
          Share         According to Department of Transportation (DOT) data analyzed by Business Insider, sexual assault is consistently the most reported crime aboard major cruise ship lines, making up about three-quarters of all crimes reported from 2010 to 2022. Business Insider reports that out of approximately 500 documented incidents, 70% happened on either Royal Caribbean or Carnival ships. The report also notes that Carnival recorded nearly doubled Royal Caribbean's number — despite having fewer ships. But in a statement to Entrepreneur, Chris Chiames, chief communications officer for Carnival Cruise Lines, called the report a "superficial interpretation of the DOT data" and that it's not "apples to apples." "It should be noted that Carnival handles millions more cruise guests than other cruise lines, and we sail many short itineraries which increases the number of people that board our ships each year," Chiames said. "Further, most of our capacity is from U.S. homeports, which is the data the DOT collects. We have effective onboard security measures and also use screening tools to promote a safe and secure environment for all on board." Carnival is "fully committed to the safety of our guests and crew and there is no circumstance by which assault is condoned," he added. Insider reports that passengers, rather than crew members, committed over 80% of the assaults. However, a California woman represented by maritime attorney Michael Winkleman alleged in January 2022 that she was raped by — and contracted HIV from — a Princess Cruises crew member. DOT records indicate Princess had more reports attributed to its staff than other cruise lines. Speaking to Business Insider, Winkleman suggests the DOT's statistics may not reflect the true frequency of assaults, as many cases go unreported, and victims may fear their experiences will be minimized. Minors are also particularly vulnerable — estimates suggest that they make up one-third of sexual assault victims yearly. Nonprofit organization RAINN told Insider it creates training and safety procedures specific to prevent sexual assault. The org does work with cruise lines, including Royal Caribbean Cruises, which in 2015 was the first company to receive compliance certification from a RAINN program geared toward educating employees on preventing and responding to sexual violence. Entrepreneur Staff 
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          For startup founders under a plethora of challenges like timing, investors and changing market demand, it is extremely hard to hire programmers who can deliver.
         
          What's real in the age of AI and deepfakes? 
         
          "Do what you can, with what you have, where you are."
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          Disney demoed the floor this weekend. 
         
          Eligible users have until November 18 to claim a part of the cash.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
