Skip to content Your browser does not support JavaScript, or it is disabled．Please check the site policy for more information. The Asahi Shimbun Politics article By RYUHEI TSUTSUI/ Staff Writer April 27, 2023 at 14:48 JST 

Justice Minister Ken Saito, center, waits for a meeting of the Lower House Committee on Judicial Affairs to start on April 26. (Koichi Ueda)
 The main opposition Constitutional Democratic Party of Japan plans to vote against the ruling coalition’s bill that would speed up deportations of foreigners who are illegally staying in Japan. An official decision by the CDP was expected on April 27. The coalition agreed to change the bill to say the government will consider the CDP’s demand to set up a third-party organization to screen foreign nationals’ applications for refugee status. But many CDP members remained against the bill to revise the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Law. Currently, Japan does not carry out deportation orders against foreign nationals if they have applied for refugee status. The government says many people are abusing this system by repeatedly applying for asylum just to stay in the country. The bill would allow the authorities to deport them after two rejected applications. The ruling Liberal Democratic Party and its junior coalition partner, Komeito, have been in talks on the legislation with the CDP and another opposition party, Nippon Ishin (Japan Innovation Party). The ruling coalition on April 25 presented the revised proposal that included an additional clause stating that a third-party organization will be considered to screen refugee status applications. One CDP member said the new proposal “reflected our wishes more than expected.” But the foundation of the initial government bill remained unchanged. CDP members discussed the proposed revision at an April 26 meeting of the party’s legal department. “There is no guarantee that the third-party organization will actually be established,” one member said. Another member said that accepting the government proposal “would be a betrayal of party supporters who helped to come up with our counterproposal.” The party members left the final decision on the bill to Akira Nagatsuma, chairman of the CDP’s Policy Research Committee. He also expressed a negative view of the revised proposal. The ruling coalition initially intended to hold a vote on the bill at the Lower House Committee on Judicial Affairs on April 26, but the vote was postponed until April 28 at the earliest. The coalition now plans to present the bill without the CDP’s proposed changes, such as the inclusion of a stipulation that says “children’s interests” shall be taken into consideration when determining whether to give “special permission to stay in Japan.” This proposal was made to protect children of foreign nationals who do not have residence status in Japan. The CDP’s opposition to the bill will likely not be enough to block its passage in the Diet. The coalition plans to make slight changes to the bill to reflect the demands of Nippon Ishin. They include enhancing information-gathering in countries where applicants for refugee status are from. 3rd party could screen refugee status under revisions to bill LDP, Nippon Ishin agree to discuss bill on immigration  Special resident status for foreign children with no visa in the cards Immigration bill dropped after death of Sri Lankan woman Opposition demands truth come out over Sri Lankan’s death Immigration chief vows to stop detaining all visa overstayers 




 




 
                    Stay indoors warning with another typhoon set to hit Japan
                 
                    August 16, 2024
                 
                    In Okinawa, more people drown than die in road accidents
                 
                    August 15, 2024
                 
                    Quake fears do little to dent holiday mood as Obon kicks off 
                 
                    August 10, 2024
                 



 Stories about memories of cherry blossoms solicited from readers 



 Cooking experts, chefs and others involved in the field of food introduce their special recipes intertwined with their paths in life. 



 A series based on diplomatic documents declassified by Japan’s Foreign Ministry 



 A series on the death of a Japanese woman that sparked a debate about criminal justice policy in the United States 



 A series about Japanese-Americans and their memories of World War II 



 Here is a collection of first-hand accounts by “hibakusha” atomic bomb survivors. In-house News and Messages BACK TO TOP Copyright © The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.