The severe thunderstorm watch for Tarrant and Dallas counties has expired, according to the National Weather Service. The watch continues for areas to the east and south until 9 a.m. A severe thunderstorm warning announced for Tarrant County until 6:15 a.m. was allowed to expire. The storm weakened below the severe limit, but NWS officials said gusty winds were still possible. Widespread showers and storms moved into the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex around 6:25 a.m. and NWS officials advised commuters to give themselves plenty of time to get to work. The storms were bringing frequent lightning, gusty winds and heavy rain. A severe storm warning was in effect for Collin, Grayson and Fannin counties until 7:30. A tornado warning was in effect until 5:30 a.m. for southeast Wise and northeast Parker counties. At 5:04, a severe thunderstorm capable of producing a tornado was located near Poolville, or 11 miles south of Bridgeport, moving northeast at 55 mph. About 5 a.m. in Parker County, the fire department reported a recreational vehicle overturned with two people trapped inside in the 4900 block of Lone Star Road, just west of Poolville, according to a NWS storm damage tracker. #new - @_KennediWalker on scene in northern Parker County where a mobile home overturned during the storm. Emergency management confirms 2 people hurt. More coverage at 6:30am @CBSNewsTexas pic.twitter.com/VL2HCrPYpR — Stewart McKenzie (@CBS11Stew) March 24, 2023 Another RV was overturned with three people inside in the 2500 block of Bounty Road, southwest of Whitt. Sean Hughes, the emergency management coordinator for Parker County, said the RVs were overturned due to strong wind. There were no injuries and first responders helped get everyone out, he said. Hughes also said there was some sporadic damage from wind across Parker County but didn’t give specific details. Danie Huffman, the spokesperson for the Parker County Sheriff’s Office, said they have gotten calls about wind damage and debris. This map contains continuously updated storm reports and damage from the National Weather Service for the past 48 hours. Reports include tornado, wind storm and hail storm reports. The map also includes tornado reports for the past week and recent rainfall accumulations. Sources: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Esri. Open  Steve Wilson swilson@star-telegram.com Texas Highway 199 near the Wise/Parker County line was shut down due to power lines across the road. An overturned RV was reported near that location. Poolville ISD delayed school buses and classes by two hours. Weatherford ISD delayed buses by 30 minutes. Fort Worth ISD said some buses might be delayed. “Be weather aware & ensure your children’s safety on their way to school,” the school district said in a social media post. “Buses may be delayed. Please plan ahead & allow extra time for your child’s commute. In the event of weather impacts, tardy procedures are suspended at the start of the day.” A severe thunderstorm watch was initially in effect until 9 a.m Friday for several North Texas counties, including Tarrant, Dallas, Denton and Collin, but expired early in some areas. The storms were expected to be capable of producing large hail, winds up to 70 miles per hour and a couple of tornadoes, according to the weather service. Hail could be up to 1.5 inches — about the size of ping-pong balls — in some areas. A Severe Thunderstorm Watch has been extended to include more North Texas counties including Dallas, Tarrant, Denton, and Collin counties until 9am. Storms moving into this area are capable of producing 65 mph winds, large hail and a brief tornado. #wfaaweather pic.twitter.com/AlWCXeQVuZ — Pete Delkus (@wfaaweather) March 24, 2023 A ground stop that was in place for flights at DFW Airport has been lifted. Shortly before 8 a.m. the flight status tracker Flight Aware showed flights departing from DFW were delayed an average of 30 minutes or more. Inbound flights were being delayed at their origin an average of 35 minutes. Flights that were already airborne were delayed an average of nearly 1 hour and 20 minutes. Oncor was reporting more than 1,900 electric customers without power as of 7:20 a.m., including more than 400 each in Parker, Wise and Denton counties and more than 300 in Dallas County.     Here is Oncor's power outages map. Outage information is sent from Oncor to the outage map every 10 minutes. Source: stormcenter.oncor.com    Open   Star-Telegram      A live data feed from the National Weather Service containing official weather warnings, watches, and advisory statements. Tap warning areas for more details. Sources: NOAA, National Weather Service, NOAA GeoPlatform and Esri.    Open   Steve Wilson swilson@star-telegram.com   The storms will continue to move east and will be out of the area by afternoon.     This map shows the 3-day weather outlook for storms by the National Weather Service's Storm Prediction Center. Sources: National Weather Service, Esri.    Open   Steve Wilson swilson@star-telegram.com   This is a developing story. For the latest updates, sign up for breaking news alerts. Here is Oncor's power outages map. Outage information is sent from Oncor to the outage map every 10 minutes. Source: stormcenter.oncor.com A live data feed from the National Weather Service containing official weather warnings, watches, and advisory statements. Tap warning areas for more details. Sources: NOAA, National Weather Service, NOAA GeoPlatform and Esri. The storms will continue to move east and will be out of the area by afternoon. This map shows the 3-day weather outlook for storms by the National Weather Service's Storm Prediction Center. Sources: National Weather Service, Esri. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.