Texas A&M has produced some of the best offensive linemen in the past 10 college football seasons while a number are still playing in the NFL, including former 2016 1st-round pick Germain Ifedi. Drafted by the Seattle Seahawks, Ifedi played three seasons with the franchise before leaving to join the Chicago Bears from 2020-2021. Recovering from a knee injury the previous season, Ifedi transitioned to signing with the Atlanta Falcons on April 6th of last year, spending the 2022 season as the primary backup at Right tackle behind Kaleb McGary. Playing with his former Aggie teammate in Falcons starting left tackle Jake Matthews, Ifedi has remained as a steady backup option at the tackle position. Former @AggieFootball standout Germain Ifedi remains with the #Falcons on a one-year deal, per a league source @GermainX1 — Aaron Wilson (@AaronWilson_NFL) March 22, 2023 On Wednesday, it was announced per a league source that Ifedi will remain with the Falcons for the 2023 NFL Season, good news for a young team that is looking to implement presumed starting quarterback Desmond Ridder in his first full season as the starting signal caller, needing a reliable offense line to help steady a ship that will most definitely deal with its share of storms next season. Contact/Follow us @AggiesWire on Twitter, and like our page on Facebook to follow ongoing coverage of Texas A&M news, notes, and opinions. Follow Cameron on Twitter: @CameronOhnysty Story originally appeared on Aggies Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Which teams have the toughest schedules ahead of the 2024 season? Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week.