The Alfa Romeo F1 team becomes the fourth Formula 1 outfit to launch its 2023 season when it takes the covers off its new car on Tuesday at 4 a.m., ET, live from Zurich Switzerland. To see the Alfa Romeo F1 launch live, CLICK HERE at 4 a.m. ET on Feb. 7.  Former President Trump shared a fake photo of Vice President Harris speaking at a communist event in Chicago ahead of the start of the Democratic National Convention. Trump posted the image on Truth Social late Saturday and again on X on Sunday, adding on to accusations he has made about her recently, calling her a… Republicans hope the conservative U.S. Supreme Court will intervene in an Arizona state election dispute. The answer may not be what you’re expecting. Multiple people were injured during an incident at a western Pennsylvania amusement park ride Saturday night. "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." When the actress and singer Marianne Faithfull appeared opposite the late actor Alain Delon in the 1968 erotic drama The Girl On A Motorcycle, she had the highest praise for him. “We think alike in a lot of ways and he’s a totally dedicated actor,” she said. “He helped me a lot through his ability to ignore outside things when he’s working.” There is a famous contemporary picture of the two of them laughing together, apparently completely wrapped up in one another, while Faithfull’s boyfriend Mi The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. A Delta flight was going to Dublin from Boston when it returned "because of an unruly passenger who urinated on another passenger on board." A Buford man who attempted to rob a then teenager in 2021 will spend the rest of his life in prison. "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married." Just not seeing the point here. Yellowstone National Park on Sunday issued its annual reminder that the bison rut is underway, advising tourists to “use extra caution and give bison extra space during this time.” If anyone wonders why they should be more careful Week 2 of the NFL preseason proved to be rather eventful, with several quarterback competitions coming into focus in recent days. Sen. Lindsey Graham told NBC News’ “Meet the Press” on Sunday that former President Donald Trump, “the provocateur, the showman, may not win this election.” Whether or not you're familiar with the name Miista, you'll likely have come across the Spanish... While Taylor Swift is busy wrapping up the European leg of her Eras Tour at Wembley Stadium in London, Donald Trump is putting out claims on Truth Social that are anything but the truth. On Sunday, Aug. 18, the former president falsely posted that the 34-year-old musician had endorsed him in the 2024 election. The … A new study has honed in on two surprising new risk factors for Alzheimer’s disease, culminating in a list of 14 things that could increase the likelihood of the common dementia. Safari guests in India were treated recently to a rarely witnessed interaction between a tiger and cobra, which appeared to culminate in a standoff. Several clips are being shared via social media but the accompanying footage is reported to have been captured in early August… The daughter of an Orange County supervisor and a nonprofit are being sued by the county after they allegedly “brazenly plundered [tax dollars] for their own personal gain,” the suit claims. The Viet America Society received as much as $13.5 million to help feed the elderly and those in need during the pandemic, but instead, […] A former conservative federal appellate judge is urging the Supreme Court to keep Donald Trump off the ballot, arguing the ex-president’s effort to cling to power after his 2020 election loss was “broader” than South Carolina’s secession from the US that triggered the Civil War.