
The contents of this website are copyright-free and can be republished freely without authorisation.

 

             
            African Development Bank Group and African Risk Capacity Group issue $11.2 million insurance payout to the Government of Malawi
              - Source: African Development Bank Group (AfDB)  
 

             
            Afreximbank Achieves Solid first half 2024 growth reflecting sound execution of its strategy amid macro-economic headwinds
              - Source: Afreximbank  
 

             
            RS’s Own Brand RS Pro to Become a Key Partner for Planned Maintenance
              - Source: RS South Africa  
 

             
            Empowering the Future: Nestlé's Commitment to Youth Development in Central and West Africa
              - Source: Nestlé  
 

             
            Canon Central & North Africa Expands Young People Programme to Kahuho Primary School in Partnership with Mindme International Kenya
              - Source: Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA)  
 MTN Zambia subscribers now have access to thousands of hours of unlimited premium content with the launch of Wi-flix in the Zambian market This comes at a time when we recently announced the integration of Dolby Atmos and updated our catalog with Dolby Atmos and Dolby Audio-enabled titles Wi-flix (https://Wi-flix.com), the fastest-growing streaming platform in Africa, has expanded its presence to Zambia following the launch of its unbeatable packages with mobile telecommunications giant MTN. With success already seen in Kenya, Ghana, and Nigeria, the streaming service is now available to consumers in the southern African country, providing over 30,000 hours of the best entertainment to Zambian audiences.  MTN Zambia subscribers now have access to thousands of hours of unlimited premium content with the launch of Wi-flix in the Zambian market. Users can take advantage of daily, weekly, and monthly data packages starting as low as K1 + free 50MB for a daily package, K5 + free 150MB for a weekly package, and K20 + free 300MB bonus - making the service accessible to all customer segments. Louis Manu, Co-Founder & Chief Commercial Officer of Wi-flix, speaking to the launch of the streaming service in the South-Central African country said the move forms part of the company's audacious ambition to become the leading content provider for the African continent and the diaspora. “We witness another exciting milestone as we launch in Zambia and bring to the public the most exciting premium content on demand and at the most affordable rate which is exactly what many Zambians are looking for. This comes at a time when we recently announced the integration of Dolby Atmos and updated our catalog with Dolby Atmos and Dolby Audio-enabled titles such as The Signal, Bilal, Freedom Force, and Created Equal for our customers to feel the spatial sound experience that Dolby offers. Customers can now enjoy the best African and foreign movie titles, TV shows, sports, and a variety of the very best of entertainment anytime, anywhere and on whatever device”, said Louis Manu. He continued, “Additionally, we are even more excited with the partnership agreement with telecoms giant, MTN Zambia. This provides us the opportunity to leverage on their recently deployed 5G high-speed internet connectivity to ensure the experience of subscribers is more seamless and exciting”. “I am delighted to see the successful partnership between Wi-flix and MTN Zambia, providing our customers access to a variety of premium content. We are taking a step towards achieving our Ambition 2025 of leading digital solutions for Africa's progress, harnessing the power of our leading brand, its footprint, connectivity infrastructure and technology platforms. With Dolby Atmos and updated catalogs, coupled with our 5G high-speed internet connectivity, customers now have access to an unbeatable entertainment experience,” said Richard Acheampong, Chief Consumer Officer of MTN Zambia Commenting on the launch, Bright Yeboah, Co-Founder & Chief Operations Officer on his part said, “Our presence in Zambia is instrumental in our mission to democratize content and ensure affordable premium entertainment is accessible to everyone on the continent and those in the diaspora. This also presents an opportunity for film producers, directors and aggregators in Zambia and elsewhere with quality content to monetize their works on our streaming platform. He concluded, “We are excited to expand our footprint which has seen tremendous growth in such a short amount of time with the addition of more content to our catalog for our audiences and meet the growing demand for premium content, establishing Wi-flix as the home of the best of entertainment anywhere, at any time and on any device”. 
Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Wi-flix.
 Wi-flix is now available in Zambia; 4th African country to launch Africa’s fastest-growing streaming platform Media Contact:
Dennis Obeng-Adjei Opare - da@wi-flix.com For MTN Zambia:
MTN Zambia Press Office
Lisa Mulozi
Manager – Communication & CSI
Email : lisa.mulozi@mtn.com MTN Zambia Social Media:
Instagram: https://apo-opa.info/3AOMUgM
Facebook: https://apo-opa.info/3NOseNZ
LinkedIn: https://apo-opa.info/3NEC9oS  About Wi-flix:
Wi-flix is a leading African-based live streaming and subscriber video-on-demand provider offering authentic, originally African, and international content to subscribers in Africa and the diaspora. The service offers premium content at an affordable price point as part of a bold agenda to democratize content in Africa. Based in the Netherlands and founded by two young Africans with a deep understanding of the continent, Wi-flix is poised to become a leading content provider in Africa and the diaspora. Find out more at www.Wi-flix.com About MTN Zambia:
MTN Zambia is part of the MTN Group, a multi-national telecommunications company with a footprint in 22 countries in Africa and the Middle East. It started its operations in Zambia in 2005 after acquiring the then Telecel. It initially started as an exclusive GSM network providing voice and Short Message System (SMS) services.  The portfolio has grown to include voice (local and international), data, fixed and wireless internet, money transfer, and other value-added services. According to a Network Policy Server (NPS) report, the company is Zambia’s most preferred network across all 10 provinces of Zambia. MTN Zambia’s footprint is covered by 4G, 3G, Edge, and 2G networks. MTN Zambia is the country’s fastest growing and most innovative network and is highly acclaimed for its quality network and dynamic tariff billing system. The company puts its customers at the forefront and uses its position on the market to uplift people’s lives and communities through a robust Corporate Social Investment programme in Education, Health (United Against Malaria), and preservation of the country’s cultural heritage through sponsorship of traditional ceremonies. Get freeAfrica-related contentOn your website, on your mobile, to your e-mail inbox... The drought recovery insurance payout will support more than 350,000 Malawi households impacted by climate change-related weather extremes Planned maintenance is a crucial element of every production cycle, and manufacturing companies regularly schedule downtime for this purpose Net Interest Income for H1’2024 grew by 24.5% to US$826.2 million, compared to US$663.6 million for the same period last year (H1’2023) International Youth Day offers an opportunity to recognise and celebrate these contributions, while also addressing the barriers that still need to be overcome The programme’s structured approach includes providing access to equipment, teaching photography skills, showcasing examples and case studies, and guiding participants to tell their stories President Museveni commended the Speaker for being industrious and developmental, thus promoting the local economy In its latest report - African Energy Outlook Second Half of 2024 - AJERAP, noted that with increased activities, especially oil and gas, the four nations have become very strategic for investors interested in investing in the continent This year’s national festival was particularly special, as it brought together nationals from both inside the country and abroad in Asmara, creating a unique experience in the history of national festivals H.E. Dr. Rania Al-Mashat pointed out the diversity of the cooperation portfolio with the SFD, and the diversity of projects that have been financed in various fields of development Nomination Now Open For 2025 RegTech HORIZON-100 Awards