Propel Sports has announced that it has entered a deal with MTN Nigeria for the exclusive broadcast of the games on mobile devices on the MTN Network. This followed the recent announcement of the Joint Venture between the Nigeria Premier League Ltd, GTI and Propel Sports Africa to stream Nigeria Premier League (NPFL) games live. The streaming will cover eight live games each weekend, which will translate to over 300 games per season. Basil Kabbani, Chairman of Propel Sports Africa stated: “The engagement with the team at MTN has been amazing, from the Digital VAS, to the Marketing and Commercial team, their approach has been consistently professional, and their enthusiasm for the NPFL content has been infectious. From the very start of our negotiations, we knew MTN was the right partner to give our great content, the platform it deserves.” The deal, concluded by Propel Sports Africa President, Edward Simons and MTN Chief Operating Officer Hassan Jabar, will include in-and-post-game highlights delivered in real time to MTN subscribers through the NPFL Live OTT platform. Propel Sports Africa’s in-Country Director Victor Okobi commented, “I cannot think of a better network than MTN to showcase the best of Nigerian soccer on NPFL-Live”. “We are excited about this opportunity to deliver entertaining content to our subscribers. It is a testament to our commitment to sports development in Nigeria. We know Nigerians love football and we are glad to partner with Propel Sports Africa and GTI to deliver Nigerian Premier League matches in high definition to our customers. We are confident that this partnership will transform the reception and appreciation of the Nigerian Premier league,” said Hassan Jaber, Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria. Commenting for GTI, the Group Managing Director, Abubakar Lawal stated: “This is the testimonial of the journey of the NPFL to the global space. The partnership is very good for the football ecosystem of Nigeria as we strive to deploy technology and efficient solutions to create value for all the stakeholders and other prospective partners of the league.” Commenting for NPFL, the Chairman Hon. Gbenga Elegbeleye, stated that: “The Nigeria Premier Football League is excited about the partnership potentials to elevate the league’s visibility and engagement. We are thrilled to welcome MTN as our exclusive telecommunications partner. Their expertise and commitment to innovation align seamlessly with our vision for the league. With MTN’s support, we look forward to not only reaching a wider audience but also enhancing the overall experience for our dedicated fans. This groundbreaking collaboration marks a significant milestone in the realms of sports and technology, promising an elevated viewing experience for football enthusiasts across the nation. The partnership underscores a shared commitment to bringing the excitement of football closer to the hearts of millions of Nigerians. The partnership will also redefine how football is experienced, engaging fans in every goal, tackle, and victory with unparalleled clarity and convenience.” You must be logged in to post a comment. Nigerians want to proptest because they are hungry. They are... Much as I am in sympathy with the Nigerian youth nation- wid... May his gentle soul rest in peace and may the good Lord comf... Well spoken 'The Rock'. You were supposed to be leading us i... You talk as if Nigeria goes up in flames today, you and memb...