Search CSP Daily News The convenience-store industry kicked the year off strongly with community-centered initiatives, including efforts from five retailers, two suppliers and a foodservice distributor.From providing access to meals to supporting veterans, Spinx, EG Group, Rutter’s and more gave back this January.Click through to read more …
                                								Explore:									charity, community, news From providing access to meals to supporting veterans, Spinx, EG Group, Rutter’s and more gave back this January. Click through to read more … Murphy USA, El Dorado, Arkansas, approved a $25 million donation to the Murphy USA Charitable Foundation, which supports positive changes in local communities with an emphasis on El Dorado and southern Arkansas. The Foundation funds the company’s matching gifts, including the annual United Way campaign, in addition to all the other charities our employees choose to support with their personal giving. In addition, this gift will allow the foundation to sustain its three key priorities of funding programs that support education and workforce development, infrastructure revitalization and community health and well-being.“Murphy USA and its board of directors are firmly committed to the communities where we live and work, especially in South Arkansas and our headquarters town of El Dorado,” said Andrew Clyde, president and CEO of Murphy USA. “By making this donation to our foundation, we will continue to look for ways to make a positive impact with all of our key stakeholders.”
                                								Explore:									charity, community, news The Foundation funds the company’s matching gifts, including the annual United Way campaign, in addition to all the other charities our employees choose to support with their personal giving. In addition, this gift will allow the foundation to sustain its three key priorities of funding programs that support education and workforce development, infrastructure revitalization and community health and well-being. “Murphy USA and its board of directors are firmly committed to the communities where we live and work, especially in South Arkansas and our headquarters town of El Dorado,” said Andrew Clyde, president and CEO of Murphy USA. “By making this donation to our foundation, we will continue to look for ways to make a positive impact with all of our key stakeholders.” The Spinx Co., Greenville, South Carolina, donated more than 2,000 meals to non-profit organizations in honor of its 50th anniversary. Spinx chose one organization per month to receive free meals from the Cluk Truk, its fried chicken food truck. The meals were distributed to local organizations monthly, including:January: United Ministries, 125 meals February: Highland Square Apartments, 300 meals March: Safe Harbor, 49 meals April: March of Dimes, 845 meals May: Favor, 101 meals June: Miracle Hill, 140 meals July: Greenville County Police, 85 meals August: Boys and Girls Club of Greenville, 113 meals September: Greenville Fire Departments, 83 meals October: Soteria CDC, 61 meals November: Project Host, 240 meals  December: A Child’s Haven, 162 meals
                                								Explore:									charity, community, news The meals were distributed to local organizations monthly, including: Westborough, Massachusetts-based EG Group raised $647,000 in its fundraiser with Disabled American Veterans (DAV). Customers were encouraged to donate an amount of their choosing when they visited any of EG Group's convenience stores, including Cumberland Farms, Certified Oil, Fastrac, Kwik Shop, Loaf N' Jug, Minit Mart, Quik Shop, Sprint Food Stores, Tom Thumb and Turkey Hill.EG America presented a check to Coleman Yee, DAV's third junior vice commander and Marine veteran, in a ceremony at EG America.
                                								Explore:									charity, community, news Customers were encouraged to donate an amount of their choosing when they visited any of EG Group's convenience stores, including Cumberland Farms, Certified Oil, Fastrac, Kwik Shop, Loaf N' Jug, Minit Mart, Quik Shop, Sprint Food Stores, Tom Thumb and Turkey Hill. EG America presented a check to Coleman Yee, DAV's third junior vice commander and Marine veteran, in a ceremony at EG America. Rutter’s, York, Pennsylvania, raised a new record of $1.2 million in charitable donations in 2022. The annual charitable efforts include Rutter’s Charity Cannister Program, Secret Santa, Feeding the Frontline and Rutter’s Children’s Charities’ Golf Outing. In addition, Rutter’s added new programs for 2022, including a Youth Sports League Giveaway and $100k for the Holidays. Each program benefits local charities with specific needs or projects throughout the year.“We’re very privileged to be in the position to continue our charitable giving throughout 2022,” said Chris Hartman, president of Rutter’s Children’s Charities. “We’re eager to continue our support of children, families and our local communities.”
                                								Explore:									charity, community, news The annual charitable efforts include Rutter’s Charity Cannister Program, Secret Santa, Feeding the Frontline and Rutter’s Children’s Charities’ Golf Outing. In addition, Rutter’s added new programs for 2022, including a Youth Sports League Giveaway and $100k for the Holidays. Each program benefits local charities with specific needs or projects throughout the year. “We’re very privileged to be in the position to continue our charitable giving throughout 2022,” said Chris Hartman, president of Rutter’s Children’s Charities. “We’re eager to continue our support of children, families and our local communities.” Global Partners, an independent owner, supplier and operator of gasoline stations and convenience stores based in Boston, donated $2 million to provide heating oil for seven states in the Northeast as well as local nonprofit entities serving low-income households. The funds will provide heating for 4,000 households this winter.Massachusetts and New York split $1.3 million of the funds evenly. An additional $700,000 was split between Connecticut, Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont. “Due to inflation, we know Vermonters are struggling with increased costs across the board, including home heating fuel, so it’s critical we all do our part to ease the burden,” said Phil Scott, governor of Vermont. “I appreciate Global Partners’ donation and commitment to supporting those in need.”
                                								Explore:									charity, community, news Massachusetts and New York split $1.3 million of the funds evenly. An additional $700,000 was split between Connecticut, Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont.  “Due to inflation, we know Vermonters are struggling with increased costs across the board, including home heating fuel, so it’s critical we all do our part to ease the burden,” said Phil Scott, governor of Vermont. “I appreciate Global Partners’ donation and commitment to supporting those in need.” Talking Rain Beverage Co., maker of Sparkling Ice, based in Seattle, launched a new program, called Flavorful Giving. Sparkling Ice will partner with a different charitable organization every month—each with their own unique flavor—focusing on a range of topics including youth development, veteran care, wellness, education and more. In January, Sparkling Ice partnered with Good Sports, an organization dedicated to making sports and physical activity accessible to all children, regardless of their background or financial circumstances. Sparkling Ice provided sporting goods to Bailey Gatzert Elementary in Seattle, promoting equity and healthy habits through play.
                                								Explore:									charity, community, news In January, Sparkling Ice partnered with Good Sports, an organization dedicated to making sports and physical activity accessible to all children, regardless of their background or financial circumstances. Sparkling Ice provided sporting goods to Bailey Gatzert Elementary in Seattle, promoting equity and healthy habits through play. Danone North America, White Plains, New York, is accepting applications for its Gut Microbiome, Yogurt and Probiotics Fellowship Grant through Feb. 14.In its 11th year, Danone will award two $25,000 grants to graduate students interested in exploring the gut microbiome, probiotics and yogurt to better understand how they help support and maintain human health and wellness.
                                								Explore:									charity, community, news In its 11th year, Danone will award two $25,000 grants to graduate students interested in exploring the gut microbiome, probiotics and yogurt to better understand how they help support and maintain human health and wellness. U.S. Foods, a foodservice distributor based in Rosemont, Illinois, donated nearly $13 million in food and supplies in 2022, which totals approximately 6 million meals.The company organized a variety of associate giving and volunteer campaigns throughout 2022 to support community hunger-relief efforts. Activities included a week-long Spring into Service campaign in which associates participated in various company-sponsored community service events, a Hunger Action Month campaign and a month-long holiday Giving Gratitude campaign, dedicated to supporting communities struggling with food insecurity.
                                								Explore:									charity, community, news The company organized a variety of associate giving and volunteer campaigns throughout 2022 to support community hunger-relief efforts. Activities included a week-long Spring into Service campaign in which associates participated in various company-sponsored community service events, a Hunger Action Month campaign and a month-long holiday Giving Gratitude campaign, dedicated to supporting communities struggling with food insecurity. 'We can now focus on our core supermarket business and our pharmacy business,' Giant Eagle CEO says The Democratic presidential nominee grabs a bag of Doritos  Companies have agreed to maintain and partner on Giant Eagle’s myPerks loyalty program Board has formed special committee to review the proposal Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. CSP’s Top 202 details the largest chains in the convenience-store industry and the biggest M&A stories of the past year. Welcome to a deep dive into the c-store landscape. Category sales performance in Beverages, Candy, General Merchandise, Packaged Food/Foodservice and Snacks. The industry’s largest distributors by sales volume Corporate retail news affecting the convenience-store industry The latest information on products and trends in the convenience-store and foodservice industries. Peek inside new convenience stores to uncover the best in retail store design across North America. Do not sell my personal infoPrivacy PolicyCode of ConductContact UsRSS Copyright © Informa Connect 2024