Clemson football’s Myles Murphy was selected by the Cincinnati Bengals in the first round of the 2023 NFL Draft Thursday night. He was tabbed 28th overall and was the third defensive end selected. He'll join fellow Clemson products Jackson Carman, Tee Higgins and DJ Reader with the Bengals. Generally considered the third- or fourth-best edge rusher in the draft, Murphy – a former five-star recruit – was the only player in the country to produce at least 10 tackles for loss and have at least one forced fumble in each season from 2020 to 2022. Murphy is the 10th Clemson defensive end to be drafted under coach Dabo Swinney in the past 15 years and the first since Clelin Ferrell went fourth overall to the Raiders in 2019. “Once the conversation focuses on traits and upside, Murphy, a former five-star recruit with 18.5 sacks and six forced fumbles in just three seasons at Clemson, leaps to the forefront,” said analyst Rob Rang of FoxSports.com. NFL STATS CENTRAL: The latest NFL scores, schedules, odds, stats and more. STRONG START:Why Shane Beamer is outrecruiting Clemson football's Dabo Swinney so far on 2024 class MOVING ON:Clemson football defensive back Malcolm Greene enters transfer portal HUNTER'S TIME?:Why a former walk-on could be Clemson football quarterback Cade Klubnik's backup There’s no question that Murphy possesses top-shelf explosiveness – “Murphy has the burst to get home on the QB,” said ESPN analyst Todd McShay. At 6-foot-5, 270 pounds, Murphy has outstanding size for the position and recently clocked a 4.52 40-yard dash. He flashed his talent from the outset at Clemson, earning Freshman All-America honors in 2020, second-team All-ACC recognition as a sophomore and first-team honors last season. "On pure talent, I would probably name Myles with (former Clemson standout) Gaines Adams as far as the combination of length, strength, athleticism, ability to bend, natural explosive power," Clemson coach Dabo Swinney said. "He is really, really, really special." Murphy’s production slipped a bit during his junior year as he finished with 11 tackles for loss, including 6.5 sacks, after posting 14 tackles for loss and 7 sacks as a sophomore. NFL Network analyst Bucky Brooks expressed concerns about the relative lack of NFL success by recent Clemson edge rushers. “The last handful of pass rushers that have come out of Clemson have underperformed based on their draft status,” Brooks said. “When I look at Myles Murphy, I see outstanding physical dimensions, I see athleticism, I see explosion, first-step quickness; he finishes, he has production, but you just worry – there is something that hasn’t been connecting for these guys who have dominated at Clemson but haven’t been able to get it done at the next level.” One initial concern about Murphy was a hamstring injury in pre-Combine workouts that rendered him unable to test at both the Combine and Clemson’s Pro Day. But he shined during a personal Pro Day for NFL teams in early April, clocking a 4.52 40-yard dash and posting impressive results in position drills. Now Brooks has Murphy rated as the third-best edge prospect in the draft. Scott Keepfer covers Clemson athletics for The Greenville News and the USA TODAY Network. Email him at skeepfer@gannett.com and follow him on Twitter @ScottKeepfer