MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More with our comparison partner, Policygenius Graham Ray is a senior writer whose knowledge of the insurance industry is bolstered by nearly four years of experience as a licensed life and health insurance agent. He has more than two decades of experience as a writer and editor in journalism, digital marketing and advertising. Graham has written everything from newspaper feature stories and corporate brand style guides to public relations campaigns. Ryan Lasker is a financial writer and editor with bylines in Morning Brew, The Motley Fool, and several more. As a certified public accountant, he leverages his technical expertise in personal finance and tax to fuel his passion for teaching financial literacy. When he’s not writing, editing or working in a spreadsheet, he’s biking the D.C. trails or reading. Ryan Lasker is a financial writer and editor with bylines in Morning Brew, The Motley Fool, and several more. As a certified public accountant, he leverages his technical expertise in personal finance and tax to fuel his passion for teaching financial literacy. When he’s not writing, editing or working in a spreadsheet, he’s biking the D.C. trails or reading. Our editorial team follows a strict methodology for reviewing life insurance companies. After a review of more than two dozen providers, we at the MarketWatch Guides team selected Banner Life and Mutual of Omaha as the top life insurance companies for parents. Whether you’re seeking peace of mind for your growing family or your aging parents, we picked life insurance companies that can best accommodate your needs.  Based on an analysis of life insurance companies, which considered factors such as coverage options, cost and the ability to customize a policy, our top picks for parents are:  Our team found that Banner Life may best suit parents seeking affordable term coverage. Parents can choose from seven term lengths, ranging from 10 to 40 years. Most other companies we reviewed provide only five or fewer options, and none offer term coverage longer than 30 years. Parents seeking life insurance for their children might also consider Banner Life because they can add children between the ages of 15 days to 18 years to their policy with a child rider. A survey we ran in February 2024 of 1,000 life insurance policyholders nationwide revealed that 18% of policyholders have a child rider. Banner Life offers the following types of life insurance policies: Cost We estimated Banner Life’s premium costs based on a $250,000, 20-year term policy for a tobacco-free applicant who qualifies for the preferred health rate class. A well-rounded option, Mutual of Omaha provides ample coverage options, financial stability and efficient customer experience. A particularly good option for aging parents who might not qualify for traditional life insurance coverage, the company’s guaranteed-issue whole life plan is available to applicants aged 45 to 85. Even applicants with major pre-existing conditions such as heart disease or cancer cannot get denied the guaranteed issue policy for health reasons. Mutual of Omaha scored 805 out of 1,000 in J.D. Power’s 2023 U.S. Individual Life Insurance Study, indicating a high rate of customer satisfaction. Plus, the company has an A+ rating from independent credit rating agency AM Best, which suggests it can afford to pay death benefit claims. Mutual of Omaha offers the following coverage options: Cost To estimate how much parents might pay for a policy with Mutual of Omaha, we based the rates below on a 20-year, $250,000 term policy for a tobacco-free person considered in good health. Founded in 1926 in Columbus, Ohio, Nationwide offers a variety of investment and insurance products, including life insurance. We named it the best company for whole life insurance — the most popular form of life insurance, held by 42% of respondents in our February 2024 survey of 1,000 policyholders nationwide. In addition, parents looking for ways to use their death benefits early can take advantage of Nationwide’s long-term care rider, which allows the insured to access part of their death benefit to pay for care as they age. Nationwide stands out for its customer service and financial stability. The company scored 840 out of 1,000 in J.D. Power’s 2023 U.S. Individual Life Insurance Study, and it holds an A+ rating in financial strength from AM Best. Nationwide offers the following types of life insurance policies: Cost We obtained term life insurance rates from Nationwide for a tobacco-free applicant considered in good health. The following rates represent a policy with a 20-year term and $250,000 in coverage. Fidelity Life earned the title of the best life insurance company for seniors by offering a variety of policies for older adults, including parents of adult children. Fidelity Life’s RAPIDecision Senior Whole Life policy is available for people aged 50 to 85, and its RAPIDecision Senior Term Life is available for people between 50 and 70 years old. These policies allow applicants to seek instant approval for up to $150,000 in coverage with no medical exam required. However, the application contains a few health questions. You can get coverage the same day you apply through Fidelity Life’s RAPIDecision process by getting a quote online and completing an application by phone. Fidelity Life offers the following types of life insurance policies: Cost We requested quotes from Fidelity Life for a 20-year, $250,000 term life policy based on an individual in the preferred health rating class. Gerber Life is best known for its child life insurance policies — particularly its Grow-Up Plan. Parents and grandparents can apply for coverage for children between 14 days to 14 years old, and coverage amounts automatically double at age 18. The policy transfers to the child at 21 years old, at which point they can either continue paying premiums to keep the plan active or receive the policy’s accumulated cash value. The company also sells a life insurance college plan that provides a guaranteed payout of between $10,000 and $150,000 when the policy reaches maturity, as long as premiums remain paid. While the program is geared to help parents save for their children’s higher education, policyholders can use the payment for any reason. For Gerber Life’s adult policies, applicants aged 18 to 70 can apply for up to $300,000 in coverage for either a term or whole life plan. Guaranteed-issue life insurance policies are available for applicants aged 50 to 80. Gerber Life offers the following types of life insurance policies: Cost We were unable to obtain cost information for Gerber Life. Contact the company for more details on pricing. In a 2023 survey by the Pew Research Center, more than half of respondents said they provide financial assistance for an older parent. Given how common it is for adult children to fill financial gaps as their parents age, it’s natural to think about how your family would cover your parents’ end-of-life expenses.  To know whether your parents need life insurance, we recommend finding out if they have existing coverage or enough savings for final expenses, including burial or cremation costs and outstanding debts. Also, consider whether anyone — such as a younger sibling or a disabled family member — relies on their income. If there won’t be enough money left at the end of their lives to cover their current financial obligations, life insurance may be worth considering. If you think your parents might be candidates for traditional life insurance or a more limited burial insurance policy, consider discussing their options with a trusted financial advisor. A fiduciary financial advisor, who is ethically bound to act in your best interest, is a good place to start. Buying life insurance for family members can be a thoughtful way to protect all of your loved ones from an unexpected passing in the family. But it’s important to work directly with your parents when sorting through the variety of types and policies, not to mention coverage amounts. Here are some suggestions about how to talk to your parents about buying a policy for them and how to gain their consent: While buying life insurance for your parents is a wise financial decision in most cases, it’s not something that you can do without their consent. You’ll only be able to purchase a policy that provides a death benefit when your parents pass away if they sign off to be the policyholder. Choosing the best life insurance plan for your parents can be complex. It requires careful consideration of their current and future financial needs and any health issues. Your parents’ wishes and personal preferences are also important because they must agree to be policyholders. The first thing you’ll want to consider when choosing a plan for your parents is whether a term life insurance policy or whole life plan is best for their needs. Term life insurance provides coverage for a specific period, while permanent life insurance covers the policyholder’s entire lifetime. Term policies are more affordable and suitable for those who want coverage for a specific period. Permanent policies offer lifelong coverage but tend to be more expensive. They also include a cash value component, which can be useful if your parents are fluent investors or may need to borrow against the policy in the future. Read more: Our Picks For Term Life Insurance Companies After selecting the type of coverage, select a death benefit. You’ll also want to explore options like living benefits and the insurance investment options you have access to if you choose a variable or universal life insurance policy. If you are financially dependent on your parents, it’s important to consider their life insurance needs in the context of your own financial needs. Make sure that the coverage amount is sufficient to meet both your parents’ needs and your own. As a general rule, the average cost of buying life insurance for a parent will cost between $50 to $250 monthly for $10,000 to $50,000 in term life coverage. A whole life policy or a policy with a higher death benefit will be significantly more per month to maintain. Buying life insurance for older adults is more expensive for a few reasons. Here’s what determines the cost: Buying life insurance when your parents are younger can be advantageous because pricing is usually lower when you lock into coverage younger. Age often correlates with health, and premiums are often more affordable when people are younger and in good health. If your parents are considering life insurance, it may be beneficial to start collecting life insurance quotes sooner rather than later. For new parents, expectant parents and those planning to start a family, it’s natural to start thinking of future scenarios. This period of excitement and change might be the first time people think about their mortality and what would happen to their loved ones if they died. Life insurance is an important tool that can offer peace of mind to parents and financial protection for their children.    The death benefit provided by life insurance can ensure your children or partner will not feel the financial strain of debts such as mortgage payments and funeral costs if the unexpected happens. The type of policy and amount of coverage you need will depend on your financial situation. For newer parents, term life insurance offers a relatively affordable way to secure enough coverage for the period of time when dependent children will most need financial protection — typically between 10 and 30 years. According to a LIMRA survey, the parents of minor children are more likely to own life insurance.   We recommend consulting a licensed professional to determine the best life insurance coverage that suits your family’s needs.  Whether you want to protect your children in the event of your death or help offset the financial impact of your aging parents’ passing, life insurance can offer valuable peace of mind. After reviewing 34 life insurance companies, we found that Banner Life, Mutual of Omaha and Nationwide provide the best coverage options for parents.  Companies such as Mutual of Omaha and Fidelity Life offer guaranteed issue plans suitable for older parents with health issues who may have trouble acquiring traditional life insurance. Nationwide offers a wide range of riders, including a long-term care rider that could help aging parents access part of their policy’s death benefit to pay for long-term care expenses.  Banner Life is the only provider we reviewed that offers a 40-year term plan, which can suit parents looking for affordable coverage for a longer period. Gerber Life offers policies covering dependent children that parents or grandparents can gift as a way to combine life insurance and a cash value investment.  Yes, it’s possible to buy a life insurance policy for anyone you have an insurable interest in. This includes family members like parents and spouses. However, you can’t purchase a policy for a parent without their consent. They usually must be present and active during the application process. The best life insurance policy for elderly parents depends on your parents’ ages and coverage needs. If they’re 80 or older and want whole life coverage, Mutual of Omaha’s flexible qualification standards will work. If affordability is a concern, a provider like Haven Life could offer more appealing options. As a parent, you’ll want to consider all recurring childcare and living expenses that your surviving spouse would need to cover if you were to die before your kids are grown (and after). Sit down with your partner and consider current financial obligations as well as future expenses when deciding how much coverage would be needed. Obtaining life insurance is difficult for a parent who is already terminally ill, especially if they’re in the late stages of a terminal illness. Most policies for older adults require medical exams, and preexisting conditions can disqualify people from coverage. Start by exploring no medical exam life insurance options, which may not consider the current health status of your parents when deciding whether to issue coverage. When it comes to insurance and the touchy subject of financial obligations following a family member’s death, it’s always a good idea to approach the subject directly and with compassion. Ask your parents if they have a life insurance policy and, if so, where the policy documents are kept. Review documentation with their consent to learn more about life insurance protections in place. Remember to approach this process with respect, as discussing life insurance can be a sensitive topic for many individuals. Our team researches and ranks life insurance companies using an in-depth scoring system that considers the factors most important to consumers like you. Our analysis includes a comprehensive review of each provider we feature based on available coverage, customizability, availability, customer service and company reputation. Here are the factors we take into consideration when rating life insurance providers: We use our rating system to compare and contrast each company against key factors to help us determine the best life insurance companies in the industry. To learn more, read our
full life insurance methodology
for reviewing and scoring providers.
AM Best Disclaimer If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Graham Ray is a senior writer whose knowledge of the insurance industry is bolstered by nearly four years of experience as a licensed life and health insurance agent. He has more than two decades of experience as a writer and editor in journalism, digital marketing and advertising. Graham has written everything from newspaper feature stories and corporate brand style guides to public relations campaigns. Ryan Lasker is a financial writer and editor with bylines in Morning Brew, The Motley Fool, and several more. As a certified public accountant, he leverages his technical expertise in personal finance and tax to fuel his passion for teaching financial literacy. When he’s not writing, editing or working in a spreadsheet, he’s biking the D.C. trails or reading. Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.