Experience 5-star lounging every day. Every product was carefully curated by an Esquire editor. We may earn a commission from these links. One of the best things about vacations are the robes. Whether you're doing a staycation at the bougie hotel around the corner or you're in the middle of the nowhere at a five-star retreat, you always look forward to the luxe comfort that awaits us post-shower. And if you're anything like me, you don't even wait for the shower to whip out one of these plush bad boys. When it comes to who is selling these, hotel, spa, and home brands alike have stepped up their game to deliver at-home lavishness. From Four Seasons to Brooklinen and Soho Home, you can find a robe that gives you all the feels of a Hammam spa without the steep price tag for an hour session. The spa robe is an investment you will have for years and years to come, so you can relive the feeling of extravagant relaxation day after day. Already thinking about which one you're going to get? Well, we've got the 18 best spa robes here to get you started on your journey to stay-at-home serenity. Coming in four different colors, Parachute's waffle robe is a tried and true classic. Inspired by the world's finest spas, it's a perfect fit. Four Seasons is the epitome of five-star luxury. This robe is merely an extension of that. A 11.02 oz fabric is giving a substantial quality to this super soft robe. You can also monogram it for an extra eight dollars. 100 percent Turkish cotton awaits in this ultra comfortable robe. It's the same material as Brooklinen's beloved towels, so you can dry off as you lounge. A super absorbent waffle weave meets soft ribbed terry in this robe from Cozy Earth. The highlight of this robe is that the machine washable enhanced fabric is designed to never pill. Ah yes, the lap of luxury, cotton velour. Frette does the spa robe proud. A crisp cotton bathrobe from one of our favorite New York hotels. Queue "Empire State of Mind". Comprised of 100 percent recycled polyester, this robe is an eco-conscious choice. And it's super fluffy. Serena & Lily is more than just a home furnishing mecca. This terry-backed knit robe proves it. Another luxurious bathrobe from one of the most luxurious hotel brands. Ritz-Carlton steps into the world of waffle weaves to create a relaxed garment. Matouk's robes line the closets of some of our favorite five-star hotels. Like Ocean House, Rhode Island's pristine beachfront beauty. The plushest of the plush. Contrasting piping trims the edges to give a sophisticated look. A lightweight robe that's as fluffy as it is absorbent. Add a monogram for a personal touch. Tekla is a material maven. This time, the maven delivers a striped style that features one chest and two side slip pockets.  The kimono-style cut of this robe flatters the figure in a sleek silhouette with a rolled collar. It's effortless and cool. The ultimate hotel robe, with a plush lining and simple shawl collar. You don't need to stay at a Walford to experience its opulence. Barefoot Dreams crafts the coziest blankets and home décor out of the softest knit. The robe is one product of the brand's ingenious.   It's warm, it's hefty, and it's pure luxury. Hästens translates the high quality of its beds into a robe. 29 Tennis Gifts That Are a Grand Slam A Look at Chase Kalisz's Newest Quest 20 Amazon Prime Day Fitness Deals 2024 8 Best Fitness Tracker Deals to Score on Prime Day What I Learned from Running My First Two Marathons The 11 Best Sleep Gadgets 2024  Amazon’s Home Workout Equipment Is on Major Sale 6 Great Massage Guns to Punch Away Muscle Pain Hoka vs. Brooks: Which Is Better? I Am a Wellness Asshole Now I’ve Never Loved a Running Shoe More Than These What Happens When Your Longtime Therapist Dies? A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.