Carlee Russell is reportedly out of a job as scrutiny mounts surrounding her alleged kidnapping. According to The New York Post, she was fired from the Woodhouse Spa in Birmingham, Alabama, on Friday (July 21 ). Owner Stuart Rome spoke exclusively with the outlet about the turmoil his staff experienced when the story of her disappearance broke last week. “It was really devastating for them thinking a co-worker was abducted,” he said. “The following day, Saturday, it was the busiest day of the week, and they had to plug along and work and, in the off times, pass out flyers and other things.” The 25-year-old nursing student was at the center of a massive search effort after she mysteriously vanished from an interstate on July 13. Russell had called 911 from I-495 after she claimed to have seen a toddler walking along the roadway in Hoover. She allegedly then phoned a family member to tell them about the situation when she suddenly disappeared. Officers who arrived at the scene found no traces of her, but her car, phone, and other personal belongings were located. She had been missing for 49 hours when she resurfaced at her parents’ home on July 15. She was taken to UAB Hospital for an evaluation, but little more about her alleged abduction was known until a police conference. On July 19, police said they were unable to find any proof of the lone toddler and were unable to corroborate other details about her alleged encounter with kidnappers. They also claimed that she had questionable searches about kidnappings and stealing money from a register. A separate report from The Daily Mail claims that Russell was also observed on the spa’s security camera stealing a dark robe and toilet paper hours before she was reported missing. “As the information came out, there were some questionable things,” said Rome. He noted that many of Russell’s former colleagues were angered by the entire ordeal and negative attention that business has received in the aftermath. “We’ve been a little pissed off, mainly because so many people took so much time out to search,” he said. Russell’s parents publicly supported their daughter’s claim that she was kidnapped and had to fight for her life. However, Russell has yet to issue a public statement of her own. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.