AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Actionstep, the global cloud practice management platform for midsize law firms, today announced the acquisition of Toronto-based legal accounting software company Soluno, from professional services payments company AffiniPay. The acquisition brings together two complementary, category-leading software products with exceptional legal practice management and legal accounting capabilities to best serve the needs of modern, midsize law firms across the U.S. and Canada.

  
Early Stephens, Global CEO of Actionstep, commented: "This is an important milestone for Actionstep in the U.S. and Canada. As Actionstep continues to innovate and refine our technology for the legal midmarket, the addition of Soluno brings advanced legal accounting capabilities to our already comprehensive practice management offering."

 
"I can't imagine a better home than Actionstep for Soluno's customers and team," added Alan Tuback, CEO of Soluno. "Actionstep's vision for modernizing midsize firms with innovative, adaptable practice management technology is completely aligned with Soluno's ethos. Our first priority is to ensure Soluno customers know they will continue to be well taken care of by our team now and in future."

 
Dru Armstrong, CEO of AffiniPay, endorsed the acquisition: "AffiniPay remains focused on providing market leading financial services and practice management to the legal industry and is committed to continuing payments partnerships with mid-market and enterprise level partners." Armstrong continued, "It was super important for us to find a good home for Soluno. In partnership with Actionstep, Soluno will have an opportunity to have a bigger mid-market impact in the U.S. and Canada. We are excited to continue our strategic partnerships with both Actionstep and Soluno."

 
Software Equity Group (SEG) served as the exclusive advisor to AffiniPay.

 
About AffiniPay
 
AffiniPay is the market leader in professional services software serving legal, accounting, architectural, engineering and construction firms. AffiniPay has been recognized as one of Inc. 5000’s fastest growing companies for 12 years in a row. Each of its brands leads the market it serves with solutions purpose-built by industry including MyCase and LawPay. AffiniPay’s solutions are trusted by more than 50,000 firms with more than 150 strategic partnerships and endorsements, including the American Bar Association and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Visit affinipay.com to learn more.

 
Keely Leonard
kleonard@affinipay.com
 
Keely Leonard
kleonard@affinipay.com
