Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Exploring the world of the prehistoric through dinosaur games has been a passion for many players over the years. Various developers have taken this love of dinosaurs and have created some incredible titles that have included these ancient creatures in one format or another.
     Young gamers will love these ten family-friendly dinosaur-themed video games.                      From the player running their own Jurassic Park to even becoming a dinosaur themselves, there are a wide range of genres that have used dinosaurs in some way. With so many readily available to those that are lovers of the time before the Ice Age, these are by far some of the best dinosaur games players need to try if they haven't already.
      Updated December 22, 2023 by Blaise Santi: Dinosaurs, much like their place in real-world history, have featured in video games since the dawn of the medium. Across this list, we've explored video games featuring dinosaurs that span the evolution of gaming itself, from recent AAA releases fleshing out the world of prehistoric Earth, to addictive web minigames that are just as enthralling. Now, players can learn a little more about each individual game on this list, as well as keep their eyes peeled for two new entries, which showcase a whole new side of video game dinosaurs previously unexplored in this article. 
                     It wouldn't be an article about dinosaurs if the infamous no-Internet mini-game on Google Chrome wasn't mentioned at least once. Every player with a Mac or PC is sure to have encountered this little pixel Dino at least once when attempting to browse the internet, but have had difficulty connecting for numerous reasons.
                         In this endless runner created by Google, players control a T. Rex as it jumps and ducks from obstacles, running along a simplistic landscape. With no true end in sight, players challenge themselves to beat their high score while they wait for their internet to return. It may not be the most technologically advanced title, but it's still a classic many enjoy.
                         A popular genre of dinosaur games is building simulator titles, Prehistoric Kingdom is one of many simulators that has amazed players to continue building their dream zoo for extinct species from the prehistoric ages.
                         Like any building simulator, players have the freedom of creativity to build extravagant habitats for their now thriving dinosaurs as well as finding the DNA for other extinct animals such as the much-loved Wooly Mammoth. In Prehistoric Kingdom, the guests may be more dangerous than the animals as the player must balance resources to keep their own park afloat.
                         Players have questioned the power dinosaurs may have against humans if they were to battle, thankfully Primal Carnage: Extinction has answered these questions with its player vs. player first-person shooter that allows humans to compete against dinosaurs.
     Over the years, Pokemon have expanded their inspiration from common animals to prehistorical creatures to create these dinosaur-inspired Pokemon.                     Players are free to play as humans or take on the role of these ancient predators as they battle one another to see who is truly meant to be at the top of the food chain. There is plenty of variety too as those that decide to play as the dinosaurs will be able to choose between twelve Dino classes, each with their own unique attacks and abilities.
                         Another brilliant park-building dinosaur game that's just as fun as Prehistoric Kingdom, is the vibrant Parkasaurus. In this building simulator players must once against craft the perfect enclosures for their brightly colored dinosaurs as well as make the most beautiful theme park for guests to explore.
                         Besides the building element, players can also get involved in the Return Home campaign. Through the story the player will complete various missions in the hope of not only becoming the best dinosaur theme park but also assisting the dinosaurs in fulfilling their destiny.
                          The Lego franchise has had great success in gaming through various film franchises finding themselves Lego game counterparts, Jurassic World has been no different. What makes this title of the franchise better than the others is that it doesn't just include the Lego game that's inspired by Jurassic World, but also the three previous Jurassic Park Lego games.
                         Players are sure to get all of their dinosaur enjoyment from this Lego game from the hilarious moments that have been converted into these popular plastic bricks. Players can even make their own wacky dinosaur Lego creations that can be displayed in the paddocks across Isla Nublar and Isla Sorna.
       Fossil Fighters debuted on the Nintendo DS in 2008, introducing the world of prehistoric creatures to a Pokemon-esque role-playing game. Players control a customized hero, learning how to revive fossils into superpowered dinosaurs, known as "Vivosaurs," which they then use to battle stronger, outraged Vivosaurs.
                         The game was well-received by most and favorably compared to similar entries in Nintendo's gaming library, though its lifespan didn't last incredibly long after that. It was followed up by two sequels: one in 2010, also for the Nintendo DS, which was remarkably similar to the first, and a third for the 3DS in 2014, which has been the last entry thus far.
                         Another raptor race like that of the Google Dinosaur title is Dino Run DX. This pixel racing game will have many players hooked as every Raptor race is sure to be different due to the randomly generated levels that come with all new obstacles for the player to avoid.
     Whereas most games with dinosaurs make players fight them to the death, these games let players tame the prehistoric animals.                     With three single-player modes to choose from Dino Run DX challenges its players to complete speed runs as well as a Free Run mode for a more relaxed running experience. Players can even dress up their tiny little raptors in an assortment of hats that they unlock during their races.
                         Out of all the building simulators mentioned, the best of the bunch for dinosaur games goes to Jurassic World Evolution. Not only does it answer the question many fans of the Jurassic Park franchise have about what it takes to run a dinosaur park, but also allows players to get creative while making sure the dinosaurs don't run rampant.
                         Players are free to take the direction of the park in any way they wish by focusing on security, science, or even just entertainment. With various challenging modes to a free build alternative, dinosaur lovers are sure to find something to enjoy in building their own Jurassic World.
                          Out of all the dinosaur games available, one of the best is the ambitious and massively scaled Ark: Survival Evolved. In this open-world survival title players must attempt to stay alive while avoiding the dangers of the island, be these the dinosaurs or the climate players find themselves in.
                         Progressing through the crafting will eventually give players the power to ride on the backs of many of the dinosaurs wandering the island as the player finds a way to coexist with these ancient creatures. Not to forget mentioning that Ark also has multiplayer meaning players can take on dinosaurs with others.
                          Dinosaurs have been a huge presence in the Mario franchise, particularly when it comes to Mario's sidekick Yoshi. After Yoshi's popularity exploded after his debut appearance in Super Mario World on the SNES, Nintendo gave Yoshi his very first spin-off in 1995 with Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, which centers on Yoshi's first encounter with Baby Mario.
                         Yoshi and Baby Mario team up to rescue Baby Luigi from Kamek and Baby Bowser, traveling through worlds inspired by prehistoric earth. Though this depiction of the dinosaur world isn't as realistic as the T-Rex from Super Mario Odyssey, Yoshi's Island is remembered as one of the greatest video games of all time, and like dinosaur fossils, remains intact to this day.
      More: Jurassic World Evolution 2: Best Dinosaurs To Put Together
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. One incredibly lucky Diablo 4 player crafts one of the most popular items in Blizzard's RPG with the attribute they wanted most.
 The survival horror game Alien: Isolation sees its largest player count spike since 2020 and over a decade after the game's original launch. The fate of Gojo's body still remains a huge mystery. Is it still possible for Gojo to make a comeback in JJK? Agatha All Along is finally close to release and the cast behind the upcoming show is talking a big game about where the series draws inspiration. Motive Studio, the developer behind EA's upcoming Iron Man video game, has a tough choice to make regarding one specific gameplay element. Rick and Morty: The Anime full-fledged series originated from the success of the anime shorts, as revealed by the executives. A Pokemon fan designs a new form for Rotom, reimagining the iconic Electric/Ghost-type creature from Gen 4 as a coffee machine.