
Callum Brittain feels he has done well when he has started games this season - the frustration has been how few he’s been able to make in a stop-start opening to his Rovers career.
 
  It leaves him still feeling he has plenty to show to supporters having made just 13 Championship starts since his move from Barnsley.
 
  Brittain was Rovers’ first signing of the summer and felt a good fit as a replacement for the outgoing Ryan Nyambe.
 
  However, three separate injuries have hampered his season, including a knee issue just minutes into the return to action after the month-long World Cup break.
 
  It meant his return to the side against Blackpool was a first start since the December 10 meeting with Preston North End, but a productive one, helping Rovers to a win that lifted them back into the top six, a clean sheet, and a sponsors’ man of the match award.
 
  “I think it’s been very stop-start,” the 24-year-old said.
 
  “I played most of my games when I first came, and then a couple of niggling injuries.
 
  “We had the World Cup and then after two minutes back it was my knee, so it’s been very stop start.
 
  “I feel like I’ve done well when I’ve played, but to get injured three times, it’s been a frustrating season.
 
  “Touch wood I can have an injury free rest of the season and maintain form.”
 
  It was on the left side of the defence that Brittain made his return however.
 
  He had a key role in the goal, as did Joe Rankin-Costello who has flourished in Brittain’s absence at right back, a role that has also seen him move into central midfield when Rovers have had the ball.
 
  Rankin-Costello looked set to leave the club in January until Brittain’s injury offered him a way back into the side, an opportunity he’s not looked back from.
 
  “I’m really happy for him,” Brittain said.
 
  “With the start to the season he had, he didn’t really get near it, and for him to come in and play as well as he did shows the character he is.
 
  “He’s been really consistent and kept a really high standard.”
 
  Where Rankin-Costello got his chance from Brittain’s injury, it was a hamstring issue for Harry Pickering that opened the door for him to make his return. It means that four of his 13 starts have now come at left back.
 
  “At the end of the day we’re a team and want to do well,” he said.
 
  “We want to get results and to be where we are in the league.
 
  “Everyone is rooting for each other.”
 
  Brittain admitted he had to overcome a tough period mentally after sustaining a knee ligament injury in December that would sideline him for three months.
 
  It was a first knee injury of his career and one that hit him hard on the back of the month-long break.
 
  There was a mix of relief and excitement as he got his opportunity against Blackpool, and while exhausted at the final whistle, he was delighted to get through the 90 minutes.
 
  “It was nice to be back out there and to get the win,” Brittain reflected.
 
  “It would have been nice to get a second goal but to fight our way through, a good win.
 
  “I think we had a couple of chances, you wanted to see one of them hit the back of the net, but I thought we defended really well.
 
  “I don’t think Pearsy (Aynsley Pears) had much to do and it’s a really good result going into Saturday.”
 
  Rovers’ focus on playing out from the back has come under the spotlight of supporters, some of who are yet to be convinced of its benefits.
 
  The goal that won it against Blackpool started with passes across the backline before being worked into midfield, out to Sorba Thomas on the right wing and finished off by Tyrhys Dolan coming in on the left.
 
  It was started off by a Brittain drag-back, and he said: “The gaffer encourages us to play and that’s why.
 
  “He believes in us, we just tried to be patient, build it up, and when we can go forward we’ll go forward.
 
  “It was a great goal.”
 
  It was one that was enough to see Rovers up to fourth in the table ahead of the weekend trip to QPR.
 
  There are just 13 games of the season remaining, with Rovers in with a chance of making the play-offs, something Brittain experienced with Barnsley in 2020/21.
 
  So has the league position come as a surprise?
 
  “I think the expectation with a new manager coming in, new players, might not be very high, but the players all believe in each other,” Brittain answered.
 
  “I think the gaffer believes in all of the players and we’ve been in and around it all season so hopefully we can keep that form up and stay around it.”
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.