Sick of paying full-price? You can keep overspending — or you can follow these tips and save every time you shop online. 
    This article was subjected to a comprehensive fact-checking process. Our professional fact-checkers verify article information against primary sources, reputable publishers, and experts in the field.
   We receive compensation from the products and services mentioned in this story, but the opinions are the author's own. Compensation may impact where offers appear. We have not included all available products or offers. Learn more about how we make money and our editorial policies. 
The internet has completely revolutionized the way people shop. While people are spending the same amount of time shopping today as they did ten years ago, Americans are doing more of their shopping online.  In fact, over the last 10 years, Americans have increased their spending on e-commerce by more than $110 billion, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
 
But what hasn’t changed is our desire to save money while we shop. Finding out how to save is an important step in learning how to manage your money. Luckily, there are also more ways to save money while shopping today than ever before.  Between comparison shopping engines, promo codes, coupons, cashback apps and portals, cashback credit cards, and even more ways to save at the checkout, shopping online to do most, if not all, of your shopping might be the best way to save. 
 
If that’s your plan, or you just want to know   regardless of how often you shop online, here’s how you can do it.
 
Rakuten partners with over 2,500 stores to provide cash back to customers, simplifying the way you save while you shop. Whether it’s 2% cash back on your favorite book at Barnes and Noble or 7.5% when you use Rakuten to book a hotel stay with Hilton, you’re not going to want to shop any other way.
 
To earn your cash back, you’ll need to start by signing up with Rakuten, then navigate directly to your store. If you see a confirmation pop-up alerting you that cash back at that store is active, you’ll know you’re on your way to real savings.  After you complete your purchase, your cash back will be automatically added to your account. Rakuten pays out earnings quarterly once you reach $5, and you can choose between receiving your earnings by check or through PayPal.
 
To sign up for Rakuten, all you need is an email and password. Then, make sure you download the Rakuten mobile app, so you can continue to save whenever you’re on the go.
 
Ibotta is a cashback app that rewards you for shopping both in-store and online when you buy groceries, home goods, clothing, travel, and more. From 10 cents cash back for grocery items, all the way up to $15 for gift card purchases, and with over 300 retail partners, Ibotta makes it easy to save when you shop at your favorite brands.
 
Before you shop, you’ll need to sign up for Ibotta. Then, open the Ibotta app and browse the offers you want in the online shopping category. After you select the pink “Shop” button on your desired offer, you’ll be taken to the retailer’s website where you can shop like normal. Once you make your purchase, you’ll automatically earn cash back for each qualifying item. 
 
You can withdraw your money through PayPal, Venmo, or by purchasing a gift card, but you’ll need to reach $20 in cash back first. If you want to sign up for Ibotta, all you’ll need to do is enter your name, email, birthdate, and a password, and you’ll be on your way to saving in no time. 
Dynamic pricing is a practice used by companies in which product prices continuously adjust based on real-time supply and demand. Other factors potentially taken into account are your browsing history and spending patterns. 
 
If you’ve ever looked up prices for a flight but didn’t buy any airfare, only to return later to find that prices increased, this is dynamic pricing at work. Similarly, online retailers may engage in dynamic pricing by quietly changing the price of an item if you return a second time to look at it. The site assumes you have a greater desire for the product and increases the price. 
 
Dynamic pricing is legal, but it can mean you might end up paying a higher price than you would have just a short time ago. To get around dynamic pricing, follow these steps:
 
If you’re using a debit card for your purchases, you’re leaving money on the table, plain and simple. That’s because you could be using cashback credit cards, which reward you with a percentage back every time you swipe your card. Just how much you earn depends on the card, but it can range from 1% all the way up to 6% cash back. 
 The Chase Freedom Flex®, for instance, rewards you with 5% cash back on rotating quarterly categories you activate (on up to $1,500 spent) and travel purchased through Chase Travel℠; 3% cash back on drugstore purchases and dining at restaurants (including takeout and eligible delivery service); and 1% cash back on all other purchases. You will need to keep track of their official bonus category of the quarter to get the most from this card.  The Chase Freedom Unlimited® is another solid option. Cardmembers earn 6.5% cash back on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 4.5% cash back on drugstore purchases and dining at restaurants, including takeout and eligible delivery service and 3% cash back on all other purchases (on up to $20,000 spent in the first year). After your first year or $20,000 spent, earn 5% cash back on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3% cash back on drugstore purchases and dining at restaurants, including takeout and eligible delivery service and unlimited 1.5% cash back on all other purchases.  If you’re new to cashback credit cards, the Chase Freedom Unlimited would be a good one to start with, as you can use it to earn generous rewards for every purchase, no matter where you shop. 
MyPoints is a website that allows you to earn points by shopping online. Those points can then be redeemed for cash through PayPal or for physical or online gift cards from a variety of online stores, restaurants, hotels, and airlines.  It’s a similar idea to Rakuten in that you start your shopping trip from MyPoints, and then navigate to the retailer where you then shop like normal. It differs, however, in that there are other ways to earn, such as watching videos, taking surveys, and even playing video games.
 
When you shop online using MyPoints, you’ll earn 25 points per dollar spent. When you watch videos, you can earn up to 500 points per day. Surveys will earn you up to 300 points per day, and you can earn 10 points per dollar spent playing video games. 
 
To sign up for MyPoints, all you need is your name, email, and password.
 
Similar to MyPoints, you can earn points with Swagbucks by shopping online, watching videos, answering surveys, and even by just searching the web. When you’re ready to cash out, you can redeem your points for gift cards or get cash back through PayPal.
 
When you sign up for Swagbucks, you’ll get access to 1,500 retailers to shop with, including popular brands such as Amazon, Walmart, and Target. As there is a mobile app, so you can earn Swagbucks even while you’re on the go.  
 
Now that you’re familiar with the variety of ways you can save money when you shop online, from mobile apps to cashback credit cards, here are a few scenarios of how you can stack some of these deals together to save money shopping online:
 
Amazon already makes it easy to save, but you can save even more when you stack rewards. 
 
We’ve all got to eat, and we all want to save. You can do both when you stack these rewards. 
 
Have some free time throughout the day? Consider hopping on Swagbucks or MyPoints to rack up points. 
 
Considering how easy it is to save money shopping online, the hardest part might be remembering all the different ways you can go about saving. It can take a few tries to remember to check with some of these cashback sites before you shop, but once you do it a few times, it will become second nature.
 
Hands down, the easiest way to save money shopping online every single time is by always using a cashback credit card. That way, you’ll quickly and easily earn cash no matter where you shop and no matter what you shop for. 
    FinanceBuzz writers and editors score cards based on a number of objective features as well as our expert editorial assessment.
    Our partners do not influence how we rate products.
   
      Earn an extra 1.5% on everything you buy (on up to $20,000 spent in the first year) — worth up to $300 cash back. That's 6.5% on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 4.5% on dining and drugstores, and 3% on all other purchases.
     
          $0
          
         
      6.5% cash back on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 4.5% cash back on drugstore purchases and dining at restaurants, including takeout and eligible delivery service and 3% cash back on all other purchases (on up to $20,000 spent in the first year). After your first year or $20,000 spent, earn 5% cash back on travel purchased through Chase Travel℠, 3% cash back on drugstore purchases and dining at restaurants, including takeout and eligible delivery service and unlimited 1.5% cash back on all other purchases
     
        Bank of America® Customized Cash Rewards Credit Card
       3% cash back Sponsored Get vetted side hustles and proven ways to earn extra cash sent to your inbox. 

        By submitting this form you agree to receive emails from FinanceBuzz and to the privacy
          policy and terms.
      
 
      Details about Chase Freedom Flex® 
      have been collected by FinanceBuzz editors. This information, including rates and fees, 
      is accurate as of the date of the review and was not reviewed or approved by the issuer.
      FinanceBuzz does not receive commission for 
      this product.
     Opinions expressed here are the author's alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline, or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by these entities. FinanceBuzz has partnered with CardRatings for our coverage of credit card products. FinanceBuzz and CardRatings may receive a commission from card issuers. FinanceBuzz is an informational website that provides tips, advice, and recommendations to help you make financial decisions. We strive to provide up-to-date information, but make no warranties regarding the accuracy of our information. Ultimately, you are responsible for your financial decisions. FinanceBuzz is not a financial institution and does not provide credit cards or any other financial products. FinanceBuzz.com does not make any credit decisions.