Gaming rewards apps are great for getting away from the busy hustles of our daily lives. And one of the most popular gaming apps is Mistplay which lets you earn rewards while playing games online. However, there are other apps like Mistplay that you can try.  Apps are created for entertainment, education, and work. But there is another benefit you can get from these. Apps can be a great source of quick money.  Just like Mistplay, there are other apps that let you earn money by playing games, taking surveys, completing micro-tasks, watching video ads, etc. Read on to know more apps like Mistplay and know which one you will like and help you earn more money. Mistplay is a game app where you can earn points to exchange gift cards. The platform allows its users to choose from the list of available games, chat with other users, skim through various offers in their area, and earn rewards by playing free games. Mistplay was founded in 2015 by Henri Machalani in Canada. It is available on Google Play Stores and has thousands of games for you to choose from. Once you have earned points playing games on Mistplay, you can redeem your points for Visa, PayPal, Amazon, and Google Play gift cards. Mistplay also runs some contests each month to win cash prizes. According to its website, Mistplay has paid its users more than $17.9 million. If you’re more interested in a full review of Mistplay, you can read more on how Mistplay works, everything you need to know about Mistplay, and how you can earn money from it. Play Now With Mistplay >> Mistplay may be one of the most popular apps when you talk about playing games and earning money, but there are also platforms where you can earn cash for playing games.  Here are the apps like Mistplay: InboxDollars is a popular app to earn money for playing games. Aside from playing games, you can also earn cash by answering surveys, watching videos, browsing, reading emails, and shopping online. InboxDollars was established in 2000 and is one of the top get-paid-to sites in the United States and Canada. InboxDollars works similarly to Mistplay, and you play a game, earn points, then redeem them. When you sign up on this platform, you get a $5 bonus, and if you refer a friend or family member, you can earn $1 per referral you have.  To redeem points, you can choose between gift cards from Amazon, Target, and more. You can redeem once you have enough points for cash, equivalent to $30 in cash. Get My Free $5 Here >> Another famous game app that you might like is Swagbucks. An ultimate get-paid-to site offers a wide variety of ways to make extra income. Swagbucks is an incredible alternative to Mistplay, similar to the said app where you can earn points by playing games such as Solitaire, Wheel of Fortune, Dynomite, Mahjong, and Catch 21. Furthermore, if you want a breather from playing games, there are other tasks that can help you earn money, like completing surveys, shopping online, surfing the web, and watching video ads. Swagbucks has paid its users over $630 million and sent out over 7,000 gift cards every day.  To redeem your points in Swagbucks, you can either choose for gift cards or cash out through PayPal. This reward site is available to countries including the United States, Canada, the UK, etc. Just like InboxDollars, Swagbucks also has a signing bonus of $5. For more about Swagbucks, read our full Swagbucks review on our blog. GET YOUR FREE $5 If you discuss apps like Mistplay, it’s hard not to include the MyPoints app. It is a user-friendly platform, popular, and many people have recommended it. MyPoints has been proven to actually pay people, and thus it made it to our list. Gaming is one of the choices on the app where you can earn cash. The games available in MyPoints are Scrabble, Angry Birds, Bejeweled, and more. You may redeem your points in the form of gift cards to Amazon, Visa, Dell technologies, etc. Read more about MyPoints in our full MyPoints review. Try MyPoints Today >> Kashkick is an online reward site that pays its members for completing micro-tasks, including playing games. Your earnings are paid to you directly through PayPal.  You can request a payout if you have reached $5 or more. Signing up with KashKick is free, and if you love playing games, this site is for you as it has many fun and easy games that you can play. Gamehag is one of the top alternatives of Mistplay. Similar to it and it is available for Android and iOs services. There are hundreds of games that will satisfy gamers’ interests. You can find games such as War Thunder, Rise of Kingdoms, Vikings, and so on. Signing up with Gamehag is also free. You can get rewards like gift cards for free Steam Codes, Amazon gift cards, prepaid Mastercards, and other rewards. The Drop App platform is available for both iOS and Android users. This app features gaming as a method to make extra income. Drop App is considered one of the best apps like Mistplay. Everything you have earned from playing games is directly applied to your account. The games you can play in the Drop app include Coin master, Solitaire, Block Puzzle, etc. When you want to redeem your points, you may in the form of gift cards to Starbucks, Amazon, and GrubHub. Skillz is a mobile games site in the United States. If you are a competitive gamer and are looking for ways to earn big, then Skillz may be worth checking out. According to its websites, Skillz hosts over 5 million daily tournaments and pays out $100+ million in prizes monthly. The top mobile games on the platform are: Skillz games are available in the United States for both iPhone and Android users. App Station is an android only game app that provides a wide array of games with categories such as action, arcade, puzzle, adventure, and strategy games. Once you download the app, you can play games and start earning coins. To redeem them, you can choose with steam gift cards or gift cards from Walmart, Xbox, Google Play, and other retail stores. Lucktastic is a kind of platform that reward its members for playing scratch cards. For every scratch card you play, you can earn actual money. Also, you can use your earnings to get into sweepstakes offers for larger payouts. Lucktastic’s members can participate in live trivia games for more chances of earning.  You can use tokens (Lucktastic currency) you have earned to cash out for gift cards to stores like Walmart, Amazon, JCPenney, and many others. As of February 2022, Lucktastic isn’t available anymore. Solitaire Cube is a game app similar to Mistplay that is available for iOS and Android users. This platform lets you win actual prizes from playing cards on your phone. You already guessed what kind of games you can play in this app which is the regular Solitaire. However, the difference from the previous Solitaire is that this is faster and easier to play, and you’re playing against a real person. Since Solitaire Cube is played on the phone, you won’t have to undergo a dull process of placing the cards or wasting gas for the nearest casino machines. You just need to download the app to your iPhone or Android devices. Solitaire Cube was developed by Tether Studios, but the game is powered by Skillz, an eSports platform that organizes the reward and cash prize part, which makes the game more thrilling. GameFlip is an app that helps improve your gaming skills and allows you to earn credits. You can also shop using the credits you have earned from playing games. To earn credits on the platform, you must simply download the app purchase skins using your PayPal or credit cards. After, you will receive a trade offer from the bot and accept the skins. The GameFlip app currently has over 4 million members. Dabbl is a platform that provides various ways to make cash, such as answering quizzes and taking surveys. This app is just like Mistplay. To earn some money, you need to complete the task first for you to earn credits then later redeem it.  This app is like Mistplay in many ways, like it offers a free download on mobile. On this platform, you can also win rewards and prizes like gift cards, coupons, and more. Virtually everything on Lucky Night is free, from signing up to playing all your favorite games, such as raffles, lottery, scratchers, mini-games, etc. There are daily challenges you can look forward to winning rewards like Amazon gift cards. SurveyMonkey is an app that lets you earn rewards for general surveys, market research, and customer research. On this platform, you can also earn by giving SurveyMonkey some evaluation feedback. Poll Play is an app that lets you make money by taking online surveys, and it is available on both iOS and Android devices. To cash out, you must at least have a minimum of $10 before you can redeem it. If you are an influencer or wannabe, then the Toluna app is the platform for you. This app provides rewards for playing games just like Mistpaly. It’s a Match Mania game, it’s free to use, and the best is that it lets you compete with the other users. The more you play on the app, the better your chance of winning. So stack up your earnings to cash out through the form of gift cards to Amazon, Banana Republic, or cash out through PayPal. Zynga Poker is an online poker gaming site. Everything on this platform is free. Even signing up is free. Unlike other poker platforms, you have to pay upfront to register. After you sign up, you can get your first $60k in poker chops, so you can go ahead and start playing. To be good in this game, you must practice your poker skills and play against other users. Earn Zynga Poker watches and show them off to your opponents. Once you finish the challenges, you can win more in-game prizes. You can also play on slot machines to earn more extra free chips. Rewardia is also a free online platform that pays its members by playing games and completing surveys. This platform is available in the United States, Australia, and New Zealand. You can redeem your earnings for cash or gift cards of your choice. When you sign-up with this platform, you will get a free 100 points. Unlike other apps, App Nana doesn’t pay that much, but if you have more free time in your hands and enjoy playing Candy Crush, Clash of Clans, and Angry Birds, then this app may be for you. Users earn Nana points (their currency) and redeem them for iTunes, Google Play, Xbox, and Amazon gift cards. For every 45,000, Nanas is equivalent to just $2 when you cash out via PayPal. Coin Pop is a game app very similar to Mistplay. This platform is only available for download on Android users. This app pays you to play games in exchange for coins which you can redeem through gift cards and PayPal cash. The games available in Coin Pop include action, arcade, strategy, puzzle, and adventure-style games. For every 5,000 coins you have earned, it is equivalent to $0.50, and the minimum payout is $0.50. Coin Pop has a 4.3-star rating from over 189,000 reviewers on the Google Play Store. Are you looking for other ways to earn extra cash through surveys? Here are paid survey sites below that can help: The real question is identifying which apps are legit and which are not. The earning possibility through apps that pay you to play games you love, and it might never change. You should not expect or depend on these apps to cover any sort of expenses in your daily life unless you love playing games and invest many hours into games. If you like playing games on your phone, then these apps work to try to score some free gift cards every so often. Playing games while at the same time earning money can be a great way to help you achieve your financial goals. However, if this is for your bills and day-to-day expenses, then playing games might not be enough to cover everything you need. Apps like these are for times when you are waiting in line, waiting at school, you have a lot of spare time. Apps like Mistplay can be a real game-changer for some people, especially if you are in dire need of extra cash. Game apps such as InboxDollars, Swagbucks, or MyPoints are some of the alternatives that you might enjoy. In addition, these apps provide many options for you to earn extra income other than playing games.  Each of these platforms has its own unique games and offers. You just have to know and understand which one of them best suits you. Check out these apps and boost your finances now! Founder of Spark Nomad, Radical FIRE, Journalist Expertise: Personal finance and travel content
Education: Bachelor of Economics at Radboud University, Master in Finance at Radboud University, Minor in Economics at Chapman University.
Over 200 articles, essays, and short stories published across the web. Experience: Marjolein Dilven is a journalist and founder of Radical FIRE, a personal finance platform, and Spark Nomad, a travel platform. Marjolein has a finance and economics background with a master’s in Finance. She has quit her job to travel the world, documenting her travels on Spark Nomad to help people plan their travels. Marjolein Dilven has written for publications like MSN, Associated Press, CNBC, Town News syndicate, and more.  About - Privacy Policy - Disclaimer - Terms & Conditions - Editorial Policy - Web Stories - Contact Get in Touch: marjolein@radicalfire.com | Frans Halsstraat 42, 1382VK, Weesp  Copyright © 2024 · Radical FIRE - All Rights Reserved Stock images by Deposithotos 