SegmentNext This guide will help you increase your overall rating in NBA 2K23 to 99 for every player possible to get the best team. The quality of a superstar is denoted by their overall rating in NBA 2K23. As you progress and increase your skillset and efficiency, your overall rating will also increase. So naturally, players want to get as many 99 Overall stars as they can to make sure they have the best stats on their players and characteristics. This guide will help you increase your overall rating in NBA 2K23 to 99 for every player possible. This is also how you get fans and endorsements. As you play through NBA 2K23, you get MyPoints, which allows you to upgrade the stats and attributes of your in-game players and characters. So first of all, you need to play a lot to earn these points for yourself. These MyPoints will go a long way in improving the overall rating of your players in NBA 2K23 To make things easier for you, you can change the difficulty to Hall of Fame. For this, go into your settings, and change the difficulty to Hall of Fame. On this difficulty, you will get a 160% modifier to your MyPOINTS earning, allowing you to progress much faster and increase the attributes much quicker. Additionally, you can complete the MyPOINTS Accelerator Quest in the game. Once this is completed, you will get 5% additional MyPOINTS every game. The main in-game virtual currency, VC, also contributes to your overalls. As you play, you will get different quests and challenges that you can complete to get VC. Challenges are just for starting off. As you progress and gain more and more fans, you will be able to secure sponsorships from the various brands in the game. Different brands, such as Adidas, Nike and Gatorade will offer you sponsorships and you will earn a huge sum of VC in these deals. You get free gear as well from these, and this is one of the best ways to earn VC as you progress through your career. Every player on the court has a role or position that they play in NBA 2K23. There are centers, small forwards, power forwards and point guards among others. Though you can do anything in the game, get all the baskets yourself, it’s better that you stick to your role. Playing as a guard or center you can shoot mid ranges, which is easy and almost always guaranteed to get you a lot of MyPOINTS and VC. Furthermore, play as a team. Pass the ball around and make sure that you don’t hog the entire game to yourself, don’t go on randomly stealing the ball from your teammates. Doing these things will hurt your teammate grade which does play a huge role in decreasing your overall rating. Every playstyle awards you different badges for your game. As you play, the better you play, the more badges you’ll get. These badges will contribute to your overall status in NBA 2K23. Chasing down badges in MyCareer will not only get you all the badges you might want, but you will also be getting additional points for each match you play. You can always lower the difficulty if you are chasing badges so you earn more badge points, and play 5v5s to make things easier for you when going after badges. We don’t recommend that you go after badges that don’t work for your position. Only focus on the badges that compliment your player’s position and play style. By just attending Endorsement Events and progressing through the MyCAREER mode, you will earn VC as a reward. You can also purchase VC through the in-game store. After you have VC in your game, you must spend them to be allocated as points to one of your attributes. You will need to spend more VC once the attribute is about to be full of points. The build you are doing will limit the maximum number of points that you can allocate to the attributes. We have separate guides in which you can learn about how to build the best Shooting Guard, Center, Paint Beast, and Dunk Builds. The maximum points that you can allocate in each attribute reflect your player’s maximum potential. That means you cannot allocate maximum points in each attribute to become a 99-rated player. MyPoints are rewards that you must earn that will allow the player to allocate the VC to the attributes. That means you cannot buy your way to the 99 overall ratings in NBA 2K23. You must earn MyPoints to do that. The fastest way to get MyPoints 2k23 is by playing matches in MyCAREER mode. Depending on how good you are playing, you will earn MyPoints after every 1 or 2 matches. Your MyPoints will always be more than the VC in the game if you are always playing matches in MyCAREER mode. You must worry about how to earn MyPoints 2k23 if you are always buying VC or not playing matches through MyCAREER mode. Virtual Currency (VC) is NBA’s own in-game currency that is used to buy Gear, Attributes Points, and Animations in MyCAREER mode. You must earn VC fast to reach the overall rating of 99 in NBA 2K23. The difficulty of the match in MyCAREER will decide how much you will earn VC in the game. There are many levels of difficulty to choose from. The list of how many VC points you can earn on each difficulty level is given below: You can also earn more VC if you put in better numbers during the game such as double-doubles, and triple-doubles. There are endorsements from different brands and firms that will earn you VC and other incentives. Some of the most effective methods to get VC are given below: Using VC, you can buy badges that will also help you dunk and build the best dunk build in NBA 2K23. Ali is a passionate RPG gamer. He believes that western RPGs still have a lot to learn from JRPGs. He is editor-in-chief at SegmentNext.com but that doesn't stop him from writing about his favorite video ...