 My Time at Sandrock is a sandbox RPG and a sequel to My Time at Portia, developed by Pathea Games. The game expands upon the concepts and mechanics of its predecessor. RPG | TPP | science fiction | sandbox | farm | crowdfunding | indie games | crafting | Game Pass | cozy game 02Nov2023 Aug2024 
developer: Pathea Games
publisher: Pathea Games

Official website Roots of Pacha Coral Island Disney Dreamlight Valley My Time at Sandrock is a sandbox RPG with simulator elements and a sequel to 2019's My Time at Portia (it's set in the same world, at the same time, though the playable character's different). The game is inspired by Dark Cloud 2, Harvest Moon and the works of Hayao Miyazaki. It was developed by an indie Chinese studio, Pathea Games. My Time at Sandrock is set in the titular desert city, part of the Alliance of Free Cities, where the protagonist arrives to work as a builder. The story takes place at about the same time as My Time at Portia, letting us witness the same events from a different perspective and meet some returning characters. The town is long past its glory days - the protagonist will attempt to restore it to greatness. The story's central theme is overcoming difficulties by working together. My Time at Sandrock is a third-person game, combining RPG and survival mechanics. The player must explore 3D areas, talk to characters and complete quests. The world of My Time at Sandrock changes over time, featuring cyclical holidays and changing weather. The in-game AI's been created anew, making NPCs more believable and interesting (for example, they can interact with each other now). The player can also establish relationships with them, both platonic and romantic. We must gather valuable resources (especially water), build and repair structures and catch animals, some of which can be domesticated. As we progress further, we develop our character, gaining new skills and possibilities. The game also features dungeons, divided into three different types. The first is full of treasures but lacks enemies. The second, on the other hand, is full of them. Combat is still rather arcade, but a bit more deep than in My Time at Portia. The third's been partially discovered by someone else already, housing both treasures and monsters. My Time at Sandrock supports singleplayer and co-op. The story campaign is the core of the game, while co-op takes place on an entirely new map. My Time at Sandrock retains My Time at Portia's 3D artstyle. The audio, however, has been significantly improved - the characters are now professionally voiced. Last updated on 27 February 2024 Game mode: single / multiplayer   Multiplayer mode: Internet   Player counter: 1-4    PEGI rating My Time at Sandrock PC / Windows Fallout: London Black Myth: Wukong Dungeonborne Baldur's Gate 3