Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Do you remember the first video game you ever played? For some of us, that's a loaded question. I was able to game from a very young age and also had access to computers, consoles, and handhelds, so I'm not confident I can narrow down the very, very first. But I can tell you the first game I played on a PlayStation: Flintstones Bedrock Bowling.
                         Was that game any good? I couldn't tell you in any unbiased sense, and I don't even have the game anymore, but it's a core gaming memory and makes perfect sense as my intro to PlayStation. My parents bought it because I recognized The Flintstones, and it's more than okay for a kid to play a game that's little more than just letting them spend time with fictional characters they were already fans of.
                         I can't help but notice that PlayStation Plus heartily agrees with this sentiment and far more than its competition does.
                         Scroll through the family option of the PlayStation Plus catalog, and you'll be nearly flooded with licensed games: Hotel Transylvania Scary-Tale Adventures, DC League Of Super Pets, Scrat's Nutty Adventure, and Cartoon Network Battle Crashers all make the list. And a surprisingly notable example to use would be My Friend Peppa Pig. I say this not because My Friend Peppa Pig happens to be some true classic every gamer needs to play; it's that this game was the spotlight that showed me PlayStation was proud to have these in the catalog for Plus subscribers.
      ALSO READ: LOTRO Is Still Live And Kicking, And It's Not Scared Of Amazon
                     See, when My Friend Peppa Pig was added to PlayStation Plus, the YouTube channel PlayStation Access hosted a livestream with channel members Ash Millman and Rosie Caddick racing each other to earn the Platinum trophy of this game (which, mind you, is intended for toddlers). For YouTube livestreaming, this is a simple idea, but the notable thing is that PlayStation Access is fully affiliated with and employed by PlayStation (specifically PlayStation UK). This wasn't just some fun livestream to force a competition between two YouTubers, it was a genuine celebration of a new game being added to the PlayStation Plus catalog, and the idea for the stream had to have been approved by upper management at Sony and seen as a good look.
                         A look I agree with, wholeheartedly. I even played and Platinumed the game myself, as it's still on PlayStation Plus, and while I may be far too old to get full enjoyment out of spending time with Peppa Pig, it is a well-made game that nails all that it needs to be and nothing more.
                         Scrolling through many of these titles, I came across a repeated name; Outright Games. This publisher puts out a lot of licensed games—it seems to be its bread and butter—and while it wasn't behind every licensed game I found on PlayStation Plus, I am fairly certain it published most of them, to the point I would not be surprised if it started a contract with Sony or the like to ensure this happens.
                         The company's variety is quite strong, as games like My Friend Peppa Pig come across as interactive television, and games like DC League of Super Pets are auto-runners. Hotel Transylvania Scary-Tale Adventures was an interesting one for me to play. After a little bit of gliding around as a bat to reach certain platforms, charging to run faster, collecting coins that were red, green, and yellow, with those coins being both in breakable objects and dropped from enemies, I eventually went "Oh my God this is discount Spyro the Dragon!"
                         Spyro Reignited Trilogy is a great collection of games and can be found pretty cheap now, but despite Spyro's history starting with PlayStation, he is nowhere to be seen on PlayStation Plus. Hotel Transylvania isn't a replacement for Spyro, but to a kid who loves Hotel Transylvania, I can't help but imagine this could be their favorite game even if they don't know what Spyro plays like, and that is worth its weight in gold. I had to force this connection just to convince parents the game is worth their time, as I'm aware there's a stigma against licensed games.
                         No game captures this stigma in recent years better than Spongebob Squarepants: Battle For Bikini Bottom Rehydrated, which just so happens to be part of PlayStation Plus. Fans of the original game loved the remake, even if they still found issues and moments where the original was better. Critics, however, rated it as fine or mediocre, which at first shocked those same fans, as Rehydrated was so faithful to a game they assumed was a classic, only to read old reviews and discover critics were lukewarm to the original game as well. So they just shrugged it off, realizing loving Spongebob as a whole made them love a game that at the end of the day, was solid.
                         This is a better stigma than licensed games used to get, people used to hate on licensed games all the time, while people such as me understood they were just lower-tier games that were quite fun if you didn't compare them to bigger games. There's even nostalgia for licensed games now, such as the lost era when every movie got a game. PlayStation Plus can now cater to this crowd, and I think it's able to do this without worry about the previous stigma, as most people have now accepted that as long as the game isn't broken, it's completely okay for a licensed game to only cater to people who are already fans of the license.
                         It's a catering I don't see Nintendo or Microsoft handling with their respective subscription services. Nintendo Switch Online honors their personal history, and Xbox Game Pass showcases indie titles and massive AAA titles with equal love. But neither really touch the licensed games that much.
                         DC Super Pets was on Game Pass, and Switch owners got the surprise of Quest For Camelot for the Game Boy Color recently, but these are the only examples I'm fully aware of. There's likely more if we expand the definition of "licensed game" to count Disney games and anime games, but even if we do, PlayStation Plus still wins!
                         If you have Plus Premium like I do, you'll have the Classics Catalog, and something I noted in my recent praise of the Classics Catalog is that Disney games are stuffed in there by a good number; games just as Toy Story 3 for PSP, Brave for PS3, and every PS4 version of the Kingdom Hearts franchise just to name a few. As for anime, I found a Naruto game and also Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot, which just may be the best Dragon Ball game by a wide margin.
                         To just be fully frank about it, if you're a parent with a younger child, say between 2 and 10, PlayStation Plus is likely the best call assuming you have a PlayStation. Those cheap little licensed games can make some children's best early gaming memories, and the subscription just makes playing them even easier.
      NEXT: I Really Hope Gaming Doesn't Go The Way Of Netflix
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Kojima's shenanigans continue, but at least its something we can understand this time. Fans divided regarding Dr.Disrespect's imminent return to streaming.  If you're on the hunt for your next JRPG fix, we have you covered! Sorry, we're closed.  We talked to Mary Kenney, associate narrative director at Insomniac Games about the lack of LGBTQ representation in gaming. A new rumor suggests Netflix's live-action Pokémon series remains in development.