If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 Kimberly is a career writer and editor with more than 30 years' experience. She's a bankruptcy survivor, small business owner, and homeschool parent. In addition to writing for The Motley Fool, she offers content strategy to financial technology startups, owns and manages a 350-writer content agency, and offers pro-bono financial counseling. 
See Full Bio
 
Our Personal Finance
Expert
 MyPoints is a rewards website. Members shop through the MyPoints website and earn points to redeem for rewards. Besides shopping online, members can also earn points by playing games, watching videos, reading emails, taking surveys, signing up for new services, and even applying for some jobs. Read our MyPoints review to find out if this is an app you want to check out. Bottom line: MyPoints offers several ways to earn points without any spending, and many ways to earn points when you shop. Rewards: 1% to 15% (and more for special deals) iOS app rating: 4.3/5 stars Android app rating: 4.0/5 stars Cost: Free to use the app; free to earn some rewards; spending required to earn other rewards MyPoints is a rewards portal that is free to join. Members can earn points to later redeem for gift cards, cash back, or airline points. You can earn points in many different ways, so long as you click through directly to the merchant or partner from the MyPoints website, or you use a coupon you've printed from inside your MyPoints account. Here are some ways to earn points: As you can see, there are several ways to earn points without spending a single dollar. Those strategies generally require some of your time, or that you complete simple tasks like opening a daily email. The number of points you earn will vary. For example: When you have enough points to redeem, you can choose from gift cards, cash back via PayPal or a prepaid Visa card, or airline points (currently Delta or American). When we checked, each dollar of redemption value cost between 145 and 160 points. For example: Earnings rates and redemption options change regularly. Certain partners offer outsized rewards on a one-time basis. Besides the Uber Eats offer mentioned above, there are several opportunities to earn several thousand points in one transaction. A few examples: You can opt for a gift card to one of the nation's most popular retailers, or go for good old-fashioned cash. (To redeem for cash, you need to have a PayPal account set up and linked.) Frequent travelers will appreciate the ability to convert MyPoints to airline points and redeem them for free flights, upgrades, or other airline benefits. In some cases, your purchases could be made through a different rewards site for potentially greater rewards value. For example, on the day we checked, MyPoints was offering 3 points per dollar for Walmart purchases. At the same time, competitor site Rakuten was offering 6% cash back on any photo center purchase at Walmart. So if you were planning to shop in the photo center, you might earn more by shopping through Rakuten. Since the price to earn and redeem is all over the place, there is no way to pin down the value of a point. For example, if you shopped online and earned 3 points per dollar spent, you will have spent $480 to earn enough points for a $3 Amazon gift card. On the other hand, if you open an investment app account and deposit just $5, you can earn 3,000 points. If you redeem 1,590 points for $10 cash back into your PayPal account, you've earned back twice what you've spent and you still have points toward your next redemption. Nothing's free, even redeemable points you earn for taking surveys or opening emails. A big tradeoff for the rewards you get on MyPoints (like any other cash back app) is you are giving up a mountain of data about yourself whenever you use the site. Your data will be shared with third parties. Even if it is anonymized, there is so much data on each shopper that it's not difficult for third parties to identify individuals, especially if you share your location. If you want an app for cash back: Rakuten is an online shopping portal that offers cash back. Nothing fancy or confusing. No gift cards to choose or airline miles. You shop through the site, and the cash back is sent to your PayPal account. There is a new member offer similar in value to what MyPoints offers. If you want clarity when it comes to point value: Try Swagbucks, another place where you can take surveys to earn redeemable points. A Swagbuck point is worth $0.01, or 100 per $1 in redemption value. No mystery about the number of points you still need to earn to reach a reward. MyPoints is free, but some earnings opportunities require a purchase. Someone looking for ways to earn money online for free. You can do surveys and open emails to earn points. Someone who regularly shops major retailers online. If you're already planning to buy something online, why not get a rebate in the form of points that can be redeemed for cash? Someone who is already thinking about one of the partner offers. If a new bank account or money app is on your radar, or you're interested in trying out a robo advisor, or you were thinking you'd like to drive for Uber Eats, check the MyPoints partner offers before you sign up. You could earn cash back if one of the offers works for you. 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.