Do you want to know how to make fast cash in a tight spot? Read on to learn about your options whenever you find yourself saying, “I need 100 dollars now!” Whether it’s for an emergency expense, an investment opportunity, or a dental procedure you have been putting off, we all could use an extra $100. It could give you some much-needed breathing room in your budget, allow you to splurge on a small luxury, or simply help ease your financial anxiety.  Plenty of money-making opportunities are available if you’re looking for ways to make $100 now, and this article will help you sort through the options to know what best suits you.  If you’re looking to earn a quick $100, there are a few online survey platforms that can help you reach your goal. Survey Junkie is a reputable online survey site that pays users for their opinions.  Sign up for an account and start taking surveys to earn money. Payments are made via PayPal so that you can access your earnings quickly. In Survey Junkey, you can also make money with more than surveys. There are plenty of Survey Junkie hacks that you can use to maximize your earnings on the platform, especially if you need $100 now. Check out our full Survey Junkie review for more details on the platform and how it works. TRY FOR FREE  Opinion Outpost is another good choice for earning money from online surveys.  Once you create an account, you can start taking surveys and making cash. You can withdraw your payments via PayPal, so you’ll have access to your earnings immediately. Read the detailed Opinion Outpost review for more details on how to maximize your earnings on the platform. TRY IT NOW  Branded Surveys is one of the leading companies in this field, and it offers a variety of ways to earn money.  You can sign up for free and start taking surveys immediately. For each survey you complete, you’ll earn points redeemable as cash or other prizes.  You also have the option to take part in focus groups and product testing opportunities. These higher-paying activities can help you reach your goal of earning $100 quickly.  Start Making Money Today  Swagbucks is an online platform that offers various rewards; you can earn from taking surveys, shopping online, watching videos, and more. You can also gain more money by playing games in Swagbucks. There are various Swagbucks hacks that you can do if you need $100 now. Read the full Swagbucks review here. Sign up now and get a $5 bonus using this unique link.  Start Earning Free Gift Cards  Sign-up bonuses are an incredible way to earn money effortlessly. With a couple of clicks and taps, you’re on your way to earning a quick $100. With MyPoints, you can earn points by taking surveys, shopping online, and watching videos. Once you’ve accumulated enough points, you can redeem them for gift cards to your favorite stores or cash them out via PayPal.  Signing up for MyPoints today will give you a bonus of $5 when you complete your first 5 activities.  Read the full MyPoints review for more information. Try MyPoints Today  By signing up for a free stock trading account, you can receive free shares of stock. Many online brokerages offer these sign-up bonuses, so be sure to shop around for the best deal.  You can also earn 100 dollars by referring friends to these platforms: Another way to earn 100 dollars now is to get free crypto.  There are several ways to do this, such as signing up for a crypto trading platform that offers sign-up bonuses in Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies.  You can also participate in social media giveaways and receive tokens as a reward. These tokens can then be sold for cash, allowing you to quickly and easily earn $100.  Finally, you can sign up for airdrops, free cryptocurrency giveaways that new projects or startups often hold.  Empower is a financial tracking tool that helps you stay on top of your budget and investment portfolio. By signing up for a free account, you’ll receive a $20 bonus that you can use to invest in your future. Read the full Empower review for more details about the platform.   Investing apps offer a simple and convenient way to invest your money and earn a return. While there are many different apps available, each with its unique features and benefits, a few stand out as being particularly well-suited for earning a quick return on your investment.  Groundfloor allows anyone to invest as little as $10 in a property. And because a lien secures each investment on the property, investors are less likely to lose money than they would with other types of investments. Learn more on this detailed Groundfloor review. Try Groundfloor Today!  Anytime you go shopping for groceries, clothes, or electronics, you probably try to save money. What if I tell you there was a way to earn money while you shop? I’m talking about shopping cash-back apps.  With these apps, you can get paid for buying the things you would normally buy anyway. Ibotta is probably the most well-known of the bunch. With Ibotta, you can earn cash back on both in-store and online purchases. Before shopping, you’ll need to select the offers you’re interested in, scan your receipt, or link your loyalty card to the app.  Once your purchase has been verified, the cashback will be deposited into your Ibotta account. And when your balance reaches $20, you can withdraw the money via PayPal or Venmo. Check out the full Ibotta review here. Get My $10 Bonus Here >>  Rakuten is similar to Ibotta because it offers cash back on in-store and online purchases. However, Rakuten also provides an additional way to earn: through referrals.  When you refer a friend to Rakuten, and they make their first purchase, you’ll earn $25, and they’ll get $10. As for withdrawing your earnings, Rakuten offers several options, including direct deposit, check, and PayPal. Read the full Rakuten review here.  Sign up now using this unique link and get your $30 bonus. GET $30 FOR SIGNING UP  TopCashBack is slightly different from the other 2 apps because it’s purely an online cash-back app. So, if you do most of your shopping in brick-and-mortar stores, TopCashBack may not be for you.  Once your purchase is confirmed, the cashback will be deposited into your TopCashBack account, which can be redeemed for gift cards or withdrawn via PayPal once it reaches $20. Try TopCashback Today  Anyone who’s ever played a game on their smartphone knows it can be highly addictive. But what if you could get paid to play games?  This may sound like it’s too good to be true; however, there are a few ways to do it. Earning cash by playing games on your phone sounds like a dream come true, but it is possible with the Mistplay app. Once you download the Mistplay app, you can browse through a list of games and choose which ones you want to play.  There are so many apps like Mistplay that you can also consider to earn more money. Play Now With Mistplay >>  InboxDollars is slightly different from the other 2 apps because it doesn’t just focus on games. Instead, InboxDollars allows you to earn money from various activities, including taking surveys, watching videos, and shopping online.  However, they have a section for paid games, which means you can still earn money by playing your favorite games.  Read the full InboxDollars review here.  Sign-up now and get your $5 bonus using our unique link. Get My Free $5 Here >>  Do you know those online ads promising to pay you cash for watching videos? Well, it turns out that you can make money doing just that!  Here is an app that allows you to earn by watching videos online. Swagbucks is a popular reward and cash-back site that offers several ways to earn money, including watching videos.  You can watch videos on various topics, including news, entertainment, sports, and more. For each video you watch, you’ll earn a certain amount of redeemable points as gift cards or cash.  Check the detailed Swagbucks review here and get your free $5 bonus when you sign-up now. Start Earning Free Gift Cards  There’s no need to wait to get paid for your next gig. With some creativity, you can earn $100 immediately.  Here are 5 ways to get started: Pet sitting can involve anything from feeding and walking somebody’s dog while on vacation to staying overnight at a client’s house to care for their pets. Rates vary depending on your services, but you can typically expect to earn around $25 per day.  You can create a profile on a site like Rover and earn money by watching people’s pets while they’re out of town. CHECK OUT ROVER  Postmates is a courier service that allows people to earn money by picking up and delivering various items for customers. These items can include anything from groceries to takeout food to dry cleaning.  People must sign up on the app and choose which orders they want to deliver to earn money. Postmates pays its couriers a per-order fee plus tips, meaning earnings may vary. However, couriers can typically expect to earn around $10-$15 per hour.  Read the full Postmates vs. DoorDash review and see which courier service suits you. Deliver With Postmates $$$  DoorDash is one of the best food delivery app services in the US. This app offers fantastic opportunities to earn extra cash by working part-time. Signing up for DoorDash is pretty straightforward, and it usually takes up to 3-5 days to become a verified Dasher. An average Dasher can earn up to $18 to $20 per hour or up to $500 weekly. Read the full DoorDash review here. Earn Money With DoorDash  GrubHub is a food delivery service that enables people to make money by delivering food from local restaurants to customers’ homes. To start earning money, people simply need to sign up on the app and choose which orders they would like to deliver to earn money.  GrubHub pays delivery drivers a per-order fee plus tips, which means earnings can vary quite a bit. However, delivery drivers can typically expect to earn around $10-$12 per hour.  Another way to earn extra cash is babysitting. You can charge around $10 per hour, making $100 in 10 hours.  To find work, create a profile on a babysitting website or app. Then, contact families who might need a sitter. Banks always look for new customers and are willing to pay you to bring your business to them. Many banks offer sign-up bonuses worth $100 or more when you open a new account and meet specific minimum requirements.  You can get bank bonuses by making direct deposits totaling a certain amount, installment online loans, maintaining a minimum balance, bank statements, or agreeing to automatic monthly transfers from your checking account to your savings account. If you have extra space in your home or apartment, why not put it to good use and earn some extra cash by renting it out? Platforms like Airbnb make listing your space and setting prices easy, and you can start earning money immediately.  If you don’t have a spare room, you can still rent items you own but don’t often use, such as camping gear, sports equipment, or party supplies. Just create a listing on a site like RentNotBuy and start earning money from your stuff. You can make quick cash by selling or pawning personal items in a few different ways. Facebook Marketplace is a great way to declutter and make a little extra money. But before you list your items, you should keep a few pointers in mind.  First, take clear, well-lit photos of your items from multiple angles. Second, write detailed and accurate descriptions, including any flaws or blemishes. Finally, be realistic about your prices – too high, and no one will bite; too low, and you’ll lose money. Etsy is perfect for creative types who have handmade goods, vintage finds, or unique home decor items to sell.  The key to Etsy’s success is taking amazing photos and writing engaging descriptions of your products.  Another option for selling personal items is Craigslist. This website is great for larger items such as furniture or electronics.  The key to success on Craigslist is to be clear and concise in your listings and be sure to meet buyers in a public place for safety. However, if you think this site is not for you, there are many alternatives to Craigslist for you to check.  You can get $100 today, including gigs through apps like DoorDash, Postmates, and Uber; or pet-sitting services like Rover. You can also earn free stocks by signing up for a stock trading account with an online brokerage or participating in social media giveaways or crypto airdrops.  Several apps can help you earn $100 today, such as DoorDash and Postmates for food delivery, Survey Junkie and InboxDollars for giving your opinions through surveys.  There is no “fastest” way to make $100, as the amount of money you can earn will depend on various factors, such as the type of work you do and how much effort you’re willing to put in.  Platforms that can help you make $100 now are Swagbucks, Rakuten, and MyPoints – which all offer a sign-up bonus when you use our links. With the variety of options available to make money quickly, getting your hands on $100 could be easy.  If borrowing money from family and friends or applying for a loan is not desirable for you, the ideas listed in this article will give you more than enough choices to make that fast buck. Some ways might take a little longer, while others may be easier and more feasible than others.  A bonus is that these money-making opportunities could be an impressive entry in your resume, turn into a long-term income stream, and open new doors to a new career. How’s that for initially just wanting to get a quick 100 bucks?  Check out these related reads about making money today: Founder of Spark Nomad, Radical FIRE, Journalist Expertise: Personal finance and travel content
Education: Bachelor of Economics at Radboud University, Master in Finance at Radboud University, Minor in Economics at Chapman University.
Over 200 articles, essays, and short stories published across the web. Experience: Marjolein Dilven is a journalist and founder of Radical FIRE, a personal finance platform, and Spark Nomad, a travel platform. Marjolein has a finance and economics background with a master’s in Finance. She has quit her job to travel the world, documenting her travels on Spark Nomad to help people plan their travels. Marjolein Dilven has written for publications like MSN, Associated Press, CNBC, Town News syndicate, and more.  About - Privacy Policy - Disclaimer - Terms & Conditions - Editorial Policy - Web Stories - Contact Get in Touch: marjolein@radicalfire.com | Frans Halsstraat 42, 1382VK, Weesp  Copyright © 2024 · Radical FIRE - All Rights Reserved Stock images by Deposithotos 