Shopping online, playing games, and answering surveys are all money-making opportunities many apps offer, including MyPoints. Is it worth the hype? 
    This article was subjected to a comprehensive fact-checking process. Our professional fact-checkers verify article information against primary sources, reputable publishers, and experts in the field.
   We receive compensation from the products and services mentioned in this story, but the opinions are the author's own. Compensation may impact where offers appear. We have not included all available products or offers. Learn more about how we make money and our editorial policies. 
Finding ways to supplement your 9-to-5 income can feel exhausting with so many options available. Apps like MyPoints feel like a dime a dozen, each promising amazing rewards. 
 
While you won’t get rich using MyPoints, it offers a brainless way to earn a little extra cash for shopping or gives you a way to unwind and earn a little spending money by playing games or answering surveys.
 
MyPoints stands out as a way to simplify your life. It combines three different types of rewards into one experience. Instead of using a site like Rakuten for cash back when you shop, InboxDollars for earning cash taking surveys, and Mistplay for getting paid to play games, you can do it all within MyPoints.
 Budgeting apps can be a useful tool for reaching your financial goals. The best apps are easy to use and have excellent customer support. We evaluate these apps based on these factors as well as cost, ability to set and track spending and savings goals, and whether it includes useful extras like credit score monitoring.  
MyPoints is an online rewards platform that allows you to earn money in several ways:
 
MyPoints pays users in points (as the name suggests) that you can redeem for various gift cards to the following:
 
It takes only a few seconds to sign up for a MyPoints account to start earning rewards. Once you create an account, you can participate in any of the points-earning activities.
 
To earn points shopping on MyPoints, you must log into your app and visit the store through MyPoints. You’ll have the same experience if you go directly to the store, but going through MyPoints allows them to track your purchase and reward you with points. Stores pay MyPoints a commission for referring its members to their site, and MyPoints shares the commission with you. It can take 2 - 30 days for your purchase to show in your MyPoints account, as it varies by retailer.
 
MyPoints also offers a handful of in-store deals. To use them you must link a credit or debit card to your MyPoints account and activate the offer before shopping. After your purchase, you’ll see the credit in your account within 30 days.
 
If you enjoy sharing your opinion, you can earn additional points to redeem for gift cards or cash prizes. MyPoints rewards members for answering profile questions (5 points for every ten profiles completed) and completing surveys, and you even get five points if you don’t pass the survey screener (up to 25 points a day).
 
If you enjoy playing mobile games, you can earn points for many popular games, including Monopoly Go!, Bingo Bling, and Solitaire Smash. You can also earn a few points for surfing the web through MyPoints, accepting exclusive offers or deals when logging into the app, answering the Daily Poll, or printing exclusive coupons.
 
Like most reward sites, the value of your points varies depending on how you redeem them. On average, points are worth 0.006 cents each or around 165 points per dollar. You can redeem points for gift cards as low as $5; some gift cards require fewer points than others for the same redemption amount.
 
You won’t be able to pay the mortgage or even a utility bill with your MyPoints earnings, but they can provide extra spending cash. For example, you can redeem points for a gift card to your favorite restaurant or store and not feel guilty about splurging.
 
How much you earn with MyPoints depends on your activities and how often you use it. The good news is that you don’t have to shop online to earn points. There are other opportunities if you aren’t comfortable shopping through a third-party app or don’t like shopping online. However, shopping is the most rewarding part of the app.
 
If you are an avid online shopper, visit your favorite stores, like Target, Best Buy, Macy’s, or Old Navy, through the app and earn points for your purchases. You can double-dip your earnings if you pay with a cashback credit card.
 
You can keep the points coming with games, surveys, and activities between shopping trips. MyPoints pays up to 2,200 points per survey and up to 100,000+ playing games. The key to earning points playing games is to achieve the benchmark set in the instructions. 
 


Tip
Important note: Some Mypoints games require a cash deposit to earn points. Read the fine print before choosing a game.


 
MyPoints can be a helpful tool if you want extra income. Here’s how to maximize your points earnings:
 


Is MyPoints legit?

MyPoints is a legitimate company that allows consumers to earn rewards. Through the MyPoints platform, you can earn rewards when you shop, take surveys, play games, and participate in other online activities. If privacy is a concern, the company states that it does not share any of your personally identifiable information with its advertisers without your express consent, nor does it sell your personally identifiable information.



How can you redeem MyPoints?

You can redeem MyPoints for cash through a PayPal account or a Visa gift card, gift cards to popular retailers and restaurants, or for United MileagePlus miles. 



How long does it take to earn gift cards with MyPoints?

You can often cash out your points for gift cards when you reach between 700 and 790 points. This equates to a $5 gift card. The exact amount needed, however, will vary from one gift card to another. 



How much are MyPoints worth?

The value of your MyPoints rewards depends on how you redeem them, but points are generally worth around .006 cents each. Some redemption methods offer a higher valuation, while others are lower.



Who owns MyPoints?

MyPoints is owned by Prodege, LLC, an internet and media company that also owns the popular platforms Swagbucks and InboxDollars. If you're looking for ways to make extra money, these platforms could be good places to start.




 MyPoints is a legitimate company that allows consumers to earn rewards. Through the MyPoints platform, you can earn rewards when you shop, take surveys, play games, and participate in other online activities.  If privacy is a concern, the company states that it does not share any of your personally identifiable information with its advertisers without your express consent, nor does it sell your personally identifiable information. You can redeem MyPoints for cash through a PayPal account or a Visa gift card, gift cards to popular retailers and restaurants, or for United MileagePlus miles.  You can often cash out your points for gift cards when you reach between 700 and 790 points. This equates to a $5 gift card. The exact amount needed, however, will vary from one gift card to another.  The value of your MyPoints rewards depends on how you redeem them, but points are generally worth around .006 cents each. Some redemption methods offer a higher valuation, while others are lower. MyPoints is owned by Prodege, LLC, an internet and media company that also owns the popular platforms Swagbucks and InboxDollars. If you're looking for ways to make extra money, these platforms could be good places to start. 
MyPoints offers many ways to earn extra money, but it’s not the only app in town. Consider adding a few other cashback or reward apps to your list to maximize your earnings. If you take a few minutes each day to check each app, you can choose the best-paying offers, shop through the highest-paying portal, and never miss a paid experience.
 
Here are a few other popular apps:
 
While you can’t double dip for the same purchase on these apps, you can check each option and see which offers the best rewards before purchasing. You can also check all three apps to maximize your earnings on surveys, games, and exclusive offers.
 
        Bank of America® Customized Cash Rewards Credit Card
       3% cash back Sponsored Opinions expressed here are the author's alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline, or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by these entities. FinanceBuzz has partnered with CardRatings for our coverage of credit card products. FinanceBuzz and CardRatings may receive a commission from card issuers. FinanceBuzz is an informational website that provides tips, advice, and recommendations to help you make financial decisions. We strive to provide up-to-date information, but make no warranties regarding the accuracy of our information. Ultimately, you are responsible for your financial decisions. FinanceBuzz is not a financial institution and does not provide credit cards or any other financial products. FinanceBuzz.com does not make any credit decisions.