Learn about 15 ways to earn free Amazon gift cards and save money when you shop online. 
    This article was subjected to a comprehensive fact-checking process. Our professional fact-checkers verify article information against primary sources, reputable publishers, and experts in the field.
   We receive compensation from the products and services mentioned in this story, but the opinions are the author's own. Compensation may impact where offers appear. We have not included all available products or offers. Learn more about how we make money and our editorial policies. 
Amazon gift cards have become almost synonymous with cash because of how many products are readily available for purchase on the Amazon.com marketplace. It’s easy and convenient to place an order from your phone, tablet, or computer and then have it delivered straight to your doorstep within a day or two.
 
Most companies in the world have taken notice of Amazon by now, which is why Amazon gift cards are sold by virtually every big retailer. However, you can save a lot of money on your online shopping if you earn Amazon gift cards for free instead of buying them.
 
If you’re a big Amazon shopper, this guide will help you understand how to earn free gift cards to fuel your Amazon shopping trips. Here are 15 easy and legit ways to earn free Amazon gift cards:
 The best survey sites offer you ways to make money from the comfort of your own home. With Survey Junkie, you can earn points for completing online surveys, profile questionnaires, or by taking other eligible actions. 
 
After earning a minimum of 500 points from Survey Junkie, you can redeem your points for cash from PayPal, a direct bank transfer within the U.S., or for popular gift cards. Gift card options include Amazon.com, Walmart, Apple iTunes, and Visa.
 





            Earn Cash Taking Surveys
        














    SurveyJunkie Benefits



      Over $55,000 paid to members daily
    

      Earn up to $130 a month taking 4 or more surveys daily
    

      $76 million paid out to date
    

      20M+ lifetime members and BBB accreditation
    














    
        Sign up today
    







 
Swagbucks is an online rewards program that rewards you for doing everyday online activities, such as shopping online, watching videos, doing web searches, answering surveys, playing video games, and more. As you accomplish these activities, you’ll earn points that you can redeem for gift cards or cash through PayPal. Gift cards are available from popular retailers like Walmart and Amazon.
 
The best side hustles attract the most members and offer lots of rewards. To date, Swagbucks has paid its members over $450 million in rewards, so you can tell it’s something that works. 
 





            Get Paid to Go Online
        














    Swagbucks Benefits



      Get a $5 bonus when you earn 2,500 Swagbucks in the first 60 days of opening your account
    

      Earn gift cards for surfing the web and taking fun surveys
    

      Over $200,000,000 paid out to members so far! That's 7,000 gift cards each day
    

      Earn free gift cards to your favorite stores - Amazon, Target, Walmart, and more
    














    
        Visit Swagbucks
    







 
InboxDollars lets you earn money by taking surveys and shopping online. If you’re already interested in these types of activities, it’s an easy way to make money from home when you have some free time. In addition, the content you go through can be pretty interesting and relevant. InboxDollars partners with brands that people interact with every day, like Netflix, Target, and Walmart.
 
You can trade in the rewards you earn with InboxDollars for PayPal cash, a check, or a gift card. Amazon gift cards are likely one of the most popular options for gift cards, but you can also get gift cards from Starbucks, Target, and Home Depot.
 





            Earn Cash By Going Online
        














    Inbox Dollars Benefits



      Get a $5 bonus when you register with your email
    

      You could earn money by taking surveys or making online searches
    

      Over $80 million paid to members so far - how much can you earn?
    














    
        Visit Inbox Dollars
    







 Fetch is one of many receipt-scanning apps available that rewards you when you use the in-app scanner to capture photos of your receipts. The big difference with Fetch, though, is that you can scan virtually any receipt to earn rewards. There’s no saving offers before you go shopping or only shopping at certain stores for an eligible receipt — you’ll earn rewards from basically any receipt, no matter what you purchased.
 
Of course, you can still earn more points when you purchase eligible products at the grocery store or your local big-box store, but it’s not necessary. Fetch offers hundreds of gift card options for you whenever you’re ready to redeem your points, making it one of the best apps to earn free gift cards. Amazon is one of the options, but you can also choose from Adidas, Airbnb, Google Play, Hulu, and more.
 
 
MyPoints is an online shopping portal that rewards you for shopping at your favorite online retailers. MyPoints has partnered with 2,000 different companies to provide you with plenty of options for earning rewards while you shop. These companies include Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and more.
 
As with other shopping portals, you simply create a membership with MyPoints and then click on the store you want to shop at through the MyPoints website. Then your purchases will be tracked by MyPoints and you’ll earn rewards. You can also take online surveys through MyPoints to earn rewards.
 
Rewards can be redeemed for cash through PayPal or gift cards. Choose between gift cards from Amazon, Domino’s, Groupon, and more.
 





            Earn A Free $10 Amazon Gift Card
        














    MyPoints Benefits



      Get paid to go shopping online
    

      Earn free gift cards at 1900+ stores
    

      Top retailers like Walmart, eBay and Amazon
    

      Join millions of MyPoints members
    














    
        Visit MyPoints
    







 
Ibotta is a cashback rewards app you can download and use on any compatible device. Ibotta partners with over 1,500 popular retailers to provide you with cashback rewards when you make eligible purchases at the retailers’ stores. You can also use the Ibotta browser extension from a computer if it’s more convenient for you than using the app.
 
Ibotta rewards you for using select offers at participating retailers, submitting eligible receipts, and making in-store purchases with the Pay with Ibotta feature. Once you reach $20 in Ibotta rewards, you can get a payout in the form of a gift card, cash through PayPal, or a cash transfer to your bank account. Ibotta has gift card options from Amazon, Starbucks, Sephora, Walmart, and more.
 
 
Honey is a free browser extension and mobile app that helps you find the best prices on your online purchases. When you use the browser extension or app and shop at participating online stores, Honey will search the internet to find any available coupons for you to use. Because there’s no cost to use Honey, this is easy money for you to save.
 
Although saved money can mean more Amazon gift cards, you can also use Honey Gold to earn rewards to earn gift cards. Honey Gold is a free addition to Honey that lets you earn rewards when you make purchases at participating stores. Once you earn enough rewards, you can redeem them for the gift cards you choose. These gift cards include brands like Amazon, Groupon, eBay, Target, and more.
 
 
If you already use TurboTax to do your taxes and love it, you can earn $25 gift cards by sharing it with your friends and family. Referring friends to a product or service you already use is one of the easiest ways to earn rewards because you only have to share a link. Of course, your referrals have to click on and use that link, but if you back the product, it’s a no-brainer for them to use it.
 
TurboTax is part of the Intuit family of companies, which also includes QuickBooks and Mint. All of these brands are well-known and trusted by millions of customers worldwide.
 





            Ask This Company to Max Out Your Tax Refund
        














    TurboTax Free Edition Benefits



      File for free with TurboTax Free Edition, ~37% of taxpayers qualify, form 1040 + limited credits only1


      100% accurate calculations, guaranteed for the biggest refund possible
    

      Personalized answers with AI-powered Intuit Assist
    

      Start in minutes by adding your tax docs — it’s as easy as snapping a photo
    














    
        Get started
    







 
Have you ever received a gift card just for signing up for something? With the Prime Visa, you’ll receive a $100 Amazon gift card upon approval. That’s not a bad perk considering this card has a $0 annual fee and comes with some great earning potential.
 
With this card, you can earn 5% cash back at Amazon.com, Whole Foods Market, and on Chase Travel purchases; 2% cash back at restaurants and gas stations, and on local transit and commuting; 1% cash back on all other purchases. For Amazon shoppers, that’s an excellent return on your Amazon.com purchases, and you can use your rewards to pay for future Amazon purchases. Just keep in mind, you must have an eligible Prime membership to qualify for the Prime Visa Card.  Read our full Prime Visa review. 
If you have some extra time on your hands and want to make money quickly, consider trying out Mechanical Turk (MTurk). The MTurk marketplace, run by Amazon, connects businesses and workers to help form relationships that benefit both parties. A business may have certain tasks that need to be completed and they can use MTurk to hire workers to complete these tasks. The workers are paid for the tasks they complete.
 
If you’re skilled in tasks like image and video processing, data verification, data processing, and more, you can use your skills to make money on MTurk. MTurk pays workers in cash or Amazon.com gift cards.
 
Shopkick is a shopping rewards app that provides points, called kicks, when you do any of six rewards-earning activities.
 
Earning rewards starts right when you walk into a participating store. As soon as you step through the doors, you’ll earn some kicks. As you walk through a store, scan eligible products with your in-app scanner to earn more kicks. If you’ve linked a credit card to your Shopkick account and use that card to make purchases at participating stores, expect to earn additional kicks. Be sure to scan your receipt in the app after you purchase select items for a final round of kicks for your in-person shopping experience.
 
Of course, you can also earn kicks without ever leaving the comfort of your home. When you shop at participating online stores through the Shopkick app, you’ll earn kicks. It’s also easy to earn kicks when you watch videos inside the app.
 
Once you earn enough kicks, redeem them for free gift cards through Shopkick. Popular gift card options include Amazon.com, Best Buy, Nike, Target, and more. 
Rakuten (formerly Ebates) is one of the most well-known and used online shopping portals available. With Rakuten, you can save money shopping online by starting your shopping trip through the Rakuten website. 
 
On the website, you’ll find a listing of major online stores with a percentage attached to each one. This percentage lets you know how much cash back you’ll receive when you shop at that store through Rakuten. To earn cash back, simply sign up for a Rakuten membership and then click on the store you want to shop at through the Rakuten website or app. Rakuten will track your purchases and provide you with your rewards.
 
The cash back you earn through Rakuten can be redeemed for cash through PayPal, a mailed check, or Amex Membership Rewards points. Your cash back can’t be redeemed for gift cards, but you can use the cash or points you earn to buy Amazon gift cards yourself.
 
Opinion Outpost is an online survey platform that rewards you for voicing your opinions on a wide variety of topics. As you take online surveys, watch marketing ads, and test new products, you’ll earn points for your time and thoughts.
 
Points earned through Opinion Outpost can be redeemed for cash through PayPal and gift cards. Gift card options include Target, Nike, Apple iTunes, and Amazon.
 
With Microsoft Rewards, you can earn rewards by searching on Bing, making purchases on Microsoft.com, playing games, taking polls, and more. If you already do some of these things with your Microsoft account, this is an easy way to make some extra money at the same time.
 
Microsoft Rewards points can be redeemed for sweepstakes, Xbox Live Gold memberships, Skype credit, and more. And of course, you can also redeem your points for Amazon gift cards.
 
PrizeRebel is an online survey website that offers redeemable points as you give your opinion on the provided surveys. With a community of over 10 million members and more than $22 million in cash and rewards redeemed, PrizeRebel is a legitimate platform for earning extra cash in your spare time.
 
Rewards from PrizeRebel can be redeemed for cash through PayPal or gift cards, including Amazon and Apple iTunes gift cards.
 
If you want to stock up on free gift cards for your next online shopping trip, look over the list we’ve provided to get started. These 15 ways to earn free Amazon gift cards don’t take much work or effort, and you can get started with them immediately.
 
Keep in mind, some of these methods may fit your lifestyle better than others. Be sure to go with the strategies that align with your interests and daily routines. This will make it easier for you to earn your rewards quicker because you’ll also be enjoying yourself at the same time.
 
        Bank of America® Customized Cash Rewards Credit Card
       3% cash back Sponsored Get vetted side hustles and proven ways to earn extra cash sent to your inbox. 

        By submitting this form you agree to receive emails from FinanceBuzz and to the privacy
          policy and terms.
      
 
      Details about Prime Visa 
      have been collected by FinanceBuzz editors. This information, including rates and fees, 
      is accurate as of the date of the review and was not reviewed or approved by the issuer.
      FinanceBuzz does not receive commission for 
      this product.
     TurboTax Online: Important Details about Filing Form 1040 Returns with Limited Credits A Form 1040 return with limited credits is one that's filed using IRS Form 1040 only (with the exception of the specific covered situations described below). Roughly 37% of taxpayers are eligible. If you have a Form 1040 return and are claiming limited credits only, you can file for free yourself with TurboTax Free Edition, or you can file with TurboTax Full Service at the listed price. Situations covered (assuming no added tax complexity): Situations not covered:   Opinions expressed here are the author's alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline, or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by these entities. FinanceBuzz has partnered with CardRatings for our coverage of credit card products. FinanceBuzz and CardRatings may receive a commission from card issuers. FinanceBuzz is an informational website that provides tips, advice, and recommendations to help you make financial decisions. We strive to provide up-to-date information, but make no warranties regarding the accuracy of our information. Ultimately, you are responsible for your financial decisions. FinanceBuzz is not a financial institution and does not provide credit cards or any other financial products. FinanceBuzz.com does not make any credit decisions.