UPDATE: Keep up with Game 2 of the Women's College World Series final between Florida State and Oklahoma. No. 3 Florida State softball is two wins away from winning the 2023 NCAA Softball Women's College World Series. Scroll down or click here for the latest updates. The Seminoles' last test will be the toughest of the season, as they take on No. 1 Oklahoma (59-1) at USA Softball Hall of Fame Stadium, starting at 8 p.m. (EST) Wednesday in the first game of a best-of-three championship series. All three games will be broadcast on ESPN. FSU (58-9) was in a similar position in 2021 and ended up taking the first game from the Sooners. OU won the next two games and won the national championship. They repeated as champions last season. The Seminoles are looking to add their second title in program history, as they also won in 2018. FSU defeated No. 4 Tennessee 5-1 Monday in the WCWS semifinals to advance to the championship series. It also took down No. 6 Oklahoma State (8-0) and No. 7 Washington (3-1) en route to its first 3-0 start at the WCWS. 'Everyone is beatable':Former FSU softball coach believes Seminoles can win championship The Sooners advanced to the WCWS championship series with a 4-2 win over No. 9 Stanford in nine innings Monday in a semifinal game. They also have a 2-0 win over Stanford and a 9-0 win over Tennessee on their resume. OU is on a 51-game winning streak with its lone defeat coming on Feb. 19 at Baylor when the Bears put up four runs in the third inning and escaped with a 4-3 victory. No. 1 Oklahoma pushed its NCAA-record winning streak to 52 games and put No. 3 Florida State softball on the brink of elimination with a 5-0 win Wednesday in Game 1 of the best-of-three-game series in the Women’s College World Series. Jordy Bahl dominated in the circle for the Sooners (60-1) as she struck out 10 in a shutout performance. She limited FSU to just two hits and one walk. OU catcher Kinzie Hansen was 2-for-4 with a double and drove in two runs, while Alyssa Brito and Tiare Jennings each picked up an RBI. Kaeli Harding and Michaela Edenfield each had a single for FSU (58-10). Harding was thrown out at second trying to extend a double in the sixth inning, exemplifying the kind of night it was for FSU. Mack Leonard got the start and pitched three innings, allowing one earned run on one hit. Makenna Reid, Ali DuBois and Allison Royalty each pitched an inning, each allowing one earned run. The Sooners broke the game open with three runs in the fourth inning and chipped in runs in each the fifth and sixth innings. The highlight for the Seminoles came in the bottom of the sixth when Kaley Mudge robbed Haley Lee of a three-run home run which would have ended the game. The Seminoles and Sooners will play Thursday at 7:30 p.m. (ESPN) in an elimination game for FSU and a chance for a three-peat for Oklahoma.  Allison Royalty made her Seminoles debut in the Women’s College World Series. She retired Jocelyn Erickson on a flyball out.  Rylie Boone doubled to right-center field with one out and reached third on a throw that bounced off her hand from the outfield. Jayda Coleman walked and Tiare Jennings singled in Boone to extend the lead to 5-0. Kaley Mudge robbed Haley Lee of a 3-run walk-off home run, leaping over the left field fence and bringing the ball back into play. Kinzie Hansen lined out to third to end the inning. End 6th | OU 5, FSU 0 Kaley Mudge was retired on a bunt back to the pitcher to start the top of the sixth. Jahni Kerr struck out swinging on a rise ball for the second out. Kalei Harding hit one off the wall but was thrown out at second trying to extend it to a double to end the inning. That ended a string of seven straight hitters Jordy Bahl had retired since hitting Michaela Edenfield with one out in the fourth inning. Bahl has found her groove since the inning when she worked out of a jam with two runners in scoring position. FSU is down to its final three outs or could be playing for their season tomorrow.  Mid 6th | OU 4, FSU 0 Jayda Coleman greeted new pitcher Ali DuBois with an infield single to start the bottom of the fifth inning. Tiare Jennings then lined out to shortstop Josie Muffley for the first out. Muffley then made a nice scoop to retire Haley Lee on a ground ball for the second out, but Coleman advanced to second and then scored on an RBI single by Kinzie Hansen.  It was the second RBI of the game for Hasen. Alyssa Brito reached on a single on the next pitch. DuBois walked Grace Lyons to load the bases.  Cydney Sanders flew out to right field to end the threat and continue the game.  End 5th | OU 4, FSU 0 Hallie Wacaser flew out to center field for the first out in the top of the fifth inning. Bethaney Keen went down swinging on a 2-2 pitch and Josie Muffley  FSU’s offense has just one hit through five innings but a wasted opportunity with two runners in scoring position in the fourth has bit them so far. The Seminoles are 0-for-4 with runners in scoring position and are 0-for-8 with runners on base tonight. Mid 5th | OU 3, FSU 0 Haley Lee reached on a hit-by-pitch to start the fourth inning. It was initially ruled it didn't hit her. It was reviewed and changed on the field. Following the AB, freshman Makenna Reid came in for Mack Leonard in the circle. Kinzie Hansen greeted Reid with an RBI double to center field for the first run of the game. Hansen advanced to third on a passed ball by catcher Michaela Edenfield.  Alyssa Brito singled to right field for an RBI single to make the lead 2-0. Gracie Lyons sacrificed Brito to second on a bunt and Cydney Sanders flew out to right field for the second out. An infield single by Alynah Torres and a throwing error by Reid scored the third run of the inning. Rylie Boone popped out in the infield to end the inning. It took four innings but the best offense in college softball showed up to the party. End 4th | OU 3, FSU 0 Jahni Kerr reached on an error by pitcher Jordy Bahl on a comebacker to lead off the top of the fourth inning. It’s the second error of the game for the Sooners.  Bahl bounced back and got Kalei Harding swinging for the first out. Michaela Edenfield was hit by a pitch and that put two runners on. She and Kerr moved up 60 feet on a ground out by Devyn Flaherty. By inches, Mack Leonard misses on giving FSU a 2-0 lead. The ball goes just foul. She struck out swinging on the next pitch to end the inning. Mid 4th | FSU 0, OU 0 Mack Leonard retired Alynah Torres on a groundball to second base to start the bottom of the third inning.  Rylie Boone got the first hit for the Sooners in the bottom of the right-centerfield wall with one out. Jayda Coleman popped out to Michaela Edenfield, who found room in front of the net in foul territory behind home plate for the second out. Tiare Jennings grounded out to Bethaney Keene at first base to get out of the jam. Great start so far for Leonard for the Seminoles, who has allowed just one hit, a walk and picked up two strikeouts in her three innings on 49 pitches. End 3rd | FSU 0, OU 0 Hallie Wacaser found herself on base after Alyssa Brito committed an error on a ball hit to third base to start the top of the third inning. Bethaney Keen went down swinging on a 3-2 ball in the dirt for the first out. Wacaser stole second on the first pitch of the at bat to Josie Muffley. Muffley flew out to shallow center for the second out. Kaley Mudge worked a nine-pitch at bat until she was finally called out looking on a pitch that seemed to be a little outside. That’s the second questionable strike call the Sooners have gotten in the circle. Mid 3rd | FSU 0, OU 0 Mack Leonard retired Kinzie Hansen on a groundball to third baseman Kalei Harding for the first out. Alyssa Brito fell behind 0-2 but worked the count for three straight balls and then earned a walk on the seventh pitch of the at-bat. Lonni Alameda paid Leonard a mound visit after she threw a first-pitch ball to Grace Lyons. Brito advanced to second on a wild pitch. After falling behind 3-2 to Lyons and a foul ball that nearly went fair for extra bases, Leonard got her to ground out to Muffley for the second out. Leonard struck out Cydney Sanders swinging to get out of the inning. The righty has looked good against the Sooners’ offense so far. It’ll be interesting to see if Alameda takes her out before the second time through the order, like against Tennessee. End 2nd | FSU 0, UO, 0 Jordy Bahl struggled to find the strike zone to start the top of the second inning. She went up 3-0 on Michaela Ednefield, who lined a single and then went 3-0 on Devyn Flaherty. Flaherty ended up striking out on a full count, but the 3-1 pitch which was called a strike appeared to be way off the plate and in the other batter's box. Tough, tough call. Mack Leonard grounded into a double play to end the inning. Mid 2nd | FSU 0, OU 0 Following the 43-minute weather delay we resume play with Mack Leonard still in the circle for the Seminoles in the bottom of the first. OU leadoff hitter Jayda Coleman flew out on a 3-1 count to deep center field before the delay. Leonard got two-hole hitter Tiare Jennings to strike out. Jennings started with an 0-1 count before the weather delay. Haley Lee flew out to right field to end the inning. And with that, the two hour first inning has finally come to an end. End 1st | FSU 0, OU 0 Fans have re-entered the park, the teams have taken the field and we have an official start time of 10:02 p.m. It is still very cloudy and dark clouds are over the stadium. But it looks like we'll have softball soon. Following the first out of the game, there was more lightning in the area and the players were pulled from the field. We are in another delay. Jayda Coleman flew out to deep center field on a 3-1 count for the first out of the bottom of the first inning. Jordy Bahl fired the first pitch for a strike at 8:10 p.m. She fell behind 2-1 to FSU leadoff hitter Kaley Mudge before getting her to strike out swinging. Jahni Kerr grounded out to second base on the first pitch off Bahl for the second out and Kalei Harding flew out to deep right field, also on the first pitch. It was a quick seven-pitch first inning for Bahl. Now it’s Mack Leonard’s turn. But the stadium just alerted everyone severe weather is approaching. Mid 1st | FSU 0, OU 0 Despite steady rain, if you looked in the right spot, you could find a sea of garnet and gold munching on food, drinking cocktails and beers and chatting away about Florida State. No, this wasn’t the scene of a tailgate outside of Doak Campbell Stadium at a FSU football game. 1. Jayda Coleman, CF 2. Tiare Jennings, 2B 3. Haley Lee, DP 4. Kinzie Hansen, C 5. Alyssa Brito, 3B 6. Grace Lyons, SS 7. Cydney Sanders, 1B 8. Alynah Torres, RF 9. Riley Boone, LF Jordy Bahl, P Seminoles lineup:1. Kaley Mudge, LF 2. Jahni Kerr, CF 3. Kalei Harding, 3B 4. Michaela Edenfield, C 5. Devyn Flaherty, 2B 6. Mack Leonard, P 7. Hallie Wacaser, RF 8. Bethaney Keen, 1B 9. Josie Muffley, SS And now both teams have taken the field. Feels like a quieter entrance than normal. The first game of the best-of-three-game Women's College World Series will start at 9:10 p.m. (EST), according to ESPN's Holly Rowe. USA Softball Hall of Fame Stadium has been evacuated after reports of lightning in the area. The ESPN broadcast team said officials hope to begin Game 1 around 8:35 p.m. EDT. The delay was called before the teams could begin warmups. The stadium was evacuated for a lightning delay about 45 minutes before the scheduled start of Game 1 of the championship series. A popular championship series pick at the start of the Women's College World Series was Florida State-Oklahoma. It's not much of a surprise considering they were the two highest seeded teams in Oklahoma City. Most experts picked the Sooners to make it a three-peat. But not all of them. "Florida State doesn't have what Oklahoma has, and that's the indelible pressure to win it all," said one.  FSU softball back in the WCWS:Unsung heroes help lead Florida State past Tennessee and into championship series USA Softball Hall of Fame Stadium, Oklahoma City, Okla. 8 p.m. Wednesday, June 7 ESPN (Channel 206 on DirecTV, Channel 140 on Dish) ESPN+ ($9.99 per month), WatchESPN (cable subscription needed) and the ESPN app, YouTube TV (2-week free trial), Hulu + Live TV (7-day free trial), fuboTV (7-day free trial)