Video Gamer is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Prices subject to change. Learn more A new look at the highly anticipated fantasy adventure Dragon’s Dogma 2 has been released during the May 2023 PlayStation showcase and it contains a few quick looks at the dangerous creatures that you’ll face within its world. The deadly beasts are largely reminiscent of the magical enemies from games like The Witcher 3 and the preview even gives us a look at a frightening Medusa enemy that might be a boss at some point in your adventure. The short snippet also gives us an idea of the game’s story, which will most likely include an open world design with plenty of quests to keep players busy. It’s currently unclear whether you’ll be faced with narrative-choices à la Dragon’s Age, but based on what’s been shown so far, this looks to be an epic saga that will keep players mashing buttons for several hours. Although production on Dragon’s Dogma 2 had become widely known within the community after Hideaki Itsuno initially announced it during a livestream, this is still a pleasant surprise for long-time fans as they had been waiting more than 10 years for a sequel to be released. The scenes displayed in the trailer so far should also excite players even more as it naturally improves upon several aspects that had previously been criticized. According to what’s been shown in the short preview clip, there will be a handful of different classes that players should be able to choose from. This includes a few typical ones such as the Sorcerer, Fighter, and Warrior. Some of the other unique jobs from the first Dragon’s Dogma game, like the Mystic Knight and Mage Archer should also be making a return in the follow-up installment. Unfortunately, a release date for this open world adventure is yet to be revealed by either Capcom or PlayStation at the time of writing so you’ll have to remain patient for now. Nico Vergara is a Trends Writer for VideoGamer.com. When not writing about or playing RPGs, he spends time playing basketball, watching the latest movies, and brooding about his favorite sports teams. 
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy and may receive occasional deal communications; you can unsubscribe anytime.
