We participate in marketing programs, our editorial content is not influenced by any commissions. To find out more, please visit our Term and Conditions page. We participate in marketing programs, our editorial content is not influenced by any commissions. To find out more, please visit our Term and Conditions page. - Google Play is updating its terms to allow blockchain games in its store. The company has agreed to do so after many of its users have shown heavy interest in both crypto and non-fungible tokens (NFTs). Joseph Mills – the group product manager for Google Play – explained in an interview: Like with any emerging technology, we must balance innovation with our responsibility to protect users. So, we’ve spoken with developers about responsibly supporting those opportunities while continuing to provide a safe, transparent, and trusted experience for everyone. Some of the games that will now be permitted into the Google Play store are developed by Mythical Games, which features a wide number of play-to-earn titles through which users can garner in-game tokens and crypto to purchase items, outfits, and other products for characters and to enhance their experiences. The company’s CEO John Linden said in a statement: We really appreciate Google’s partnership in this collaborative effort to bring about innovation in this space and move these new economies forward. We think these new policies are steps forward for both players and developers alike and will positively impact the adoption of new technology while also protecting consumers. Reddit is also featuring a page discussing Google Play’s policy changes. Matt Williamson – senior engineer manager at the social media firm – said: At Reddit we believe in empowering our users by providing transparency and a responsible approach to blockchain-based digital content like our collectible avatars. We partnered with Google to help update their policy, aimed at creating a level playing field that promotes user trust and responsible usage of blockchain technology. By setting clear guidelines, we can ensure that our users make informed decisions while enjoying immersive experiences. Mills also went on to say that these changes are part of a learning process for Google and its affiliates, and that the company will work to adapt as customers provide more insight regarding what they want to use and see. He said: We will continue to engage with developers to understand their challenges and opportunities and how we can best support them in building sustainable businesses using blockchain technology. As a next step, we’re talking to industry partners about further improving our support of blockchain-based app experiences including in areas such as secondary markets. Up to this stage, companies like Apple and Google Play have been very much against the idea of allowing the selling of blockchain-based games unless they possessed heavy web2 components, meaning they could be bought with credit cards and other standard payment methods over crypto. This sudden change is expected to bring crypto and blockchain to the masses. Prior to this, most blockchain gaming companies were stuck offering the public their games on the open web. LiveBitcoinNews is a leading online platform dedicated to providing the latest news and insights about Bitcoin and the broader cryptocurrency market. It offers timely updates on market trends, regulatory developments, technological advancements, and expert analyses, catering to both seasoned investors and newcomers in the digital currency space. The site features a variety of content, including articles, guides, interviews, and opinion pieces, making it a comprehensive resource for anyone interested in staying informed about the rapidly evolving world of cryptocurrencies. Contact us: [email protected] © Copyright - Livebitcoinnews.com