A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible early. Partly cloudy skies. Low around 60F. Winds WNW at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible early. Partly cloudy skies. Low around 60F. Winds WNW at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 11:33 pm NORTH ANDOVER — A year after two extreme rainstorms hit the Merrimack Valley, local businesses persevered through a trying year to rebuild themselves – and some continue to do so. CARL RUSSO PHOTOS: Andover High School seniors, 409 of them, crossed the stage at the Tsongas Center for the school’s graduation Monday evening.  CARL RUSSO PHOTOS: Sanborn Elementary School in Andover unveiled a special art project created by art teacher, Jordan Ricciardi displaying a v… CARL RUSSO PHOTOS: The Merrimack Valley Conference Gymnastics Championship Meet was held Thursday night, February 8, at A-2 Gymnastics in Salem NH.  CARL RUSSO PHOTOS: The Andover Conservation and Recreation held their Annual Winterfest at Pomps Pond on Sunday, February 4. Throughout the ev… ANDOVER — The town has taken the next step in its Interim Andover School Project to address overcrowding, security and the heating system at t… Q. This summer, I enjoyed watching the Olympics and seeing so many athletes do remarkable things. Whether it was gymnastics, swimming, archery… ANDOVER — The Town Yard is one step closer to seeing a 248,788-square-foot, mixed-use redevelopment. ANDOVER — The town will launch a pilot program to see if a shared-use path on part of Lincoln Street improves safety for pedestrians and biker… NORTH ANDOVER — A witchcraft history tour will make its way through the Old Burial Ground on Saturday to highlight Andover and North Andover’s… BOSTON — A gun rights group is seeking to repeal a recently approved law banning "ghost" guns and adding dozens of new weapons to the state’s … BOSTON — Gov. Maura Healey signed a bill banning the use of elephants, big cats and other exotic animals for entertainment purposes following … BOSTON — Andover attorney John Fraser is one of the state's newest superior court judges.  Did you ever wonder who makes the absolute best roast beef sandwich North of Boston? Well, on Friday, July 19, we launch a contest to find out whose beef is superior. There will be two rounds of voting. The winner will be announced Friday, Sept. 20. MONTIGNY-LE-BRETONNEUX, France — Kristen Faulkner’s ride “to” Paris is as impressive as her gold medal ride “in” Paris.  NORTH ANDOVER — While Jasmin Mittelman may only be 17, she has found it’s never too late to start something she wanted to pursue as a kid – fi… Marco Gomez Cabo knows that one day, likely very soon, his name will be emblazoned on a bann… Girls Tennis  Boys Track  First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: