Company is Winner of Food Logistics’ 2022 Top Software & Technology Providers Award Through recent acquisitions, TA Services has significantly expanded its cold chain logistics offerings and has reached award-winning status MANSFIELD, TX, Dec. 12, 2022 — TA Services, a premier full-service logistics provider, announces it has won Food Logistics’ 2022 Top Software & Technology Providers award. The award recognizes leaders in cold chain logistics companies for outstanding customer service, innovative use of technology and leadership in the cold chain logistics field. Having the capacity to ship a wide variety of temperature-controlled items requiring precise shipping conditions has always been challenging, but the last few years brought unprecedented difficulties. Demand for cold chain shipments increased as companies continued to add temperature-controlled SKUs while logistics providers faced driver shortages and supply chain disruptions. Many cold chain logistics companies struggled under the pressure, TA Services thrived. Through organic growth and multiple strategic mergers and acquisitions, TA Services has not only grown in size but has also deepened its range of expertise. The acquisition of Toronto, Ontario-based Scout Logistics brought years of cold chain expertise into the team. “As the industry continues to expand and evolve, there has never been a more exciting time to be in cold chain logistics,” said Dani Etkin-Spigelman, VP of Business Development at TA Services, who has more than 8 years of experience with Scout Logistics. “As part of TA Services, we’re now able to connect with more customers, provide a wider selection of services, and innovate more quickly to continue leading the way in cold chain 3PL services.” As a top 3PL provider of choice for leading cold chain logistics companies, TA Services offers a variety of temperature-controlled freight options from frozen to refrigerated, locations across North America, and a team of experts to tackle the toughest cold chain challenges. Beyond these service offerings, TA Services’ people-first commitment makes it a top 3PL provider of choice for drivers across the country, even as the logistics industry faces severe driver shortages. “This award is a testament to our team’s hard work to tackle cold chain challenges head on,” said Scott Schell, president of TA Services. “The logistics are notoriously complex. However, by combining technical expertise, a people-first mentality and a data-centric approach, we ensure our customers receive the unmatched service that the TA Services name has become synonymous with for the past 36 years.” The complete list of Food Logistics’ 2022 Top Software & Technology Providers award winners can be found in the November/December issue of Food Logistics in print and online at foodlogistics.com. About Food Logistics:
Food Logistics reaches more than 26,000 supply chain executives in the global food and beverage industries, including executives in the food sector (growers, producers, manufacturers, wholesalers, and grocers) and the logistics section (transportation, warehousing, distribution, software, and technology) who share a mutual interest in the operations and business aspects of the global cold food supply chain. Food Logistics and sister publication Supply & Demand Chain Executive are also home to L.I.N.K. and L.I.N.K. Educate podcast channels, L.I.N.K. Live, SCN Summit, SupplyChainLearningCenter.com and more. Go to https://www.foodlogistics.com/ to learn more. About TA Services:
Headquartered in Mansfield, Texas with offices located in strategic markets throughout North America, TA Services, Inc. has been operating for more than 36 years and provides a wide range of third-party logistics services including managed transportation, warehousing and fulfillment, multi-modal freight brokerage and cross-border logistics. TA Services is a division of Birmingham-based PS Logistics, LLC. For more information: www.taservices.com. # # # Step Up Your Fraud Prevention Approach in 2024 Unleashing GenAI Magic: Transforming Visual Commerce for Unbeatable Customer Experiences Returns Challenges, Opportunities Covered in New Webinar Multichannel Merchant: Editorial Spotlight on Returns in 2023 Webinar: The Generative AI Genie is Out of the Bottle High-Touch Returns Become Point of Differentiation for 3PLs Goods-To-Person E-Fulfillment Technology: Flexing Along With Demand Foreign Trade Zones: A Hidden Gem for Retailers Automation and Robotics: Moving Past Limitations to Gains Shipping Capacity Management: The Outlook for 2022 Peak Season Content-Based Marketing: A Post-Cookie Evolution Generative AI in Customer Service: A Balanced Blueprint Why Digital Wallets are The Key to Modern Loyalty Marketing ESG and Your Supply Chain: 3 Steps to a Streamlined Strategy Retail Cyber Threats: 5 Ways to Protect Your Business