Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Up-and-coming aircraft manufacturer Natilus announced on Friday that it had signed a deal with cargo carrier Ameriflight. The charter airline agreed to purchase 20 of the manufacturer's smallest feeder aircraft, making it the first US regional carrier to sign a purchase order agreement with Natilus. The airline plans to use these remotely piloted aircraft to enhance operational efficiency while combating the ongoing pilot shortage.
                         The order represents an investment of approximately $134 million by Ameriflight, and is for the remotely piloted 3.8 T aircraft. With this order placed, Natilus has secured orders for over 460 of its next-generation aircraft giving the airline over $6.8 billion in commitments. Ameriflight plans to utilize these efficient planes to help reduce operating costs enabling it to increase its capacity and further expand its operations.
                         As a Part 135 operator, Ameriflight operates charter flights hauling cargo to smaller destinations where there is not enough cargo demand to send a large jet.
                         Over the past few decades, it has built itself up to become the largest Part 135 cargo airline, making itself an indispensable part of the US air cargo industry. The airline specializes in operating short-haul routes with smaller airplanes allowing it to dominate the overnight mail service in many parts of the country.
                         While the airline has only placed a purchase order for 20 on the 3.8 T aircraft, it hopes this will be the first step in a long journey with Natilus. President and Chief Operating Officer of Ameriflight, Alan Rusinowitz, stated the following,
                         "Through this strategic partnership, we are positioning Ameriflight to build the roadmap for the future in cargo operations and be the first regional operator for Natilus in the United States.
                         "Our goal is to grow our product and transform the way we do business through innovation and collaboration, and now through this new partnership with Natilus, Ameriflight will connect the world safely within a sustainable business model."
                         The Co-Founder and CEO of Natilus, Aleksey Matyushev, shared how the order will help Ameriflight further its operations and revolutionize the industry stating,
                         "The Ameriflight agreement is a major move forward for the air cargo industry to strengthen the regional supply chain."
                         Get the latest aviation news straight to your inbox: Sign up for our newsletters today.
                         The 3.8 T, which Ameriflight has ordered, is an autonomous aircraft designed to carry cargo more efficiently. The aircraft will feature a diamond shape cargo hold allowing it to carry far more volume than any airplane currently operated by Ameriflight.
                         It will have a range of up to 900 nautical miles, a cruising speed of 220 knots, and a max payload of 4.3 metric tons. The unique airframe design will not only allow it to carry more cargo but will also enable it to operate with reduced drag, increasing efficiency and performance.
                         The 3.8 T will feature a carbon fiber design reducing operating costs by up to 60% and carbon emissions by 50%. It will also be piloted remotely, allowing the airline to deal with the current shortage as one pilot can monitor several aircraft while in the cruise portion of flight. Matyushev shared,
                         "Developing autonomous solutions that are purpose-built to address the needs of the air cargo market is one important step toward developing more robust long-term solutions. Autonomous technologies seek to utilize labor more efficiently by allowing a single pilot to control multiple aircraft, helping address the dire pilot shortage."
      What do you think of Ameriflight's order for 20 autonomous aircraft? Let us know in the comments below. 
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. The flight will only operate on Saturdays for six months.  The airline is continuing its work to build a diverse pipeline of aviation professionals. The crew member made this claim during an interview with the NTSB just days after the incident occurred. Overcapacity in North Asia is starting to affect passenger loads at Singapore Airlines and Scoot, although the group has fully recovered post-COVID. Lufthansa Technik is adding the Boeing 777-200ER to its AeroSHARK family, with four from Austrian Airlines being modified with sharkskin riblets. The carrier said the move is to “better align capacity with demand.”