Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  A cruise may be an ideal vacation but there's a lot that can go wrong, too — from missing the boat to picking up a bug to breaking your foot in the ship's pool. Thankfully, cruise insurance can reimburse you for many prepaid and non-refundable expenses. CNBC Select analyzed 19 cruise insurance companies and selected the best providers and plans, based on cost, coverage, limits and customer service. (See our methodology for more information on how we chose the best cruise insurance plans.) The best way to estimate your costs is to request a quote Add-ons include a collision damage waiver for rental car insurance and Cancel for Any Reason (CFAR) coverage that covers 75% of prepaid costs if you cancel within 14 days Yes Who’s this for? AXA Assistance USA is a standout for budget-conscious cruisers with the lowest rates of all the travel insurance companies we reviewed Standout benefit: AXA's Silver Plan can reimburse travel costs if you lose your job. The Platinum plan comes with coverage of up to $3,000 per person for baggage loss. [ Jump to more details ] The best way to estimate your costs is to request a quote Nationwide offers single-trip, annual and cruise-specific policies with high coverage limits for missed connections and medical expenses. Pre-existing medical condition waivers are available with some plans Yes Who’s this for? Nationwide's Universal Cruise plan offers up to $2,500 per person to help you catch up to your ship if you miss a connection or are delayed getting to your departure port. Standout benefit: The lookback period for Nationwide's pre-existing condition waiver is only 60 days, half of what many other carriers require. [ Jump to more details ] The best way to estimate your costs is to request a quote Travel Guard offers five plans to suit travel ranging from road trips to long cruises. Deluxe policies include coverage for missed connections, security evacuations and accidental death and dismemberment. Add-ons include coverage for adventure sports, wedding cancellation and pet companions Yes Read our AIG Travel Guard review Who’s this for? AIG Travel Guard Preferred includes coverage for one child age 17 or younger with each related adult. Standout benefit: Useful add-ons include wedding cancellation insurance and protections for traveling pets. Plans can include coverage for prepaid deposits. [ Jump to more details ] The best way to estimate your costs is to request a quote Berkshire Hathaway Travel Protection has multiple plans to cover vacations from luxury travel to adventure travel. The brand's LuxuryCare offers the highest limits of travel insurance coverage offered by the company. Quotes and policies are available online.  Yes Who’s this for? Berkshire Hathaway Travel Insurance LuxuryCare is a great option if you're shelling out big bucks for a luxury cruise —  it has higher reimbursement limits than many other providers. Standout benefit: LuxuryCare offers trip cancellation coverage of up to $100,000 per traveler, a trip delay benefit of up to $2,000 and lost baggage reimbursement up to $2,500. The best way to estimate your costs is to request a quote World Nomads offers protection for all kinds of travelers, from solo adventurers to families. Policies are underwritten by Nationwide and include robust coverage for medical expenses and emergency evacuation. Yes Who’s this for? World Nomads caters to thrill seekers, with coverage for over 200 activities — including surfing, sailing and safaris. Standout benefit: In addition to baggage, the Explorer Plan reimburses stolen, lost or damaged sporting equipment at up to $1,500 per item or $3,000 total. [ Jump to more details ] The best way to estimate your costs is to request a quote Seven Corners offers six plans and optional add-ons like Cancel For Any Reason (CFAR) coverage, rental car protection, adventure sports coverage and sports equipment delay. Pre-existing conditions waiver  available on certain plans Yes Who’s this for? Seven Corners is for travelers concerned about health issues. The lookback period for the Trip Protection Elite plan's pre-existing conditions waiver is only 60 days, compared to 120 (or even 180) for other providers. Standout benefit: The pre-existing conditions waiver applies to plans purchased within 20 days of your initial deposit, more generous than many competitors. [ Jump to more details ] The AXA Silver Plan is the company's most affordable option. The Gold Plan has higher reimbursement limits, while the Platinum Plan adds CFAR insurance, $50,000 in rental car insurance and coverage for sports equipment. We've also named AXA one of the best overall travel insurance providers. Trip cancellation and interruption The full trip cost (100%) is covered for both cancellations and interruptions. Trip delay For trips delayed more than 12 hours, you're eligible for up to $100 in expenses per day, with a $500 maximum. Lost/delayed baggage If your bags are delayed at least 24 hours, you can be reimbursed up to $200 for expenses. Lost baggage has a maximum benefit of $750. Medical coverage and evacuation and repatriation Pre-existing conditions A pre-existing coverage waiver is available for medical conditions that existed at least 60 days before purchasing a policy. Coverage must be bought within 14 days of your initial trip deposit. [ Return to summary ] Nationwide's Universal Cruise Plan is the company's standard policy, but it allows you to cancel because of work-related issues or the extension of the school year. The delayed baggage benefit kicks in after just eight hours, much sooner than many competitors. Trip cancellation and interruption The full trip cost is covered for both cancellations and interruptions, including because of Covid-19. Trip delay Delays of at least six hours (or at least three hours for a missed connection) are eligible for reimbursement up to $500. Baggage delay and loss If your bags are delayed more than eight hours, you can be reimbursed for $250 in expenses. Lost baggage has a maximum benefit of $1,500. Medical coverage and evacuation and repatriation Pre-existing conditions No coverage for pre-existing conditions within 60 days of your policy's start date. [ Return to summary ] World Nomad's Explorer Plan includes $35,000 in rental car insurance, an $10,000 accidental death and dismemberment benefit and coverage for adventure sports. World Nomad policies are underwritten by Nationwide. Trip cancellation and interruption Covered up to the trip cost with a $10,000 maximum. Trip delay You're eligible for up to $250 per day after a delay of six hours, with a $3,000 maximum Baggage delay and loss If your bags are delayed more than 12 hours, you can be reimbursed for up to $150 a day with a $750 maximum. Lost baggage has a maximum benefit of $3,000. Medical coverage and evacuation and repatriation Pre-existing conditions No coverage waiver for pre-existing conditions that fall within the company's 90-day lookback period. [ Return to summary ] Seven Corners' Trip Protection Elite plan has generous coverage limits and can be bought for groups of 10 or more travelers. Add-ons include Cancel for Any Reason coverage and a pre-existing condition waiver and cruise and tour plans have a missed connection benefit of $150 per day after a 3-hour delay, with a $1,500 maximum. Trip cancellation and interruption Trip cancellations are covered for 100% of the trip cost and interruptions are covered for 150% of the trip cost. Trip delay After a delay of six hours, you're eligible for up to $300 per day. There is a $1,500 maximum.Delayed/lost baggage If your bags are delayed more than 12 hours, you can be reimbursed up to $100 per day with a $600 maximum. Lost baggage has a maximum payout of $2,500 per person. Medical coverage and evacuation and repatriation Pre-existing conditions Pre-existing conditions are covered if you purchase coverage within 20 days of making your initial trip deposit. If you don't qualify for the pre-existing conditions waiver, there is no emergency medical coverage for conditions existing within 60 days of your policy's start date. [ Return to summary ] AIG Travel Guard Preferred has a higher payout limit for lost or stolen baggage than many competitors, as well as optional Cancel for Any Reason coverage. If you miss a connection, you can be reimbursed up to $1,000 for unused prepaid or nonrefundable travel and for transportation expenses to rejoin your trip. Trip cancellation and interruption Trip cancellations are covered for 100% of the trip cost (up to a max of $150,000) and trip interruptions are covered for 150% of the trip cost (up to a max of $225,000). Trip delay Travelers are eligible for up to $200 per day for expenses if a trip is delayed at least five hours, with a $800 maximum. Delayed/lost baggage If your bags are delayed more than 12 hours, you can be reimbursed up to $300 for expenses. Lost baggage has a maximum benefit of $1,000 per person. Medical coverage and evacuation and repatriation Pre-existing conditions A pre-existing conditions waiver applies when you purchase coverage within 15 days of the initial trip deposit. [ Return to summary ] LuxuryCare includes more approved reasons for trip cancellation and coverage for more expensive trips, as well as higher limits for medical expenses and emergency evacuation. There is also an optional Cancel for Any Reason upgrade.Trip cancellation and interruption Trip cancellations are covered for 100% of the trip cost (up to $100,000) and trip interruptions are covered for 150% of the trip cost (up to $150,000). Trip delay Trip delays of five hours or more qualify for reimbursement of up to $200 per day, with a $2,000 maximum. Delayed/lost baggageFor baggage delays of more than 12 hours, you can be reimbursed up to $500 for expenses. Lost baggage has a maximum benefit of $2,500 per person. Medical coverage and evacuation and repatriation Pre-existing conditions Plans include a pre-existing medical conditions waiver if you purchase the policy within 15 days of your initial trip deposit.  [ Return to summary ] You can purchase a policy up to 24 hours before your departure, but sooner is better. Some benefits, like a pre-existing condition waiver, have a smaller window in which you can buy coverage. Travel insurance typically won't cover a medical condition that has been diagnosed, worsened or changed during the policy's look-back period, which is usually 60 to 180 days. A pre-existing condition waiver allows you to be covered but you must typically buy the policy within a few weeks of your first trip deposit. Cruise insurance may cover missed connections, but each policy has different limits on how much you'll be reimbursed and what exactly you'll be reimbursed for. Read your policy before you purchase it. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every cruise insurance review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of travel insurance products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best cruise insurance plans. To determine the best cruise insurance plans, CNBC Select analyzed the offerings of 19 insurance companies and compared them based on various factors. These included the maximum coverage limits, optional coverages, types of coverage, premiums and what the policies cover. We also considered financial strength ratings from AM Best and Better Business Bureau ratings for customer satisfaction. We based premium costs on a sample cruise with the following details (when applicable): Sample rates assumed that payments were made on the date of the quote. Premiums and policy structures advertised for cruise insurance companies are subject to fluctuation in accordance with company policies. Catch up on CNBC Select’s in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.