MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More Taylor Medine is a personal finance writer who focuses on demystifying related topics for people like her — the everyday consumer. Her work has been published by FinanceBuzz, Credit Karma and Experian. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Here’s a breakdown of how we reviewed and rated the best travel insurance companies  Yes, you can get travel insurance for a group, but group members must have similar travel itineraries. Many travel insurance websites let you pull quotes and purchase group travel insurance plans online. Group coverage can be for family members or between friends. Group travel insurance typically covers emergency medical expenses and evacuations, luggage loss or delay and cancellations due to sickness or death. Groups can also choose to tack on add-ons such as Cancel-for-any-reason (CFAR) coverage. Here are our top picks for companies that offer group travel insurance: We created a hypothetical group trip to gain an estimate of costs for each insurer. We based our cost analysis on a group of 10 traveling from Massachusetts to the Dominican Republic for two weeks in June. Five travelers are 34 years old, and five travelers are 40. The trip costs $2,500 per person or $25,000 total. Our editorial team follows a comprehensive methodology for rating and reviewing travel insurance companies. Advertisers have no effect on our rankings. Companies Reviewed Quotes Collected Rating Factors Faye Travel Insurance made our list of the best group travel insurance providers thanks to its convenient application process. With Faye’s automated underwriting, most applicants can buy travel insurance for a group in less than 10 minutes. You just have to enter each person’s email and date of birth to see group pricing. You can adjust pricing data and add optional coverages from the purchase page, making Faye a good choice for quick, convenient quotes. If your trip is interrupted, Faye offers unique add-ons that suit a range of traveler needs, including rental car and pet coverage. Add-on options Faye travel insurance offers the following add-on options for group policies: Cost A group of 10 travelers taking a 14-day trip to the Dominican Republic valued at $10,000 can expect to pay $977 for coverage, which averages out to $98 per traveler. Travelex is Our pick for families for group travel insurance. With a Travelex plan, you can cover up to ten people in your group under a single plan. This simplifies the enrollment and claims process and can help you save money compared to purchasing plans individually. Additionally, adults with a travel plan receive coverage for children under 17 for no additional cost.  Travelex also offers a flexible cancellation policy, cancel for any reason coverage worth up to 75% of trip costs, and several plan add-ons.  Add-on options  We like Seven Corners coverage for international travel because even the most basic policies let you add Cancel for Any Reason (CFAR) coverage. This gives you the flexibility to call off a trip and get reimbursed for reasons not typically covered by insurance, like work or school obligations. For big groups putting down a large deposit on a getaway, this coverage can give you peace of mind. Seven Corners also offers COVID-19 protections. For example, insurance coverage can reimburse you for medical costs if someone in the group catches COVID-19 during the trip. Seven Corners RoundTrip policies are underwritten by the United States Fire Insurance Company, which gets an A rating from AM Best. Add-On Options Nationwide specializes in cruise travel insurance, a boon for groups taking to the high seas for a getaway. With cruise coverage, you can get reimbursed for costs incurred if a cruise line’s itinerary changes because of fire, mechanical problems or other issues. Aside from those cruise-specific coverages, Nationwide provides other basic travel protections for emergency medical expenses and lost, stolen or delayed baggage problems. Nationwide policies don’t come with special pandemic coverage that some other insurers on our list, but they have medical expenses and cancellation coverages, which could pay medical costs and prepaid travel costs if you get sick while on your cruise. Add-On Options You may be able to include the following add-ons to your policy: Tin Leg offers a variety of policies, giving passengers the ability to highly customize their trip insurance. For example, the Tin Leg Adventure policy protects from sport-related problems, like lost equipment, equipment delivery delays and canceled sporting events fees. A policy like this can make sense if you’re planning a group golf or fishing trip, for example. Different companies underwrite Tin Leg policies, and the AM Best rating for those companies varies. Berkshire Hathaway Speciality Insurance is one underwriter, and it has an A++ (Superior) AM Best financial strength rating. Spinnaker Insurance Company is another underwriter with an A- rating. Add-On Options You may be able to include the following add-ons to premium policies: AXA offers one of the most affordable plans on our list, ideal for leisure and budget travelers. Basic insurance comes with trip cancellation and interruption coverage, plus protections for medical emergencies. Cancel for any reason insurance isn’t available in AXA’s Silver policy plan, the cheapest travel insurance option. CFAR becomes an add-on option if you upgrade to a Platinum policy, but that costs more. In our trip scenario, the policy rate increased by more than 50% when pivoting from the Silver to the Platinum package. Add-On Options Customizable add-ons are available if you upgrade from basic AXA coverage to more premium policies. With a premium plan, these add-ons may be an option: Allianz Global Assistance is a popular travel insurance provider that serves more than 55 million customers. We like that Allianz Global Assistance provides a 24-hour concierge service you can use to plan trip events, make reservations and more. Basic plans also come with pandemic coverage, so you won’t lose all your trip costs if you come down with COVID-19 before or during the trip. CFAR insurance is an add-on option if you upgrade to the company’s OneTime Prime or OneTime Premier plans. Add-On Options You may be able to include the following add-ons to your policy: Travel insurance is financial protection you can buy to mitigate the risks associated with travel. It typically covers a range of potential mishaps, such as trip cancellations and lost baggage. Policies compensate you for non-refundable trip expenses, medical emergencies and evacuations. What is coverage and what is not depends on your specific policy details. Some groups considering travel insurance may like the reassurance that their financial investment is protected in the face of unforeseen events. Group travel involves coordinating the plans and schedules of multiple people, making it more susceptible to disruptions caused by illness, flight delays and other unexpected incidents. Travel insurance can offer peace of mind by providing financial protection and streamlining the process of addressing unforeseen challenges. Travel insurance coverage includes multiple types of protections, depending on the insurer. Common coverages include: Add-ons for travel insurance can vary, but some may include: We still live in a world where COVID-19 is an active virus that could throw a wrench into travel plans. Travel insurance may cover your group members if their trip is canceled or interrupted due to a medical illness, such as catching COVID-19. However, canceling due to fear of travel alone may not be covered. Reading the terms of your policy can help you understand how you’re protected. According to our research, the average cost of a travel insurance policy for groups is $335. However, the actual cost of your group plan may vary based on the number of travelers, traveler ages, destination, total trip cost and provider chosen.  Use the calculator below to help estimate the cost of your group’s travel insurance policy. Many factors affect the cost of a group travel insurance policy, including: Buying travel insurance as a group presents opportunities to save on individual coverage, but you can follow a few strategies to lower costs even more. Start by collecting quotes from each of the top group insurers on our list to see which offers the most affordable policy. Because of differences in underwriting processes, finding the same coverage at different prices between insurers is possible. Tailoring the insurance plan to meet your group’s specific requirements is another good tactic that allows you to avoid unnecessary expenses and find adequate coverage. Weigh if you need any add-on coverages, and consider medical-only coverage if your group is less concerned about cancellations and interruptions. For frequent travelers, looking at annual policies covering multiple trips is a cost-effective alternative to buying separate policies for each journey. Getting group travel insurance with people sharing the same itinerary and travel reservations can make sense. Managing one policy can be convenient, and you’re aware that each person you’re responsible for on the trip has adequate protection. For friends, students, and extended family coming from different places and meeting up at a location at different times, you’re better off going with separate coverage. That’s because you need to provide similar travel dates and the same trip destination to get a quote. And from a planning standpoint, it would likely be easier to manage policies for separate itineraries individually. We asked four experts to share insights on how to save money on trip expenses, which you can apply to your group travels. you want to spend for the vacation. You can then break it down for each day of travel. Think about the reason for your trip. If you are trying to enjoy the outdoors, keep your accommodation costs at a minimum. Hostels or homestays can be much more economical than hotels, where you may not even spend much time. Look for last-minute deals on Kayak, TripAdvisor, etc., and travel during low season.“ the off-season. Even though summer is the busy travel season, some destinations are more popular in fall, winter or spring. For example, some popular destinations in Mexico are more humid in the summer and resorts may offer discounted rates compared to busier winter or spring seasons. If traveling to a bigger city, consider staying outside the city center where you can often find cheaper lodging. “ on items you don’t truly need. Also, while we strive for flawless travel experiences, reality often throws us curveballs. Have a contingency plan ready for inclement weather or unexpected closures of venues. Flexibility is key to ensuring a smooth journey.“ of transportation, accommodations, food and drink, entrance fees, etc., remember that you may need a passport, passport renewal or a visa. Sometimes we forget to investigate the status of our documents or are not aware of regularly changing entrance requirements. Also, local transportation costs (gas for your rental car or subway, bus or taxi fare) are sometimes forgotten but can add up. When choosing airfare, be honest with yourself about how much luggage you will take, as there is often a baggage fee, which for some airlines is more expensive than airfare. Also consider if you might be interested in add-ons, such as fast passes at theme parks or a beverage package on a harbor cruise.“ Proin id dui odio. Sed vehicula eget sem vel dapibus. Nam a semper eros, vitae eleifend metus. Sed eget lorem vestibulum, consectetur sem id, molestie erat. Vivamus a purus lacinia, fringilla nibh eu, tincidunt tellus. In sodales, sem non finibus sodales, dolor nisi viverra nulla, ut tempus magna nisi sit amet lacus. Integer hendrerit tristique metus. Sed posuere blandit augue, non commodo nunc laoreet vitae. Fusce et hendrerit purus, eget mattis ante.“ It depends on your travel plans. If you’re traveling in a group with shared plans, buying group travel insurance can be an affordable and easy way to obtain coverage. For people traveling from separate locations with different itineraries, getting individual policies is a better way to get the best coverage for everyone going on the trip. Group travel insurance policies are travel insurance policies that cover several members, such as 10 or more, taking a trip together. Group travel insurance policies are for larger groups. An individual travel insurance policy can cover you and other travelers, like your children or your partner — but it doesn’t cover members of a larger party like group travel insurance does. It depends. Factors like the trip cost and how many people are going can all contribute to the price. Comparing rates with different providers can help you find the most affordable policy with coverage that’s sufficient for your getaway. Gain insight into our ratings for the best home, renters, pet, travel or life insurance providers and find affordable recommendations for necessary insurance products. Our team surveyed dozens of travel insurance providers and created a scoring system to judge each company based on coverage, quality and service. We also collected sample quotes from each company, both over the phone and on the internet, to simulate an authentic customer experience. Here are the factors we take into consideration when rating providers:

Cost (10%): To determine a baseline average travel insurance cost, we gathered quotes from each travel insurance company based on different traveler profiles. Travel insurance companies at or below our calculated average cost of $221 earn full points in this category. Specifically, we obtained quotes for the following trips

A 30-year-old couple taking a $5,000 vacation to Mexico.
A family of four taking an $8,000 vacation to Mexico.
A 65-year-old couple taking a $7,000 vacation to the United Kingdom.
A 30-year-old couple taking a $7,000 trip to the United Kingdom.
A 19-year-old taking a $2,000 trip to France.
A 27-year-old couple taking a $1,200 trip to Greece.
A 51-year-old couple taking a $2,000 trip to Spain.


Plan availability (10%): We look for insurers with a variety of travel insurance plans and the ability to customize a policy with coverage upgrades.
Coverage details (29%): We review the baseline coverage each company offers in its cheapest comprehensive plan. A provider with robust coverage earns full points, including baggage delay and loss, COVID-19 coverage, emergency evacuation and medical coverage, trip delay and cancellation coverage, and more. Companies also receive points for offering a variety of policy add-ons like accidental death and dismemberment, extreme sports, valuable items, cancel for any reason coverage and more.
Coverage times and amounts (34%): We compare each company’s waiting periods and maximum reimbursement amounts for baggage, travel and weather delays. Companies that offer customers reimbursement after fewer than 12 hours of delays earn full points in this category. We also reward travel insurance providers that cover more than 100% of trip costs in the event of cancellations or interruptions.
Company service and reviews (17%): We look for indicators that a company is well-prepared to respond to customer needs. Companies with an established global resource network, 24/7 emergency hotline, mobile app, multiple ways to file a claim and concierge services score higher in this category. We assess reputation by evaluating consumer reviews, third-party financial strength and customer experience ratings, specifically from AM Best and the Better Business Bureau (BBB).

For more information, read our full travel insurance methodology.
A.M. Best Disclaimer
 For more information, read our full travel insurance methodology. A.M. Best Disclaimer If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Taylor Medine is a personal finance writer who focuses on demystifying related topics for people like her — the everyday consumer. Her work has been published by FinanceBuzz, Credit Karma and Experian. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.