Nationwide’s decision to not renew 10,525 homeowners’ insurance policies in Eastern North Carolina could be a warning sign for the state’s insurance market, an expert told The News & Observer. “I’m thinking about this more like a possible canary in the coal mine, or a concern that’s raising flags today but probably isn’t necessarily raising rates for consumers on a large scale,” Ben Collier, an assistant professor at Temple University’s Department of Risk, Insurance and Healthcare Management, told The News & Observer. Nationwide’s decision to not renew the policies was based on a review of climate severity, weather-related losses and the state of the reinsurance market, according to Jason Tyson, a spokesman for the N.C. Department of Insurance. The company used its internal hurricane hazard assessment tool to decide against renewing 5,781, or more than half, of the polices. While much attention on Nationwide’s non-renewals has focused on the 890 properties affected across Dare and Hyde counties, more of the affected homes are located in the coastal plain and in other storm-impacted areas near the coast. Pitt County has the most non-renewals, with 1,324. Craven County, which saw significant damage during Hurricane Florence, is second, with 938, followed by Wayne County’s 931 affected properties. Nationwide’s action was first reported by The Virginian-Pilot in Norfolk. Nationwide told the N.C. Department of Insurance in February that the policies were being dropped because the company had assessed and rebalanced its portfolio “based on risk.” In a recent statement, Nationwide wrote, “Inflation and market disruptions impact insurance just like they do any other business. In many instances, this means we are updating our rates. It also means we are being more selective about where we write certain amounts of business and the amount of overall risk we are willing to write. These are tough decisions, but the right decisions that will enable us to be here long term for our customers.” Nationwide and its affiliates write about 7.3% of North Carolina’s homeowners insurance policies, according to data from the N.C. Department of Insurance. That makes it one of the state’s largest holders of homeowners policies, trailing only State Farm, N.C. Farm Bureau and Allstate in terms of market share. If Nationwide decided to pull out of larger swaths, or leave the state entirely, it could reduce the competition for writing homeowners insurance policies and drive prices up, warned Collier, the Temple professor. That’s happened with some large insurers in hazard-prone states like California and Florida. It can pose a problem for homeowners and buyers, whose mortgages typically require them to carry insurance on the property. “There’s a lot of longer-term concerns that if something like this happened with Nationwide on a large scale in North Carolina, it could fundamentally change how people buy their insurance there,” Collier said. Increased wind and hail losses from storms like Matthew and Florence played a role in the N.C. Rate Bureau’s requested 24.5% increase in homeowners insurance rates in 2021. Insurance Commissioner Mike Causey ultimately negotiated that to an average 7.9% increase, with higher hikes in certain places like the Triangle and in coastal areas. As losses from disasters like large hurricanes and wildfires have mounted in recent years, the cost of reinsurance — the insurance that covers insurance companies — has spiked. Earlier this year, risk analysis firm Guy Carpenter reported that reinsurance rates on property in the United States were at their highest levels in 17 years, increasing between 20% and 50% ahead of a key July 1 renewal date. North Carolina saw two widespread hurricanes with 2016’s Hurricane Matthew and 2018’s Hurricane Florence. Since then, most of the largest storms have been concentrated in Florida or on the Gulf Coast. Still, Collier said, damage from those storms and the costs of rebuilding could be shifting how Nationwide and its models think about a storm-prone place like North Carolina, both in terms of what policies to write and how much premiums should cost. “Even if we haven’t had a terrible event in North Carolina in the last five years, what’s happening in other states is still informing us here,” Collier said. “The other thing we have to worry about is the view of the risk may additionally increase if there’s another severe event in North Carolina.” Should another large storm hit North Carolina, Collier warned, other insurers’ views of risk could shift toward those held by Nationwide, pushing insurance prices up in hard-hit areas. Nationwide signaled a willingness to rewrite some of the policies, according to Tyson, if the wind and hail coverage is carried by the North Carolina Insurance Underwriting Association. That’s a group of insurers that act as a “market of last resort” in the state’s coastal areas. It’s fairly common for insurance companies to seek a different party to carry the highest-risk portions of policies in hazard-prone states, Collier said. In Texas, for instance, the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association offers most wind and hail policies for coastal areas, while the California Earthquake Authority manages more than a million earthquake insurance policies. “That’s certainly a thing we’re seeing already in places with higher risk for things like wind damage,” Collier said. In fact, Tyson wrote, many insurers writing policies east of Interstate 95 automatically turn the wind coverage over to the N.C. Insurance Underwriting Association, which is also known as the Beach Plan because of the areas it covers. “North Carolina has a viable homeowners insurance market, coverage is available and the Beach Plan is robust,” Tyson wrote. This story was produced with financial support from the Hartfield Foundation and 1Earth Fund, in partnership with Journalism Funding Partners, as part of an independent journalism fellowship program. The N&O maintains full editorial control of the work. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Amid Donald Trump’s continuing efforts to beat the “weird” allegations that Democrats have been levying, the former president on Monday claimed that he and running mate JD Vance are quite the opposite: “extremely normal.”In York, Pennsylvania, Trump referenced the attack that has gained steam in large part thanks to President Kamala Harris’s running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz."He said we’re weird, that JD and I are weird. I think we’re extremely normal people, exactly like you” Trump said wit The coach of the Golden State Warriors took a page from star player Steph Curry's book. Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." One day before the start of the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, presidential hopeful Kamala Harris has embarked on a bus tour in Pennsylvania with her running mate Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota. Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... Yellowstone National Park on Sunday issued its annual reminder that the bison rut is underway, advising tourists to “use extra caution and give bison extra space during this time.” If anyone wonders why they should be more careful Republicans hope the conservative U.S. Supreme Court will intervene in an Arizona state election dispute. Amid reports of a feud between “It Ends With Us” co-stars Blake Lively and Justin Baldoni, recent footage making the rounds has the internet comparing the actress to “Mean Girls” villain Regina George. After receiving a friendship bracelet from a reporter while walking the red carpet at the film’s London premiere on Aug. 8, the “Gossip Girl” alum has been called out for responding with what ... The Foreign Ministry will be offering three-month visas as early as next month, Russian state media said. Melania Trump has largely been absent from Donald Trump's campaign, appearing only sporadically in public. The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said