 Internet Governance is understood as the development and application by governments, the private sector and civil society, in their respective roles, of shared principles, norms, rules, decision-making procedures and programmes that shape the evolution and use of the internet. In order to ensure a sustainable, people-centred and rights-based approach to the internet, the Council of Europe engages in setting and promoting standards, building partnerships and fostering multi-stakeholder dialogue. Image © Shutterstock  Brief overview of the latest Council of Europe guidelines and activities in the field of internet governance 
                                        Following a process that began in 2023 and is set to be completed in 2024, an abridged version of... 
                                 
                                        In the framework of the Latvian Presidency’s priority of supporting the Council of Europe digital... 
                                 
                                        Patrick Penninckx, Head of the Information Society Department, undertook a working visit to... 
                                 The overall aim of the Council of Europe's Internet Governance Strategy is to ensure that public policy for the internet is people-centred in order to build democracy online, to protect internet users, and to ensure respect and protection for human rights online. Modern societies face an increasingly digital, mobile and social media environment, which provides users with ever more information from ever more sources. Overtaking traditional media, large technology companies play an increasing role in terms of distribution of news and digital advertising. In this evolving context, the Council of Europe promotes quality journalism that can increase levels of political knowledge, participation and engagement, and subsequently reduce corruption and encourage elected officials to represent their constituents more effectively. Conscious of the opportunities and challenges created by the internet for the exercise and enjoyment of human rights, the Council of Europe has engaged in setting and promoting standards to address these challenges. The key objective consists in guaranteeing that the European Convention of Human Rights applies both offline and online, and member states engage to respect, protect and promote these rights on the internet. The Internet has radically transformed the way we access information and communicate - creating new opportunities for strengthening democracy. Unfortunately it can also be used to restrict human rights and to commit crimes. Revelations on mass online surveillance and regular reports on abuses of the rights to privacy and free expression clearly show the need to effectively protect human rights on the net. The Council of Europe works with governments, the private sector, civil society and other actors to shape the Internet as a safe and open environment where freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association, diversity, culture and education can flourish. The use of automated data-processing techniques raises challenges not only for the specific policy area in which they are operated, but also for society as a whole. The right to life, the right to fair trial, the presumption of innocence, the right to privacy and freedom of expression, workers’ rights, the right to free elections, and the rule of law itself are all impacted. The impact of ‘algorithms’ used by the public and private sector, in particular by internet platforms, on the exercise of human rights and the possible regulatory implications has become one of the most hotly debated questions today. The fast pace of technological change and the cross-border nature of internet services present opportunities, but also challenges for users. While it is the task of governments to protect human rights and the rule of law online, companies play a critical role in addressing today’s challenges of the digital age because they provide and control its infrastructure. The partnership with the Council of Europe enables them to sit side-by-side with governments when shaping internet policy.   Art. 10 European Convention on Human Rights  Publications  Reports  Adopted texts  Leaflets  Videos  Useful links                