Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article Munich, GERMANY — The IAA in Munich, Germany is one of Europe's most high-profile auto shows. And it was dominated by Chinese electric car firms looking to expand their presence on the continent and challenge incumbents from BMW to Ford in the new era of battery-powered vehicles. Chinese start-ups and players had some of the biggest stands at the event with high-profile press conferences and vehicle launches, underscoring their intention to make a splash in the European market. China, the world's largest EV market, has seen a tidal wave of electric car companies pop up in the last few years, driven by government subsidies and venture capital funding. But a slowing market at home, due to tepid consumer spending after Covid-19 restrictions were lifted, coupled with an attractive market in Europe, has seen Chinese firms launch cars abroad and expand their footprint. "Europe is one of the largest (second after China) mass market vehicle markets ... If the Chinese EV makers want to secure a growth path beyond their local market, its very logical to look at Europe," Daniel Roeska, senior research analyst at Bernstein Research, told CNBC via email. Roeska added that Europe, with its "stringent de-facto" ban on combustion engine cars in 2035, "is pushing the market faster towards EVs at a time when most EU brands ... do not have a perfect offering yet, making market share gains easier." Many of the European carmakers have been seen lagging in their push into EVs at a time when Chinese players have launched dozens of new vehicles. The ambitions of Chinese EV firms were on display at the IAA. On the morning of the first day, Leapmotor, a Chinese firm headquartered in Hangzhou, announced plans to bring its C10 sports utility vehicle, or SUV, to European markets next year. In the next two years, the company said it plans to introduce five "globally-oriented" products across the world. "All of Leapmotor's subsequent products will be designed and developed with a global mindset and adhere to global standards," Leapmotor CEO Zhu Jiangming said at a press conference on Monday. Meanwhile, BYD, the carmaker backed by Warren Buffett, launched its Seal electric sedan for Europe on Monday, starting at 44,900 euros ($48,479). For comparison, in Germany, Tesla's Model 3, starts at 42,990 euros. And there were more announcements about continued expansion into new territories. Xpeng said Monday it will expand sales of its cars into the German market in 2024. The company currently sells its P7 sedan and G9 SUV in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands. And Brian Gu, president of Xpeng, said the company plans to bring its latest car, the G6, to Europe next year, underscoring the Guangzhou-headquartered firm's global push. "We recognise Germany is the most important and the highest standard market for all" carmakers, Gu told CNBC in an interview Monday. "And to be able to be here and then really make our product available to the customers in this market, really will help us further penetrate the continental European market. We have ambitions for broader market coverage internationally." The entrance of Chinese firms into Europe is seen as a threat to big automakers who have been perceived to be moving too slow on EVs. Analysts at Bernstein said in a note published in June that if Chinese carmakers enter the market "as per normal," then incumbents may concede up to 5% market share by 2030. But these new entrants could grab up to 20% market share if their entrance into Europe is more aggressive than expected, they added. But the Chinese companies themselves face rising competition from within, but also outside of their home market. Tesla sparked a price war earlier this year which has put pressure on profits and margins of some of China's smaller players like Xpeng. Meanwhile, to fend of rising competition and catch up with Tesla, BMW and Mercedes both launched a dedicated electric car platform that will underpin their vehicles for the coming years, adding further potential headwinds that are not lost on these Chinese challengers. "Well, it is definitely not easy," Xpeng's Gu said of the push from traditional carmakers into EVs. "I think as a young company, we also are trying to learn from ... each step that we take, as well as learn from the competition, the partners that we have. But we have confidence in our technology, we have confidence in our product," Gu added. Another challenge for the Chinese firms is building brand recognition, an exercise that could stretch marketing budgets and take a long time to do. "Brand is a sizeable issue, but not insurmountable if they can invest for the long-term," Peter Richardson, vice president at Counterpoint Technology Research, told CNBC via email. Richardson said Korean firms Hyundai and Kia were "relatively unknown" in Europe 30 years ago, but "both brands have risen to be significant players." "It takes time and dedication," Richardson added. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by