
																			Getting B2B (Back2Branding)																		 
																			Credit union leadership training: Leading different generations																		 
																			How to streamline internal operations with automated loan payments																		 
																			How to streamline internal operations with automated loan payments																		 
																			How to create a health care directive and a durable power of attorney																		 LEHI, UTAH (August 1, 2023) — SimpleNexus (https://simplenexus.com/), an nCino (NASDAQ: NCNO) company and developer of the leading U.S. homeownership solution for loan officers, borrowers, real estate agents and settlement agents, today announced a new integration with Finastra’s MortgagebotLOS, a cloud-based loan origination system for digital mortgage lending. The native integration — available to independent mortgage banks, credit unions and depository banks — streamlines home financing for consumers and the financial institutions that serve them. The bi-directional integration enables homebuyers to enjoy the modern convenience of submitting a mortgage application via their phones or internet-connected device of choice. Real-time data syncing between the two systems supports automated mortgage loan milestone updates to prompt homebuyers to take next steps and keep their real estate agents in the loop about loan status. The integration also makes it easy for mortgage applicants to scan and securely upload documents via the borrower mobile app while optimizing loan production by electronically routing those files directly into MortgagebotLOS. “Developing a bi-directional integration with MortgagebotLOS provides greater convenience, efficiency and a more enjoyable usability for homebuyers and lenders alike,” said Ben Miller, CEO of SimpleNexus, an nCino Company. “It makes it easier for financial institutions to support strong customer relationships with a from-anywhere, digital mortgage application portal that keeps them informed at every step. This digital loan experience delivers the operational efficiencies lenders need to maintain margins and a competitive edge.” “This integration enables financial institutions to optimize their use of both platforms while providing borrowers with a seamless and supportive mortgage application process,” said Mary Kay Theriault, director of product management at Finastra. “Our goal is to equip lenders with the tools they need to stay ahead in any mortgage market.” “The enhanced functionality of this native integration helps our borrowers navigate the home buying process with greater ease while supporting our loan originators and processing teams with efficiency-driving technology that reduces manual and redundant tasks,” said Gary Hall, vice president and mortgage sales manager at Michigan-based ChoiceOne Bank. “We are dedicated to embracing innovative solutions that cater to the evolving needs of today’s homebuyers, and we are proud to begin reaping the customer experience and operational benefits of the integration as one of the first banks to adopt it.” “At Flanagan State Bank, customer relationships come first,” said Doug Carls, senior vice president of residential lending at Illinois-based Flanagan State Bank. “This integration supports our commitment to providing personalized, technology-driven solutions to our valued customers during one of their most important financial and personal milestones: buying a home.” Those interested in learning more about SimpleNexus, an nCino Company, can view a complete list of integrations or request a demo. SimpleNexus, an nCino (NASDAQ: NCNO) company, is an award-winning developer of mobile-first technology for the modern mortgage lender. U.S. lenders depend on our namesake homeownership platform to unite the people, systems and stages of the mortgage process into a seamless, end-to-end solution that spans engagement, origination, closing and business intelligence. By helping lenders manage their teams and stay connected with borrowers and real estate professionals, we deliver a measurable return on investment in the form of reduced turn times, increased loan application submissions and more referral business. A four-time Inc. 5000 company, SimpleNexus has been recognized as one of the world’s Best Workplaces for Innovators. For more information, visit https://www.simplenexus.com or follow @SimpleNexus. About Finastra

Finastra is a global provider of financial software applications and marketplaces, and launched the leading open platform for innovation, FusionFabric.cloud, in 2017. It serves institutions of all sizes, providing award-winning software solutions and services across Lending, Payments, Treasury & Capital Markets and Universal Banking (Retail, Digital and Commercial Banking) for banks to support direct banking relationships and grow through indirect channels, such as embedded finance and Banking as a Service. Its pioneering approach and commitment to open finance and collaboration is why it is trusted by over 8,000 institutions, including 45 of the world’s top 50 banks. For more information, visit finastra.com. Leslie Colley
DepthPR for SimpleNexus
+1 678.622.6229
leslie@depthpr.com Natalia Moose
nCino
natalia.moose@ncino.com Delivered to the inboxes of thousands of credit union leaders daily.