cgy New Year, new job? We have a list of great companies with jobs available in Calgary, so update that resume and start looking. There are some major companies hiring for some great jobs in Calgary this January. Calgary Flames/Twitter Who: Calgary Sports and Entertainment Corporation delivers excitement! Its mission is to connect people with sports and entertainment! Through its Four Pillars of customer service — courtesy, safety, cleanliness, and excitement — it creates an energetic work environment for all our employees. If an industry that’s fast-paced, dynamic, and passionate about guest experience excites you, then come and join the team! Jobs: CSEC is hiring for 31 jobs right now including Digital Partnerships Coordinator, Sales Associate, and Payroll Assistant. More: Learn more on its website. You might also like:Indeed says just 54% of Canadians are happy at workWant to work for the government? These new finance jobs come with hefty salariesCanada's top 100 employers were just revealed and hybrid work is king Lighthouse labs Who: Lighthouse Labs was created in 2013 by a team of software developers with a passion for code, mentorship, and education. Its mission: to transform the way that tech education is delivered. Jobs: Lighthouse Labs is looking for a Full-Time Web Instructor, Senior Financial Analyst, HR Coordinator, Customer Care Specialist, Program Operations Manager, Learning Experience Designer, Subject Matter Expert, Data Analytics / Data Science, Learning Advisor (Student Recruitment), Creative Services Manager, Sr. Website Manager, Intermediate Software Developer, and a Senior Ruby on Rails Developer to join their clan of gritty, ambitious and quirky humans. Perks: Lighthouse Labs is an inclusive employer, and welcomes remote workers from anywhere across Canada. Employees enjoy continued remote flexibility, employee benefits, and additional time off over the holiday season. More: You can learn more about Lighthouse Labs openings on their careers page. Image: Okotoks Dawgs Baseball Who: The Town of Okotoks is a progressive corporation offering a challenging and dynamic workplace where collaboration, open communication, and teamwork assist us in providing exceptional customer service. Jobs: Okotoks is hiring for six jobs right now including Waste Services Operator and Programs and Events Leader. More: Learn more on its website.     A post shared by NDAX (@ndax.io)  Who: NDAX is a leading innovative cryptocurrency trading platform in compliance with Canadian banking regulations, created with retail, institutional, early-investors, and crypto traders in mind. NDAX is a simple, compliant, and easy-to-use trading platform setting the standard for the Canadian cryptocurrency industry. With a mission to empower more Canadians to unlock the full potential of digital finance and address various needs in Canada’s cryptocurrency space, the NDAX team has multidisciplinary and diverse backgrounds including finance, technology, engineering, compliance, marketing, and more. Jobs: NDAX is currently hiring for a Senior React JS Developer (Remote) and many more. Perks: NDAX offers flexible remote work hours, paid time off benefits, a stock option plan, bonus awards and gifts, employee discounts, training and development, and an extended healthcare plan (medical, disability, dental, and vision), Group Life AD&D critical illness insurance More: To learn more, visit here and ndax.io.  JHVEPhoto/Shutterstock Who: Bath and Body Works is one of the world’s leading specialty retailers, loved for its candles, soaps, and lotions. There are more than 1,600 retail locations in the US and more than 400 stores and 30+ e-commerce sites worldwide. Jobs: It’s hiring for eight positions, including an assistant manager. Perks: Company-provided health advocate service, life insurance, disability insurance, medical, pharmacy, dental and vision, merchandise discount, and more. More: Learn more on its website.  Who: Reddit is a community of communities where people can dive into anything through experiences built around their interests, hobbies, and passions. With more than 50 million daily active unique and 100,000+ active communities, it’s home to the most open and authentic conversations on the internet. From real estate to parenting, skincare to hockey, there’s a community for everybody on Reddit. Jobs: Reddit is currently hiring remotely for a variety of positions in Canada including Senior/Staff iOS Engineer – Consumer Products, Staff iOS Engineer, UI Platform, Senior Software Engineer, Data Warehouse, Director of Engineering, Platform, Senior Software Engineer, Crypto Security, Senior Backend Engineer, X, Senior/Staff Data Scientist, Emerging Markets / APAC, Senior / Staff Video Engineer – Consumer Products, Media Foundation, and more. Perks: Reddit is a values-driven company with a mission to bring community, belonging, and empowerment to everyone in the world. It has intentionally created flexible benefits and offerings to foster a unique culture and empower employees to take advantage of them however is best suited to their needs. You can expect comprehensive health benefits, flexible unlimited vacation days, monthly global wellness days, family planning stipends and services, four+ months of paid parental leave, personal and professional development stipends, paid volunteer time off, and workspace and home office stipends. More: Learn more on its website.  nyker/Shutterstock Who: Lululemon is an athletic apparel retailer that is approaching 500 stores around the globe. Jobs: It’s hiring an Educator for its Market Mall location. Perks: Lululemon says it has a commitment to work/life balance, and its positions come with extended health plans, paid time off, employee discounts, and fitness plans. More: Learn more on its website. Knack Who: Knak, the world’s first codeless email and landing page creation platform, started with a simple idea: making life easier for marketers. Built by marketers and designed for everyone, Knak exists to lead the fight for creativity in marketing. The platform allows users to create beautiful on-brand emails and landing pages in minutes – no coding required. Knak is platform agnostic, meaning emails are fully responsive, render flawlessly across browsers, and sync seamlessly with marketing automation platforms. Knak also works with the top marketing automation platforms in the market, including Adobe Marketo Engage, Eloqua, Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Pardot, Adobe Campaign, and more. Knak gives you back complete creative control. Jobs: Knak is currently hiring for a Marketing Operations Manager, Demand Generation Specialist, Customer Success Manager, Implementation Manager, Account Executive, and Business Development Rep. Knak is always looking for amazing individuals who will help raise talent and can add to the carefully crafted culture. Let Knak know why you’d be a great addition here. Perks: Knak knows there is more to life than work, doing everything they can to make sure employees are happy and healthy, both inside the office and out. Perks and benefits that come along with working at Knak include; minimum three weeks vacation, seven days of life leave, half day on Fridays in the summer, $1,000 home office credit, equity in the company, staff beach vacations, $5000 yearly professional development budget, low-tech Monday mornings, comprehensive health coverage from day one, remote-friendly culture and so much more. More: To learn more about Knak’s open positions, visit their website. An ambulance in Calgary (oasisamuel/Shutterstock) Who: This centralized agency is the healthcare provider for the entire province of Alberta. Jobs: There are hundreds of openings for qualified individuals to work as nurses, health technicians, and so much more. Pour through the careers page and find a fit that is right for you. Perks: AHS is an award-winning employer that says it values diversity and inclusion and supports its staff. More: Check out AHS’s careers page. ReturnBear Who: ReturnBear is Canada’s first end-to-end returns solution that makes retail returns easy for everyone, and better for the planet. Merchants using ReturnBear can offer self-serve exchanges and returns to their Canadian customers, along with convenient package-free drop-off options across the country. ReturnBear’s suite of software tools includes a self-serve return web app for consumers, simple admin and analytics dashboards for merchants, and a tablet application for ReturnBear Kiosk staff. ReturnBear is backed by Cadillac Fairview (CF) and Koru, an innovative venture foundry that builds new businesses to drive disruptive growth for Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan portfolio companies. ReturnBear is a modern solution that makes eCommerce exchanges and returns delightful for consumers, and more efficient for retailers by reducing the cost and complexity of their reverse logistics. Jobs: Software Engineer – Fullstack (remote), Software Engineer – Backend (remote), and additional roles. More: Learn more on its website. Who: This organization advocates for all drivers in the province of Alberta. Jobs: There are nearly 20 positions in Calgary right now, including insurance advisors, automobile claims adjusters, and tow truck drivers. Perks: The AMA says its staff treats each other as friends and family, and benefits include paid vacation, sick days, volunteer days, and floater days. It provides health benefits, a fully employer-paid pension plan, and personal development programs. More: See what positions are open on its website.  Gorodenkoff/Shutterstock Who: Amazon is a multinational conglomerate that focuses on e-commerce, cloud computing, digital streaming, and artificial intelligence. Jobs: It’s hiring for a Warehouse Team Member in Rocky Mountain County Perks: Amazon says it has a commitment to work/life balance, and its positions come with extended health plans, paid time off, and employee discounts. More: Learn more on its website. EdmontonMartin/Shutterstock Who: This Alberta financial services company translates the complex world of banking and investing into simple solutions for clients. It’s a home-grown company that’s been operating in the province for more than 80 years. Jobs: It is hiring several positions from client-facing jobs to back-end development roles that can be based in Calgary right now. Perks: The company says its culture is about caring, trust, inclusion, accountability, and contribution. It’s won awards for being one of the top 100 workplaces in the country. More: Check it out online.  Iryna Tolmachova/Shutterstock Who: Starbucks is the world’s largest coffee house chain. Known for its fancy drinks and spelling errors, the chain is a fun place to work if you want to get to know the coffee world. Jobs: Starbucks is hiring hundreds of positions in the Calgary area this January, ranging in professional and skill levels. If you’ve always wanted to be a barista, now’s your chance! Perks: Perks include a free box of tea or a bag of coffee every week and a 30% discount on all products. More: Check it out online. Image: Enbridge / Shutterstock Who: This Alberta-headquartered energy-delivery company operates thousands of kilometres of pipelines across North America. Jobs: Enbridge is hiring for 18 positions in Calgary Perks: Enbridge prides itself on helping employees reach their potential. It says people are rewarded for hard work and should be able to develop skills that can help them advance in the company. More: Take a look at the company’s job openings to see if there’s a good match for you. University of Calgary (Jeff Whyte/Shutterstock) Who: The University of Calgary is a bold and spirited institution that aims to be recognized as one of Canada’s top five research universities, grounded in innovative learning and teaching and fully engaged with the community. Jobs: The University of Calgary is hiring for over 100 jobs. More: Visit the career page for more information. Who: The Brick is a Canadian home furnishings retailer that was founded in Edmonton. Jobs: The Brick is hiring an Appliance Technician Perks: This company offers flexible health and dental plans, life and disability plans, a compassionate sick leave policy, and other wellness programs. Employees also get discounts at The Brick and partnering retailers. The Brick also emphasizes continuing education by giving employees access to online courses, training programs, and tuition reimbursement. More: Check out the careers page for current openings. eskystudio/Shutterstock Who: Walmart is a retail corporation that operates a chain of hypermarkets, discount department stores, and grocery stores. Jobs: Walmart is hiring more than 160 positions in Calgary this month, including opticians, department managers, and merchandising store associates. Perks: This company offers flexible health and dental plans, life and disability plans, an education help policy, and other wellness programs. Employees also get discounts at Walmart and partnering retailers. More: Check out the careers page for current openings Who: PolicyMe is Canada’s leading digital life insurance solution for Canadian families, making it easy to get a quote and apply for term life insurance online in 20 minutes or less. Through technology, PolicyMe is streamlining the traditional insurance process, removing barriers and inefficiencies to deliver a fully-underwritten life insurance policy that families deserve but with fewer steps and lower costs. Since launching in 2018, the Canadian insurtech has sold over $5 billion in life insurance coverage to Canadians. Jobs: PolicyMe is currently hiring a Senior Engineer – Fullstack (remote), Senior SEO Manager (remote), and Senior Quality Assurance Analyst – Manual & Automation Testing (remote). Perks: You’ll work for a fast-growing, technology company that offers a competitive salary, access to stock options, an annual Health Spend Account, four weeks of vacation, and L&D resources to accelerate professional development. The team is fully remote with optional access to an office in downtown Toronto. More: You can learn more about PolicyMe and its current openings by heading over to its careers page. Follow Channels and Categories SUBSCRIBE TO THE HIVE Get the latest news sent to your inbox and stay in the loop Subscribe to Daily Hive Newsletters here to stay up-to-date with Calgary Canada DH News Urbanized Dished Offside Listed Curated Mapped Venture Canada DH News Urbanized Dished Offside Listed Curated Mapped Venture Daily Hive is a Canadian-born online news source, established in 2008, that creates compelling, hyperlocal content.Part ofⒸ 2024 | Executive Producer Moses Znaimer Follow us