Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     FOLSOM, Calif. — Many families will flock to Northern California lakes and rivers for the Memorial Day weekend, but a day on the water can be dangerous if beachgoers are not prepared. California State Parks is reminding folks to keep safety in mind as they enjoy our region's waterways. The agency gave away free life jackets to adults and children on Lake Natoma in Folsom Friday afternoon as part of their water safety event in partnership with the Division of Boating and Waterways. "Life jackets save lives," said Sergeant Ryan Steele with California State Parks. Lake Natoma is a popular spot for stand up paddle boarding and kayaking. "The big thing with that is people who don't wear life jackets, and they're required to, and then we have to go and make a rescue on them. Especially with the cold water, that shocks them and then they don't know what to do or how to respond to them," said Steele. Under California law, life jackets are required for children under the age of 13. Water safety experts expressed the importance of adults wearing them as well. "It's very important, especially an adult with children. You have to take care of yourself first, so that's foremost and important, so that you're okay, you're safe and that you're able to take care of your children," said Shelly Alves, owner of Nor Cal SUP. "And if you're going out by yourself, this water is really cold and it will take your breath away." The beach area along the lake is staffed with lifeguards who are ready to jump into action when someone needs help. They demonstrated a water rescue at the safety event Friday afternoon. Locals, like the Wards who have two young children, came out to the event to prepare for a summer by the water. "It's really important for the kids to know what to do when there's an emergency and they fall in, so it's nice to know that life vests are available to everybody," said Amy Ward who recently moved to Gold River. For those planning on heading out to the water, there are a couple other things to remember: keep an eye on your group and swim where a lifeguard is on duty. Some waterways in our region have life vests you can borrow along the beach, including Lake Natoma at the Beach near Black Miners Bar and the American River Parkway. Over in San Joaquin County, the Sheriff's Office is giving out free life jackets at multiple locations on the Delta, including Morelli Park, Buckley Cove and Tower Park May 27 and 28. WATCH MORE: How one Sacramento family is teaching safe swimming to their kids Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.