A radiation oncologist in Kentucky who has studied more than 5,000 near-death experiences believes his research has proven the existence of life after death — “without a doubt.”  Dr. Jeffrey Long founded the Near-Death Experience Research Foundation in 1998, having become fascinated with near-death experiences (NDE) while completing his medical residency. In a new essay for Insider, he defines NDEs as “someone who is either comatose or clinically dead, without a heartbeat, having a lucid experience where they see, hear, feel emotions, and interact with other beings.” Long collects stories from those who have reported NDEs and scientifically analyzes the accounts.  “In the face of overwhelming evidence, I’ve come to believe there’s certainly an afterlife,” he said.  While each NDE is different, Long has noticed several consistent patterns.  About 45% of patients report an out-of-body experience. Long explained that people claim “their consciousness separates from their physical body, usually hovering above,” allowing them to see and hear what happens around them.  Long says these narratives have been confirmed by witnesses. He cited the case of a woman who lost consciousness while riding a horse on a trail — “her consciousness traveled with her horse as he galloped back to the barn.” She was later “able to describe exactly what happened at the barn” even though her body wasn’t physically there. Others “say they’re transported into another realm,” with many claiming to have passed through a tunnel, seen a bright light, been greeted by a deceased loved one and watched their life “flashing before their eyes.” Long admitted that these sightings have become cliché, but said young children (who likely have not been exposed to those stories) have described similar experiences. “I haven’t found any scientific explanation for these experiences,” Long confessed, but noted the breadth of the reports. “I’ve read brain research and considered every possible explanation for NDEs. The bottom line is that none of them hold water.” Long isn’t the only one conducting this research. Dr. Bruce Greyson, professor emeritus of psychiatry and neurobehavioral sciences at the University of Virginia, was inspired to study NDEs after he had one of his own.  He agrees with Long that no two NDEs are exactly alike, but he has also cataloged a few familiar traits.  According to his research, NDEs are fairly common, with some 10-20% of people who come close to death reporting them — about 5% of the population at large.  He also shared that many people claimed to have an out-of-body experience, a bright light sighting, and a reunion with a dead loved one.  “I think the evidence overwhelmingly points to the physical body not being all that we are,” he told The Post in 2021. “There seems to be something that is able to continue after the body dies. I don’t know what to make of it.”  Advertisement