Looks like you’re on the UK site. Choose another location to see content specific to your location Use our advanced search tool to help find your next job. Send us your CV and requirements to allow us to find the perfect job for you. Read some useful Tips & Guides to help land your dream job. Submit your job and a member of the Zenopa team will be in contact with you shortly. Contact a member of our team now to discuss how we can help you fill your permanent roles Contact a member of our team now to discuss how we can help you fill your contract roles Read some useful Tips & Guides to help land your dream job. Register with us to receive the latest news and opportunities that match your requirements. Take the salary survey today and discover the distribution of people on different salary bands related to your role. Find out more about us, what we stand for and our core values Lonza has launched the Nebula® Absorbance Reader, a new absorbance microplate reader which joins the company’s portfolio of optimized instruments for streamlined endotoxin and pyrogen testing.  Pharmaceutical quality control (QC) laboratories worldwide rely on the traditional absorbance-based Limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL) and Tachypleus amebocyte lysate (TAL) assays to assure the safety of raw materials in-process samples and manufactured products. However, the industry-standard absorbance reader for these assays — the ELx808™ Absorbance Microplate Reader (ELx808™) — will no longer be sold by Lonza from late 2023. The Nebula® Absorbance Reader represents a technologically advanced, high-performance replacement reader, which delivers results comparable to those typically found with ELx808™ and will facilitate the smooth continuation of current pyrogen and endotoxin testing programs. Similar to the Nebula® Multimode Reader, the Nebula® Absorbance Reader is designed for use alongside Lonza reagents. It is optimized to work with, and meet all the specifications of, Lonza’s absorbance-based endotoxin assays such as the Lonza PYROGENT® 5000 Turbidimetric and Kinetic-QCL® Chromogenic Endotoxin Assays. The new reader also supports the readout for monocyte activation tests (MAT) such as Lonza’s PyroCell® MAT System.  The Nebula® Absorbance Reader provides QC labs with new and improved functionality. It features high-performance optics and monochromator-based wavelength selection to enable precise and accurate measurements of endotoxin levels. Its compact design requires minimal laboratory space and allows for workflow flexibility. The reader is fully integrated with the latest version of Lonza’s WinKQCL® Endotoxin Detection and Analysis Software (v6.4), enabling users to meet the latest data integrity requirements. This reduces training burdens by removing the need for existing WinKQCL® Software users to learn new software in order to use the new reader. In addition, the Nebula® Absorbance Reader is similar in design and build to the Nebula® Multimode Reader – using the same user manual, service tools, and similar qualification procedures – which simplifies system maintenance. Orla Cloak, Vice President, Head of Bioprocessing, Lonza, commented: “As we developed the new Nebula® Absorbance Reader, we focused on optimizing functionality to enable it to provide the very best results for our customers. QC teams can now access a thoroughly tested absorbance reader, specifically optimized for use with Lonza reagents and fully integrated with our WinKQCL® Software. This launch will allow customers to confidently continue endotoxin workflows in the same smooth and streamlined way they are used to, with the support of new and improved testing functionality.” Lonza will present data from the Nebula® Absorbance Reader used with Lonza endotoxin assays during a poster presentation at the 2023 PDA Pharmaceutical Microbiology Conference in Washington, DC (US) from 2–4 October 2023. Additional Information
For more information on the Nebula® Absorbance Reader, please visit:
www.lonza.com/absorbance-nebula Lonza Contact Details
media@lonza.com  Receive the latest industry news, Tips
and straight to your inbox.   Your email Submit
 By subscribing you agree to our terms and conditions.
 Receive the latest industry news, and job vacancies relevant to you, straight to your inbox.   Your email Sign Up
 An error has occurred, please try again later.An error has occurred, please try again later. By clicking 'Accept all Cookies', you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance website navigation, analyse website usage, and assist in our Marketing efforts. For more information about cookies and their use on this website, please view our cookie policy. This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.