Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website. Monday January 23, 2023 , 2 min Read Fintech unicorn ﻿Pine Labs﻿ has acquired Bengaluru-based Saluto Wellness's proprietary enterprise platform.   The terms of the deal have not been disclosed by the company.   As per the official statement, the acquisition will bolster Pine Labs’ Qwikcilver brand to strengthen its offerings across employee rewards and recognition, customer loyalty programmes, and channel partner programmes for medium and large enterprises.  Qwikcilver is an end-to-end solutions provider of go-to prepaid, stored value and gift cards for companies looking to boost sales, acquire and retain customers, and drive operational efficiencies.  “With Saluto’s platform, we expect to further enhance our leadership across enterprise rewards, recognition, incentive and engagement programmes," Kumar Sudarsan, President - Issuing Business, Pine Labs, said. "Saluto’s multi-tenant, enterprise-grade offering will give us additional capabilities complementing our strengths. Their solution, integrated with our offerings, will help us deliver more programmes to our existing enterprise clients—resulting in larger and more long-term engagements.” Co-founded by Siva Kumar and Anoop Nambiar in 2017, Saluto Wellness is an engagement and wellness service provider that helps organisations engage with employees, consumers and channel partners with a rewards and recognition approach. Backed by investors including Sequoia India, Actis Capital, Temasek, PayPal, and Mastercard, Pine Labs has a presence in India in prepaid, stored value, and gift card solutions through its 2019 acquisition of Qwikcilver, which merged with Pine Labs in September 2022.   In issuing, Qwikcilver serves corporates, FMCG brands, ecommerce companies, the BFSI sector, and the airline industry, with a presence across India, the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and Australia.  Edited by Kanishk Singh 1 2 BatX is contributing to a circular economy by unbundling used lithium-ion batteries 3 This 20-year-old ‘Paperboy’ brings newspapers to you digitally 4 How Nike Outsmarted Adidas at the Olympics Without Sponsorship 5 Ankur Capital receives commitments from BII, MacArthur for its third fund