FutureTales Lab by MQDC and Nebula Corporation collaborate to create a sustainable and resilient future city, sharing insights and expertise in urban development and foresight. PUBLISHED : 10 Jul 2023 at 17:08 On July 10, FutureTales Lab by MQDC and Nebula Corporation presented on future urban development to participants of a hackathon. This collaboration was carried out in partnership with the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA), Ford Resource and Engagement Center (FREC) Bangkok, and Urban Studies Lab (USL). Dr. Karndee Leopairote, Chief Foresight and Digital Assets Officer of MQDC, explained that the BMA, FREC, and USL organised the "BMA x FREC Hackathon" to gather ideas for the development of Bangkok. The hackathon took place from June 29 to July 1, 2023. As experts in foresight, innovation, and urban development, FutureTales Lab and Nebula Corporation were invited to share their insights, providing new perspectives to help teams present their projects more efficiently and comprehensively. "FutureTales Lab, in collaboration with Nebula Corporation, organised a knowledge-sharing activity for participants to learn about city development in various fields, including 'Foresight' and the future of Bangkok, presented by our team of experts," said Dr. Leopairote. "Participants had the opportunity to experience 'Bangkok Next Tales,' an intelligent system that simulates future possibilities for the city, including aspects such as green spaces, traffic, and extreme situations like flooding. The 'Future of Living' projects human life in terms of housing, mobility, and future urbanisation. We genuinely hope that this activity will provide contestants with knowledge and new skills to design their dream city," added Dr. Leopairote. Ms. Sunatta Pongcharoen, Vice President of Foresight Research at FutureTales Lab by MQDC, presented the centre’s main missions focused on researching future possibilities using foresight techniques and developing a "data platform" to prevent and alleviate future problems. The centre collaborates with the government, the private sector, and experts in Thailand and abroad to research, analyse, and disseminate insights on futurology. "The process of 'Foresight' involves analysing the future based on current data using the STEEPV framework (Social, Technological, Economical, Environmental & Political Values) to identify changes under these factors. We seek to understand how these changes will affect the future and what signals might develop into trends. By identifying opportunities and challenges in various dimensions, we can address them proactively," explained Ms. Pongcharoen. She also shared the results of the 'Future of Urbanisation' study, which examines the future of Bangkok over the next 30 years across various aspects, such as living, transportation, infrastructure, and biodiversity. This research aims to guide urban development planners in meeting residents' needs, solving problems, and promoting a city where residents are happy and enjoy a high quality of life.    Dr. Naphasinee Suebsuk, Assistant Vice President of City Innovation at Nebula Corporation Limited, emphasised the importance of creating a 'Future City for Climate Resilience' that can adapt to changing climatic conditions. Given the fast-paced environmental and climate changes, such as carbon emissions and increasing heat and dust, cities must be designed to ensure comfortable and safe living environments. Developing a good city involves addressing key questions in four areas: Environment, Harmonious Living, Health & Wellness, and Economic Stability. Mr. Pruethicheth Lert-udompruksa, Senior Manager of City Innovation, and Ms. Papapin Ponyiam, Manager of City Innovation at Nebula, expressed that Nebula's mission is to devise and develop innovations for cities that prioritise urban growth while caring for the environment. They aim to create a Resilient & Regenerative City, capable of sustaining itself authentically and enduringly. Taipei's transformation into a city renowned for its activities and tourism serves as an exemplary development in this regard. By subscribing, you accept the terms and conditions in our privacy policy.