Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Muppet Labs, along with the Dr. Bunsen Honeydew and Beaker characters, will be in the mix for this year’s Epcot International Food & Wine Festival, which begins at Walt Disney World on July 27.  Brace yourselves: Pickle milkshakes are on the menu.As the story goes, Honeydew and Beaker are cooking up new flavors for the Brew-Wing Lab inside Epcot’s Odyssey building. One of their concoctions will be the Unnecessarily Spicy, Yet Extremely Tasty Scotch Bonnet Pepper-Curry Wings, according to the official Disney Parks Blog.Disney World’s website also mentions orange-cardamom wings as a new offering at Odyssey, which has had Figment- and Orange Bird-based makeovers during previous Epcot festivals.The blog post also lists four new marketplaces that will mark the Disney100 celebration: Char & Chop, Wine & Wedge, Bubbles & Brine and Swirled Showcase. There will be more than 25 marketplaces, Disney says.Big Disney auction: Joel Magee collection features ride vehicles, rare theme-park itemsThe main Disney World website indicates there will be kiosks presenting America, Ireland, Canada, France, Greece, Belgium, Brazil, Japan, Italy, Spain, Germany, Kenya, India, China, Mexico, Australia and the Alps as well as marketplaces named Coastal Eats, Fry Basket, Flavors From Fire. The site says the Hawaii marketplace and the Noodle Exchange will become available Aug. 15. (The Disney100 menu items are not yet listed.)The Food & Wine Festival runs daily through Nov. 18.

Menus on the Disney World website indicate several new items, including crispy duck bao bun (China), chimichurri marinated skirt steak taco (Flavors From Fire), plant-based Impossible moussaka (Greece) and dark chocolate fondue with berries, pound cake and meringues (Alps).Disney holidays: New Jollywood Nights event, Very Merry Christmas Party dates setThe festival also will include scavenger hunts, festival-themed merchandise and the Eat to the Beat concert series nightly.The Odyssey experimentations with Honeydew and Beaker are not the only fresh Muppet offerings at Disney World. Kermit and Miss Piggy will appear in a musical variety show during the new Disney Jollywood Nights event, which debuts at  Disney’s Hollywood Studios theme park on Nov. 11.Email me at dbevil@orlandosentinel.com. My Thread account is @dbevil. You can subscribe to the Theme Park Rangers newsletter at orlandosentinel.com/newsletters. As the story goes, Honeydew and Beaker are cooking up new flavors for the Brew-Wing Lab inside Epcot’s Odyssey building. One of their concoctions will be the Unnecessarily Spicy, Yet Extremely Tasty Scotch Bonnet Pepper-Curry Wings, according to the official Disney Parks Blog. Disney World’s website also mentions orange-cardamom wings as a new offering at Odyssey, which has had Figment- and Orange Bird-based makeovers during previous Epcot festivals. The blog post also lists four new marketplaces that will mark the Disney100 celebration: Char & Chop, Wine & Wedge, Bubbles & Brine and Swirled Showcase. There will be more than 25 marketplaces, Disney says. Big Disney auction: Joel Magee collection features ride vehicles, rare theme-park items  The main Disney World website indicates there will be kiosks presenting America, Ireland, Canada, France, Greece, Belgium, Brazil, Japan, Italy, Spain, Germany, Kenya, India, China, Mexico, Australia and the Alps as well as marketplaces named Coastal Eats, Fry Basket, Flavors From Fire. The site says the Hawaii marketplace and the Noodle Exchange will become available Aug. 15. (The Disney100 menu items are not yet listed.) The Food & Wine Festival runs daily through Nov. 18. Menus on the Disney World website indicate several new items, including crispy duck bao bun (China), chimichurri marinated skirt steak taco (Flavors From Fire), plant-based Impossible moussaka (Greece) and dark chocolate fondue with berries, pound cake and meringues (Alps). Disney holidays: New Jollywood Nights event, Very Merry Christmas Party dates set  The festival also will include scavenger hunts, festival-themed merchandise and the Eat to the Beat concert series nightly. The Odyssey experimentations with Honeydew and Beaker are not the only fresh Muppet offerings at Disney World. Kermit and Miss Piggy will appear in a musical variety show during the new Disney Jollywood Nights event, which debuts at  Disney’s Hollywood Studios theme park on Nov. 11. Email me at dbevil@orlandosentinel.com. My Thread account is @dbevil. You can subscribe to the Theme Park Rangers newsletter at orlandosentinel.com/newsletters. Copyright © 2024 Orlando Sentinel