The Forbes Advisor editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive payment from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Advisor site. This comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The payments we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles. These “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Advisor. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Advisor does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
                Updated: Aug 28, 2023, 10:26am 
             Edited By Edited By Canadians have a new option for earning Asia Miles, the frequent-flyer currency used by Cathay Pacific, the Hong Kong-based airline that offers nonstop service to the Asian city from Toronto and Vancouver. It’s an interesting option for Canadians, and not just those who fly frequently to Asia, because Asia Miles can be used to book flights on Cathay’s partner airlines, including several that serve Canada. Cathay Pacific and financial tech company Neo Financial, known for its high-earning rewards credit cards, are launching a new Cathay-branded card that will be issued later this year. This will be the only credit card that earns Asia Miles in Canada, taking the place of the current Cathay card. It will also offer benefits like travel insurance, plus digital features in the Neo app that Neo and Cathay Pacific call “innovative.” The card will be offered in both a conventional option and a secured credit card option, which doesn’t require a credit history and is well suited for newcomers to Canada. The card, which will launch this fall, will feature: Welcome offer: You can earn up to 45,000 Asia Miles—15,000 Asia Miles when activating the card and 30,000 Asia Miles when you spend $3,000 in the first three months. Rewards: You can also earn 5 Asia Miles per dollar through Neo’s partners and 15 Asia Miles per dollar for first-time purchases at select partners. However, the list of partners at which you can earn 5 Asia Miles per dollar is not currently available online. 1 TD First Class Travel® Visa Infinite* Card On TD’s Website Welcome Bonus Up to $700 in value†, including up to 75,000 TD Rewards Points† Annual Fee $139 (fee rebated in the first year) Regular APR (Purchases) / Regular APR (Cash Advances) 20.99% / 22.99% 2 TD® Aeroplan® Visa Infinite Privilege* Card On TD’s Website Welcome Bonus Up to $2,700 in value† including up to 75,000 Aeroplan points† Annual Fee $599 Regular APR (Purchases) / Regular APR (Cash Advances) 20.99% / 22.99% 3 Scotiabank Platinum American Express® Card On Scotiabank’s Secure Website Welcome Bonus 60,000 Scene+ points Annual Fee $399 Regular APR 9.99% Booking discount: Get 10% off Canada-origin Cathay Pacific bookings, for a limited time. Travel benefits: These include access to airport lounges, in-flight Wi-Fi, priority online check-in and more. Travel insurance: Including coverage for flight delay, flight cancellation, baggage loss, car rental theft and damage. Digital features: Including access to spending insights, card management, 24/7 chat support and alerts and notifications in the Neo app. While these are attractive features, this card – with a yet-to-be-announced annual fee – may not rank among Canada’s top travel credit cards unless you have a use for Asia Miles. This includes redeeming them for some domestic flights on Air Canada. If you’d like to add yourself to the waitlist, you can find it at cathaypacific.neofinancial.com. 
						Courtney Reilly-Larke is the deputy editor of Forbes Advisor Canada. Previously, she was the associate editor of personal finance at MoneySense. She was also managing editor of Best Health Magazine and has contributed to publications such as Cottage Life and Blog TO. She currently lives in Toronto.
					