or Remember me or VANCOUVER, British Columbia, April 03, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Amcomri Entertainment Inc. (“Amcomri” or the “Company”) (NEO: AMEN) (OTC: AMNNF) (Frankfurt: 25YO) wishes to advise that the Company will be late filing its audited financial statements (‘the “Financial Statements”), management discussion & analysis, annual information form, together with the related officer certifications for the year ended December 31, 2022 (collectively, the “Required Filings”). The Required Filings were required to have been filed on or before March 31, 2023 pursuant to applicable securities laws (the “Filing Deadline”).
  
 The Company has been working closely with its auditors and expects to file the Required Filings in short order and will issue a news release once the Required Filings have been filed. The Company's failure to file the Required Filings by the Filing Deadline is due to the Company's recent change of auditor. The Company is working diligently with the new auditors to complete the Financial Statements. The late filing of the Required Filings may result in the securities commissions, regulators or stock exchange imposing a cease trade order. The Company confirms that it is not subject to any insolvency proceeding as of the date hereof. The Company also confirms that there is no other material information concerning the affairs of the Company that have not been generally disclosed as of the date herein. About Amcomri Entertainment Inc. Amcomri Entertainment Inc. (NEO: AMEN) (Frankfurt: 25Y0) provides global distribution capabilities for independent movie, documentary and TV series producers as well as for its own in-house productions. With decades of experience across all key media platforms, Amcomri is rapidly becoming the go-to team for independent producers seeking the broadest possible audience for their productions. The Amcomri Entertainment Inc. group of companies includes 101 Films, 101 Films International, Hollywood Classics International, Amcomri Productions, Appreciated Media Global, Amcomri Productions and Abacus Media Rights. For further information about Amcomri, see its disclosure documents on SEDAR at www.sedar.com or visit the company’s website at https://amcomrientertainmentinc.com/ For more information, please contact: CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD‐LOOKING INFORMATION:

 This news release includes “forward‐looking information” as defined under applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward‐looking information and statements include, but are not limited to, disclosure regarding possible events, that are based on assumptions about future economic conditions and courses of action, and, in certain cases, can be identified by the use of words such as “potential”, “propose”, “aim”, “depend”, “seeks”, “plans”, “expects”, “is expected”, “intends”, “anticipates”, or “believes”, or variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “can”, “could”, “should”, “shall”, “would”, “might” or “will”, or the negative forms of any of these words and other similar expressions. Forwarding looking statements in this press release include, but are not limited to: the lateness of the Company’s Required Filings, the issuance by the Company of any press releases concerning the Required Financials, the timing of the Company’s filing of the Required Financials, the potential for the Company to be cease traded by the securities commissions, regulators or stock exchange together with the resulting consequences of such an order. Forward‐looking information is necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which may cause the actual results and future events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward‐looking information. Such factors include, but are not limited to: general business, economic, competitive, political and social uncertainties, uncertain and volatile equity and capital markets, the capacity of the Company’s staff and auditor and the additional time needed to complete the Required Filings. Actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such forward looking information. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward‐looking information. All forward looking information in this news release is made as of the date hereof and qualified by these cautionary statements and those in our continuous disclosure filings available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise such forward‐looking information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Investors are cautioned that, trading in the securities of the Company should be considered highly speculative. For a more detailed discussion such risks and uncertainties, please see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the Company’s annual information form dated March 23, 2022, and available under the Company’s profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. 




  Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today