Get local news delivered to your inbox! Buffalo Bills owner Terry Pegula walks the sidelines before  his team's preseason game with the Indianapolis Colts at Highmark stadium on Aug. 12. Pegula made big changes to the business side of his sports enterprise on Monday. Buffalo Bills and Sabres owner Terry Pegula continued to make big changes to the business side of his sports business on Monday, dissolving the company that oversees the family’s sports and entertainment holdings, while naming himself president of the hockey team. Terry Pegula has a new leadership team in place at the Buffalo Bills – and the owner himself is in the center of it. The team announced that executive Ron Raccuia is out. Here's a look at what we know about the impact of the changes on Bills’ operations. Terry Pegula has a new leadership team in place at the Buffalo Bills – and the owner himself is in the center of it. The team announced that executive Ron Raccuia is out. Here's a look at what we know about the impact of the changes on Bills’ operations. The change will separate the Sabres and Bills for the first time since the Pegula family purchased the latter in 2014. It has also resulted in nine employees losing their jobs, and a number of employees moving from PSE to either the Bills or Sabres. The announcement also raises questions about the future of the hockey team the Pegulas have owned since 2011. And it comes at a pivotal time for the Sabres, playing in an aging arena that is in need of upgrades at a time when the team is coming off a season when it barely missed the playoffs and expectations are high for further improvement in the upcoming season. The Pegulas, however, have been investing money in the Sabres roster and plan to make some of needed improvements around the aging KeyBank Center. The shakeup at the Sabres comes a little more than a month after the departure of Ron Raccuia, who led the Bills through new stadium negotiations and served as the team’s executive vice president and chief operating officer. As part of those changes, John Roth became chief operating officer of both teams owned by Terry and Kim Pegula. Similar to what the Bills did in July, the Sabres created formal administrative teams broken into four lanes – revenue, brand, administration and operations, each with a team leader – to run the business side of the organization. At the same time, the disbanding of PSE marks the end of a company that has experienced considerable instability among the ranks over the better of part of the last five years. At one time, not including players, PSE-related businesses employed more than 570 people full-time, a number that swelled to 3,000 if game-day employees are included. But more recently there has not been any growth nor the addition of new business teams. “I think we all got to the point where we recognized we’re better off a little bit smaller, separate, and more focused,” Roth said Monday. “That’s kind of how it evolved over the past six months but this has been on Terry’s mind for a few years. It’s kind of the culmination of a long process started before I got here.” Terry Pegula last month also recently named himself president of the Bills – a job once held by his wife before she suffered cardiac arrest in June 2022 and has been unable to return to work since. Pegula has put together a business committee headed by Roth to oversee the Bills. Roth said earlier this month he anticipated there would be a similar structure for the hockey team. “We are thankful for the work and effort so many individuals have put into PSE over the years, but feel it is the right time for them to return home to separate organizations,” Pegula said in a statement. “We feel that now is the right time to dissolve PSE and allow everyone to focus solely on their respective organization. “It is a great time to be a Buffalo sports fan, and we have a tremendous amount of confidence that this restructuring will allow our businesses to continue to elevate with our teams,” Pegula said. The surprising departure of Ron Raccuia from the Buffalo Bills nonfootball operations has accelerated the growing influence of John Roth, a longtime friend and investment manager of team owner Terry Pegula. The surprising departure of Ron Raccuia from the Buffalo Bills nonfootball operations has accelerated the growing influence of John Roth, a longtime friend and investment manager of team owner Terry Pegula. Pegula will work closely with Roth on the business side of the Sabres, and general manager Kevyn Adams will continue to run hockey operations – just as Pegula has become more involved with the Bills’ business operations. Roth, formerly a portfolio manager at Fidelity Investments, took over the Sabres’ business operations in early 2023, despite having no experience in professional sports. Six months later, he took over as the lead for the Bills’ business operations, following Raccuia’s exit. “They’re separate businesses, and (Terry) wants them both to each be successful,” Roth told The Buffalo News last week. When Roth was announced as Bills’ COO, the team said business operations would be run by a committee of Pegula, Roth, Kathryn D’Angelo as general counsel and senior vice president of business administration, and Josh Dziurlikowski as senior vice president of finance and business administration. The possibility of this occurring is why Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz touted the importance of coming out of negotiations with an agreement from the Bills to pay for cost overruns and to cap the costs borne by taxpayers. The possibility of this occurring is why Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz touted the importance of coming out of negotiations with an agreement from the Bills to pay for cost overruns and to cap the costs borne by taxpayers. Now helping run the Sabres on the business end will be Anna Stolzenburg, who is coming over from the Bills to serve as VP of brand and digital strategy; Frank Batres-Landeata will take the team lead on the revenue side, including business development, hospitality, and merchandising; longtime Sabres employee Stan Makowski will lead the operations team; and Kyle Allen will serve as vice president of financial planning and analysis. Also, Nicole Hendricks, who leads communications for the team, will add the title of vice president of hockey administration. In all, the organization will have 14 vice presidents. The dissolution of PSE will not affect the operations of Black River Entertainment and all other formerly-PSE, Pegula-owned entities, according to a Sabres spokesperson. All other entities will carry on as they have been from an operations standpoint. They all had their own leadership and will continue to be owned and operated by the Pegulas. The loss of jobs at PSE comes as the Pegulas’ share in paying for a new Bills stadium has risen from $1.4 billion to at least $1.54 billion, with the potential for the price tag to reach around $1.7 billion, according to a source. The team will receive $850 million in public money to build the stadium in Orchard Park, but all cost overruns will be the responsibility of the Bills, so the potential for higher construction costs could mean an extra $300 million coming from the Pegulas for the project. The move to separate the Bills and Sabres also only furthers speculation about whether the Sabres will eventually be sold. But in a recent conversation with The News, Roth revealed that the Sabres are going ahead with some needed improvements around the arena – most the team will pay for on its own. Fans attending Buffalo Sabres games and other arena events are going to see immediate differences this season with upgrades in food and beverage, both in products and point-of-sale technology, and bigger changes are on the horizon for 2024. Fans attending Buffalo Sabres games and other arena events are going to see immediate differences this season with upgrades in food and beverage, both in products and point-of-sale technology, and bigger changes are on the horizon for 2024. That includes replacing the arena’s main center-hung scoreboard for the 2024-25 season, addressing and upgrading the arena’s sound system, replacing the arena’s roof – which is the original version dating to the building’s 1996 opening, and in future years, addressing the seating bowl in the 27-year-old building. The team has hired Populous to help with the plans. The arena is owned by Erie County and operated by Pegula Sports and Entertainment. It is likely any large-scale renovations of seating and building structure that are similar to ones done in many NHL arenas built in the 1990s would require public assistance from the county and New York State. However, the county has said renovation costs are on the Sabres. “We’re viewing all of this as a multiple-year process, and there will be more things to come later,” Roth previously said. The turnover atop PSE dates to May 2018, when president Russ Brandon resigned amid allegations of personal misconduct. And since 2019, many other high ranking executives have resigned or left during significant shakeups. The company’s employees in hospitality and marketing have also been hit hard by job loss. During the outset of Covid, the Pegulas laid off 21 people at PSE; furloughed 104; and temporarily cut pay for more than three dozen executives. News Sports Reporters Lance Lykowski and Mike Harrington contributed to this report. Get local news delivered to your inbox! Reporter   Jessica Pegula is in the spotlight ahead of the U.S. Open. And the top-ranked American player is pondering her chances, her future and her family. The Buffalo Sabres hope a new experiment in the stands you might call "the hometown advantage" will give them a much better home-ice advantage… A 91-point season by the Buffalo Sabres under Don Granato earned their young, core players more time in the spotlight. Simple mandates for the Sabres: Keep selling tickets, keep winning games, get into the playoffs. Those things will make it easier for the owne… None of the recent organizational changes to the Buffalo Bills and Buffalo Sabres are visible to fans watching games, but they are transformat… Pegula in a statement released by the team said the comment attributed to him in the filing is "absolutely false." As more than 70,000 people pack into Highmark Stadium on Sunday for the first time since ground has been broken on the construction of a new s… Buffalo-headquartered global hospitality company Delaware North has a few more years left on its contract at KeyBank Center to win over some o… The management of the Buffalo Bills and Sabres has had a rocky few years with hirings and firings coming at a rapid pace since Russ Brandon re… Buffalo Bills owner quips "Ralph, we're moving across the street!" as he talks about new stadium at groundbreaking.  Pegula Sports and Entertainment said that the Pegula family, which was majority owner of ADPRO Sports, has sold the company to consulting grou… A day after "parting ways" with the Buffalo Bills, Ron Raccuia issued a brief statement in which he thanked the Pegula family, said he was pro… Owner Terry Pegula is taking on the role of president of the Buffalo Bills while top executive Ron Raccuia is leaving the team.The Bills annou… John Roth, the newly hired COO of the Buffalo Sabres and Pegula Sports & Entertainment, spoke to The Buffalo News in an exclusive interview.   Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.