
Yesterday on Capitol Hill, Vizient, Inc. hosted a policy briefing titled, "Beyond the Four Walls: How Hospitals are Addressing Social Determinants of Health," at the Rayburn House Office Building. Featuring remarks by Representatives Terri Sewell (D-AL) and Dwight Evans (D-PA), and sponsored by Representative Jake Ellzey (R-TX), the event, attended by more than 70 congressional staff and industry stakeholders, focused on how hospitals are actively addressing the external factors that impact community health.

 This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230713692201/en/ From left, Verlon Salley, Donna Avila, David Levine and Steven Carson participate in the policy briefing, "Beyond the Four Walls: How Hospitals are Addressing Social Determinants of Health" at the Rayburn House Office Building July 12, 2023. The event was sponsored by Representative Jake Ellzey (R-TX). (Photo: Business Wire) 
"Reducing health disparities and improving access to quality, affordable healthcare remain among my top priorities in Congress," said Rep. Sewell. "I applaud Vizient for bringing together healthcare leaders including those at the University of Alabama Birmingham to discuss the critical work hospitals are doing to overcome social determinant barriers and ensure that Alabamians and others across the country have the opportunity to reach their full health potential."

 
Rep. Evans said, "As I continue to visit hospitals across Philadelphia, ensuring that they have the resources to reach patients outside of their four walls remains top of mind. It is imperative that the House of Representatives supports a policy agenda that addresses the challenges facing America's healthcare system and ensures that everyone in our community has the access and resources needed to keep themselves healthy and safe."

 
David Levine, MD, Vizient group senior vice president of Advanced Analytics and Data Science opened the policy discussion with an overview of the patent pending Vizient Vulnerability Index™ and shared how it is being used to help providers gain actionable insights into their community's social needs to help target interventions and improve care delivery. He then transitioned into a moderated conversation with a highly regarded panel of key healthcare leaders including:

 
The panel of experts highlighted hospital strategies to reduce health disparities in their communities, including targeted healthcare screenings and education and supporting neighborhood infrastructure improvements. The panelists underscored their commitment to improving the health of patients experiencing challenges like food insecurity and homelessness, by partnering with local organizations to provide access to healthy food, housing and medical care. Each panelist reinforced their hospitals' commitment to serving their communities, despite the ongoing workforce and financial challenges they face.

 
Vizient looks forward to continuing to partner with lawmakers and providers in their respective efforts to drive policies and improve the health of communities across the country.

 
About Vizient, Inc.
 
Vizient, Inc., the nation's largest health care performance improvement company, serves more than 50% of the nation's acute care providers, which includes 97% of the nation's academic medical centers, and more than 25% of the non-acute market. Vizient provides expertise, analytics and advisory services, as well as a contract portfolio that represents more than $130 billion in annual purchasing volume. Vizient's solutions and services improve the delivery of high-value care by aligning cost, quality and market performance. Headquartered in Irving, Texas, Vizient has offices throughout the United States. Learn more at www.vizientinc.com.

  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230713692201/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.