Listen to Story Release Date: 11 Aug, 2023 When the words ‘Gadar 2’ flash on the big screen and you are not taken inside the film through Om Puri’s stern but pleasant baritone, you wonder whether the first-day first-show investment was right. But moments after Sunny Deol appears on the big screen, you know it is worth sitting through. Slowly and steadily, you are inducted inside the happy world of Tara Singh, Sakina (Ameesha Patel) and their son Jeetey (played by director Anil Sharma’s son Utkarsh Sharma). And suddenly, you feel like you are in 2001 again, as the audience roars and hoots. The story of ‘Gadar 2’ takes off from where the makers had left things in 2001. And that is a clever move. A sequel of a story made 22 years later would have found itself in a tough spot, if a grown-up Jeetey used a mobile phone and spoke to his parents in millennial lingo. Tara Singh (Sunny Deol) has created a home with his beloved Sakina, his love for whom increases with each passing day. Their son is a college-going lad, whose love for his father takes him places (and not in a way it is supposed to be).  Out of the many things, ‘Gadar 2’ makers did one thing right. They played on nostalgia from the very start. As snapshots from the 2001 film fill the semi-modern void, you are reminded of what a simple world it used to be. How pure love and relationships felt when terms such as ‘ghosting’, ‘breadcrumbing’ and ‘gaslighting’ did not exist. And that's how you start connecting with the movie. While dialogues such as ‘biwi se kaam karwaungi’ in ‘Gadar’ sparked sexism debates, the makers clearly avoided controversies and focused more on the ‘katha continues’ angle this time around. Tara Singh (Sunny Deol) was a desh bhakt then, is a desh bhakt now. He now has a small, cosy life in India but still has a nemesis (Hamid Iqbal played by Manish Wadhwa) in Pakistan. Sunny is all of 65 but defies every inch of it with ‘Gadar 2’. He still possesses the same energy, swag and his famous ‘ayee’ scream that stops a whole army. Tara Singh is an icon and Sunny proves that yet again with his acting prowess. While ‘Gadar’ was all about Ameesha Patel, her role as Sakina is sparsely spread across the film in its sequel. This time, it is more about a father-son’s love for each other. As far as Ameesha is concerned, the actor was brutally trolled for her blue lens when ‘Udd Jaa Kaale Kaava’ reprised version was released, but watch ‘Gadar 2’ to know why the makers made that specific choice. Remember her blue eyes in the first part? While it might not have looked so easy on her this time, it would be safe to say that the actress was successful in reviving her primitive innocence and the sisak-sisak ke rona. However, one wishes the makers had kept more of her in the film other than just giving her oodles of heavy jewellery and wonderfully designed salwar suits. But full marks to her for taking on Sakina’s baton and doing justice to her part.  Utkarsh Sharma made his acting debut as a child actor as Chiranjeet Singh (Jeetey) in father Anil Sharma’s ‘Gadar’ in 2001. And now he plays an evolved version of the same character in the sequel. It would be safe to say that Utkarsh put on a rather great show and successfully made the film his own, of course, along with everyone’s beloved Tara. That is no easy job when you share screen space with a powerful performer like Sunny Deol. While we can’t say Utkarsh stood out, but he surely owned the screen and how! While his dialogue delivery needs some work, he nailed his action sequences like a pro. Hamid Iqbal, played by Manish Wadhwa, is Pakistan's Army Commander and is safe to say, the primary antagonist here. His character has his ways of turning bitter against India and Indians that really evokes emotions in you, but you know a baddie's job is done well if you can't help but hate him. A powerful artist that he is, 'Gadar 2' and Tara Singh couldn't have had a better foe. Simrat Kaur, who plays Muskaan in the film, is pretty and does her job well. She has scanty but meaty bits in the film and we have no complaints. Some of the key highlights of the film are the nostalgic pieces attached. Gul Khan returns and so does his wife, Dolly Bindra! It is oh-so-fun to see her playing herself in the film! Director Anil Sharma cleverly tries to cover up for late Amrish Puri and Darmiyan (played by Vivek Shauq). He’s also retained iconic moments from the first part, such as the hand pump climax scene. However, this time, you get a light pole! That’s it. No more spoilers. Watch the trailer of 'Gadar 2' here: The only few duds about the film would be Ameesha’s reduced screen time and the love angle, which were the highlights of the first part. Also, the over-dramatisation of certain scenes and too many songs. However, there’s not much to complain since the film you are watching defines a full-on Bollywood popcorn masala entertainer. The action bit seemed stretched too towards the end and there was a moment you’d want the antagonist killed, but then you have to wait, and some more.advertisementWhile the first part is spent on establishing the emotional content and pretext, the second half is where most meat lies. There’s Sunny Deol jumping atop moving trains, hailing slogans for India, talking about the tricolour, Pakistan, bombing and lots of ‘ayee’! What more can you possibly ask for?All in all, ‘Gadar 2’ supersedes expectations, as it successfully tugs at your heartstrings. And there’s Sunny Paaji to do all the heavy-lifting (pun intended).Hence, it would be safe to conclude that ‘Gadar 2’ ne kaafi gadar machayi hain!3.5 out of 5 for ‘Gadar 2’.Published By: Rishabh SharmaPublished On: Aug 11, 2023ALSO READ |  Utkarsh Sharma on 'Gadar 2', 'OMG 2' clash: Two big films should be celebrated
   The only few duds about the film would be Ameesha’s reduced screen time and the love angle, which were the highlights of the first part. Also, the over-dramatisation of certain scenes and too many songs. However, there’s not much to complain since the film you are watching defines a full-on Bollywood popcorn masala entertainer. The action bit seemed stretched too towards the end and there was a moment you’d want the antagonist killed, but then you have to wait, and some more. While the first part is spent on establishing the emotional content and pretext, the second half is where most meat lies. There’s Sunny Deol jumping atop moving trains, hailing slogans for India, talking about the tricolour, Pakistan, bombing and lots of ‘ayee’! What more can you possibly ask for? All in all, ‘Gadar 2’ supersedes expectations, as it successfully tugs at your heartstrings. And there’s Sunny Paaji to do all the heavy-lifting (pun intended). Hence, it would be safe to conclude that ‘Gadar 2’ ne kaafi gadar machayi hain!3.5 out of 5 for ‘Gadar 2’.Published By: Rishabh SharmaPublished On: Aug 11, 2023ALSO READ |  Utkarsh Sharma on 'Gadar 2', 'OMG 2' clash: Two big films should be celebrated
