Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter The newly-created role comes as the British banner expands its production arm and heads to the market in Toronto with a slate of titles. 
							By 

	Alex Ritman
 U.K. Correspondent 
	U.K. production and distribution company Signature Entertainment has promoted Ella Field to the newly-created role of executive vice president of international sales.  
	Field — who starts immediately, reporting to Signature CEO Marc Goldberg — previously held the title of head of international. Before joining Signature, she was director of international sales at Lionsgate, where she sold titles including the John Wick franchise, Knives Out and Green Book. 

 
	Field will be attending the Toronto International Film Festival with Signature’s slate, which includes high profile crime comedy Riff Raff about a former criminal whose ordinary life is thrown upside down when his old family shows up for a long-awaited reckoning. The film is currently in pre-production. The team will also be selling high-concept Scott Adkins actioner Take Cover, which wrapped in early summer this year, and will be presenting a first look at the festival. 

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	












	
	Movies
			



	
		
					Alex Garland Talks "Stupid" 'Civil War' Takes and '28 Days Later' Trilogy, Reveals Favorite Film He's Done		
			














	
	Movies
			



	
		
					Alain Delon, Seductive Star of European Cinema, Dies at 88		
			






 
	Signature’s 2023 productions slate includes Joe Keery and Camila Morrone crime romance Marmalade, Ray Liotta thriller Dangerous Waters, and revenge thriller Bull which recently reached number one on Netflix’s UK charts.

 
	“I am thrilled to be leading Signature’s international sales division and its amazing team in this new and exciting era. Through our growing production arm, I look forward to introducing buyers to our ever-expanding slate as we continue to build and reach new heights as a company,” said Field. 
	Added Goldberg: “With her excellent relationships — and eye for quality, commercial projects — I couldn’t be more excited for Ella to now be leading the International team at Signature.” Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Send us a tip using our anonymous form.