UK Edition Britain’s main neo-Nazi group has been ushered back to Twitter under Elon Musk’s ownership. Patriotic Alternative and its leaders, whose profiles had been removed from the platform, are now able to reach hundreds of millions of potential recruits. Mark Collett, the group’s boss and an admirer of Hitler, has been given a blue tick, a form of verification that an account is authentic. Blue ticks used to be given at no charge to authenticate notable account holders such as public figures, but since November they have been a paid-for validation service costing between £8 a month and £115 a year. The Taliban started using blue ticks last month, although the endorsements later disappeared. Musk, the tech billionaire who bought Twitter in October, has been championing freedom of speech after American conservatives became suspicious that the site was biased against them. He lifted a ban on Donald Trump for alleged provocations before the invasion of the Capitol on January 6, 2021, although the former president has yet to tweet on his restored account. Collett has tweeted obsessively about race and culture since he was reinstated on January 15, after an absence of more than two years. Twitter also appears to have restored his former followers. He is followed by 55,000 users, about the same tally he had before. Collett has been praising Patriotic Alternative’s public protests against migrants and drag queens. He received more than 2,000 likes for posting a photograph of small children in a French primary school, saying: “The great replacement is NOT a conspiracy theory.” This referred to the far-right idea that white populations are being deliberately reduced. He has also posted a video of Muslims praying in the street, saying: “This isn’t Islamabad in Pakistan, this is London, England. When politicians gush over ‘diversity’ & multiculturalism, this is what they are really talking about; colonisation & replacement.” On a more obscure note, he also tweeted: “Remember Velma from Scooby Doo, that cartoon you used to enjoy when you were a child? Well, she’s now a black lesbian who makes anti-white quips. That’s what liberals call ‘progress’. ” Laura Towler, the deputy leader of Patriotic Alternative, had her two-year suspension ended in December 2021 and has explicitly praised Musk. She wrote about an anti-migrant riot: “The Liverpool protest is still trending on Twitter and almost every comment I can see is on the side of the protestors. “This would have been suppressed before Elon Musk and all we’d see is far-left, anti-White tweets, making us think we were in the minority.” Patriotic Alternative’s corporate account has been restored and Towler’s husband, Sam Melia, a fellow activist, has been welcomed to Twitter. The change lets the group fish for new members after years confined to obscure online platforms where the audience was already radicalised. The Community Security Trust, which combats antisemitism, reported the accounts of Collett, Towler, Melia and Patriotic Alternative to Twitter, explaining that they belonged to an extreme right-wing, antisemitic organisation. Twitter replied: “No violation of the Twitter rules has been found by the team. If there are any specific tweets that you would like me to share for review, please do not hesitate to send these over.” A spokesman for the trust said: “Patriotic Alternative is an extremist organisation that uses social media to promote antisemitism and racism to its followers, and their appalling views should have no place on Twitter or any other mainstream platform. “Their reappearance on Twitter is not an isolated problem but part of a wave of extreme, antisemitic voices being welcomed back. It feels like years of progress in reducing the presence of hateful actors on Twitter has unravelled in the space of a few months.” After The Times asked Twitter why it had reinstated the accounts and hosted profiles promoting antisemitism and racism, the accounts were suspended. Towler said: “We were gaining followers by the thousands, getting millions of views . . . it was fun while it lasted.” Collett told The Times that he was a paying customer of Twitter, had been given no reason for his suspension and was appealing. He suspected he had been removed because of his involvement in protests outside migrant hotels. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.