Al Snow, booker of Ohio Valley Wrestling on Episode 6 of "Wrestlers." Ohio Valley Wrestling is live on pay-per-view for OVW Hard Reset in Louisville, Kentucky. Tucked away in the humble, yet hallowed Davis Arena is 60-year-old wrestling legend-turned-booker Al Snow. Snow is flanked by a small team of producers. The unflappable Snow presides over the entire show from the Gorilla Position, the last stop before the entranceway, affectionately named after WWE Hall of Famer Gorilla Monsoon. The makeshift control room boasts a monitor with multiple camera angles as Snow communicates with the referee and announce team through a headset. Though OVW’s Gorilla Position is smaller than some bathrooms, the drama in and out of the space can fill up Louisville Cardinal Stadium. “That was our finish! They just did our finish! Now we have to change it,” barked OVW wrestler Adam Revolver, who stormed into the Gorilla Position one match into the show. Revolver was set to face Kal Herro in a blindfold match, but their planned finishing sequence had been compromised during the opening contest between Donovan Cecil and D’Mone Solavino. Think of it as an opening-act comedian doing the same closing joke as the night’s feature act. Adam was pissed. The chaotic confines of OVW, and the harrowing journey of a professional wrestler, are the subject of the Netflix
NFLX
 docuseries Wrestlers. It’s Quarterback meets The Wrestler. Pro wrestling thrives on its dedicated niche audience, but by telling relatable stories on Netflix’s ubiquitous platform, Wrestlers will showcase the hybrid sport to an elusive mainstream audience. Netflix’s Formula 1 docuseries Drive to Survive has exploded Formula 1’s viewership through that same model. Wrestlers chronicles OVW, a struggling local developmental territory. The behind-the-scenes doc captures the many serious—and at-times dark—layers of a cartoon industry, which Snow aptly compares to The Muppets. One particular scene features Al Snow informing top OVW star Mahabali Shera that he’s going to lose the OVW National Heavyweight Title to former IMPACT world champion James Storm. Shera’s heartbreaking reaction goes a long way in shattering the perception that there’s anything fake about pro wrestling. “I’m the first Indian who had ever become OVW National Heavyweight champion,” said Shera in an exclusive interview. “So when I was told I’m going to lose—honestly, I’m not going to lie—I was a little hurt. Like ‘oh shit, I’m losing?’ But my job is to make sure my promoter gets what he wants. And I will do my best to do that.” “This has always been a business, and when I hold this, I know that,” said current two-time OVW National Heavyweight champion Jessie Godderz. Godderz became a pro wrestler after appearing on two seasons of Big Brother on CBS as one of the show’s most memorable contestants. “I try, to the best of my abilities, to make sure that I’m doing everything in my power to continue not only making them proud, but being an awesome, positive representation of the company. So to lose that? You start to think back: ‘what is it for business? Is there a reason? Is there a better play to help elevate somebody else to where I’m at?’ Because this is a prop to get somebody to a different level than where they’re currently at. And then whoever comes and faces me, I should be able to bring to my level, whether it’s in the ring or [promos]. So when I lose that, I start to think ‘hey did I mess up somewhere?’” OVW National Heavyweight champion Jessie Godderz. OVW doubles as an independent wrestling company looking to draw money from wrestling fans in the Kentucky area. The promotion, launched in 1993, is renowned within the wrestling community for launching the careers of top stars such as John Cena, Randy Orton, Dave Batista, Brock Lesnar and Shelton Benjamin among others. Directed by Greg Whiteley, Wrestlers features Al Snow and his eclectic cast of OVW wrestlers hoping to make the big leap to a national promotion like WWE or AEW. But before any of that could happen, Adam Revolver needed answers. And a new finish. “There’s nothing I can do about that,” said OVW head trainer and former WWE Superstar Doug Basham in response to Revolver. An aloof Basham was preoccupied by an ongoing six-man scramble match, which was slated to end in precisely nine minutes. Producer Jesse Morris shouted out time cues backstage as the match neared its internal time limit. With competing responsibilities and egos all in the same room, Al Snow remained composed, almost at peace amid the pandemonium. Snow even found time to offer up lighthearted roasts of the matches, some of which he fed to the announce team. “I dare Ty to get a tan,” growled Snow. Snow’s barb was directed at high-flying OVW wrestler Ty Vance, who donned white tights. “Look at him, you can’t see where the tights end and the skin begins! He’s literally blending into the lights!” Snow and Basham chortled in the corner of Gorilla as the hardened veterans critiqued everything from young wrestlers no-selling1 moves to talent going over their time (the scramble match went about three minutes over). Snow and Basham also offered praise as the acrobatic scramble match dazzled the packed Davis Arena, which housed no more than 200 fans. Later on in the night, Adam Revolver and Kal Herro wrestled a heated blindfold match for the OVW Rush Division Championship. The enjoyable showdown blended a perfect mixture of drama, athleticism and comedy. In the end, Revolver came up short to the babyface2 Herro. The (changed) finish was a knee lift from Herro, and the crowd ate it up. Historically, OVW’s most high-profile recruits are male-dominated. But the star of Wrestlers is charismatic 24-year-old upstart “Hollyhood” Haley J. The entertaining, yet defiant Haley J’s very existence is a pro wrestling angle. From her toxic romance with fellow OVW talent Eric Darkstorm to her complex relationship with her mother, wrestling veteran Amazing Maria, it’s no wonder OVW’s weekly TV show turned her life into a storyline. Haley J is southern wrestling’s answer to Cardi B. And her origin story is fodder for the type of soap opera that separates pro wrestling from sports entertainment. “There’s no one like me, and that’s what [WWE] is missing,” said Haley J in a charming southern drawl. “They’re missing the authentic personality, someone just being themselves. A Stone Cold, The Rock just turned up.” “...things that they used to have in the past that they no longer have now,” added Maria. “They have a bunch of athletic, beautiful women and I’m sure they can outrun me, out-jump me all day long, but they can’t outshine me,” continued Haley. “I think it would be great, I’d be a great fit. Come on, Vince!” In addition to Haley J and Maria, the OVW women’s roster boasts talent such as Leila Grey3 and Freya the Slaya, one of OVW’s biggest attractions both in stature and star power. Freya took a “burn the ships” approach when it came to her wrestling career, quitting her job and selling her house to pursue her passion. “I was using all of my leave from my job, because I was teaching so you only get so much leave, and I had already gone through all of it,” said Freya. “But I kept wanting to wrestle, kept wanting to get these opportunities, and if you’re in Alaska, you can’t just quit for a show.” “At some point, I remember talking to my boss and he’s like ‘your leave’s gone,’ and I had this show I wanted to do, and it was like ‘okay, I can’t keep doing this. You only get one chance to be a wrestler,’ I couldn’t have held off for 10 years and then decide to be a wrestler. Now’s the time I’m going to go for it, I’m going to bet on myself.” "Hollyhood" Haley J on Episode 5 of "Wrestlers."  OVW, like the majority of its talent, is a work in progress. Despite its rich lineage, the promotion is mired in debt, and its financial struggles are the catalyst for the type of tension and drama that the wrestling world preys upon. “We’re more in debt than we were last year,” said OVW owner Matt Jones. “We’re treading water, but we need a break...over the next 12 months, maybe six months, we need a break. We need to find—from a business standpoint—a national platform. There’s going to be no way for this company to survive without getting television rights or ad rights, and that’s my goal. My goal is to take whatever happens from [Wrestlers], and whatever happens over the course of the next few months, and we’ve got to take that next jump. We were fighting for survival last year. We still are.” Throughout the series, OVW’s financial burden takes its toll on the 45-year-old Jones, a high-achieving Kentucky radio legend. Jones bought OVW despite a limited knowledge of pro wrestling. At one point in the docuseries, a stressed-out Jones suffered a seizure while ranting about an OVW staffer over a Facebook post. The episode (both medically and on Netflix) humanized Jones, who was portrayed as an intruder in the highly protected world of pro wrestling. “I’ve actually been very healthy with the exception of that medical incident,” said Jones. “In Kentucky I’m very well known, so I decided to talk about these episodes—these seizures—on the air, and it’s been very beneficial for a lot of people. I had somebody come up to me last week and say ‘because you talked about it I got symptoms checked out and now I’m on medications.’ That’s a very gratifying thing, but it requires a level of vulnerability.” Wrestling is a business built on respect, and outsiders who buy their way into the business have to work harder than most to earn it. Jones and Al Snow’s testy relationship offers up a juicy subplot as Snow’s old-school wrestling philosophy—developed over 40 years in wrestling—often clashed with Jones’ ambitious plans to turn a profit. Journeyman wrestlers like the venerable Cash Flo (47) earn a living by leveraging their own personal brands to turn a profit. A favorite of the OVW fanbase, Cash Flo’s hustler’s ambition embodies the very spirit of a pro wrestler. Al Snow overseeing an OVW show on the first Episode of "Wrestlers."  “When [wrestlers] are creating personalities for themselves, [they should] find something that they can get behind that’s as close to them as possible,” said Cash Flo. “Because it makes bringing all the other tools in a lot easier, and you can then translate those better because it is you.” “Make sure you give your market plenty of opportunities to invest in you, whether it be merch table, whether it be media outlets, charity work, high schools, those opportunities, make yourself very available. In turn, your market will appreciate you. In professional wrestling, that appreciation translates into money.” Cash Flo crossed paths with some of the biggest names in the wrestling business, including OVW alumni CM Punk. The polarizing wrestling star was recently fired from AEW amid a tumultuous two-year tenure. As is well-documented in Wrestlers, Al Snow is no stranger to managing difficult personalities—a minimum requirement to being a booker. But it’s a requirement that AEW President Tony Khan is still learning on the job. “Punk’s got a very strong personality,” said Snow. “The problem with Punk is you have to have strong leadership, and you have to have as strong a personality as the talent do. And that’s where things can go astray.” “I think Tony Khan’s a really good guy, but I think for the sake of AEW in these situations—they always come up, the Punk situation is not an unusual circumstance—we’ve had those type of things happen here. But there’s a certain modicum of respect that I have, and as a result, I’m able to direct those people even when those situations occur. I don’t worry about being liked, I worry about being respected. I think Tony wants to be liked, and he should be more focused on being respected. There were lots of times I didn’t like Vince McMahon. He can be an incredible bully. He could be nasty. I’ve always respected him. Always.” Wrestlers is now streaming on Netflix. All quotes were received firsthand.  1. Selling is the act of making a wrestler’s move look believable to the audience. This can include everything from facial expressions to how a wrestler athletically takes a move.   2. The “good guy” wrestler. Villain wrestlers are referred to as heels.   3. Since the filming of “Wrestlers,” Leila Grey has since signed with AEW where she was featured in TBS champion Jade Cargill’s Baddies stable.    One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.