In the past year, the media and tech jobs market has gone from hot to not. HR managers have gone from figuring out ways to lure employees to mass firings amid a general pull-back of ads tied to the declining economic outlook. The media industry has cut at least 17,436 in 2023 through May, the highest year-to-date amount on record and surpassing the 2020 pandemic job cuts of 16,750 through May, according to outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas. In news alone, 1,972 jobs were cut through May this year, surpassing the 1,808 announced in all of 2022. While media and entertainment layoffs are dwarfed by the tens of thousands in jobs lost at big tech companies from Meta to Google, a wide range of workers have been impacted. Cuts have roiled entertainment giants like Disney and Warner Bros. Discovery that are racing to make their streaming businesses profitable as well as digital media companies such as BuzzFeed and Vice Media that are trying to bolster their valuations. Also affected were legacy journalism stalwarts like The Washington Post and USA Today owner Gannett, which laid off 400 staff and axed a further 400 positions in early December. The Los Angeles Times in June laid off 73 people from its newsroom, and the Athletic, which was acquired by the New York Times in 2022, cut 20 journalists. The Wall Street Journal parent News Corp. previously said it would lay off 5%, or around 1,000, this calendar year. Tech giant Amazon cut about 100 people from its Amazon Studios and Prime Video teams — a tiny fraction of the company's 27,000 layoffs overall in 2023 but still a blow to its entertainment workers — and Disney in May completed the third and final round of 7,000 job cuts it had announced in February, part of a push for $5.5 billion in cost savings. Adding to the strain on the entertainment industry labor force, Hollywood writers went on strike in May for the first time in 15 years to protest pay and other concerns. Actors called a strike of their own in July, exacerbating the industry's pressures. This list was originally published in December and has been updated. Claire Atkinson contributed to earlier versions. Here are 40 media and entertainment companies that have laid off staff as of July 2023: Amazon on April 27 laid off around 100 across Amazon Studios and Prime Video, the latest divisions of the tech giant to be hit by staff reductions. Amazon Studios is the tech giant's TV and film division and a source of content for Prime Video, one of a bundle of services that drive Amazon Prime memberships ($139 per year or $15 per month in the US).  Studios had spent heavily in recent years to establish itself in Hollywood with TV and films that would fuel Amazon's Prime membership. Under its head Jen Salke, Studios has ballooned by more than 50%, to about 1,500 staffers, since 2018.    AMC Networks, the parent company of the cable network behind "The Walking Dead," "Mad Men," and "Breaking Bad," set plans to lay off 20% of its 1,000 American staffers, or about 200 people, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal. Its CEO, Christina Spade, the former AMC CFO who was in the top position for just three months, also exited, and is entitled to a cash severance payout of at least $10.5 million.  "It was our belief that cord cutting losses would be offset by gains in streaming. This has not been the case," AMC company chairman James Dolan wrote in a note to network staffers in late November, the Journal reported. AMC Networks subsidiaries also include IFC, Sundance TV and streaming services AMC+, Shudder, and Acorn TV.   New York Times-owned The Athletic laid off 20 people, or 4%, the subscription sports website announced in a memo June 12. The site also said it would change its approach from having one reporter per sports team to instead lean into "compelling stories for fans across the teams in a given league," The Times reported. Twenty reporters will shift roles as a result. The Times acquired The Athletic in 2022 for $550 million; the site lost about $55 million in 2021 before the acquisition, but losses have declined over time, to about $36 million in the year following the deal. Crypto news publication The Block has laid off one-third of its staff, according to a report from Axios on March 31. Axios reported that the layoffs affect "every department," but some groups — such as the team focused on revenue — would be pared back more than others. The company said in a memo to staff that Larry Cermak, head of research and data who has been with the publication since 2018, would replace former CEO Bobby Moran. Moran, formerly The Block's chief revenue officer, stepped into the CEO role in December after his predecessor, Michael McCaffrey, didn't disclose several loans the publication had received from Alameda Research, the trading arm of former crypto wunderkind Sam Bankman-Fried's defunct digital assets empire. McCaffrey "was the only person with knowledge of the funding at the company," The Block wrote at the time, revealing his resignation. The Block and other crypto-focused publications gained more mainstream attention amid the FTX implosion in late 2022, which also exacerbated an ad spending pullback in the cryptocurrency arena. In a statement to Axios, a spokesperson for The Block said: "Ours is a story you hear too often. We grew too quickly to capitalize on a bull market in crypto. Now, we must shift our strategy and recalibrate our teams to align with the reality of the current market." Bustle Digital Group — the parent company of Bustle, W, Romper, and other media sites and publications — announced in June that it was cutting 21 staffers, or about 5% of its headcount, Adweek reported. It was the company's fourth layoff in 12 months and primarily affected Inverse, an entertainment, gaming, and science site. BDG in February had announced it would be cutting 8% of its full-time roles and "suspending" operations at Gawker, the irreverent pop culture site that had been revived in 2021 after a lawsuit forced it to shutter in 2016.  "After experiencing a financially strong 2022, we have found ourselves facing a surprisingly difficult Q1 of 2023," wrote BDG CEO Bryan Goldberg in an email to staff. "BDG has made the decision to reprioritize some of our investments that better position the Company for the direction we see the industry moving."  The Writers Guild of America, East told The Hollywood Reporter that about 40 full-time staffers at BDG (including eight Gawker staffers), in addition to part-time workers, were impacted by the February layoffs.  BuzzFeed on April 20 laid off 15% of its staff, or 180 people, and shut down BuzzFeed News, following a similar round in December. "We've faced more challenges than I can count in the past few years: a pandemic, a fading SPAC market that yielded less capital, a tech recession, a tough economy, a declining stock market, a decelerating digital advertising market and ongoing audience and platform shifts," CEO Jonah Peretti said in a staff memo. "Dealing with all of these obstacles at once is part of why we've needed to make the difficult decisions to eliminate more jobs and reduce spending."  BuzzFeed went public via a SPAC in late 2021 and its life as a public company has been rocky. Its stock price has plunged since its public debut of around $10 to under $1 per share, and the April news caused it to tumble again, nearly 24%, to 69 cents a share at one point; its market cap fell below $100 million, roughly a third of what BuzzFeed paid for Complex less than two years ago. Looking ahead, Peretti said the company would focus on bringing in more revenue and reducing spending by cutting its real estate footprint and other spending.   In late June, Cheddar News cut roughly a dozen roles, multiple sources familiar with the matter told Insider. Among the highest-profile individuals exiting are two longtime Cheddar anchors and familiar faces to viewers: Baker Machado, who joined the network in 2017, and Chloe Aiello, who came onboard the following year. Both anchors had contributed to signature shows like "Wake Up With Cheddar," and Machado was known nationwide for delivering Cheddar News updates on screens at gas stations. In a statement to Insider on June 23, Machado confirmed he's moving on from Cheddar in July, saying: "While I won't miss my 3:45am alarm, I will miss the most amazing viewers who joined me as we tried to brighten the day learning and laughing along the way." In addition to those on-air personalities, the network laid off other staffers including multiple broadcast producers and company loyalists, like an office manager known for being a culture carrier in the workplace, the people said. A spokesperson for Cheddar's parent company, Altice USA, confirmed the layoffs to Insider in an emailed statement on June 22 but declined to comment on the scope or individuals impacted. The spokesperson cited economic factors that have plagued the broader media industry as culprits. "This decision is not something we take lightly and was made after a thoughtful analysis of the network's operations and programming to ensure current and future needs of the business," the spokesperson wrote. "We understand the impact this has on those whose roles were eliminated and are providing severance and outplacement support to all affected." The June layoff wasn't the first time Cheddar has quietly cut some positions in 2023. Insider exclusively reported that the network also cut a handful of video producers this spring who had created content for its respected YouTube channel, where videos often garnered millions of views. Prior to losing their jobs, some of the members of that team had been transferred to roles at News12, local news stations throughout the New York Tri-State area that share ownership by Altice. Collectively, the two rounds of cuts — which appear to have slashed headcount by nearly 20 roles — have reignited fears for the future of the embattled news network, which has suffered droves of employee exits, growing discontent with management, and shifting editorial priorities.  As one ousted staffer told Insider following the most recent round of cuts in June: "The clock is ticking and I think that they're going to get rid of Cheddar altogether," adding: "It's a matter of time before it's 'goodbye.'"The Cheddar spokesperson did not address speculation about the network's future. The CW, conceived as a joint venture between CBS Studios and Warner Bros. TV, was sold to Nexstar in October 2022. In November, it laid off 30 to 40 staffers, according to Variety. In February, the network home of young-adult series "Charmed," "Supernatural," and "Arrow" let go of its executives in charge of scripted originals, Michael Roberts and Gaye Hirsch, as well as others in its current programming department, according to The Hollywood Reporter. The CW declined to comment on the total number of staffers who have been let go since the acquisition. Daily Kos, a publication focused on left-leaning politics in the US, announced in late January that it would lay off a fifth of its staff in "most areas of the company," according to a post from founder Markos Moulitsas on the outlet's website. "This was an unfathomably difficult decision, and it wasn't made lightly," Moulitsas wrote. "But after a year of exploring alternatives and cutting costs wherever possible, it is now the only way forward." Moulitsas' post pointed to the end of the Trump presidency as one factor that had cooled reader interest and bitten into the site's pageviews. He also wrote that Daily Kos' refusal to sell subscribers' email addresses without their consent sent buyers and marketers at campaigns elsewhere. The outlet's layoffs unleashed a disagreement with its union, which in February said it issued a cease and desist to the publication for "bad faith bargaining" amid a back-and-forth over cost savings. But still, some have lost jobs. Brandi Buchman, a senior staff writer for the outlet, tweeted at the end of February that she would be laid off. Buchman had been covering a seditious conspiracy trial involving the far-right group The Proud Boys. Dick Clark Productions laid off around 15% of its workforce in early February, just weeks after the producer of live event TV programming had been acquired by Penske Media Eldridge, a partnership between Penske Media Corporation and Eldridge, whose chairman and CEO is Todd Boehly. "As we look to evolve DCP's current business model and invest in the company's long-term growth, change is essential to ensure an enduring path forward," a PMC spokesperson told Insider. Dick Clark Productions produces a number of major awards shows, including the Golden Globes, Billboard Music Awards, and American Music Awards. Eldridge also owns the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, the organization of journalists that gives out the Golden Globes. Penske Media owns the major Hollywood trade publications, including Variety, Deadline, and The Hollywood Reporter, and has stakes in or fully owns a number of festivals, from SXSW to ATX to Life Is Beautiful. Satellite player DirecTV said in a staff memo that it's laying off 10% of its 10,000-member workforce, CNBC reported. The consolidation includes hundreds of managerial executives at the El Segundo, California, company. The company said in a statement that "the entire pay-TV industry is impacted by the secular decline and the increasing rates to secure and distribute programming." Viewers are dumping expensive long contracts for movies and TV shows in favor of direct-to-consumer relationships with streaming ventures such as Netflix. The change is partly a result of the loss of "NFL Sunday Ticket," which is moving to YouTube. DirecTV is backed by AT&T and private equity giant TPG. Disney CEO Bob Iger announced plans to cut 7,000 jobs, or about 3% of the workforce, during the company's earnings call February 8. He also reorganized the company in three groups, focused on entertainment, sports, and theme parks. The cuts came in three rounds, starting in March, April, and May. Employees affected included film and TV execs, marketing and communications teams, streaming, and the company's entire next-generation storytelling and experiences unit — aka its metaverse team — of about 50. They also included 75 people at Disney's vaunted Pixar Animation Studios. Disney, like other entertainment companies, is struggling with making streaming profitable, and insiders have been bracing for major layoffs since the fall, when former CEO Bob Chapek warned staff the company "would look at every avenue of operations and labor to find savings, and we do anticipate some staff reductions as part of this review." Iger still believes that streaming is the future, he said on the February earnings call. He said his plan to invest in the company's streaming future includes focusing more on core brands and franchises, curating general-entertainment content, and balancing global and local content. IAC-owned Dotdash Meredith, the parent company of People, InStyle, Entertainment Weekly and other lifestyle magazines and online properties, let go of 274 staffers, or 7%, of its workforce in late January. Roles cut included editors, writers, marketers, and production managers. At the same time, the publisher offered staffers at People the chance to voluntarily resign in exchange for a severance package negotiated with the publication's union, Insider reported. People staffers told Insider fear is mounting that another round of layoffs could be in the works. "As we have said, we are not immune to the broader challenges of the ad industry and of the economy as a whole, and today's actions are a direct response to these realities," wrote CEO Neil Vogel in a January memo to staff. He noted that the company, like others "in our space" during the pandemic, has "grown aggressively." It has also faced challenges combining its online and print businesses in the wake of the $2.7 billion merger in 2022. "With the difficult market environment and economic uncertainty that lie ahead, we must prioritize our biggest opportunities and make sure we have the proper cost structure in place to pursue them," he continued. "Today's actions provide for the most effective and focused use of our resources and put us in a position of strength as we look toward the future."  Media giant Gannett has spent the last few months making deep cuts to its fleet of newspapers, which includes flagship title USA Today as well as regional papers like The Indianapolis Star. In August, the company cut 400 people and said it would not fill hundreds of open roles. Then in December, Gannett said it was cutting about 6% of its roughly 3,440-person media unit, or about 200 staffers. That news followed an announcement from Gannett CEO Mike Reed in October mandating unpaid leave as well as voluntary buyouts.  Gannett has been under pressure as it tries to shift its business from print to digital, but the crunch in the ad market has hit the publicly-traded newspaper company hard. Its stock fell more than 60 percent in 2022. G/O, a collection of digital media brands, laid off 13 people in June at sites including The Onion and Quartz, citing "editorial, economic and technological fluctuations" impacting the industry. The move followed a reduction of 11 people — or about 3% of its staff — in December. G/O formed in 2019 when private equity firm Great Hill Partners acquired the former Gawker Media sites including Gizmodo, Jezebel, and Kotaku. This past summer, G/O also acquired business news site Quartz. CEO Jim Spanfeller wrote in a memo to staff, reviewed by Insider, that the layoffs would help position the company to win in the current environment and that it also would be hiring in some editorial and business areas. The toymaker announced it would be cutting 1,000 full-time roles in 2023, given that its consumer products business "underperformed in the fourth quarter against the backdrop of a challenging holiday consumer environment," according to a statement from Hasbro CEO Chris Cocks.  The maker of Nerf, Play-Doh, and Peppa Pig toys said that some areas, such as digital gaming and licensing, had shown "strong growth" in the fourth quarter, but 2022 overall had offered "a challenging moment." Hasbro said it would stick to a strategy it had outlined in October 2022 "focus on fewer, bigger brands; gaming; digital; and our rapidly growing direct to consumer and licensing businesses." Hasbro is also planning to sell studio Entertainment One (eOne) after acquiring the "Peppa Pig" and "Transformers" parent less than three years ago, though Hasbro aims to retain IP such as "Peppa Pig."  New York-based magazine publisher Hearst, which puts out titles including Cosmopolitan, Seventeen, and Good Housekeeping, slashed several dozen roles on July 20. A Hearst spokesperson confirmed the cuts to Insider, saying in a statement: "As we continue to produce the highest-quality content across all platforms, we're also making strategic decisions that position the business for long-term growth." The spokesperson did not respond to additional questions about the scope of the cuts or whether certain Hearst franchises were more impacted than others. Meanwhile, the Hearst Magazines Media Union said on Twitter that the cuts amounted to some 41 positions, writing: "We are disappointed and angry that Hearst unilaterally chose to lay off our members instead of coming to the table to explore alternative options." (The union did not respond to a request for comment.) Insider obtained a memo sent on the afternoon of the layoffs by Debi Chirichella, president of Hearst Magazines. "We will be saying goodbye to some of our talented colleagues across the organization," it read. "I want to thank each of them for their hard work and contributions." "Looking ahead, we are focused on building a model to drive growth across our business for decades to come," Chirichella wrote, adding: "Change can be difficult but it is necessary as we pave the way forward as a digital-first media company." Nonprofit newsroom The Intercept laid off half a dozen staffers in January, culling the 9-year-old investigative outlet of its video team and several other key positions, like a director of digital operations. It was the second round of layoffs to hit the site in the past year, after 20 were cut in April.  A spokesperson for The Intercept told Insider that the six layoffs were tied to a restructuring of the organization in January that saw it spin off as an independent nonprofit. The Intercept's union called out the layoffs in a note to management posted on Twitter, saying: "We can't build something if we're losing colleagues at a rate like this." The union said it now counts 19 members as of January, down from 29 at the start of 2022. The Intercept's spokesperson said that the company employed 40 people total as of February, and was seeking to fill five additional open roles. The Los Angeles Times has slashed more than 70 positions, ranging from photojournalists and desk editors to copy editors and audio producers, the paper reported on June 7. The layoffs amount to 13% of the Times' newsroom."It's terrible. I feel awful about it but when you're a leader you have moments like this," Kevin Merida, the paper's executive editor, reportedly told hundreds of staffers on a video call on Thursday, according to a second LA Times report. "We'll be losing a lot of very valuable people and that's just really hard to take. It's hard for me, too." Merida acknowledged that the paper was confronting "a budget gap of 'tens of millions of dollars,'" the publication added in its report, which triggered the need to shed headcount. The Times noted the decision has unleashed backlash from the paper's union.  Morning Brew, a millennial-focused media company that was acquired by Insider Inc. in 2020, laid off 40 staffers in March, Axios reported, after cutting 14% of its roughly 300-person staff in November. Cofounder and CEO Austin Rief wrote in an email to staff that Morning Brew was reorging as it continues to feel the effects of the ad environment. Those impacted in the first round included Daniel Bentley, a managing editor overseeing two newsletters at Morning Brew, "Sidekick" and "Money Scoop;" reporter Katie Canales, who had joined Morning Brew from Insider; reporter Sherry Qin; executive producer Brian Henry; and senior editor Stassa Edwards. NBCUniversal started laying off ad sales people in January after the company executed a buyout program across divisions offering early retirement to older employees. The Comcast-owned giant was looking to keep costs under control in 2022, resulting in a cull that had impacted NBC Sports, E! Entertainment as well as NBC Group but was expected to hit much wider in January, according to senior insiders at the company. Bloomberg has reported that Comcast is looking for a billion dollars in cuts across the Philadelphia-based cable to satellite player.  Once a high-flying rocket ship, Netflix saw its wings clipped in 2022 as the dominant streaming platform clocked subscriber losses and a subsequent hit to its share price. In the spring, the company slashed 450 full-time positions, then cut around 30 animation jobs and 70 animation contract roles. The moves shook Netflix insiders, who noted a shift to "fear-based" decision-making among executives who were stretched thin. The streamer's subscriber figures have since rebounded, and the company is hiring in targeted areas such as gaming. Wall Street Journal parent News Corp. announced February 9 it would cut about 5% of its headcount in 2023, or around 1,250 people, citing a tough economic environment and rising interest rates. The news has spurred speculation of layoffs coming at the Journal, whose newsroom was spared from a 2% cut in January at News Corp. unit Dow Jones, publisher of the Journal, Barron's, MarketWatch, and others. News Corp.'s Rupert Murdoch and his son Lachlan Murdoch also called off the proposed merger between the media company and Fox Corp.  NPR CEO John Lansing said on February 23 that the public broadcaster will axe at least 100 people and eliminate open positions as a result of a shortfall in revenue.  The successful podcast producer has seen ad support shrink as companies have cut back on spending on media. The Washington, DC broadcaster, which runs on revenue of around $300 million, is facing a potential $30 million funding gap, according to an NPR report on the situation. In an interview with NPR, Lansing said: "We're not seeing signs of a recovery in the advertising market," adding, "Nothing is nailed down yet except the principles and what we know we have to reach." Lansing said the cuts wouldn't fall across every division but would be more strategic. NPR's report said the CEO had also made a commitment to make sure job cuts do not fall disproportionately on employees of color.       Outside Media, the enthusiast publisher of titles including Backpacker, Ski, and Climbing laid off 12% of its staff in November, mainly in content and journalism roles. Founder and CEO Robin Thurston cited slowing consumer appetite and a softening digital ad market. Thurston also conceded that the company expanded too rapidly during the pandemic, when it went on a shopping spree to capitalize on people's growing interest in the outdoors, and that some of the titles it bought were "extremely challenged." Outside previously laid off 15% of staff in May. Paramount Global, under CEO Bob Bakish, has been trying to figure out how to integrate its premium cable offering, Showtime, with streamer Paramount+ and find savings at the same time.  In May, Paramount announced it would lay off 25% of its TV networks staff and shut down 35-year-old MTV News, citing economic headwinds, NPR reported.  In February, its Showtime subsidiary laid off nearly 120 people, Variety reported, amid a restructuring that impacted about 25% of the cabler's workforce. As part of the changes, Showtime co-presidents Gary Levine and Jana Winograde departed their posts. Levine will reportedly stay on as an advisor.  Other high-level Showtime executives, including head of content acquisition Kent Sevener, general counsel head Rob Rosenberg and documentary chief Vinnie Malhotra, also left in the restructuring, according to Variety.  Paramount had previously axed some 100 positions in November, largely in advertising sales, according to Deadline. Former Politico owner Robert Allbritton launched tech-focused web publication Protocol in early 2020, with the goal of making it the "ESPN of technology." But the outlet shuttered just two short years later and laid off a staff of more than 60 people amid a downturn in the industry that it covered, as Amazon, Meta and others also are letting go of thousands of staffers.  "I expected layoffs because of the economy, but the full shutdown was a surprise," one impacted staffer told Insider in November, shortly after the layoffs. Protocol faced steep competition from the likes of Wired and The Verge, and insiders said there was a sense that business had begun to slow in the second half of 2022.  Allbritton in 2021 sold Politico — and Protocol along with it — to Axel Springer, the parent company of Insider. Recurrent Ventures was once a bright spot in the digital media industry, a new kid on the block buying up legacy media brands like Popular Science as well as digital standouts like MEL Magazine.  But in September, the private-equity backed media company announced a round of layoffs, Insider first reported. Shortly thereafter, Recurrent's CEO and chief revenue officer both stepped aside. Alex Vargas, who joined the company in April as COO, stepped up as CEO in October. The round of cuts — 52 people in total — followed Recurrent's decision in July to shutter MEL, the beloved men's lifestyle publication that it once hoped would be the backbone of a growing lifestyle division.  The company, which grew aggressively as it charted an acquisition-heavy strategy, cited market forces when it announced the layoffs. As Insider reported, disorganization in the ad sales department and an unclear strategy also led to low morale and a struggling business. Now, however, the company is ready to use its $300 million war chest — backed by private-equity giant Blackstone — to make more media deals in 2023.  Roku said it is making a second round of layoffs, axing another 200 staff — or 6% of its employee base — citing a need to prioritize efforts that provide a higher return on investment. The company saw a jump in its stock price on Thursday, March 30 following the news. It is also planning to sublease some of its real estate holdings, according to Reuters. The company, which held almost $500 million in cash at Silicon Valley Bank and was impacted by the bank's collapse, had said in the fall that it would cut 200 of its 3,000 employees. CEO Anthony Wood, speaking on the company's third quarter earnings call, said the 2022 holiday period was an unusual one in that advertisers that typically spent with the company were not spending with anyone.  The company is about to see how strong the ad market is for 2023 as advertisers gear up for May's upfronts, where they commit money in advance of the coming year to secure the best ad inventory. Roku, which hired Fox's entertainment chief Charlie Collier to run its Roku Media unit last year, is a gateway for advertisers who want to reach customers streaming video on their connected TVs via the Roku box. The company spent $12 million on an original featuring Daniel Radcliffe, titled "Weird: The Al Yankovic story." The Berkshire Hathaway-backed E.W. Scripps is eliminating 300 positions, according to reports. Scripps, based in Cincinnati, is the latest media corporation to reduce its staff — part of a $40 million budget reduction over the next year. The cuts represent 5% of the company's workforce, according to reports. Scripps is looking to streamline operations as it beefs up news and sports and pursues local sports rights. The company is known as one of the nation's biggest operators of local free to air TV stations. The cuts are expected to fall on layers of management. The company said in January it would undertake a re-organization and moved president Lisa Knutson into the role of chief operating officer to execute the new structure and help eliminate duplication.                      SiriusXM, the satellite radio subscription company, laid off 8%, or 475 people, the company announced in a March 6 memo reviewed by Insider. CEO Jennifer Witz told staff in the memo that as part of its 2023 planning process as well as the challenging economic environment, the company reviewed the business for ways to be more efficient without cutting headcount, which led to cuts in marketing, content spending, real estate, and T&E. She said the staff reductions were necessary to keep the company sustainably profitable, adding that every part of the company would be impacted.       SmartNews, a venture-backed news aggregation site and app valued at $2 billion as of 2021, in January announced a 40% reduction of its US and China workforce, or around 120 people, TechCrunch reported. TechCrunch said the impacted roles included people in engineering, product and data science. The company confirmed the layoffs to TechCrunch. Founded in 2012, Tokyo-based SmartNews raised $230 million in 2021, bringing its total raised to $400 million. Arena Group, the parent company of Sports Illustrated, TheStreet, Men's Journal, Parade, and other publications, restructured, resulting in 17 Sports Illustrated staffers being laid off and 12 new positions were created to "reflect the new needs of the SI business," according to an internal memo obtained by Insider. Sports Illustrated has undergone several ownership changes in recent years, changing hands from Meredith to Authentic Brands Group to Arena. Awful Announcing first reported news of the layoffs after several writers and editors who were impacted tweeted about the layoffs. Per the memo: "Going forward, we will have three distinct editorial units focusing on serving different parts of our audience. The magazine and long form editorial group will continue to be led by our Editor-in-Chief, Steve Cannella. Our digital coverage from SI, with a renewed focus on key sports verticals, will be led by Joy Russo, and our breaking and trending team will be led by Neal Coolong." Longtime co-editor-in-chief Ryan Hunt, who had been with Sports Illustrated for 25 years, is retiring in March. As part of the restructuring, the publication was also looking to hire nine new journalists and three editorial managers.  Spotify said in June that it would lay off 200 people in its podcast division, or 2% of total staff, following a January reduction of around 6%, or about 600 employees. Cofounder and CEO Daniel Ek said of the January reduction that the music-streaming service had tried to rein in costs over the past few months but that it wasn't enough. He also said he tried to "sustain the strong tailwinds from the pandemic" but was "too ambitious in investing ahead of our revenue growth." Dawn Ostroff, chief content and advertising business officer, left the company as part of the layoffs.  TheSkimm, a newsletter and media company for millennial women, laid off about 22 people, or 13%, in April following a January reduction of nearly 10% of its workforce, said sources familiar with the matter. Those cut in the most recent round included top salespeople and creative executives, LinkedIn posts suggest. Founded by Carly Zakin and Danielle Weisberg in 2012, New York-based TheSkimm first captured the attention of readers with its newsletter, the Daily Skimm. The company describes itself as being "dedicated to succinctly giving women the information they need to make confident decisions." TheSkimm's last major round of layoffs was in the spring of 2020, just a few months into the start of the pandemic, when it axed about 20% of its 130-person staff. Zakin and Weisberg told staffers at the time, shortly before the layoffs, that the economic downturn had sent ad proposals plummeting 75%. Vice Media shuttered its Vice News Tonight TV show in April and was expected to cut around 100 people in a restructuring. Just weeks later the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy after more than a year of searching for a buyer.   Vice previously trimmed staff in 2022 as it faced a softening advertising environment and sale speculation. Then-CEO Nancy Dubuc emailed in November that the company would look to reduce staff by 15%, citing ongoing cutbacks by brands and advertisers. The once high-flying digital darling cofounded in 1994 by Shane Smith was valued at $5.7 billion at its 2017 peak but struggled under the weight of massive debt payments to private equity giant TPG. Dubuc stepped down in February and the company's chief strategy officer, Hozefa Lokhandwala, and chief financial officer, Bruce Dixon, were named co-CEOs. Vimeo conducted layoffs impacting 11% of its workforce, CEO Anjali Sud wrote in a January 4 email to staff.  "This was a very hard decision that impacts each of us deeply," Sud wrote. "It is also the right thing to do to enable Vimeo to be a more focused and successful company, operating with the necessary discipline in an uncertain economic environment." Vimeo went public in May 2021 after spinning off from IAC. Its main business is software as a service that helps regular people create and distribute video content; it's been shifting its focus to serve big corporate clients like Gap, Nike, and Expedia and away from its role as a YouTube alternative. The layoff follows a 6% trim in the workforce in July 2022. Venture-backed digital media company Vox Media on January 20 laid off 7% of staff, or about 130 people, according to reports.  The publisher of New York magazine, The Verge, and other publications said it had already reduced spending and frozen hiring. CEO Jim Bankoff said the layoffs would affect revenue, editorial, operations, and core services. Vox laid off 39 people in 2022, Axios reported. The New York Times reported on February 6 that Vox is raising $100 million from Penske Media, which owns Rolling Stone, Variety, and several other Hollywood trades, as well as Dick Clark Productions. Penske also owns Los Angeles-based festival LAC3 and has a stake in SXSW.  In March, Vox announced it would be retiring all Recode branding after acquiring the tech publication and its influential conference in 2015. Perhaps no entertainment company has undergone as much corporate turmoil in the past year as Warner Bros. Discovery, which is still digesting a megamerger that has combined WarnerMedia's HBO, CNN, and DC with Discovery's HGTV, Food Network, and other cable networks.  As CEO David Zaslav looked for at least $3 billion in synergies, the company, which employs some 40,000 people worldwide, has been shedding staff from nearly every major division. In the latest round, the TV division made cuts the week of June 19 in a continuation of last year's reductions. Turner Classic Movies EVP Pola Changnon announced she would leave amid the latest round. Earlier, CNN cut 400 positions including open roles, on top of another 239 cuts following the short life of news streaming platform CNN+. WBD axed 100 in ad sales as that division shrank by 30% globally. WBD Sports, including brands like Turner Sports, Golf Digest, and Bleacher Report, laid off more than 120 in two rounds. Even crown jewel HBO trimmed headcount by 14%, or about 70 people, last summer, scrapping HBO Max's original unscripted team and yanking a plethora of titles from the streaming platform, which has since been supplanted by new WBD streamer Max. The Washington Post is laying off 20 people out of its 2,500-person workforce and not filling 30 vacancies, Executive Editor Sally Buzbee said in a memo to staff. The paper is also phasing out Launcher, its online gaming vertical, and KidsPost. The Post said its net headcount would remain unchanged as it continues to hire in other areas. The January news followed the Post's announcement in November that it would shutter its standalone print Sunday magazine and eliminate its 10 staff positions.  Buzbee told staffers at the time that the move was part of the paper's "global and digital transformation" and that the Post "will be shifting some of the most popular content, and adding more, in a revitalized Style section that will launch in the coming months," the Post reported. Elaine Low and Steven Perlberg contributed to earlier versions of this article. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to