BROCKTON − Brockton's only remaining Stop & Shop plans to close its doors this year. Here's what we know. A Stoughton mom is reaching new heights as ironworker. Jessica Devance left a career in health care to take up ironworking. Brockton's Kevin Walsh knocked-down Christian Otero of New York, N.Y., and won the vacant New England Junior Lightweight Championship during the Winter Brawl at the Mohegan Sun Casino. González House Mexican Restaurant, a once bustling food truck cruising around the South Shore, has planted its roots in downtown Bridgewater, serving a mix of Brazilian and Mexican food. West Bridgewater's very own police chief, Victor Flaherty, was one of the lead detectives featured in the hit Netflix true crime documentary, 'Don't Pick Up the Phone,' a chilling story about a phone call hoax turned sexual assault case. In case you missed it, here are five stories from the past week throughout the Brockton area that resonated with our readers. The Stop & Shop Supermarket on the north side will close this year, the grocery store chain confirmed Thursday. "Stop & Shop has made the difficult decision not to renew the lease for our store located at 932 North Montello Street in Brockton, Massachusetts, as the store was not meeting financial expectations," a representative of the Quincy-based company said. "Stop & Shop intends to operate the store and the fuel station through part of 2023. Stop & Shop to close:Brockton's only remaining Stop & Shop to close its doors. Here's what we know. Stop & Shop on Belmont St. closes:Brockton Stop & Shop announces closure A return of the good old days at Raynham Park came a giant step closer as the historic greyhound track announced a retail sports betting deal with gambling industry giant Caesars Sportsbook. If regulators approve the partnership, in-person sports betting could begin within weeks at Raynham Park's current simulcasting space of about 3,000 square feet. The footprint would expand once the new sections of Raynham Park are finished in June or July, said Chris Carney, owner of Raynham Park. 'Get your old jobs back':'Get your old jobs back': Is in-person sports betting just weeks away at Raynham Park? Raynham Park wants sports betting app:Raynham Park wants to launch a sports betting app. Here's what we know. 'New life' to Raynham Park:MA lawmakers OK'd sports betting. Here's how it will bring 'new life' to Raynham Park. West Bridgewater's very own police chief, Victor Flaherty, was one of the lead detectives featured in the hit Netflix true crime documentary, 'Don't Pick Up the Phone,' a chilling story about a phone call hoax turned sexual assault case that plagued the nation in the '90s and early 2000s. In 2004, Flaherty, who goes by 'Vic,' was a detective sergeant working "mainly drug cases, as part of the Major Crimes Taskforce," for the town's police department, where he's been employed since 1988, he said. Then one day, he got a call from the Wareham Police Department asking if he'd heard about what happened in four Wendy's in Massachusetts, including one in West Bridgewater. A caller contacted four Wendy's in Massachusetts ― in West Bridgewater, Abington, Wareham and Whitman ― claimed he was a police officer, and tricked managers into performing illegal strip searches on employees. 'Bizarre' Netflix series:'Bizarre': Netflix series on strip search hoax features W. Bridgewater police chief Ironworker Jessica Devance has a 13-year-old. He makes her drop him off up the street from his school. And there's no way the eighth-grader is letting her go inside. But when he's in a car driving past the new Verizon building towering over TD Garden, he's not too mortified to acknowledge his mother. "He's like, 'My mom did that," Devance said. "It's an awesome feeling. I wouldn't trade it for the world." The 33-year-old left a career in health care to take up ironworking. The share of construction jobs held by women has been on the rise, but it's still low. About 4%, according to federal stats. Female ironworkers are even more rare, estimated at less than 1%. Devance is proud to be one of them. Stoughton mom reaches new heights:Forget about Iron Man. This Stoughton mom reaches new heights as ironworker. Teammates inked his No. 33 on their cheeks as they cheered from the stands. Classmates, too. The Southeastern/Bristol-Plymouth hockey team played in honor of Dylan Quinn. Throughout the week, they weren't alone. Since Quinn's death on Jan. 15, teams throughout the South Shore and Brockton area have shown support through an array of tributes. The Oliver Ames High boys hockey team designed a heart-shaped helmet sticker with Quinn's initials and No. 33 to wear the remainder of the season. Quinn played for Easton Middle School, and later for the Trio-County Saints alongside several current OA players. Teams pay tribute to Dylan QuinnLocal high school teams pay tribute to Southeastern/B-P goalie Dylan Quinn 16-year-old killed in crash16-year-old B-P student killed in Berkley crash This article originally appeared on The Enterprise: Brockton-area top 5 stories: Supermarket closing; female ironworker New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.