Contact: Harriet Laird 

Trey Breckenridge (Photo by Diane Godwin)

 STARKVILLE, Miss.—An alumnus of Mississippi State’s Bagley College of Engineering now is providing interim oversight of the university’s Information Technology Services division. William B. “Trey” Breckenridge III, who currently directs MSU’s High Performance Computing Collaboratory, is the institution’s acting chief technology transformation officer. Created by MSU in 2021, the relatively new position provides forward-thinking leadership development and implementation for ITS’s technology improvement initiatives, while advising university leadership on plans and directions for these projects. “With more than 30 years at MSU and a proven record in advancing high performance computing and support, Trey has his finger on the pulse of the ever-changing, critical role technology plays at a national research university,” said David Shaw, provost and executive vice president. “Trey has been instrumental as Mississippi State has grown its reputation and become known across the country as one of the most respected, high-powered academic computing sites in the country.” Currently 5th in U.S. academic supercomputing capability, MSU and its many research centers benefit from HPC2’s and Breckenridge’s work supporting university scientists making a global impact in such areas as computational sciences, cyber security, geospatial technology, advanced vehicular systems, uncrewed aircraft systems, ecosystem management and more. His experience with cross-collaboration among researchers and projects also supports MSU’s strategic goals, according to Shaw. Breckenridge is a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society and the Association of Computing Machinery and Infragard, and is the university’s representative with the Coalition for Academic Scientific Computation. During his three decades in his field, he also has held many executive-level positions with organizations and conferences. MSU is Mississippi’s leading university, available online at www.msstate.edu. Friday, March 3, 2023 - 2:50 pm
 
July 25, 2024
 
August 09, 2024
 
July 26, 2024
