LAFAYETTE, Ind. − A Lafayette pain management clinic became the first in the nation to test a noninvasive device that stimulates the spinal cord to help with chronic pain. The Center for Pain Management in Lafayette was the first clinic in the nation to perform a trial of a new, first-of-its-kind Spinal Cord Stimulator (SCS), "The Prospera Spinal Cord Stimulation System." One of device's goals is to help avoid the use of opiates for long-term pain care. The Center for Pain Management specializes in diagnosing, evaluating and treating pain. At the Lafayette location, patients are seen from "everything from chronic headaches to spine pain to foot pain," Dr. Joseph Rutledge, a physician for the Center for Pain Management, said. The stimulator is a noninvasive device that stimulates the spinal cord to help with chronic pain. "Spinal Cord Stimulators, in and of themselves, have been around for over three decades in one variation or another," Rutledge said. "So they've been used over the years for different things. Started out mostly to treat back pain after a patient had back surgery, for residual nerve pain...Over the years, that use has expanded. Now we use it to treat symptoms associated with post-surgical syndromes...any type of neuropathic or neuropathy (such as) diabetic peripheral neuropathy." A simplified explanation of how it works is that the device uses stimulations of nerves to ease and treat the pain directly. "We see it as kind of an advanced therapy," Rutledge said. "So it's not something that every pain management specialist is going to be able to do. But it's something that we offer...and it's a tool that we utilize to avoid opiates, to avoid a lot of the pharmacological agents that have other side effects. We're finding it very useful and using it more and more." While SCS devices have been around for decades, the "Prospera", through German company Biotronik Neuro, Inc, is the first of its kind in medical care. "There are a handful of (SCS) companies, like different car brands, basically," Rutledge said. "The Biotronik company out of Germany just got FDA approval a couple weeks ago. And we were actually the first center in the country to get access to the (Prospera) trial...With Biotronik coming to market and getting the FDA approval, it's really going to be moving the field forward." According to Rutledge, traditional SCS models have transmitters to send signals out to block pain. Rutledge compared it to having a radio in your car, but you're not able to change the volume or channel. With the Biotronik devices, it's more like having access to an iPhone. "It's not only sending signals, but you're also able to give daily feedback," Rutledge said. "It's that feedback and that monitoring that's going to be the key here. It's revolutionary in the field. It's hard to explain how big of an impact it will have for patients. But it's going to be more proactive for the patient, quicker actions if things need to be changed. There's going to be feedback based on actual data rather than only getting a few selected options that are preprogrammed." SCS devices are typically covered by insurance, according to Rutledge, as well as through Medicare and Medicaid. The device is typically worn for a seven day trial period for the patient to decide if it works for them and if they'll be moving to a permanent implant. "So you do a trial well in advance of getting a permanent (implant) just to make sure you're getting adequate relief to warrant the permanent device," Rutledge said. "In the trial, there's no incisions. It's an outpatient, 15-30 minute procedure to get those leads just placed under x-ray guidance. You go home with the leads attached to an external device, kind of in a fanny pack. "You wear it for a week, you try it out at home, at your job, while you sleep and see how it does and at the end of the week, you take out those temporary leads and basically the patient is back (to how they were feeling originally) but they have the information on whether or not it's a device or a treatment that's going to work for them." Rutledge attributes the certified physicians, being board certified, at their practice for why the Lafayette location was the first in the nation to be able to use these devices with patients. "We all have board certification in interventional team management," Rutledge said. "So that is the fellowship training that allows us to do the surgical interventions that are required to use these devices...The qualifications of our physicians, I would say the size of our company as well (are also reasons for access to the devices). I think that we're a reputable company that physicians actually want to come work for. And we're accepting only the highest level or highest tier physician when it comes to interventional pain." To read more about Center for Pain Management or about the Biotronik devices, read the online press release. This article originally appeared on Lafayette Journal & Courier: Biotronik Neruo, Inc's new device first debuted in Lafayette, IN New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.