Hands can become swollen or puffy when fluid builds up in tissues. Swollen hands are common during pregnancy and can result from temperature changes or an underlying medical condition, such as kidney disease. A person may notice their fingers or hands appearing larger than usual. The skin may look puffy or shiny, and a dent may occur when a person presses the skin. Swelling in the hands often goes away without treatment. Making some lifestyle changes can help reduce the frequency of swelling. Swollen hands may occur at certain times of the day or link to particular activities. Recording the time of day and circumstances when the hands appear swollen can help pinpoint the cause. Some simple home remedies can reduce swelling in the hands. Treatment aims to encourage fluid flow through the body, decreasing swelling. Swollen hands may be more noticeable in the morning. Lying still overnight can cause fluid to build up in the tissues of the hands, resulting in swelling. Stretching the arms and hands at the beginning of the day can help circulate fluid. Here are some examples of simple exercises to try: It is more common for the hands to swell in hot weather as blood vessels expand to send more blood to the skin to cool the body. Some fluid can move into the hands’ tissue as the vessels expand. Running the hands and wrists under cool water should reduce the swelling. Another option is to fill a basin with cool water and immerse the hands until the swelling goes down. Avoid clothes with tight-fitting sleeves, which can cause discomfort along with swelling. Wearing watches or jewelry on the wrists can also reduce circulation. Ensure these are loose enough to allow fluid to flow normally to and from the hands. During exercise, the body warms up, causing blood vessels to swell as they would in hot weather and resulting in swollen hands. The swelling usually goes away as the body cools down. Moderate exercise is beneficial for health. Drink plenty of water before and after exercising, and wear loose clothing that will help keep the body cool. Many people experience some swelling of the hands and feet during pregnancy. Wearing loose clothing, staying active, and elevating the legs at rest can help. Edema is the medical term for more severe swelling. Seek medical advice if the skin dimples when pressed or if swelling causes discomfort. Swelling in the face or around the eyes can be another sign of edema.  A person may notice hand swelling after eating a rich or salty meal. Too much salt can cause the cells to attract fluid, leading to water retention and swelling.  Reducing the amount of salt in the diet can have health benefits. It is advisable to limit the consumption of fast food, canned foods, and packaged foods, as these products all contain high levels of salt or sodium. Eat fresh fruits and vegetables, and use herbs and spices rather than salt to add flavor. Eating too much salt in the long term can lead to high blood pressure, kidney disease, and heart attacks. Research suggests that medication for rheumatoid arthritis, such as corticosteroids, can cause the body to retain salt. Some forms of cancer can cause edema, and chemotherapy drugs can cause swelling in the feet, ankles, legs, face, and hands. Doctors recommend seeking medical advice if swelling accompanies any of the following symptoms: A cancer care team can give advice and help with swollen hands. The kidneys filter waste fluid and excess water from the body.  If the kidneys are not working correctly, this may not happen as it should. The fluid and water can collect in the tissues, causing swelling. Other symptoms linked to kidney disease include blood in the urine, urinating more often, and high blood pressure. A key symptom of arthritis is swelling and stiffness in the joints. Depending on the type of arthritis, symptoms, and the affected areas can vary, but inflammatory arthritis conditions commonly affect the hands. Joints in the fingers and wrists may feel swollen, warm, or stiff. These symptoms can be especially noticeable early in the day. The following symptoms commonly suggest arthritis: Arthritis usually responds to lifestyle changes and home remedies, such as following a balanced diet, avoiding smoking, and not drinking excess alcohol. However, doctors may also prescribe medications depending on the type of arthritis, including: Swelling in both hands may appear simultaneously, or one hand may have slightly worse symptoms.  Issues that appear only in one hand may have a few possible causes, including: Symptoms of swelling in only one hand may indicate an issue such as an injury or other traumatic event. If swelling appears in only one hand, consider any events that may have irritated the hand. A minor fall or bump may be enough to cause swelling or bruising at times. In other cases, repeated stress in the area may lead to swelling. Examples could be using one-handed free weights or favoring one side of the body while doing other weighted exercises such as pushups or pullups. In other cases, a single hand swelling may indicate an issue in the blood vessels supplying that hand with blood. Peripheral vascular disease may cause cramping and swelling in the extremities, such as the feet, legs, and hands. While issues may affect both sides of the body, symptoms can appear or be noticeable on one side.  People with specific conditions such as diabetes or high blood pressure may be more likely to have vascular disorders. Other factors may also increase the risk, such as smoking or exposure to cold.  If a person has concerns about vascular disease, they should consult a doctor. Puffy hand syndrome may cause swelling in one hand. A 2020 study notes that a puffy hand is an uncommon clinical complication of IV drug use. Repeated injections into one area of the body with drugs may affect the blood vessels or surrounding tissues and may lead to fluid retention and swelling. If a person injects IV drugs regularly into the veins on their hands, they may experience swelling in the hand on that arm or both hands. Other factors may increase this risk, such as not using clean needles or not using a tourniquet while injecting. Some simple home remedies may treat swelling in the hands that occurs periodically. Warming or cooling swollen hands can provide relief. Take care not to put anything too hot or cold against the skin. Warm or cool the hands for no longer than 20 minutes, and allow the skin to return to the usual temperature before applying heat or cold again. Some methods to reduce symptoms include: People can encourage fluid to circulate by keeping the body active to help reduce swelling, including: Drinking plenty of water can help maintain the right balance of chemicals and fluids in the body. It can also help with circulation and help prevent fluid retention. If the hands regularly swell, it may result from an underlying health condition like kidney disease or arthritis. Treatment for these conditions usually involves medication, which should reduce swelling. It is important to consult a doctor so they can prescribe the appropriate medication.  If it is easy to identify the cause of simple hand swelling and the swelling responds well to home remedies, speaking with a doctor may not be necessary. A few signs to look out for may indicate it is time to consult a doctor for a definitive diagnosis to rule out an underlying condition or for treatments to help reduce symptoms. A person should contact a doctor about swollen hands if they: Swollen hands may indicate a variety of causes, including injury, hot weather, and underlying conditions such as arthritis. Treatment for swollen hands depends entirely on the cause. Home remedies can include running them under cold water, using ice packs, or taking a warm shower. Causes of swollen hands can include excess fluid retention, so dehydration is unlikely to cause it. High blood pressure usually causes swollen legs rather than swollen hands. Swelling in the hands does not typically cause long-term health issues, but it can be uncomfortable and may indicate an underlying health concern. Simple home remedies can reduce the frequency of swelling in the hands. If these do not work, a person should consult a doctor to check for underlying issues. Share this article Dactylitis occurs when swelling affects the fingers or toes and causes a sausage-like appearance. Learn more here, including causes and treatments. There are several different types and causes of fluid retention, also known as edema. In this article, learn why it happens and get tips on how to… Chronic kidney disease is a progressive loss of kidney function. The symptoms may not be noticeable until the condition is advanced. Learn more here… Benign hereditary telangiectasia is a condition in which the veins in the dermis layer of the skin permanently dilate and expand. Learn more here. OUR BRANDS