UK Edition Scientists have transplanted a “mini-brain” made of human cells into a rat in research that could help to treat serious brain injuries. The study involved brain organoids: small clumps of human brain cells initially grown in a petri dish. The researchers grafted one of these living blobs on to a rat’s brain, where within weeks it became part of its neural circuitry. They believe that similar procedures may one day be used to reconstruct damaged brain tissue in human patients. This could involve taking skin cells from the patient and bathing them in a blend of proteins to transform them into “induced stem cells”, which could become almost any other sort of cell. These would be coaxed into becoming a piece of replacement brain tissue that would, in theory, be a perfect match for the patient. However, the work is at a very early stage. The focus of the experiment was whether the human and rat brain cells would forge working connections. “We focused on not just transplanting individual cells, but actually transplanting tissue,” Professor Isaac Chen of the University of Pennsylvania, senior author of the study, said. “Brain organoids have architecture; they have structure that resembles the brain. We were able to look at individual neurons within this structure, to gain a deeper understanding of the integration of transplanted organoids.” The organoids — known colloquially as “mini-brains” — were cultivated from human stem cells and grown in the lab for about 80 days. They were then grafted into the brains of adult rats that had sustained injuries to their visual cortex, an area responsible for sight. Within 90 days, the organoids had become integrated into the rat brains. Blood vessels developed to supply the mini-brains with nutrients; they grew in size and cells from the organoids formed connections with the rodent hosts’ neurons. When a light was shone in the rats’ eyes, the organoid neurons responded, with the patterns of activity changing depending on the light stimulation. “We were not expecting to see this degree of functional integration so early,” Chen said. “Neural tissues have the potential to rebuild areas of the injured brain. We haven’t worked everything out, but this is a very solid first step. “Now, we want to understand how organoids could be used in other areas of the cortex, not just the visual cortex, and we want to understand the rules that guide how organoid neurons integrate with the brain so that we can better control that process and make it happen faster.” Ethicists are already grappling with whether a brain organoid created in a lab could one day be capable of suffering or sentience. The consensus is that the clumps of tissue used in the latest experiment are far from being self-aware or capable of experiencing pain. The findings were published in the journal Cell Stem Cell. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.