In a report released on April 26, Nik Modi from RBC Capital maintained a Hold rating on Newell Brands (NWL – Research Report), with a price target of $15.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $11.88. Modi covers the Consumer Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Mondelez International, Altria Group, and Boston Beer. According to TipRanks, Modi has an average return of 9.9% and a 67.13% success rate on recommended stocks.  In addition to RBC Capital, Newell Brands also received a Hold from Citigroup’s Filippo Falorni in a report issued on April 13. However, on April 14, J.P. Morgan maintained a Buy rating on Newell Brands (NASDAQ: NWL). See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  The company has a one-year high of $23.34  and a one-year low of $11.25. Currently, Newell Brands has an average volume of 4.75M.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 21 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is neutral on the stock. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Newell Brands, Inc. engages in the manufacture, marketing, and sale of consumer and commercial products. It operates through the following segments: Food and Appliances; Home and Outdoor Living; and Learning and Development. The Food and Appliances segment includes household products, including kitchen appliances, gourmet cookware, bakeware and cutlery, food storage and home storage products and fresh preserving products. The Home and Outdoor Living segment consists of products for outdoor and outdoor-related activities, home fragrance products and connected home and security. The Learning and Development segment deals with writing instruments, including markers and highlighters, pens and pencils; art products; activity-based adhesive and cutting products; labeling solutions; baby gear and infant care products. The company was founded in 1903 and is headquartered in Hoboken, NJ.  Read More on NWL: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks