Lenovo Announces New Innovations in Gaming, Software, Visuals, and Accessories for the Holidays (Photo: Business Wire) Lenovo Announces New Innovations in Gaming, Software, Visuals, and Accessories for the Holidays (Photo: Business Wire) Gaming on the Go: Lenovo Legion™ Gaming Handheld Device and Accessories Untether PC Gaming (Photo: Business Wire) The King of Cool: Lenovo Legion 9i is the World’s First AI-Tuned Gaming Laptop with an Integrated Liquid-Cooling System (Photo: Business Wire) Transforming Digital Workspaces: New Devices and Software Power the Future of Hybrid Work (Photo: Business Wire)  BERLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Today, Lenovo announced several new products and solutions at its annual holiday product launch. The new additions to the portfolio – which include AI-tuned innovations in gaming, a groundbreaking 3D monitor, software solutions, versatile accessories, and more – are available to explore here.

  
Gaming on the Go: Lenovo Legion™ Gaming Handheld Device and Accessories Untether PC Gaming
 
The new Lenovo Legion Go is the company’s first Windows gaming handheld device that gives gamers more freedom to game however—and wherever—they want. The Lenovo Legion Go is designed for gamers who will settle for nothing less than top-tier specs and visuals on their handheld device. Along with the new micro-OLED-equipped Lenovo Legion Glasses and new Lenovo Legion E510 7.1 RGB Gaming In-Ear Headphones, the debut of the Lenovo Legion Go is a marked expansion of the Lenovo Legion ecosystem of gaming devices, monitors, accessories, software, and services that empower gamers to immerse themselves in their games.

 
The King of Cool: Lenovo Legion 9i is the World’s First AI-Tuned Gaming Laptop with an Integrated Liquid-Cooling System1
 
The Lenovo Legion 9i (16”, 8) is the first top-of-the-line 16-inch gaming laptop in Lenovo Legion’s ecosystem—and in the world—with a self-contained liquid-cooling system1, designed for gamers and creators with heavy graphic workflow requirements who need a full development studio in their bag. The Lenovo Legion 9i leads the Lenovo Legion lineup that also includes the Lenovo Legion Pro series for competitive gamers and the Lenovo Legion Slim series for gamers who value agility, as well as Lenovo Legion displays and peripherals. Also announced today are the Lenovo Legion 16” Gaming Backpack GB700 and GB400, two backpack options that give gamers a choice between slim and lightweight agility or extra storage without sacrificing protection for their Lenovo Legion 9i (16”, 8) or any other laptops and accessories.

 
Transforming Digital Workspaces: New Devices and Software Power the Future of Hybrid Work
 
In addition to new gaming devices, Lenovo is unveiling new cutting-edge tech tools and essentials tailored to empower the dynamic, evolving needs of today's business end-users. Its new monitor, software, and accessories are not only designed to boost the capabilities of today’s remote and hybrid workforces, but also to address significant challenges faced by businesses as they digitize operations across departments. Lenovo research shows that managing a remote workforce and global teams remain central tasks for CIOs.2 That’s why the new offerings integrate impressive processing power, immersive 3D, and advanced security to create a unified, human-centered experience.

 
For specific details on all the new products and solutions, see the various releases linked below and the press kit on Lenovo StoryHub.

 
About Lenovo
 
Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) is a US$62 billion revenue global technology powerhouse, ranked #217 in the Fortune Global 500, employing 77,000 people around the world, and serving millions of customers every day in 180 markets. Focused on a bold vision to deliver smarter technology for all, Lenovo has built on its success as the world’s largest PC company by further expanding into growth areas that fuel the advancement of ‘New IT’ technologies (client, edge, cloud, network, and intelligence) including server, storage, mobile, software, solutions, and services. This transformation together with Lenovo’s world-changing innovation is building a more inclusive, trustworthy, and smarter future for everyone, everywhere. To find out more visit https://www.lenovo.com, and read about the latest news via our StoryHub.

 
1Per an internal research conducted as of June 22, 2023, based on comparisons of gaming computers distributed by global PC manufacturers shipping > 1 million units worldwide annually, contained in a 16" panel size supported with a liquid cooling pump and does not have an external cooling attachment.
 
2 The Resilient CIO: Lenovo Global Study of CIOs 2023
 
LENOVO, LENOVO LEGION, and THINKVISION are trademarks of Lenovo. AMD and Ryzen are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices. Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. ©2023 Lenovo Group Limited

 
Wendy Fung, wfung@lenovo.com
 
Wendy Fung, wfung@lenovo.com
