PlayStation Sony has launched a new software beta for PS5 that includes support for Dolby Atmos, support for M.2 SSD hard drives up to 8TB, and several user interface enhancements. Access to the beta and the new features of Sony’s next major console operating system update is limited to the US, Canada, Japan, UK, Germany and France. The next major software update for PS5 brings several new features that will further enhance the user experience. The biggest new feature is support for surround sound technology, Dolby Atmos, making Sony’s 3D audio technology (Tempest 3D AudioTech) compatible with devices that have Dolby Atmos technology. An addition that will enhance the experience for PS5 owners, allowing for a more immersive gaming experience. New PS5 system software beta features revealed:🎮 Added accessibility features🔈 Support for compatible @Dolby Atmos-enabled audio devices🖥️ Social feature enhancements💾 Larger-capacity M.2 SSD support➡️ Full details at PS Blog: https://t.co/RyzgdMeWrS pic.twitter.com/DdtUahSyGj In addition to support for Dolby Atmos technology, the beta version of the new PS5 software also allows the use of M.2 SSD hard drives with a maximum capacity of up to 8TB, exceeding the current limit of 4TB. There are also accessibility improvements, such as the ability to use a second controller as an assistant, allowing you to use two controllers as if they were one. A way to enjoy games in a more collaborative way with the little ones in the house, being able to help them at certain times without having to take their controller. In addition, we can adjust or even remove the beep on and off the PS5. PlayStation Plus PlayStation Plus In the user interface, we will have the ability to activate the PS5′s DualSense haptic technology to provide feedback as we navigate through the console’s various menus. There are also social improvements that make it easier to add players to our group voice chats; when someone in our group is sharing their screen, we can see a preview of what they are showing before we even join the group; it is easier to join our friends’ game sessions, as well as the ability to see how many tournaments we have participated in and the best position we have finished in. In the chat service, it is now possible to add the possibility of revising the messages using emoticons, thus making the most direct and rapid communication. Finally, we will be able to search for games in our library, making it easier for those who have a large number of titles. The next major software update for PS5 is currently in beta, but should be available on all PS5 consoles in the coming months.