The New York Sun, a conservative-leaning online newspaper, has hired former top News Corp. executive Noah Kotch as managing editor, the company confirmed. Kotch has a mandate to grow the newsroom, according to chairman and publisher Dovid Efune, who is looking to get wider brand recognition for the Sun after acquiring it in late 2021.     Kotch was most recently general manager at News Corp., where he worked on projects such as AI-powered news aggregator Knewz. During an earlier stint at News Corp. he was the fouding editor of its UK and US news and opinion site Heat Street and then became editor in chief at Fox News Digital. He was editor in chief at MailOnline from 2018-2019. He also has extensive experience in TV news as a producer at NBC News' "Today" and ABC News where he was head writer for the late Peter Jennings, "World News Tonight. He will report to editor in chief Seth Lipsky, who previously owned The New York Sun before selling it to a group of investors spearheaded by Efune. Lipsky spent two decades on the editorial team at the Wall Street Journal and was the founding editor at The Forward. Peter Kann, a former foreign correspondent of the Wall Street Journal and former chairman of Dow Jones, was named a board director at The New York Sun in December last year. The New York Sun launched as a print newspaper in the early 2000s; after ceasing print operations in 2008, it continued as a smaller online presence. Efune created a new holding company and relaunched the New York Sun as a full-time online outlet in November 2022. In a brief phone interview Efune said The New York Sun is about "principle over politics and people over party." It focuses on a host of topics from business and politics to foreign policy and the constitution.  The New York Sun is one of a number of fresh efforts to try to capture audiences at scale. The Jimmy Finkelstein-backed The Messenger, a general interest publication which ambitions from politics to entertainment, is set to launch online on May 1 after hiring staff from a range of outlets including News Corp.'s New York Post.  Another online news publication, Semafor, founded by former New York Times media columnist Ben Smith and Bloomberg Media CEO Justin Smith to capture an audience of international business readers, launched in October 2022. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to