Bethesda's head of publishing Pete Hines took to social media to respond to criticism about Starfield’s start screen. Former Blizzard developer Mark Kern had criticised the start screen and accused the developers of not caring enough about it. Starfield will feature many planets for exploration, and this selection has been expanded to include Pluto, giving it the status of a planet at least in the game's universe. Starfield leaks have been making the rounds on the internet, revealing some slice-of-life information. Here are the latest Starfield updates. Mark Kern posted the start screen of Starfield on X (formerly Twitter), saying that a game’s start screen can reveal “a lot about how rushed the team was and how much pride they took in their work.” He went on to say that it implies that either the development team was overworked and had to cut creativity short due to “hasty shipping deadlines” or that the team “didn’t care.” Hines replied to the accusation, saying that while it is one thing to have an opinion, “Questioning out a developer's 'care' because you would have done it different is highly unprofessional coming from another 'dev'.” Starfield leaks are emerging as the September 6 deadline inches closer, as reported by Insider Gaming. New screenshot leaks have revealed some traits and background gameplay aspects, showcasing the sort of stuff a Starfield player can experience. One of the perks in the upcoming RPG space-exploration game lets you absorb Alien DNA. This perk reportedly gives players permanent boosts in a few categories. It can increase a player’s movement abilities as well as their health and oxygen stats. There is another trait that gives players a “luxurious, customisable house” but it comes with mortgage payments to deliver upon. This “Dream Home” trait gives players a customisable house, but they have to pay 125,000 credits every week to hold on to that house. Starfield’s universe considers Pluto as a planet, giving the cosmic body a momentary win to celebrate. Pluto is officially and scientifically considered as a dwarf planet, and Bethesda took note of that injustice and has made amends to restore Pluto as the ninth planet of our solar system. This was spotted by Rebs Gaming, who pointed out how Starfield makes Pluto fully explorable in the game. Not going to lie, I love it that Bethesda ignored the International Astronomical Union’s decision from 2006 that stripped Pluto of its planetary status. Team Pluto forever.