
                     AMH is an independent media house free from political ties or outside influence.
We have four newspapers: The Zimbabwe Independent, a business weekly published every Friday, The Standard, a weekly published every Sunday, and Southern and NewsDay, our daily newspapers. Each has an online edition.
     LUCAS Muchechetere, a deputy head at Boora Primary School in Masvingo has published his debut shona novel titled Tarubva inspired by the mayhem he faced in 2009 in his quest for greener pastures in South Africa. The novel was launched on November 18 at Harare City Library as part of the Great Get Together book launch.  Muchechetere’s dream to be a published author came true after he got the opportunity to be part of the 2022 census enumerators. “After being given the chance to work on the 2022 census programme, my desire to write a book came true I used part of the money I got from the work to publish, Tarubva my first book,” Muchechetere told NewsDay Life & Style. “The novel Tarubva talks about the illegal paths that some of our countrymen take to migrate to South Africa and the hardships they face trying to survive, while they are in Mzansi.” Muchechetere added that the book brings out all the happy and sad moments that many face in a bid to shine a light to others who would want to know how the journey unfolds.  He said although publishing his debut novel was no walk in the park, he had two more novels he hoped to publish in the near future. “I struggled to find a publisher to collaborate with and some locals here in Masvingo whom I asked for help would make fun of me. It was so difficult to find a publisher,” he recalled. “It took me almost three years looking for a publisher for my work with Aleck Kaphosa of Essential Writers Association coming to my rescue. When he accepted to work with me, I was so grateful.” Although Muchechetere draws much of his inspiration from his father, he noted that an environment or situation he finds himself in makes it easier for him to narrate the stories based on the circumstances.   Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! &copy2024. The Standard. All rights reserved.