  Mon 19 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters The Prime Minister has chaired a Cabinet meeting today as he faces division within his party over how the Government deals with migration. Later on Tuesday Rishi Sunak was set to warn European leaders, during a gathering in Iceland, that the international system for policing human trafficking is “not working”. During his time in Reykjavík, Mr Sunak will hold talks with the president of the European Court of Human Rights over reforms to Rule 39 – an order that prevented the inaugural deportation flight taking asylum seekers to Rwanda last year. It comes after senior Conservative MPs and ministers – including Suella Braverman – made speeches at the National Conservatism conference on Monday, setting out their views on the issues of the day, in what commentators have suggested could be attempts to stake out positions for themselves as potential Conservative leadership candidates. Follow i‘s live blog for updates as they occur. That’s it for this blog on the day in UK politics. Here’s what’s been happening: Labour has said that the UK needs a “properly managed” points-based immigration system, but that the Conservatives have “wrecked” it. ‘It's extraordinary Suella Braverman stands there today, and… criticises her own government’s policy’Shadow Immigration Minister Stephen Kinnock says govt is blaming instead of taking responsibility for ‘wrecking’ a points-based immigration systemhttps://t.co/P0zxS1DNGF pic.twitter.com/Qh802PfzMW Before Brexit, EU citizens could live and work in the UK and any other EU country without the need for a visa, but now they and the citizens of all other countries apart from Ireland must – in general – qualify if they wish to work here. They must gain 70 points or more to obtain a skilled worker visa. Points can be secured through English language proficiency, qualifications and age. For example, if you had a job offer from an approved employer and you spoke English, you would be given 50 points, and if the job paid £25,600 per year or more, you would get an additional 20. Additional attributes such as a PhD in the relevant field would gain the applicant a further 10 points. Criticism of Government policy by Tory MPs is a sign of a “healthy” party, a senior Cabinet minister has said. Communities Secretary Michael Gove denied that the Conservative “tent” had become “too big”, in comments at the National Conservatism conference in Westminster today. The conference, which started on Monday, has seen other Conservatives attack policies including the U-turn on scrapping EU regulations and the expansion of funding for childcare announced at the last Budget. But asked whether this was a sign that the Conservative Party was becoming too divided, Mr Gove told conference delegates: “I don’t think so. “I think it’s a sign of a party and a broader movement that is healthy, that you can have debate. “One of the arguments that’s sometimes made is that after 13 years in power, the time has come to dispense with the Conservatives because there’s a lack of ideas, there’s a lack of intellectual energy, there’s a sense of exhaustion. “I completely disagree. I think what we’ve seen at different points is the Conservative Party, as it always has, adapting to changed circumstances.” He added: “We are now wrestling with a new set of issues and I think it’s right that we have those conversations.” Mr Gove also stressed the need for Conservatives to advance their arguments with “self-confidence” and “civility” while being “intellectually robust”. “My own view is there are certain things, certain principles that you should defend, absolutely. It is absolutely critical that we don’t deny biological reality, that we don’t feel that we should apologise for aspects of our past which are genuine sources of pride. “Not for EU” labelling on food products across the UK will be phased in gradually from this autumn, Foreign Secretary James Cleverly has said. Mr Cleverly told peers that during negotiations with retailers ahead of the signing of the Windsor Framework, UK-wide labelling was identified as the preferred option. The labelling requirement is part of the Government’s deal with the EU to reduce checks on British products entering Northern Ireland. The Foreign Secretary gave evidence to the House of Lords Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland Sub-Committee on the Windsor Framework, signed earlier this year to resolve trading difficulties between Northern Ireland and Great Britain, caused by the post-Brexit Northern Ireland Protocol. Mr Cleverly said that while autumn was the starting point for the labelling plan, it would be phased in over a couple of years. He added: “We have been talking about this for quite some time, including in the Command Paper in 2021, so this shouldn’t really be a surprise to the retail sector. “Of course they will want to have details about size and prominence and I will get details about exactly how and when. “It is not just a sudden start, we have been talking about this for a couple of years and it won’t be fully implemented for another couple of years.” Today’s gathering is only the fourth time that the Council or Europe, which counts 46 countries as members, has met since its founding in 1949. The meeting, which Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is due to join virtually, will focus on the situation in his country and how international allies can hold Russia to account for breaches of international law since the invasion. The Prime Minister, Rishi Sunak, will sign the UK up to the Register of Damages to ensure the people of Ukraine are compensated for the losses incurred as a result of the war, No 10 said. The register is a mechanism to record and document evidence and claims of damage, loss or injury as a result of Russian aggression against Ukraine. Mr Sunak was also expected to want to discuss the challenge of illegal migration within Europe, and call for international co-operation in his efforts to stop small boats from reaching British shores, but Iceland’s foreign affairs minister Thordis Kolbrun Gylfadottir suggested these issues will not be top of the agenda. Rishi Sunak is attending a meeting of European leaders at a Council of Europe summit today in Reykjavik, Iceland.  The Council of Europe is not an EU body – it is sometimes confused with the European Council – but was founded after the Second World War with the aim of upholding democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Europe.  Winston Churchill, Germany’s Konrad Adenauer and France’s Robert Schuman were three of the 10 national leaders and senior politicians present at the Council’s first meeting. Today, it has 46 member states, covering all of Europe apart from Belarus and Russia.  One of the key institutions of the Council of Europe is the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). Mr Sunak is expected to call for reform to this court’s Rule 39 order mechanism, which enables it to introduced urgent interim measures when a state is about to do something that carries an imminent risk of irreparable damage.  It was this order that blocked the first flight deporting people who had arrived in the UK on small boats to Rwanda last summer. Housing Secretary Michael Gove said he did not think net migration figures in the UK would hit the one million mark. Official figures to be released later this month are expected to show net migration of between 650,000 and 997,000 in 2022. The Cabinet minister, put to him at the National Conservatism conference on Tuesday that net migration could be “running at possibly net one million by the end of this year”, said: “I don’t think it will reach those figures. “But you are right, if we are looking at pressure on housing, you need to look at it in the round. So, Britain has always been a country that has benefited from people of talent arriving here and people fleeing persecution. “The numbers recently have been at a level where there is an inevitable pressure on housing and on public services.” The Leave campaigner said a “critical part of Brexit” was being able to “say this is the level of migration we as a country believe is right” and establishing that “there is a limit”. Only one of Suella Braverman’s proposals to cut immigration have been approved by the Cabinet amid major splits between ministers over the issue. The Home Secretary drew up at least five proposals to reduce immigration numbers, according to The Times, after being briefed by officials that migration figures were set to reach record highs. i has been told that official figures to be announced on 25 May are expected to show net migration hit 700,000 to 800,000 last year, a rise from 500,000. The proposals included increasing the minimum salaries for companies wanting to bring in skilled workers, making it harder to bring spouses to the UK, reducing the time foreign students can stay in the country after their course, and removing students if they fail to finish their course. None of these proposals were approved, but Cabinet did back one of her plans, to ban foreign masters’ students friom bringing relatives with them. Education Secretary Gillian Keegan, Health Secretary Steve Barclay and Chancellor Jeremy Hunt were among those who did not approve of the proposals, it was reported. It is the latest sign of a Cabinet split over how to approach rising migration, after the Home Secretary delivered a speech at the National Conservatism conference in Westminster on Monday, in which she railed against “experts and elites” and said she hoped to take on the “radical left”. She also said the Government needed tackle soaring migration numbers to ease pressure on public services and end the country’s reliance on foreign workers. Some 52 per cent of Britons have an unfavourable opinion of Home Secretary Suella Braverman, a new YouGov poll suggests.  This is compared to 14 per cent of people in the UK who view Ms Braverman favourably.  Among people who voted Conservative in the 2019 general election, 30 per cent had a favourable opinion of her and 44 per cent unfavourable. Of the people surveyed, a greater proportion had a good opinion of the Labour Party (41 per cent compared to 48 per cent), than the Conservative Party (22 per cent to 66 per cent). Suella Braverman favourability among…All BritonsFavourable: 14%Unfavourable: 52%NET -382019 Conservative votersFavourable: 30%Unfavourable: 44%NET -14https://t.co/e1rcgxdxYO https://t.co/SoorqtD406 Downing Street has denied an accusation from former Brexit Party leader Nigel Farage that Britain’s European Union exit “has failed”. Mr Farage accused the Conservative Government of mismanaging Brexit since the UK left the bloc in 2020. Speaking to BBC’s Newsnight on Monday, Mr Farage denied that Britain would have been better off remaining in the EU but said the country had “not actually benefited from Brexit economically”. His comments come as the UK economy continues to stagnate, with UK gross domestic product (GDP) shown to have increased by 0.1 per cent between January and March. The former Ukip leader said: “What Brexit has proved, I’m afraid, is that our politicians are about as useless as the commissioners in Brussels were. “We have mismanaged this totally.” Mr Farage added: “Brexit has failed.” Asked whether Rishi Sunak – who campaigned to leave the EU – agreed with Mr Farage’s sentiments, the Prime Minister’s official spokesman said: “No. I think the Prime Minister has talked about the benefits of Brexit on a number of occasions,” he added. “Just thinking about farming alone, we’re talking about some of the benefits of moving away from a bureaucratic cap which skewed money towards the largest landowners, with 50 per cent going to the largest 10 per cent. “We have a fairer system tailored to British farmers post-Brexit. Iceland’s foreign affairs minister said the Council of Europe meeting would not be used to reform an order that prevented the first deportation flight to Rwanda from taking off, despite Rishi Sunak’s plans to push for changes. “The leaders are reconfirming their commitment to the common human rights protection system and in particular, the court is a cornerstone of our protection system,” Thordis Gylfadottir told BBC Radio 4’s World At One programme. “But the next two days, the time we have we are not using to reform certain articles in the court.” Pressed on whether there would be discussions on the Prime Minister’s call for reforms to how Rule 39 works, she said: “I believe that there will be a discussion on it, but there will not be I think a real concrete outcome on reforming certain articles.” The Council of Europe meeting, at which Rishi Sunak plans to say that the international migration system is not working, will not “have a big focus on migration”, the foreign affairs minister of host country Iceland has said. Thordis Gylfadottir told BBC Radio 4’s World At One programme: “This summit has not a big focus on that. The biggest focus is, of course, Ukraine, and then other issues such as AI and environment and other things. So this summit doesn’t have a big focus on migration in general. “But I agree that that is an issue for Europe. And of course, that system has to develop with the challenges that we face.” When the dust settled on the local elections 10 days ago, the debate focused on the drubbing suffered by the Conservatives, and whether Labour’s good showing pointed to a majority or a hung parliament with Labour as the largest party. Flying below the radar were some incredible results for the Green Party. Despite only standing in 41 per cent of seats, the party gained 241 council seats and won a majority on an English council for the first time in the party’s 50-year electoral history. Not only did the Green Party take Mid-Suffolk from the Conservatives in a spectacular result, but the Greens also became the largest party on seven other councils: Babergh, East Hertfordshire, East Suffolk, Folkestone and Hythe, Forest of Dean, Lewes, and Warwick. Just eight years ago, the Greens had only 71 councillors; now they have 481 in the councils contested in this electoral cycle. That is a massive advance by any measure. Read the full story here. Work and Pensions Secretary Mel Stride has played down suggestions of divisions within the Cabinet.  Asked if he had sympathies with the opposition that Rishi Sunak appears to be facing from figures in the right of the Conservative Party, he told BBC Radio 4: “I think that there’s always scope within all political parties to have a sensible debate about the key issues that there are at the moment.  “All I can tell you […] is that Cabinet is entirely united behind the five core missions that the Prime Minister has quite rightly set us. “What we’ve got to do at the moment – and what I in particular have got to do – is to continue to make progress on getting economic inactivity down, because then we can get more people into the labour force, grow the size of the economy […] and then give the Chancellor more headroom.”  Conservative peer Lord Daniel Finkelstein has said that events such as the National Conservatism Conference have “misfired” to some extent, as they give ay to discussions on how the Conservatives have “become angrier, more dissenting”.  He told Times Radio: “One thing I think we do have to warn against: some of the things that this conference supports, including strong immigration policies, are very widespread public opinion, they’re just not very widespread public opinion among Westminster journalists.  “Although it sounds like a populist trope, that is absolutely true.” He said that he does not “wholly dismiss this exercise” of promoting debates within the Conservative Party through conferences such as National Conservatism, it has turned into a “discussion about how the Conservative Party has become angrier, more dissenting, more right wing, a little bit threatening.  “The Conservative Party should have a conversation about how it can sustain the social fabric of the country, rather than being a purely libertarian economic party.  “In some ways I think this is a missed opportunity to have an interesting discussion.  “Now is not the moment for yet another conference about direction and change and all that sort of stuff. That is better to be had in opposition.  “It’s also important to understand that while there are sections of the public who have no interest whatsoever in a discussion about immigration control, and think everything on immigration control is threatening, that is not a general public view.” “It’s turned into nothing more than a discussion about how the Conservative Party has become angrier, more dissenting, more right-wing, a little bit threatening.”@DannyTheFink says the National Conservatism conference struck a “completely mistaken tone”. pic.twitter.com/krnyXwnRxE Shadow leader of the House of Commons, Thangam Debbonaire, has been asked by the BBC how Labour would aim to bring immigration numbers down.  She said: “One of the things we would do is notice the connections here. [The Conservatives] talk about strain on public services; in fact the NHS has a huge workforce gap, which successive Tory governments have failed to address, which is one of the reasons why we have people coming here on work visas.  “I don’t know what’s wrong with Rishi Sunak and his weak leadership that he’s allowing this situation.  “We would make sure that [the] two million people who are out of work and unable to work, many of them are waiting for NHS operations and procedures, so we’d try and get more NHS workforce.” She said that Home Secretary Suella Braverman was criticising her Government’s own policy and therefore herself, and “it is extraordinary that weak leadership from the top, from Rishi Sunak, has led us to this situation where [the Tories] are literally fighting with [themselves] over [their] own policies.” Conservative MP Ben Bradley has been asked about The Telegraph’s report that a million foreign workers and students could arrive in the UK before the next general election.  He told BBC Politics Live: “I think [net migration] does need to come down significantly.  “Regardless of where you want to put a number, we have significant strain on public services, we have significant strain on British citizens being able to access things like the health service […] the more people you add to that, the more challenging that becomes.” Pressed on why net migration has been rising under successive Tory governments, Mr Bradley said: “I think the Home Secretary is right to say that we can’t continue to rely on migrant labour. […] We’ve got a million people unemployed in this country, two million people economically inactive.  “We’ve become very reliant, over a long period of time and because of free movement, on that movement of labour that we can no longer rely on.” Rishi Sunak will meet with European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen on the sidelines of the Council of Europe meeting in Iceland, Downing Street has said. He is also expected to hold one-on-one meetings with Mark Rutte, the prime minister of the Netherlands, and with the president of the European Court of Human Rights President Siofra O’Leary. Asked about the agenda for his bilateral talks with Ms von der Leyen, the Prime Minister’s official spokesman told reporters: “I’m not going to pre-empt their discussion, but I imagine they will talk about Ukraine following president [Volodymyr] Zelensky’s visit to other countries and to see the Prime Minister yesterday. “And I would have thought they will talk about the challenge of illegal migration.” Northern Ireland would “potentially” be discussed as well, he said. The Government is not endorsing the National Conservatism Conference, Downing Street has suggested. Quizzed over whether the Government backs principles of national conservatism such as a family being defined as a man and a woman, the Prime Minister’s official spokesman told reporters: “There is no change to Government policy.” Rishi Sunak does not agree with MP Danny Kruger’s statement that the normative family with a mother and a father is the only basis for a functioning society, the spokesman said. Pressed on whether Mr Sunak is happy to be seen as endorsing the gathering, the official said: “I wouldn’t characterise it in that way. Some Government ministers have chosen to speak at the event. But beyond that, there’s no change in our policy.” But he said Levelling Up Secretary Michael Gove’s upcoming appearance at the conference is in a Government capacity. All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.