 Imagine being able to send out one million unique emails to your customers in just one day, instead of having to manually draft each one, or interpret thousands of customer data points for purchase analysis in minutes. While this might sound like a marketing dream, the reality is that AI marketing allows you to do this – and more. Through technologies like Bard, ChatGPT, or Midjourney, you can save time and money, as well as yield a much higher ROI than traditional marketing methods. Research by IONOS found that 79% of small business owners in the UK consider the adoption of new technologies to be critical for future growth, and marketing teams would be justified in echoing their importance. Therefore, knowing the frontiers of AI in marketing are key to positioning your business at the forefront of the marketing game. In this article, we walk you through the ins and outs of AI marketing, the tools at your disposal, and the pros and cons of integrating the technology into your marketing strategy. Whether it’s gathering insights into customer behaviour or personalising your marketing content, AI marketing refers to the use of artificial intelligence tools to optimise and design marketing strategies. The aim is to streamline your marketing pipeline so that mundane tasks can be automated and the hefty, creative work is reserved for humans. In practice, these tools look like chatbots, targeted advertising, and content generation. Although understanding what lies behind the AI black box is pretty complex, in a nutshell, AI collects data, learns customer behaviours, and analyses this information to help marketing teams meet their goals. We would suggest you check out our review of the best digital marketing agencies in the UK if you are looking for other types of marketing support rather than specifically AI marketing. There was a 27% reported increase in implementing AI or machine learning into companies’ marketing toolkits. The beauty of AI is that its possibilities are near-endless, which means that when it comes to deploying AI to enhance your marketing campaigns, it can be utilised in many different ways. Below are some beneficial ways small businesses can use AI marketing: A huge bug-bear for businesses everywhere, big or small, is the lack of personalisation in their email marketing campaigns. Email is integral to any small business’s outreach strategy, with 64% of small businesses using it to reach customers. In addition to emails, AI can change the customer’s experience depending on their online behaviour. AI analyses this data to bring customers a personalised experience with marketing assets. AI software, like Movable Ink’s Da Vinci, allows its users to generate over a million unique outreach emails to customers. Such a high level of customisation is a major factor in improving marketing personalisation and, in turn, helps increase click-through-rate, conversions, and revenue. You’ll need to contact their sales team or get a Demo to get your hands on their product. AI can collect and sift through mountains of data from several marketing campaigns and summarise the findings. This way, you can predict the outcome of marketing campaigns by using historical data, such as consumer engagement metrics, purchases, time-on-page, and email opens. This will help you calibrate your marketing campaigns to maximise the chances of success. AI software like Feefo can help with analysing genuine customer reviews and extract all the insights you need to make customers happy quickly. You can get their Essential plan, which includes all core features, for £99 per month. AI can hep predict the most effective ad and media placements for a business in order to reach their target audience and maximise marketing strategy ROI. If you’re unsure of which tool to use for this, you can try Shutterstock. It generates images and uses data-backed predictions to tell you which image will perform best in your ad, before you spend any money. If you go for the image plan, you can get up to 750 credits per month for £119. AI can help develop captions, social media posts, email subject lines, and even blog copy. Keep in mind that AI is nowhere near a full replacement for content writers or creators. Instead, marketers use it to recommend or generate portions of content. You’ll still need to go back and fact-check, edit, and adjust the output so there is a human element to the finished product. For instance, HubSpot has an AI-powered content assistant that can help generate blog ideas, create outlines, or write blogs. However, you’ll still need to double-check the writing has no grammatical mistakes and that it meets your brief. In essence, generative AI helps you cure creativity dry spells and complete your work faster. AI can help marketers understand the predicted outcome of their campaigns and marketing assets. Having an insight into how your marketing campaigns could perform will help you better curate your marketing and your product offering. Therefore, making a sales forecast becomes a strictly data-backed exercise rather than relying on a gut feeling, giving you an extra confidence boost when making crucial business decisions. Everyone wants their pages to rank at the top of the Search Engine Results Page (SERPs), but understanding how to optimise your content to reach that pivotal point can be a tedious and time-consuming task. However, AI algorithms help analyse website traffic, identify keywords, and can also improve search engine rankings. Marketers can also learn about their audience’s preferences and customise their content to match their interests. There’s plenty of AI plugins that you can use directly on your website builders if optimising SEO with AI is your priority. For instance, SEOPress can be used with WordPress and make use of Google Local Business, Google XML Video Sitemap and Google Structured Data types. All of this will give you a bird’s-eye view of how to optimise your website’s SEO.  Diving into AI can feel like a big technological jump if this is the first time you’ve used it on purpose. You can first start by familiarising yourself with the different types of AI there are out there – as you’ll find from reading our guide, the sci-fi grade type of AI is far detached from what AI actually looks like in reality, so fear not. AI is replete with benefits for marketing teams, so below are a couple of prepping steps you can take to make sure your transition towards artificial intelligence is a smooth one. Whether it’s getting inspiration from AI website builders to help optimise your website landing page, or automating email campaigns to re-engage customers on the verge of churning, AI marketing is the future. Therefore, if you want your small business to thrive, you need to seriously consider how you can invest in AI to enhance the marketing campaigns of your business.. Although technological changes can be full of question marks over how businesses should adapt, the value of AI is dictated by the way you use it. You can integrate it as much, or as little, as you want. The bottom line is that the technology is ripe with streamlining power to help you make better use of your resources and reach out to more customers.  Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.    Δ  We value your comments but kindly requests all posts are on topic, constructive and respectful. Please review our commenting policy. 