As a recognition program that celebrates technology innovators in financial services, this award honors leaders who are building a foundation for the industry's future while leading innovation across banking. NEW YORK, Dec. 19, 2022  /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- American Banker, Arizent's essential resource for senior executives in financial services, launches a new celebratory program: Innovator of the Year. This initiative expands on the Digital Banker of the Year awards the publication has given out for the past decade. Nominations are now open and will close on February 17, 2023. Finalists will be announced before the Innovator of the Year is named at the annual Digital Banking Conference, which will be held June 12-14, 2023 in Boca Raton, Florida. "Innovation in finance lifts everyone up: the consumers and businesses who get better and more convenient ways to handle their money, the fintech startups that generate and bring to life new ideas and the banks that execute on their own fresh concepts and those brought to them by fintechs'," said Penny Crosman, executive editor, technology at American Banker. "We wanted to find and profile innovators in banking and fintech who are moving the ball forward in a way that eventually will benefit all." This program is open to any applicants who work at a bank, financial institution or financial technology company that is based in the United States while leading an innovative technology project in the past 12 months. Applications will be read by a selection committee of American Banker staff members and judged on leadership, teamwork, personal initiative and other professional qualities. Innovator of the Year is part of American Banker's continued coverage of innovation throughout the financial services industry while expanding on the publication's mission to support, empower and celebrate trailblazers in the banking community. Nominations can be submitted at: https://www.americanbanker.com/news/how-to-apply-for-innovator-of-the-year About American Banker American Banker empowers banking professionals with unique analysis and insight into the ideas transforming their business and industry. Across its journalism, events, research and benchmarking, it helps drive the way forward through the complexity of business innovation, retail and commercial disruption, technology, regulation, and reform. With a banking community 850K strong, American Banker's transformative content connects leaders online, in person and in print every day. About Arizent Arizent is a business information company that advances professional communities by providing insights and analysis and convening industry leaders. The company uses deep industry expertise and a data-driven platform to deliver its services, which include subscriptions, marketing services, live events and access to Leaders, an executive forum. Arizent also connects business communities through leading financial services brands like American Banker, The Bond Buyer, Financial Planning and National Mortgage News, as well as professional services brands like Accounting Today, Employee Benefit News and Digital Insurance. Media Contact Penny Crosman, Arizent, 212-803-8500, penny.crosman@arizent.com SOURCE  Arizent © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about. Your update on what’s going on in the Fintech space. Keep up-to-date with news, valuations, mergers, funding, and events. Sign up today!