MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More with our comparison partner, Policygenius Drew Gurley is a writer and licensed life insurance expert with nearly 15 years of experience helping thousands of clients with their life insurance needs. When Drew isn’t working, he spends time with his family and supports breast cancer and epilepsy awareness. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Our editorial team follows a strict methodology for reviewing life insurance companies. When you’re shopping for a life insurance policy, there are several factors to consider. Premium costs, type of policy, term length, cash value and customer satisfaction are chief among them. Ultimately, you want to make sure the life insurance provider you select can make good on a death benefit payout, whether it’s next year or five decades from now. The best long-term indicator of an insurance company’s ability to keep its promise is its financial strength rating. Rating information is often displayed prominently by providers on their websites. If not, you can call an insurer’s customer service and ask for the ratings. Your insurance agent or a broker should also be able to provide you with that information upon request.   Independent rating agencies assign rating scores to insurance companies. They evaluate an insurer’s financial obligations, performance, investments, history, market position and other success indicators to assign a credit rating. That rating is usually expressed as a letter grade, such as AAA or A++, to make it easy for consumers to grasp a company’s financial strength at a glance. The major rating agencies are located in and around the New York City area. They include: Of these, AM Best focuses solely on insurance companies. Standard & Poor’s, Fitch and Moody’s also rate other financial businesses and products. Demotech is another rating agency sometimes used and cited by various providers. Each rating agency uses specific criteria and weighs those criteria differently, which means the agencies can produce different ratings for the same company. However, when you look at all available ratings, you can get a clear snapshot of an insurer’s financial strength. In fact, if a company is rated exceptionally high, it will be used as a selling point — and prominently featured in company marketing materials. Rating agencies may present information in slightly different formats, but AM Best is a good example of how they’re presented. Its rating process analyzes a company’s balance sheet, operating performance and business profile, including comparisons to industry standards. After a thorough analysis, it issues one of six ratings for a financially stable company. AM Best also has 10 ratings for companies it deems as less stable. These should be viewed as red flags when you’re shopping for a policy. Similarly, Fitch uses: Moody’s uses long-term financial stability ratings that range from Aaa to C. The Standard & Poor’s scale runs from AAA to D, and intermediate ratings of (+) or (-) are offered at each level between AA and CCC (for example, BBB+, BBB, and BBB-). When shopping for a life insurance policy, you probably don’t need to worry if one company is rated A++ versus another rated A+ or A by AM Best. But anything below that may be something to consider more prominently as part of your final decision. A lower score could indicate future concerns that a company won’t meet its obligations — specifically paying out death benefits. When choosing a life insurance company with strong financials, policyholders believe that when they pass away, their beneficiaries will receive the benefits they’re entitled to Financial strength ratings indicate trustworthiness, that the company can maintain its claims-paying ability promise for policyholders, providing the essential peace of mind that life insurance is supposed to offer. Each rating agency uses its particular mix of criteria to determine a company’s financial strength. Here are the primary factors used by several agencies. What product lines does an insurer offer, and where does the company offer these products? Most insurers offer policies in 50 states, but those that don’t may garner a lower rating. Also, insurers offering only one or two policies may secure a lower score. Rating agencies examine closely the quality of the company’s investments. High-risk investments such as junk bonds and defaulted mortgages generate less-than-favorable ratings, while investments in conservative, return-stable investments usually gain higher marks. A company that has been in business for 50 years or more is a strong indicator of stability. That means the company has a well-defined and lengthy track record of doing business successfully. Agencies will also look at company ownership. Most are publicly traded companies, but others are mutual companies, meaning they pay dividends to policy owners. Consistent dividend payouts are another indicator of stability. The company’s marketing focus is an indicator of the audience the company targets.  For example, upscale and advanced marketing is usually a sign that much of the company’s business is tax-oriented and geared toward financial planning. When companies offer other types of services, such as estate planning or selling other types of insurance, rating agencies also make note. Rating agencies track how companies grow, shrink and change. Mergers and acquisitions, not to mention the public documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and shareholder and annual reports provide details about the health of a company. They also give clues about future plans and how aggressive a company wants to be in a constantly changing marketplace. Financial strength ratings are important, but they’re not the only criteria to use when evaluating an insurer. Premium price vs. death benefit amount should count, as should policy type and flexibility. If you want a whole life policy but the insurer only offers term life insurance, then no matter how cheap a policy is, it probably won’t be right for you. Similarly, look at the potential add-ons, or riders, available to you. Are they the ones you desire? Or is there a particular rider only a few companies offer? How much do those riders cost? Death benefits, the reason most people want to buy insurance, have limits. Some people require higher ceilings. While many providers have policies with multi-million-dollar limits, not all do. And if you’re older, you may run up against age limits that some providers impose. Another element to consider is customer service. Read the NAIC Complaint Index ratings and to a lesser extent, anecdotal evidence on sites like TrustPilot, the Better Business Bureau and third-party platforms. You can digest first-person accounts of how other customers were treated and served. Rating services are independent watchdogs that are not aligned with companies or industry segments in any way. They are accepted as trustworthy and impartial third-party sources specially designed to protect and inform consumers. Each rating agency uses a different scale. For example, an A+ rating is the second-highest grade from the agency AM Best. But it’s only the fifth highest for Standard & Poor’s and Fitch.  That’s why it is essential to do the homework to understand how each rating provider issues financial strength scores. AM Best evaluations for each insurance company’s financial strength rating take place annually. However, each company must complete a variety of checkpoints along the way to ensure that the current rating is in line with their future projections to ensure their financial health is on track with current ratings. As part of this process, AM Best reviews the company’s financials every six months and may hold quarterly calls to review earnings. If there is a change in management or the company is launching a new product, those points of contact may take place frequently. Drew Gurley is a licensed life insurance expert with nearly 15 years of experience. During his career as both a licensed life insurance agent and industry executive he has helped thousands of clients with their life insurance needs through his work at Redbird Advisors and Senior Market Advisors. When Drew isn’t working, he spends time with his family supporting Breast Cancer and Epilepsy awareness. Tori Addison is an editor with over five years of experience in the digital marketing industry. Her includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. 
 If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Drew Gurley is a writer and licensed life insurance expert with nearly 15 years of experience helping thousands of clients with their life insurance needs. When Drew isn’t working, he spends time with his family and supports breast cancer and epilepsy awareness. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.