If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on March 2, 2023
 
By: Christy Bieber
 Writer  KEY POINTS Anyone thinking about buying insurance coverage should read this. How much does life insurance cost? It’s an important question everyone should ask because most people need a term life insurance policy at some point. Life insurance provides important protection for loved ones in case of an untimely death. If at all possible, paying premiums and buying a policy should be worked into most peoples' budgets. Finance expert Dave Ramsey recently took a look at how much different policies cost by age. The data Ramsey discovered shows some trends that insurance buyers should be aware of.




 Ramsey explained that average life insurance policy costs vary by age at the time of purchase, gender, and term length. For example: These premiums are representative of what the typical man or woman would pay at different ages depending on when they bought their coverage. With most standard term life policies, premiums remain the same for the duration of coverage. For example, the 24-year-old male who bought a policy for $39 per month would still be paying $39 per month nine years later and for the entire duration of the 10-year coverage term. It's important to understand how these average life insurance costs affect when and how much insurance coverage to buy. It's clear from this data that premiums increase substantially as a would-be policyholder ages. This is why it’s so important to get coverage at a younger age when it is actually still affordable to buy insurance. Waiting could mean being priced out of a policy and becoming unable to protect loved ones -- especially if a pre-existing condition develops before a policy is purchased. Longer term policies also cost more. This is worth paying if the policy needs to be in effect for longer, but it's a good idea to think about when dependents will stop relying on income and services so too much coverage isn’t purchased. By understanding these trends, life insurance buyers can make more informed choices and get the coverage they need at a price that works for their budget. Acting sooner rather than later can help make that happen, since it can pay to buy before premiums go up due to the aging process. 
Christy Bieber is a full-time personal finance and legal writer with 15 years of experience. She has a JD from UCLA and is a former college instructor.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.