Applications are now being accepted for the New York State Excelsior Scholarship program, a program that fills a tuition gap after federal and state financial aid — providing the potential for a tuition-free college experience for state residents. (Staten Island Advance/Erik Bascome) Applications are now being accepted for the New York State Excelsior Scholarship, a program that fills a tuition gap after federal and state financial aid — providing the potential for a tuition-free college experience for state residents. New York Gov. Kathy Hochul recently announced the opening of the Spring 2023 application process, which closes on Feb. 9, 2023. Here’s what you need to know about the Excelsior Scholarship program. WHO RUNS THE EXCELSIOR SCHOLARSHIP? The scholarship is provided by the Higher Education Services Corporation (HESC), New York’s higher education student financial aid agency. The HESC processes more than a half-million grant, scholarship and loan forgiveness applications each year and awards nearly $1 billion in financial aid to more than 330,000 students. WHO IS ELIGIBLE TO APPLY FOR THE EXCELSIOR SCHOLARSHIP? Applications are available until Feb. 9 for the Spring 2023 selections. To be eligible, the applicant must be a first-time student entering college in the Spring 2023 semester or a current college students who has never received the Excelsior Scholarship. The scholarship is available to students attending a SUNY or CUNY two- or four-year college who complete 30 credits per year towards their degree. It’s available only to students whose household federal adjusted gross income is $125,000 or less. The student must be on track to graduate with an associate’s degree in two years or a bachelor’s degree in four years, though there are some exceptions to this requirement. WHAT IS THE EXCELSIOR SCHOLARSHIP DEADLINE? For Sprint 2023 the deadline is Feb. 9. HOW TO APPLY FOR THE EXCELSIOR SCHOLARSHIP The Excelsior Scholarship for new applicants for the Spring 2023 semester should be filled out online. The Excelsior Scholarship for new applicants for the Spring 2023 semester should be filled out online. Students eligible for the Excelsior Scholarship under the Sen. José Peralta New York State DREAM Act may also apply also apply online. Students eligible for the Excelsior Scholarship under the Sen. José Peralta New York State DREAM Act may also apply also apply online. “The cost to attend college is often a barrier for students from low and middle-income families who wish to experience the benefits that come from earning a postsecondary degree or credential,” said Dr. Guillermo Linares, president of the New York State HESC. “The Excelsior Scholarship offers the opportunity for students who, without financial support, could not readily afford to purse a college degree.” When combined with other student financial aid, the Excelsior Scholarship can potentially give eligible full-time CUNY and SUNY students a tuition-free college experience. “Since its inception, the Excelsior Scholarship has enabled tens of thousands of students from low and middle-income families the chance to pursue a quality education tuition-free,” Hochul said. “By easing the financial burden associated with the cost of attending college, students and their families can focus on their education, providing New York’s students every possible opportunity to climb the ladder of success.” For the 2022-2023 academic year, the national average price of tuition and fees came to $39,400 at private colleges, $10,940 at public colleges (in-state residents), and $28,240 at public colleges (out-of-state residents), according to a recent College Board report. Other options available to help pay for college are listed on the New York State Higher Education Services Corporation website. Other options available to help pay for college are listed on the New York State Higher Education Services Corporation website. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices