Get local news delivered to your inbox! The New York Times is dropping its sports staff in favor of publishing material from The Athletic, an online sports-content producer it owns. Reporter   In a stark sign of the (bad) times for the dwindling group of avid readers of the printed version of a newspaper’s sports section, two of the behemoths of the industry in the United States recently announced huge changes in the way their coverage of athletics will be presented via the ink-on-paper pages. Last Sunday, the Los Angeles Times printed a message from sports editor Iliana Limon Romero saying the paper no longer will be running “box scores, standings and traditional game stories,” replacing them with “more innovative reporting, in-depth profiles, unique examinations of the way teams operate, investigations, our distinct columnists’ voices, elite photography and more.” Romero guided readers to the paper’s website, latimes.com, for “local game results, breaking news, instant analysis, commentary and more as games and tournaments are unfolding.” Then last Monday, the nation’s most famous paper, The New York Times, announced it is dropping its sports staff in favor of publishing material from The Athletic, an online sports-content producer that it purchased for $550 million about a year and a half ago. The Athletic, while covering some local teams, has a more national focus than a traditional daily newspaper and its stories will appear on the Times’ website as well as in the paper. “We plan to focus even more directly on distinctive, high-impact news and enterprise journalism about how sports intersect with money, power, culture, politics and society at large,” Times editors wrote in an email to newsroom employees. “At the same time, we will scale back the newsroom’s coverage of games, players, teams and leagues.” In other words, like its counterpart across the country in Los Angeles, local day-to-day and game and breaking news reporting is being de-emphasized in the print editions of NEWSpapers. Also last week, it was announced that the San Diego Union-Tribune has been sold to MediaNews Group. That’s a division of Alden Global Capital, which made an unsuccessful run last year at trying to purchase Post-Dispatch owner Lee Enterprises. MediaNews has a history of buying papers and slashing staff and budgets, and that will be the case in San Diego. Union-Tribune staffers were told by a MediaNews executive that cutbacks will be coming to “offset the slowdown in revenues as economic headwinds continue to impact the media industry.” Buyouts are being offered and if “a sufficient number of employees” don’t take one “the company will lay off additional employees.” That paper had been owned by Patrick Soon-Shiong, who also has the LA Times. This movement has been accelerating for more than a decade, as the immediacy of the internet and social media has made the printed version of a newspaper outdated for many Americans. In fact, if you are reading this the odds are strong that you are doing so digitally rather than while holding a broadsheet (which isn’t as broad as it was a decade or so ago) in your hands. The Post-Dispatch, meanwhile, has no immediate plans to scale back sports coverage in the throw-on-your-lawn version of its product. “We think we can still provide strong sports content in print,” Post-Dispatch Executive Editor Alan Achkar said. “And, of course, our digital products — website, mobile app, newsletters — feature sports coverage day and night, regardless how late games run. We can be as flexible as we need to be on those platforms and deliver up-to-the-minute sports coverage.” The Post-Dispatch nonetheless has not been immune to the trend. The paper laid off most of its copy editors several years ago, and other moves impacting the Sports section of the paper have included the discontinuation of carrying localized radio-TV listings and the removal of the Cardinals’ box score from being prominently displayed with the game story. (That feature was replaced by a smaller version incorporated with other boxes from around the majors.) The late edition also was eliminated, with the single deadline for the product to be finished now at 11 p.m. — 10:15 on Saturdays for the Sunday paper. There also has been the outsourcing of much of the national sports coverage to a corporate hub in which game roundups and notebooks are assembled and distributed across the Lee network and are no longer specifically tailored to a St. Louis audience. For the most part, gone are the days when the Major League Baseball recap often would lead with the game of top importance for Cardinals fans and national stories would be presented with an emphasis on St. Louis ties when pertinent. But all of that is understandable, as a look at the numbers starkly illustrates. When the “Media Views” column began in this publication 3½ decades ago, there was no online presence, no social media, no streaming, no cellphones. The Post-Dispatch’s weekday circulation was about 300,000, with approximately half a million on Sundays. Today, it’s a fraction of that. Of course the Post-Dispatch’s content has migrated to its digital platforms, as is the case across the industry. But there still is an aging and loyal group that continues to buy the printed newspaper, and as the number of those people dwindle annually so do the days remaining of the hold-in-your-hand pages. That certainly has been emphasized by the developments in the industry elsewhere this week. “The media landscape continues to change at a break-neck pace, and, yes, we have to continue to adapt and change,” Achkar said. “But that doesn’t mean abandoning the proud sports journalism tradition at the Post-Dispatch.” Like the Pony Express, the steam engine, sundials, typewriters and cassette tapes, printed newspapers will continue to disappear while the digital versions will survive, albeit with a much more fractionalized overall impact than the print product formerly carried. It’s the same for much of legacy electronic media, as television and radio also have taken massive hits as they sink while social media/blogs/podcasts rise. Just look at the financial problems of regional sports TV networks for one recent example. Much of that new media has fewer checks and balances than traditional journalism, with an “anything goes” approach often in vogue as cries of “fake news” are bandied about whether true or not. None of this is breaking news, as the trend has been building for years and in some markets there is no printed daily newspaper anymore and in others the distribution has been reduced to several days a week. However, the examples of the past few days underscore the acceleration of this changing world. But there still is major value in the “old” way of doing things, as the situation this week at Northwestern University illustrates. Following a report of disturbing hazing allegations in the football program, coach Pat Fitzgerald was fired. The key coverage was in The Daily Northwestern — a student newspaper. Investigative journalism still can be invaluable. “We have to provide strong enterprise and watchdog journalism,” the Post-Dispatch’s Achkar said. “We just do. It’s what readers expect and demand, and it has to remain a vital part of our mission. As newsrooms have had to make tough decisions about staffing, it’s forced editors to focus on top priorities and where to invest resources. “At the Post-Dispatch, we’re maintaining enterprise/watchdog as a priority. We have to find the time, energy and focus to dig deep and uncover the hidden stories. The students at Northwestern proved why the work is vital.” St. Louis City SC beat writer Tom Timmermann and Beth O’Malley talk about the team’s games on the road: A win over Toronto and a loss to LA FC. They also look forward to the Miami game Saturday. Get local news delivered to your inbox! Reporter   The reeling Redbirds are nearing the end of the line for appearing on national networks. In comes Tom Brady, Bill Belichick and Nick Saban. Out goes the Southeastern Conference on CBS. Gateway City significantly trailed Missouri's other major market — Kansas City was sixth. Because of conflicts a KC contest will move from Channel 4 to new Channel 32, and a Green Bay game will move from Channel 2 to 11. NFL Network… Padres' odds of winning NL pennant as low as 7-1, Cardinals' as high as 120-1.  Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.