The Barberton Herald, which has served the Barberton and Norton communities for a century, published its last newspaper on Thursday. (Marvin Fong, The Plain Dealer) BROOKLYN, Ohio — The Plain Dealer’s printing presses will add another newspaper to their lineup, and will start printing The Buffalo News later this year. The Buffalo News, which is the daily newspaper for the Buffalo-Niagara Falls metro area in New York, announced the change on Monday. The company will close its plant in downtown Buffalo, which will result in about 160 layoffs. Both the Buffalo News and Plain Dealer Publishing Co. said the details of the arrangement are still being ironed out. Brad Harmon, Midwest regional president for Advance Local, said The Plain Dealer will start working on the transition in early summer, and will start printing the Buffalo News in late 2023. Harmon did not say how many newspapers the Plain Dealer will print for the Buffalo News, since that number has not been finalized. The Buffalo News had an average print circulation of 55,000 in September 2021, according data attributed to the Alliance for Audited Media. The Plain Dealer’s printing plant in Brooklyn currently prints 25 different newspapers each week, Harmon said. The company has grown its print business over the last few years. Eight Michigan newspapers owned by Advance Local moved their printing operations to The Plain Dealer in late 2020. The Plain Dealer has a longstanding relationship with the Wall Street Journal, and also started printing the Willoughby News-Herald, Lorain Morning Journal and The Call & Post in late 2021. Newspapers have consolidated their printing operations as they cut costs, often opting to have their own newspapers printed in another city. Gannett, which owns the Columbus Dispatch, announced in January 2020 that it would start printing its Columbus newspaper in Indianapolis. Cincinnati Enquirer and Kentucky Enquirer, printed in Columbus at the time, were moved to presses in Louisville. The Akron Beacon Journal, which was being printed by The Plain Dealer’s press in early 2020, moved its printing duties to Canton. The Beacon Journal had first moved away from its own presses in 2013.  The Plain Dealer is still printed locally, seven days a week, but reduced home delivery to four days a week in 2013. Consolidations have generally meant earlier deadlines, which means late-night news like election results don’t always make it into the next day’s newspaper. The Alabama Media Group, also part of Advance Local, announced that it would stop newspapers entirely in 2023. The four Alabama newspapers will become digital-only product. When asked about longevity of The Plain Dealer’s print operation, Harmon said that side of the business remain financially viable. “The Cleveland Plain Dealer continues to have a strong print product, the print operation and business are profitable,” Harmon said. “Cleveland has multi-year print commitments such as with the Buffalo News.” If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices