The reality star made the trip down to Exmouth yesterday (December 22) Want all the best bits on the box? Share your email to get TV news, interviews, spoilers and more We have more newsletters Want all the best bits on the box? Share your email to get TV news, interviews, spoilers and more We have more newsletters Made in Chelsea star Louise Thompson will be spending Christmas in Devon with her family. Yesterday, December 22, was full of festive fun for the reality star and her family, as they started the day off with a visit from her brother Sam and girlfriend Zara McDermott.  Sam and Zara popped over to Louise and fiancé Ryan Libbey's house to drop presents off to the couple and 13-month-old Leo-Hunter, all of whom they live next door to in London. After a little family gathering, Louise, Ryan and Leo got in the car and headed down to the South West, where it is believed they will be spending the weekend. Louise, 32, shared a clip of her personal trainer partner Ryan, also 32, behind the wheel to her Instagram story. The mum-of-two let her 1.4m followers in on where they were going by captioning it: "Devon, here we come." Read more: Love Island: Faye Winter spends Christmas in Devon after holiday nightmare A couple of hours later, as dusk fell, Louise posted a photo of Exmouth Beach Rescue Club on Exmouth Beach. She then shared a relaxing video of the sea crashing onto the beach as she watched from the road, writing: "Few things as healing as the seaside." Louise enjoyed a walk along the waterfront, holding Leo as she posed the tot for a photo in a designer coat. She and Ryan welcomed Leo into the world in November 2021, with Louise being very open and honest about her battles with PTSD and postnatal anxiety after nearly dying during labour. In an emotional Instagram post last month, the mum-of-one claimed she was a 'crap parent' in the first few month's of Leo's life, saying that she feels as though she has 'let down' her son as she 'can't remember the first five months' of his life. She wrote: "I feel a bit angry, like I want to swear a lot, especially when I look at how glazed over I was at the beginning of his journey on earth. ⁣ "Then I want to cry. I want to cry because I was a totally CRAP parent. I really was. and it wasn't my fault. But it didn't need to be that way. There was no connection, in fact I can't even remember anything for the first five months of his life.  "I know that the whole thing is a haze for most new mums, but for me I think it was different. I literally didn't know what was going on around me." Louise is not the only influencer spending Christmas in Devon with her family this year, as Love Island star Faye Winter will be making the trip down to Exeter, where she is from, in a rented car this weekend. The 27-year-old ranted about her car struggles on her Instagram story earlier this week, but has now found a solution after a car hire company got in touch with her. Click here to subscribe to the South West TV Talk newsletter, bringing you the latest showbiz news, gossip and features from across the West Country every week. Vote for your favourite past winners of Love Island in our poll. Read more: BBC The Traitors: Explosive finale leaves viewers 'screaming' at TV  ITV's The Chase left fans 'cheering' at the screen for fantastic contestants after edge of seat finale  The Specials' Terry Hall was diagnosed with cancer shortly before death, says bandmate  Doc Martin star crashed car into tree while filming Christmas special  Stacey Solomon breaks parenting taboo with 'favourite child' comment 