Tuesday, 20 Aug 2024 On Monday 19 August 2024, Janus Henderson Investors announced the appointment of Gaetan D'Hondt as... On Monday 29 August 2024, Vistra, a Singapore-based leading provider of business solutions that help... The 2024 Schueberfouer will once again be held at the Glacis car park in Luxembourg-Limpertsberg from... ... ... ... 
                                    Published on  Thursday, 16 Jul 2020 16:11
                                                                            by  JCA 
 Nexten.io, a leading tech recruitment platform in Luxembourg, has announced that it is launching the second annual edition of its Tech Talent of the Year award this week.
The Tech Talent of the Year award, first awarded in 2019 during ITnation’s Golden-i gala, recognises the country’s best and brightest tech leaders for their outstanding achievements. The prize aims to shine a spotlight on the technical talents of the industry, the individuals behind the computer screens, from Tech Leads to Chief Technology Officers (CTO). 
“At nexten.io we root for the real doers in tech, the ones wearing the t-shirts,” explained Anissa Lechaudel, Brand Manager. “We not only help them find new job opportunities through our platform, but also aim to help build up the tech community by recognizing the contributions of its talented members". 
Last year’s inaugural edition proved successful, with 60 tech talents in the running and over 4,000 members of the community taking part in the voting to choose the five finalists. An advisory board made up of top industry experts from companies including PwC, KPMG and Mangrove then selected the winner, Georges Berscheid, Co-Founder and CTO of Luxembourg FinTech startup Finologee.
Companies are encouraged to nominate their top talent, the ones who have gone the extra mile in their work to make a difference this year. Individuals can also nominate themselves to be considered for the award. Applications will be accepted by email between 15 July and 2 August 2020. Community voting will take place through the month of August on social media, with the five candidates who receive the most votes moving on to the next round. The finalists will then give a presentation before a jury of industry experts in mid-September, with the winner of the Tech Talent of the Year announced at the Golden-i awards ceremony on 24 September 2020.
Eligibility criteria:

The individual should be a CTO or a tech expert (Head of Development, Head of IT, Head of Architecture, Tech Lead) recognised by their peers within the tech community;
The individual should have been responsible for a software development project in Luxembourg in the last twelve months;
The developed software solution should help its organisation/community to create disruptive innovation.

For more information and to submit a nomination, visit http://techtalent.nexten.io/. Nexten.io, a leading tech recruitment platform in Luxembourg, has announced that it is launching the second annual edition of its Tech Talent of the Year award this week. The Tech Talent of the Year award, first awarded in 2019 during ITnation’s Golden-i gala, recognises the country’s best and brightest tech leaders for their outstanding achievements. The prize aims to shine a spotlight on the technical talents of the industry, the individuals behind the computer screens, from Tech Leads to Chief Technology Officers (CTO).  “At nexten.io we root for the real doers in tech, the ones wearing the t-shirts,” explained Anissa Lechaudel, Brand Manager. “We not only help them find new job opportunities through our platform, but also aim to help build up the tech community by recognizing the contributions of its talented members".  Last year’s inaugural edition proved successful, with 60 tech talents in the running and over 4,000 members of the community taking part in the voting to choose the five finalists. An advisory board made up of top industry experts from companies including PwC, KPMG and Mangrove then selected the winner, Georges Berscheid, Co-Founder and CTO of Luxembourg FinTech startup Finologee. Companies are encouraged to nominate their top talent, the ones who have gone the extra mile in their work to make a difference this year. Individuals can also nominate themselves to be considered for the award. Applications will be accepted by email between 15 July and 2 August 2020. Community voting will take place through the month of August on social media, with the five candidates who receive the most votes moving on to the next round. The finalists will then give a presentation before a jury of industry experts in mid-September, with the winner of the Tech Talent of the Year announced at the Golden-i awards ceremony on 24 September 2020. Eligibility criteria: For more information and to submit a nomination, visit http://techtalent.nexten.io/.  Gaetan D'Hondt Appointed Sales Director for Janus Henderson Benel... 19 Aug, 2024 17:17 Andrew Cherry Appointed Group Chief Financial Officer of Vistra... 19 Aug, 2024 16:42 9 New Rides, 4 New Dining Options Confirmed for Schueberfouer 202... 19 Aug, 2024 14:45 Luxembourg Provides €55m Humanitarian Assistance in 22 Countries ... 19 Aug, 2024 11:50 Further Zonal Test Undertaken for National Alert System... 19 Aug, 2024 11:40 Luxembourg Art & Fashion Week to Showcase Emerging Talent in Octo... 19 Aug, 2024 11:14 Heatwave Hits Europe: How Cities Can Prepare Now Registrations Open for Run in the Dark 2024 Lidl to Sponsor Yellow Jersey on Skoda Tour of Luxembourg Cycle Race Luxembourg Provides €55m Humanitarian Assistance in 22 Countries to date in 2024 MPOX Situation: Luxembourg Has Vaccine Stock Subscribe Now