Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 The market started to worry about its funding strategy in light of the rapid rise in financing costs. Units of NextEra Energy Partners (NEP 0.12%) slumped 16.3% during the first half of 2023, according to data provided by S&P Global Market Intelligence. That was substantially below the S&P 500, which rallied 15.9%. The sell-off pushed its dividend yield up to 6%.  The company's funding strategy weighed on its unit price during the first half. While the renewable energy dividend stock unveiled a strategy shift to alleviate those fears, pressure remained on the unit price.  NextEra Energy Partners has been using a unique financing strategy to fund acquisitions to deliver on its ambitious dividend growth target (12% to 15% annually through 2026). It has secured several convertible equity portfolio financings (CEPF) with institutional investors like private equity funds. It had the right to buy out this financing in the future at a fixed rate of return using either cash or common units.  In April, the company exercised its option to buy out 25% of the $750 million CEPF it secured in 2019 on STX Midstream, a portfolio of seven natural gas pipelines. It paid $200 million in cash, which included $50 million drawn from its credit facility and $150 million raised from selling 2.3 million common units. While the company noted that the unit sale represented less than 3% of its outstanding shares, the market didn't like the dilutive impact.  Analysts voiced concerns about future dilution from other CEPF buyouts, given the higher financing costs from higher interest rates. KeyBanc analyst Sangita Jain said that he downgraded NextEra Energy Partners from overweight to sector weight last month "in light of impending equity dilution in an unfavorable financial landscape."  Jain added, "We believe that upcoming conversions would create a medium-term overhang in the higher capital cost environment," based on the belief that the CEPF redemptions "will likely be more dilutive than envisioned by management when the program was put in place."  These concerns caused NextEra Energy Partners to shift its strategy. In May, the company announced a new funding plan that would also see it become a 100% renewable energy producer. The company will:  The company believes these steps will eliminate the buyouts of three near-term CEPFs while enabling it to deliver on its dividend growth target.  Market worries about NextEra Energy Partners' funding strategy weighed on its value during the first half of this year, given the recent significant rise in interest rates. However, the company quickly sprung into action, unveiling a new strategy to address those concerns while achieving its growth plan.  With a new plan of action in place, the sell-off looks like a buying opportunity for those seeking an attractive and rapidly rising dividend income stream.  Matthew DiLallo has positions in NextEra Energy and NextEra Energy Partners. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends NextEra Energy. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.