ANALYSIS: Retail Salmon Promotions Up 5.2 Percent
 Canada Rail Strike: How Would the Train Strike Affect the U.S.?
 9th Circuit Rules Against Wild Fish Conservancy, Supports Southeast Alaska Troll Salmon Fishery
 Low Water Levels Affecting Salmon Migration in British Columbia Streams
 West Coast Longliners To Get a Fourth Halibut Opener in August
 Falklands Cancels Second Season of Loligo Squid for Conservation Reasons
  Thai Union Strengthens Fight Against Ocean Plastic with New Partnerships
 Japan's Seafood Experiment Clears the Air on Safety of Water Discharge From Fukushima Nuclear Plant
 Britain: West Mussel Farm Takes Seabed Back to the Future
 Bolivia and FAO Study a Project to Raise Shrimp in the Andean Country's Salt Flats
 NOAA and Alaska Release Summary Report for Aquaculture Opportunity Area Spatial Planning Workshops
 It Was Once an Essential Part of Irish Agriculture — Now Seaweed Farming is Making a Resurgence
 The San Francisco Bay is Teeming With This Tiny Fish, Adored By Local Chefs
  ‘Wicked Tuna’ to End With Season 13 on National Geographic
 Fisheries Trade Union Participates in Sustainable Development of Vietnamese Fisheries Industry
 Seafoodnews.com Summary Monday, August 19
 USDA Issues Open Purchase Requests For Catfish, Pacific Whiting and Rockfish
 US Coast Guard Icebreaker's Arctic Voyage Cancelled Due to Onboard Fire
 New USCG Icebreaker Aiviq to be Located in Juneau
 Skin Cell Discovery Could Help Atlantic Salmon Fend Off Sea Lice
  Alaska Salmon Season Shaping Up to Be Worst in Several Decades
 Feds Announce Funding Push For Ropeless Fishing Gear That Spares Rare Whales
 Biden Administration Awards $34 Million to Modernize NOAA Fisheries' Data, Infrastructure, Workforce
 The Oceans Are Weirdly Hot. Scientists Are Trying To Figure Out Why.
 Rhode Island DEM Announces Revised Aquaculture Regulations for Improved Shellfish Seafood Safety
 Citric Acid Enhances Tilapia Feed Quality and Sustainability
 Burnsed Trucking Announces Key Leadership Appointments
 UKVFTA Opens Doors for Vietnamese Tuna Exports to UK Market
  N China’s Coastal County Transforms Saline-Alkali Land Into Symbiotic Grain-Seafood Farms
 What's Next for the Oyster that Revived the New Jersey Oyster Industry?
  Seafoodnews.com Summary Friday, August 16
 Alaska Fishermen Threaten Peter Pan Boycott
 Examining Rising Prices Of Groceries
 Vietnam: Experts Say Strategies Needed for Shrimp Sector to Meet Export Target
 Biden-Harris Administration’s Central Atlantic Offshore Wind Lease Sale Yields Nearly $93 Million
 Hokkaido University: Climate Change May Lead to Shifts in Vital Pacific Arctic Fisheries
  Baymen Oppose Bid to Pause Shellfishing in Parts of Oyster Bay and Cold Spring Harbors
 China Public Concerned How Next Japan PM Will Handle Treated Water
 Sunken Ship is a Reminder of Maine’s Storied Sardine Industry
 Lack of Information From DFO on Silverside Decline is Concerning Fishermen
 NSW Government Funds Commercial Fishing Industry’s First Single Peak Body
 India: After Moratorium Lifted, Fishermen and Experts Urge Fishmeal Makers to Address Sustainability
 Cousins Maine Lobster Plans Food Truck Tour Across Wisconsin
 Seafoodnews.com Summary Thursday, August 15
 Trending Now: Single Ingredient Treats In The Pet Food Space
 Canadian Government Announces Funding To Support PEI Oyster Industry After MSX Outbreak
  Revised Schedule Released For Frozen Shrimp Investigation Into Ecuador, India, Indonesia and Vietnam
 The Retail Rundown: Multiple Factors Fuel Promotions; CPI Dips Below 3%
 BOEM Finalizes Environmental Review for Oregon; Re-Starts Process in Hawaii
 ‘Lab-Grown’ Meat Maker Files Lawsuit Against Florida Ban
 Game of Inches: Lobster Fishermen Say Tiny Change in Legal Sizes Could Disrupt Imperiled Industry
 Russia Plans to Increase Fish and Seafood Imports to South Korea in Years to Come
 Biden-Harris Administration Announces Over $9 Million for Partnerships to Recover NARW
 Seafood Show Tokyo Targets 30,000 Visitors, Attracting 1,000 Overseas Buyers
 New Paradise Island Restaurant Teams Up With Bahamian Seafood Suppliers
 Vietnam: Tra Fish Exports Face Tough Competition in International Market
  Land-Based Fish Farms Face Challenges in British Columbia
 Kingfish - The New Species For New Zealand Aquaculture
  New England Seafood International Buys Blue Sea Food Out of Admin.
 Seafoodnews.com Summary Wednesday, August 14
 Salmon Count on Fraser River Closely Monitored Following Landside and Flood
  FFAW Speaks Out On NAFO Moving Forward With Offshore Dragger Access On Northern Cod Grounds
 Seafoodnews.com Summary Tuesday, August 13
 Atlantic and Quebec Fishing Organizations: More Needs To Be Done To End Illegal Lobster Sales
 A Giant Wind Turbine Blade Fell Into the Sea; It Washed Up on Nantucket
 Six Rescued Off New Hampshire Coast After Boat Fire on 81 FT Trawler
 Oyster Virus Detected in San Diego Bay Likely Worsened by Warmer Waters
  Seafood Tourism and Pescaturism are Making Headway in Spain
 Waste Into Gold: Oyster Shells Repurposed As Magic 'Seawool'
  UNH Researchers Suggest New, Organism-Driven Method for Measuring Lethal Impact of Marine Heatwaves
 Rescuers Free Two Humpbacks Entangled in Fishing Gear
  Taiwan Fishing Boat Crew Detained in China Released
 Technical University of Denmark: Today's Fish Waste Can Become Tomorrow's Nutritious Food
 Shellfish Giant Mussels Into Oyster Outfit
  National Award for Sustainable Fisheries and Aquaculture 2024 Granted to HULKIN
 Minister Lebouthillier Announces Nearly $42 Million in Small Craft Harbours in the Magdalen Islands
 Setting Nets for 70 Years in Anchorage’s Shadow, Family Witnessed Major Shifts in Cook Inlet Salmon
 ANALYSIS: YTD (January-June) Frozen Tuna Imports Up 9.6%, with Strong Performance from Vietnam
  Intense Search Called Off for Bristol Bay Fisherman Following a Tragic Fall Overboard
 Seafoodnews.com Summary Monday, August 12
 Coast Guard Followed Russian Surveillance Vessel Near Aleutian Islands Last Week
 Vietnam’s Mollusk Exports Rising, Says VASEP
  Three Seafood Processing Companies in Pakistan Cleared for Exports to EU
 Nissin in Hot Water After Cup Noodle Price Fixing Allegation
 In a Cutthroat Grocery Store Landscape, Where Does Stop & Shop Stand?
 U.S. Non-Recognition of Vietnam’s Market Economy to Hurt Shrimp Exports
 British Columbia: Liberals Miss Deadline for Salmon Farm Transition Plan
 British Columbia United Leader Proposes Removing Carbon Tax from Fishing, Agriculture
 Mexico: Fall in Octopus Production Raises Prices
 Commercial Fishing in Oregon: Booms and Busts, But Trend is Up Overall
 Lobster Habitat in the Gulf of Maine Has Changed, Scientists Say
 Constellation Cold Logistics to Acquire Agri-Norcold A/S
 Significant Increase in Unsuitable Korean Foods Exported to U.S. and China
 Vietnam: Deputy PM Urges Swift Action on Fishing Vessel Monitoring
 Lawsuit Seeks to Protect Marine Mammals from Foreign Fishing Gear, Enforce Seafood Import Bans
 ‘Huge Disaster:’ Historically Weak Pink Salmon Runs Strain Alaska’s Seine Fishermen
  ANALYSIS: Crab Meat Imports Drop Over 25 Percent in June
  ANALYSIS: Pangasius Imports Outweigh Tilapia
  Premium Brands Holdings Releases Q2 Financial Results
 Vietnam's Central Province of Ninh Thuận Applies Advanced Techniques in Marine Aquaculture
 Seafoodnews.com Summary Friday, August 9
 High Liner Says “Challenging Market Conditions” Led to Q2 Drop in Sales Volume, Value
 North Fish USA Recalls Packages of Cold Smoked Capelin Due To Potential Contamination
  Alaska Seafood Industry Eyes Pet Food Market
 Massachusetts: Meet the Only Oyster Farmer on the North Shore
  Ship Strikes Suspected in Deaths of Two Whales in Southeast Alaska
 FFAW Continues To Butt Heads With Royal Greenland: “Enough Is Enough”
  British Columbia Government Considers 'Plan B' if Salmon Need Help Through Chilcotin Slide Zone
 Mozambique Ex-Finance Minister Convicted in U.S. Over 'Tuna Bonds' Scandal
 Baltics States Continue to Lobby For Imposition of Restrictions on Russian Fish Imports to EU
 U.S. Senator Katie Britt Applauds Red Snapper Legislation Advancing From Senate Commerce Committee
  Norway's Frozen Cod Exports to China See Value Increase
 CFIA Creates Permitting Process for MSX-Infected Shellfish Safe for Human Consumption
  Hong Kong Pohibits Import of Seafood Products From 10 Japanese Cities
 Massachusetts: Shellfishing Can Continue After Blade Break, State Says
 Federal Infrastructure Funding is Fueling a Push to Remove Dams and Restore River Habitat
 Seafoodnews.com Summary Thursday, August 8
 Canada: Pilot Project Will Expand Seaweed Industry Jobs in the North Island
 GrubMarket Acquires Good Eggs, a Leading U.S. Online Grocery Company
 Vietnam Ranks Among Top Three Global Shrimp Exporters
 Roger Williams University Students Create Unique Vertical Oyster Gardens On The RWU Waterfront
  Australian Border Force Confirms Three Boats Destroyed, Hundreds of Kilograms of Seafood Seized
  Worried About Eels Going Extinct, Passamaquoddy Call for End of Fishery
  American Seafoods Announces Launch of Community Partnership Program to Support Western Alaskans
 Louisiana: Grand Isle Port Still Trying to Rebuild After Ida
 Thai Union Continues To Find Success In PetCare Category
 ASMFC Votes to Delay Lobster Gauge Increase Until July 1, 2025
 Japan Issues First 'Megaquake' Warning for Nankai Trough After Strong Temblor
 NL Fisheries Minister Expresses Snow Crab Market Concerns Following Charge Against Quinlan Bros.
 EU Seriously Discussing Restrictions of Fish Imports from Russia
 Seaweed Farming Plans Sent Back to the Drawing Board
  Maine: Shellfish Harvesting Ban Likely to End This Week
  Dongwon Adopts AI, Drones to Ease Deep-Sea Fishing Workload
 Vietnam and Indonesia Cooperate in Sustainable Fisheries and Aquaculture
 Seafoodnews.com Summary Wednesday, August 7
 Yum China Adds Former American Seafoods CEO Mikel Durham to Board of Directors
 High-Tech Shrimp Farmer Atarraya Plans 200-Tank Facility in Northeastern U.S.
  AquaBounty Reports Significant Net Loss Of $50.5 Million In Q2 Financial Results
  Italy Appoints Commissioner to Tackle Spread of Blue Crab
  Expert: Climate Change Impacting Aquaculture Production Activities
 Does Kelp Restoration Work?
  Republic of Korea Increases Tuna Imports From Vietnamese Market
  Crustacean Boom: Mid-Year Market Trends of King and Snow Crab
  Brakes Launches New Fish and Seafood Range Portico Seafood
 Researchers are on a Mission This Summer to Learn More About Right Whales in the Gulf of Maine
 Failure of Wind Turbine Blade off Cape Cod Raises Questions for Maine Officials
 Good News: Overfishing is at an All-Time Low; Bad News: Fish Species Face New Threats
 Why are Local Catfish Farmers Struggling to Make a Profit?
  Vietnamese Fisheries Export in July Highest Since Early 2024
  Crawfishermen Looking for $15 Per Pound This Season
  Russian Snow Crab Weakens to $21.50/kg at the Third Busan Auction
  ANALYSIS: U.S. Shrimp Imports Drop Sharply in June
  The Retail Rundown: Unsettled Start to August
 Seafoodnews.com Summary Tuesday, August 6
 Congressman Golden Issues Another Call To Delay Lobster Gauge Increase Ahead Of ASMFC Summer Meeting
  Norway’s Directorate of Fisheries Orders Lerøy To Monitor Waterways Following May Escapement
  Wild Fork Invites Everyone to Cook at Home With First-Ever Brand Campaign
 FDA Announces Additional Oyster Recalls Due To Potential Campylobacter
  A Cracking New Use for Shellfish Waste: Extending the Life of Produce
  National Fisheries Institute’s Robert DeHaan Reappointed to Government Trade Advisory Committee
 University of Maine Gets $10 Million to Research Turning Wood Into Jet Fuel and Fish Feed
 FFAW Wins Grievance Against ASP In 2023 Snow Crab Dispute; Files New Grievance Against Quin-Sea
  Taking Over From the Inside: How China Became the Superpower of Seafood
 Norway Salmon Farming Industry Grapples With Harsh Climate Effects
  Japan: May Surimi Products Output Lags Again by 4.4% to 33,325 Tons
  Seafood Industry Urges Immigration Rethink Amid Labour Shortages
 India's Seafood Exports Surge 30.81% in Four Years
 The Jersey Shore is Seeing a Rapid Rise in Ocean Temps
 Thailand's Blackchin Tilapia Problem 'Will Be Resolved in Two Months'
  U.S. Surimi Producers Losing Competition to Russian Rivals in Global Market
  Seafoodnews.com Summary Monday, August 5
 Three Recipients of Quebec Fisheries Fund Receive More Than $350,000 in Contributions
  Cook Inlet Setnetters Turn to Seining in Effort to Save East Side Fishery
  New Jersey-Sized "Dead Zone" That Can Kill Fish and Marine Life Emerges in Gulf of Mexico
 Morrisons Opens UK’s Largest Fish Freezing Centre in Cornwall
 Massive British Columbia Landslide Could Mean New Barriers for Struggling Salmon
  Canada: A Sink-or-Swim Moment for On-Land Fish Farming
  Damages Sought for Hundreds Who Ate Foreign Seafood Sold as Gulf Fresh at Mary Mahoney's
  Seaweed Finds Growing Demand, Shows Promise in Climate Change Fight
  ANALYSIS: Rising Sockeye Prices Amid Declining Supply and Smaller Fish
  Wild Planet Launches Limited Edition Wild Tuna Snack Pack With Simple Mills & Chosen Foods
  Impossible Burger Clears First Food Safety Hurdle in Europe
 Norway Showcases Seafood Selections at 'WOFEX' 2024
  New Grab-and-Go Asian Restaurant in South Essex Hopes to Become 'Starbucks for Sushi'
  Seafoodnews.com Summary Friday, August 2
 Maine: Jonesport Fish Farm Makes Headway After Court Denies Appeal of the Project's Local Permits
 Commerce Invests $3.1 Million to Bolster Mariculture Workforce Development on Kenai Peninsula
 Illegal Fishing Shuts Down Bristol Bay’s Egegik Fishery
 King, Cassidy Introduce Bill Offering Tax Credits to Waterfronts Affected by Natural Disasters
 Russian Fishermen Set to Boost Exports to Latin America
 NL’s Brand New Minister of Fisheries Responds After Quinlan Snow Crab Press Conference
  Biden-Harris Administration Announces More Than $105 Million for West Coast and Alaska Salmon
  Peltola Introduces Domestic Seafood Production Act
 Russian Crab Group Increases Catch 40% in H1
  NACC Probes State Staff for Blackchin Tilapia Invasion
  De Heus Vietnam Cooperates with ShrimpVet for Sustainable Shrimp Farming
  ANALYSIS: Scallop Market Rallies Ahead of Area II Closure
  Quinlan Brothers Fights Government On Claims Regarding Processing of Dead Snow Crab
  Seafoodnews.com Summary Thursday, August 1
 Lobster Catch Plummets: Low Presence of the Crustacean in Yucatan Waters Reported
  March 21, 2023 Bumble Bee Foods, Conagra Brands Facing Class Action Lawsuit Over Sustainability Claims Earlier this month Greenpeace filed a class-action lawsuit against Bumble Bee Foods and Conagra Brands over sustainability claims in their seafood products. The complaint is based on a report that was released by Greenpeace East Asia in September 2022. The recent report from Greenpeace East Asia is called “Fake My Catch: The Unreliable  Traceability in our Tuna Cans.” In the report, Greenpeace claims that they found environmental harm and human rights violations within the company’s supply chain...  
Email Address is required.
Password is required.

 

 Bumble Bee Foods, Conagra Brands Facing Class Action Lawsuit Over Sustainability Claims Earlier this month Greenpeace filed a class-action lawsuit against Bumble Bee Foods and Conagra Brands over sustainability claims in their seafood products. The complaint is based on a report that was released by Greenpeace East Asia in September 2022. The recent report from Greenpeace East Asia is called “Fake My Catch: The Unreliable  Traceability in our Tuna Cans.” In the report, Greenpeace claims that they found environmental harm and human rights violations within the company’s supply chain... To Read Full Story Login Below.  Note: All comments are displayed with user's screen name. If screen name is not present, user's full name will be used. Please go to My Account to update your screen name. Submit comment or question Comment Policy: SeafoodNews.com and Urner Barry have made the comment feature available to encourage further discussion of our news stories. Defamatory or offensive Comments, or comments deemed not relevant to the story will be removed, and if necessary, SeafoodNews.com and Urner Barry may restrict the right of individual subscribers to offer comments. IN all cases, comments represent opinions of the poster only, and do not represent fact, news, opinions or estimates put forward by SeafoodNews.com and Urner Barry.  The Chilean fresh fillet market remained flat on 3-4s for the 4th week in a row. In a marketplace that can at times be very volatile, the fresh Chilean fillet market has been relatively stable since the beginning of July, falling in total $0.15 over the course of a 7 week period.   When looking at the 3-year average, the market is currently 7.6 percent lower, but on the 5-year average, the market is higher, up 4.5 percent. Furthermore, when looking at the... Canada Rail Strike: How Would the Train Strike Affect the U.S.? Canada’s two largest railroads are in a dispute with the Teamsters union that could lead to cross-border trade disruptions with the United States. Canada’s two largest railroads, Canadian Pacific Kansas City and Canadian National, are locked in a labor dispute with the Teamsters union that threatens to spark strikes that would directly impact cross-border trade with the United States, according to CBS News insiders. For now, both railroads have stopped accepting certain shipments of hazardous materials and refrigerated products, while starting... 9th Circuit Rules Against Wild Fish Conservancy, Supports Southeast Alaska Troll Salmon Fishery Last Friday the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court ruled against a lower court decision from May 2023 that temporarily halted the Alaska troll salmon fishery, an economic driver in several Southeast Alaska communities.  The three-judge panel ruled that the lower court had “abused its discretion” and “erred by overlooking the severe disruptive consequences” of its action. In June of 2023, the Ninth Circuit ordered a stay of the lower court ruling 11 days prior to the July 1 start of the summer troll season, but the... Low Water Levels Affecting Salmon Migration in British Columbia Streams Low water levels brought on by years of severe drought, paired with meagre snowpack and rainfall, are leaving B.C.'s salmon in a compromising position during their spawning migration, a fisheries expert warns. Researchers are also trying to understand the effects of last year's devastating wildfires in B.C. Salmon need a steady stream of cool, fresh water to survive and reach their spawning grounds, but Murray Manson, the section head of the Fisheries Department's Habitat Restoration Centre of Expertise, told a briefing Friday that he is... West Coast Longliners To Get a Fourth Halibut Opener in August Low turnout for the third Pacific halibut opener on the U.S. West Coast — Area 2A — means NMFS will hold a fourth fishing period later this month. NOAA Fisheries announced Friday that the fourth opener for the directed commercial fishery will be held from 8 a.m. on Tuesday, Aug. 27 to 6 p.m. on Thursday, Aug. 29.   The total allocation for the directed West Coast fishery is 249,338 pounds (113 mt), net weight (all weights are shown in net weight). NMFS said an...   Thai Union Strengthens Fight Against Ocean Plastic with New Partnerships Thai Union Group PCL, the world's seafood leader committed to sustainable practices, announced new partnerships aimed at tackling plastic pollution. The Company has joined forces with Seven Clean Seas and Second Life to implement innovative solutions that significantly reduce plastic waste entering the ocean. Under the collaboration with Seven Clean Seas, a HIPPO (High Impact Plastic Pollution remOver system has been deployed in the Chao Phraya River in Bangkok. This solar-powered device effectively captures and removes river waste before it reaches the ocean. Strategically located near.... Britain: West Mussel Farm Takes Seabed Back to the Future Britain’s first large-scale offshore mussel farm has taken a historic stretch of coastline 150 years back to the future, reveals new research. The development has seen shellfish reefs return to parts of the seabed off the region’s coastline for the first time since Queen Victoria was on the throne, according to a rediscovered old map. Scientists have spent the past decade examining the environmental impact of the farm, first established in Lyme Bay in 2013. Since then, the seabed beneath the farm’s ropes has... NOAA and Alaska Release Summary Report for Aquaculture Opportunity Area Spatial Planning Workshops Summary report presents key outputs from a two-part workshop series focused on Aquaculture Opportunity Area spatial planning in Alaska state waters. NOAA and the State of Alaska released the Summary Report for the Alaska Aquaculture Opportunity Area Spatial Planning Workshops. The first workshop took place on February 26, 2024, in Anchorage. The second was held on March 26 and 27, 2024, in Juneau. The workshops fostered extensive information sharing and discussion of the ongoing Aquaculture Opportunity Area identification process in... The San Francisco Bay is Teeming With This Tiny Fish, Adored By Local Chefs Standing on the deck of a 60-foot fishing boat, Lucas Allen Maxwell swishes a net through almost-empty tanks. He comes up triumphant, holding a smattering of squirming silver fish, the last of that morning's anchovy haul. It's just about 8 a.m. in San Francisco, and a man in a mustard yellow jacket is waiting on nearby Pier 47. Maxwell raises the anchovies for another deckhand to hose off and then pours them into a plastic bag. The man — Nicola Ingargiola, 69 — takes the... Fisheries Trade Union Participates in Sustainable Development of Vietnamese Fisheries Industry Recently, the Vietnam Fisheries Trade Union held a conference to evaluate the results of 10 years of operation as well as set out directions and tasks for the coming time. Reliable address, supporting fishermen on each trip Currently, the Vietnam Fisheries Trade Union (VFTU) has 90 establishments in 18/28 coastal provinces and cities, with 18,272 union members and over 5,097 fishing vessels. According to Mr. Do Tien Dung, Vice Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Development Trade Union and Chairman of VFTU, during... US Coast Guard Icebreaker's Arctic Voyage Cancelled Due to Onboard Fire One of only two heavy icebreakers in active service with the US Coast Guard recently suffered an onboard electrical fire while it was headed for the Arctic Circle on a scheduled voyage. Coast guard Vice Commandant Admiral Kevin E. Lunday confirmed the incident that occurred in one of the engineering spaces on USCGC Healy just as the icebreaker began its summer patrol in the Chukchi Sea off the coast of Alaska. The ship is now headed for its homeport of Seattle but will first make a stop in... Skin Cell Discovery Could Help Atlantic Salmon Fend Off Sea Lice Coho salmon’s reaction to sea lice may be key to developing strategies to help improve Atlantic salmon resistance to the lice, according to a recent study. The parasites that feed on the fish's skin and fins cause open wounds that can lead to infection, thereby reducing the market value of farmed fish. Sea lice infestations can also have knock-on impacts on wild salmon populations, according to scientists at the University of Stirling’s Institute of Aquaculture in ... Feds Announce Funding Push For Ropeless Fishing Gear That Spares Rare Whales New efforts to convert some types of commercial fishing to ropeless gear that is safer for rare whales will be supported by millions of dollars in funding, federal authorities said. Federal fishing managers are promoting the use of ropeless gear in the lobster and crab fishing industries because of the plight of North Atlantic right whales. The whales number less than 360, and they face existential threats from entanglement in fishing gear and collisions with large ships. The federal government is committing... The Oceans Are Weirdly Hot. Scientists Are Trying To Figure Out Why. The oceans are extremely warm right now. Worldwide, average ocean temperatures were in record-breaking territory for 15 months straight since last April. That’s bad news on multiple fronts. Abnormally hot ocean water helps fuel dangerous hurricanes, like Hurricane Ernesto, which is expected to rapidly gain strength this week in the Atlantic, and like Hurricane Debby, which dumped massive amounts of rain along the East Coast of the U.S. last week. And when the water gets too hot, fish and other marine species also struggle to survive... Citric Acid Enhances Tilapia Feed Quality and Sustainability Research by scientists from Embrapa Environment and the State University of Mato Grosso do Sul (UEMS) has demonstrated the benefits of citric acid as a feed additive for tilapia. The study highlights several advantages, including improvements in tilapia intestinal morphology and gastrointestinal health. Additionally, the supplementation led to a 42% increase in phosphorus availability and a 47% boost in calcium availability. Citric acid, an organic acid known for its affordability and pleasant taste, has been widely used as a feed additive for various animal species; it is typically incorporated into... UKVFTA Opens Doors for Vietnamese Tuna Exports to UK Market Vietnamese tuna is enjoying several advantages in the UK market thanks to tariff incentives from the UK-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement (UKVFTA). According to details given by the Vietnam Association of Seafood Exporters and Producers (VASEP), after three consecutive months of decline, Vietnamese tuna exports to the UK have increased once again, with export value to the highly lucrative market soaring by 56% to reach US$742 million. The first half of the year witnessed tuna export turnover to this market rake in US$3.6 million... What's Next for the Oyster that Revived the New Jersey Oyster Industry? In 1997, Atlantic Capes Fisheries, a seafood producer, partnered with Rutgers University to launch the Cape May Salt farm and its namesake oyster, putting New Jersey's resurgent oyster culture back on the map. But after more than 25 years of leading the state's fledgling farmed oyster industry, Atlantic Capes quietly left the business in February, licensing the Cape May Salt brand to the farm's former general manager, Brian Harman, and his new venture, Cape Harbor Shellfish. At a moment when oyster farming in New Jersey is... SeafoodNews.com is the most widely read seafood industry news in North America, with subscribers in over 50 countries. We provide a quick daily snapshot of the global seafood industry. Published in partnership with Urner Barry, the leading provider of seafood price, foreign trade and import data, we focus on the business side of the industry, plus everything that affects it. Our largest reader category is seafood buyers, followed by producers, importers and exporters, then distributors. Try us and you will be hooked.  Subscription: There are two options the free subscription which you can find here.   this will give you access to updates every 72 hours or you can upgrade to premium access learn more here.   Featured Stories NL’s Brand New Minister of Fisheries Responds After Quinlan Snow Crab Press Conference   Summer Olympic Games: Seafood’s Spot In The Winner’s Circle During the Paris 2024 Olympic Games  The Winding Glass: Why Fish Markets Are a Mainstay of American Seafood  The Rise of Ocean Freight Costs And How It’s Impacting Seafood  Mintec Rebrands as Expana, Unifying Group Identities into a Singular Market Intelligence Powerhouse  Falklands Cancels Second Season of Loligo Squid for Conservation Reasons In July 2024 the Falkland Islands Fisheries Department conducted a routine pre-season survey prior to the second Loligo season, working in close partnership with local fishing companies. The survey results showed the lowest second pre-season biomass estimate since 2008, with the lower end of the estimate being below the Fisheries Department safe stock replenishment threshold of 10,000 tonnes. Following FIFD consultation with the fishing industry it was agreed to take a precautionary approach and delay the start of the fishing season, subsequently carrying out a... Japan's Seafood Experiment Clears the Air on Safety of Water Discharge From Fukushima Nuclear Plant Tanks full of seafood are not what one usually expects to find at a nuclear power station. Yet, The Straits Times discovered quite a spread at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station during a visit there in June. Flounder, abalone and seaweed - all delicacies of north-eastern Japan - were being reared on site, though they were not bound for the dinner table. Plant operator Tokyo Electric Power Company (Tepco) has far greater aspirations for them. The cameras in the flounder tanks provide a... Bolivia and FAO Study a Project to Raise Shrimp in the Andean Country's Salt Flats The national government and FAO are studying a project to diversify aquaculture production and contribute to local food security by cultivating shrimp in places such as the salt flats in Bolivia's Altiplano or in tropical regions of the country that do not have access to maritime coasts. This is a technical assistance project in aquaculture and fisheries of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in view of the country's "gigantic potential" in its three river basins, the agency's representative in... It Was Once an Essential Part of Irish Agriculture — Now Seaweed Farming is Making a Resurgence Seaweed once played a vital role in Irish agriculture, industry, and cuisine. According to medieval Irish scholars, a rock that could produce a crop of seaweed had a value equivalent to two and a half cows. By the 17th century, seaweed was harvested and used for fertiliser, as a food (dulse and carrageen moss were traditionally consumed), in the manufacture of glass and soap, and was even a substitute for chewing tobacco. Now, there is a resurgence of... ‘Wicked Tuna’ to End With Season 13 on National Geographic “Wicked Tuna” has been canceled by National Geographic following the conclusion of its Season 13 run. Filmed on location in Gloucester, Massachusetts, and the surrounding waters, “Wicked Tuna” follows a group of salty fishermen from the nation’s oldest seaport as they make their living the way it’s been done for centuries — rod and reel fishing, one catch at a time — all in pursuit of the bluefin tuna. The series gives viewers an in-depth look at the intense battles, fierce competition, crushing losses and major paydays of the... USDA Issues Open Purchase Requests For Catfish, Pacific Whiting and Rockfish The USDA has issued two seafood-related open purchase requests so far this month — one for farm raised catfish and the other for pacific whiting and rockfish products. The invite for Section 32 farm raised catfish products opened on August 8. The USDA is seeking a total of 1,520,000 lbs of frozen, unbreaded raw catfish fillets (pkg 20/2 lb) to be delivered between January 1, 2025 and March 31, 2024. Offers are due by August 21 and acceptances will be announced on August 29... New USCG Icebreaker Aiviq to be Located in Juneau The U.S.Coast Guard announced on Wednesday that the soon to be purchased icebreaker Aiviq, will be permanently home-ported in Juneau, AK. Built in 2012 as an icebreaking anchor-handler, the 360-foot vessel will undergo 18 months of refitting for to comply with USCG requirements for polar military duty.  The $125 million cost to purchase the vessel from current owners Offshore Surface Vessels LLC, part of Edison Chouest Offshore (ECO) of Louisiana, was approved by Congress two years ago. The vessel will take pressure off medium icebreaker USCGC Healy ... Alaska Salmon Season Shaping Up to Be Worst in Several Decades The most recent cumulative state landings on Alaska salmon show 83.9 million salmon harvested, compared to a preseason forecasted annual harvest of 135.7 million. Looking at the calendar -- there are only a few weeks left in the season -- and following the catch trajectory, 2024 could be the lowest salmon catch on record since 1988, when annual landings reached 100 million salmon. The bulk of current landings are made up of 40.5 million sockeye and 29.6 million pink salmon. Sockeye landings dovetail almost exactly with forecasts of 39.5 million. Statewide ... Biden Administration Awards $34 Million to Modernize NOAA Fisheries' Data, Infrastructure, Workforce Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced more than $34 million in Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) funding towards grants, cooperative institutes, contracts and federal employment to modernize NOAA Fisheries' data, infrastructure and workforce. This effort aims to meet the pace of climate-related mission demands and is a key component of President Biden's Investing in America agenda. “Rapidly changing oceanic conditions, such as shifts in marine species' distribution and abundance greatly impacts businesses and coastal communities that rely on these resources... Rhode Island DEM Announces Revised Aquaculture Regulations for Improved Shellfish Seafood Safety The Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management (DEM) is announcing that recently revised shellfish aquaculture regulations went into effect on Sunday August 11, 2024. The " Aquaculture of Marine Species in Rhode Island Waters " regulations ( 250-RICR-40-00-1 ) describe the conditions under which shellfish aquaculture, such as oyster farming, is conducted in Rhode Island. Rhode Island follows the Federal National Shellfish Sanitation Program (NSSP) guidance in order to engage in interstate sale of shellfish. The recent " Aquaculture of Marine Species " regulation revisions are... Burnsed Trucking Announces Key Leadership Appointments Burnsed Trucking, a leader in multipick LTL refrigerated logistics for seafood and fish across the USA, is pleased to announce the appointment of two seasoned professionals to its executive team. Paul Pointer has been named General Manager, and Greg Banks has been appointed Chief Revenue Officer (CRO) and Executive Vice President (EVP) of Sales. These strategic hires are part of Burnsed Trucking's continued growth and commitment to delivering exceptional service to its clients nationwide. Paul Pointer, General Manager Paul Pointer brings over 25 years of experience in the transportation and logistics industry... N China’s Coastal County Transforms Saline-Alkali Land Into Symbiotic Grain-Seafood Farms “In the fields, we grow rice as shrimps and crabs hide amongst the rice seedlings,” said Duan Yanyan, a hardware engineer who monitors in real time 8,000 mu (about 533.33 hectares) of rice paddies via a large screen in the control room of an agricultural demonstration zone in north China’s Hebei Province. The rice paddies, established to efficiently utilize the saline-alkali land in Laoting county, Hebei Province, support the raising of crabs and shrimps. The paddies make up a “smart agricultural” demonstration zone formed in the... Alaska Fishermen Threaten Peter Pan Boycott Area M salmon fishermen who work the north side of the Alaska Peninsula are hoping for stability going into an uncertain future as longtime processor Peter Pan Seafoods' assets go up for auction this month. Plants in Port Moller, King Cove and Dillingham are headed for auction, after prior Peter Pan owner Rodger May withdrew from the company's bankruptcy proceeding following protest from Area M fisherman. May had hoped to purchase for himself about $15 million in Peter Pan assets, including the Port Moller processing plant and a fuel facility in...