The solution, purpose built for the life sciences industry, equips marketers with a tailored data-centric approach supported by proprietary methodologies to meet business objectives Parsippany, NJ --News Direct-- Doceree, a global platform building unprecedented solutions for HCP programmatic marketing with proprietary data tools, today announced yet another pathbreaking measure for the life sciences industry, The NEXT Marketing Lab. The innovation lab dedicates itself to addressing one of the most pressing challenges in the pharmaceutical sector: data intricacies, especially rigid data silos, that hinder commercial team collaboration, informed decision-making, next-gen research and clinical transformation. Curated for Doceree clients, who will gain exclusive access to the solution, The NEXT Marketing Lab will use proprietary cross-functional collaboration methodologies to identify tailored, next generation data strategies and solutions that maximize outcomes. As a well-known global pharma tech company built around proprietary technology and data tools, Doceree aims to revolutionize data solutions that marketing, sales and access teams can use to plan, deliver, and scale HCP communications backed by timely actionable insights. "The pharma landscape has evolved drastically with the industry waking up to the new reality of digital and incorporating the same into its fold to target HCPs across online platforms. The new scenario is a lot different from how data was traditionally collected in a controlled manner. The digital push has led to innumerable, vast and unstructured HCP datasets that are difficult to exploit for valuable insights that can drive key business decisions to make HCP communications more effective in terms of precision, timing and relevancy," said Harshit Jain MD, Founder & Global CEO, Doceree.  "We are guided by the vision of transforming the pharma messaging landscape. It is with this intent we have launched our latest initiative to break big data silos and bring value to pharma marketing by structuring scattered datapoints. As opposed to how unreal big data in the pharma sector may have looked, it is now a reality the industry can't escape, and its potential can't be ignored. The lab will greatly facilitate marketers to use and share data with ease and work with HCP datasets holistically to enhance internal and external collaborations to support innovation. This is the kind of value creation we aim to make for our partners as we assist them in their business growth."  Backed by a team of experts with extensive experience in pharmaceutical marketing, medical, consulting, data science, and technology, Doceree will engage with life sciences companies to explore and customize data strategies and solutions that align to their unique needs. The NEXT Marketing Lab collaborations can be tailored to tackle diverse challenges, such as cross-functional insight sharing, reliable HCP behavior modeling, physician-level personalization and compliant RWD integration. Cross-functional collaboration executed within a well-designed process is key to unlocking change. The NEXT Marketing Lab will use Doceree's proprietary 4D™ methodology to: "Doceree's The NEXT Marketing Lab is designed to help marketers not only explore transformational data opportunities, but also to cross the chasm between innovative ideas and impactful market solutions," said Kate Miller, Executive Vice President of Strategy at Doceree. "At Doceree, our mission is to push how data and technology can enhance the digital experience for the benefit of healthcare providers and their patients. The NEXT Marketing Lab is a significant milestone in fulfilling this vision." For inquiries about Doceree's The NEXT Marketing Lab, please contact partner@doceree.com   Doceree is a global platform building unprecedented solutions for healthcare professional (HCP) programmatic messaging with proprietary data tools. It facilitates messaging between life sciences brands and HCPs through an extensive global network of digital endemic and point-of-care platforms to programmatically deliver personalized communications to HCPs and transparent marketing campaign metrics at scale. To learn more, visit doceree.com.  Priyanka Bhasin +91 78387 03702 priyanka.bhasin@doceree.com https://doceree.com/us/ View source version on newsdirect.com: https://newsdirect.com/news/doceree-launches-the-next-marketing-lab-a-data-innovation-opportunity-for-pharma-marketers-at-digital-pharma-east-2023-620154054 2023 News Direct Corp. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.