Logging you in. Logging you out. Updating your account. Database of selected U.S. and international exploration wells Information on assets, buyers and sellers, deal values, and more. A searchable database of oil and gas debt and equity offerings. A list of A&D professionals anywhere. Prices for top E&P stocks and commodities. Rextag database of energy infrastructure assets Anadarko Basin E&P Mach Resources is planning an initial public offering, according to preliminary regulatory filings. (Source: Shutterstock)  Midcontinent oil and gas producer Mach Resources is planning to go public, regulatory filings show. Oklahoma City-based Mach Natural Resources LP registered for an IPO with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a Sept. 22 filing. The preliminary regulatory filing does not list a price per share nor indicate how many shares Mach Resources plans to sell. The company plans to use proceeds from the offering to repay debt from its credit facilities. Mach is an upstream E&P acquiring oil, gas and NGL reserves in the Anadarko Basin. Through a series of acquisitions, Mach has grown its position to around 936,000 net acres and more than 2,000 undeveloped horizontal drilling locations since launching. The company operates about 4,500 producing wells across its footprint in western Oklahoma, southern Kansas and the Texas Panhandle. Mach’s average net daily production for the year ended June 30 was approximately 65,000 boe/d. Mach is currently focused on new drilling projects in Kingfisher and Logan counties, Oklahoma. Through the first six months of 2023, Mach spent around $182 million to drill 50.4 net wells and on equipment, per the filing. The company deployed about $270 million to drill 87.9 net wells in 2022. But around 57% of the company’s production comes from its low-decline legacy assets in the Anadarko Basin. In addition to upstream assets, Mach also owns midstream assets, including gas gathering lines, gas processing facilities and saltwater disposal infrastructure. RELATED Mach Resources: Midcontinent Aggregator Mach is led by oil and gas industry veteran Tom Ward as CEO; Ward previously co-founded Chesapeake Energy Corp., SandRidge Energy and Tapstone Energy. Both Chesapeake and SandRidge are publicly traded E&Ps; Tapstone was acquired by Diversified Energy for $419 million in 2021. The E&P is backed by Houston-based private equity firm Bayou City Energy as financial sponsor. Mach and Bayou City Energy partnered together in the Anadarko with a shared business philosophy: Scoop up assets shunned by the sector, operate them through the downturn and wait for a recovery. In April 2020, BCE-Mach—as they refer to their partnership—closed a $220 million acquisition of bankrupt Oklahoma shale company Alta Mesa Resources and its Kingfisher Midstream affiliate. Mach has closed on around a dozen acquisitions of oil, gas and midstream assets; last summer, the company spent around $88 million bolting on properties in Oklahoma and Texas in deals with Camino Natural Resources and Scout Energy. Mach spent nearly $143 million on acquisitions last year. The company said it intends to continue pursuing growth through Anadarko M&A after the IPO. Mach did not respond to Hart Energy’s request for comment on its IPO process at the time of publication. Several energy and services companies have launched IPOs this year: Permian Basin E&P startup Rise Oil & Gas; the Africa-focused Elephant Oil Corp.; TXO Energy Partners, led by Bob Simpson; Atlas Energy Solutions, formerly Atlas Sand of Austin, Texas; and Montgomery, Texas-based Kodiak Gas Services. RELATED Oil and Gas A&D Partnerships: The Pickup Artists Chris covers the North American upstream shale energy industry and the acquisition and divestiture deal markets. 
2024-08-19
      - Devon Energy is perfecting its spacing and completion recipe in Wyoming’s Powder River Basin  play to possibly unleash full-field development later this decade.
     
2024-08-19
      - Here’s a roundup of the latest E&P headlines including new seismic solutions being deployed and space exploration intersecting with oil and gas.
     
2024-08-19
      - The state was a fast-follower in launching the U.S. and world oil industry, and millions of barrels of economic oil are still being found there today.
     
2024-08-16
      - Offshore activity on Subsea7’s project is expected to begin in 2026.
     
2024-08-16
      - The oil and gas rig count fell by two to 586 in the week to Aug. 16. 
     Energy news, analysis, interviews, and exclusive coverage you need to keep your industry edge. Already a subscriber? Sign in With oil and gas back in favor as higher commodity prices equate to stronger returns among oil and gas producers and the exponential growth seen…
                                 Dallas, TX
                                 Consolidation continues to drive the storyline in 2024 as oil and gas companies tilt toward scale and synergies through A&D. But, will deals…
                                 Dallas, TX
                                 Concerns about U.S. energy security, global geopolitical crisis, inflation and emissions control put the Appalachian Basin’s abundant natural gas…
                                 Pittsburgh, PA
                                 Gain insights from industry executives and expert analysts at Hart Energy’s DUG Executive Conference & Expo, held November 20-21, 2024 at the…
                                 Midland, TX
                                 Subscribe for free to our newsletters for the latest energy news © 2024 Hart Energy. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part, in any form or medium without express written permission is prohibited.