These FOI Part II statements provide a snapshot of the types of documents held by DGS and how to locate them, as well as an overview of the functions of the department. The Department of Government Services (Department) is a Victorian Government department established to improve the way Victorians and businesses access government services.  We bring important day-to-day services together in one department to make things easy and seamless for Victorians and businesses.  The Department is divided into a transformation group and two service groups. The transformation group is responsible for the Department’s strategic and reform agenda to accelerate the digital transformation of the whole of the Victorian government. It makes available the foundational technology and digital platforms capability, implements policies and undertakes projects which address the opportunities and risks of digital transformation and provide digital platforms and infrastructure that improve productivity and effectiveness. The Customer & Regulatory Services Group, being one of the two service groups, is directed at serving Victorians and businesses through customer and regulatory services. This Group works to make it easy for Victorians and business to engage with government through the delivery of efficient and effective services to provide great customer experiences. The Corporate Services Group, being the other service group, is accountable for policy development, corporate governance and the delivery of corporate services to the Victorian Public Service enabling better service delivery and productivity. The Department supports the following Ministerial portfolios: The Department administers a number of Acts and Regulations. The General Order and supplements list the decision-making powers of the agencies and Ministers of the Department. Department of Government Services           1 Macarthur Street           East Melbourne, VIC 3002           03 9651 5111 The department possesses a wide range of document types and categories. The types of documents that the Department possesses include: The categories of documents relate to the functions of the Department and its business units. These categories of documents include: The above lists are not exhaustive of the types or categories of documents possessed by the agency but rather provide a snapshot of the information available. Under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (FOI Act), the public has the right to request access to documents relating to their personal affairs and departmental activities subject to certain exceptions and exemptions. Once we receive the request, we will determine whether it is a valid request and if so, search for the documents, apply any exemptions which may be applicable and release them to you. Whether we release the documents in full, in part or exempt in full, we will provide you with a decision letter to explain our decision. We are legislated to provide you with our decision on your requested documents in 30 days. We may ask you for an extension depending on the size and complexity of the documents and the consultation which we will have to undertake. Access charges may apply to various parts of the FOI process such as searching, photocopying, retrieval, and creation of documents. Please note that access charges may still apply even if the application fee is waived. If you wish to make a complaint or seek a review about a FOI decision, you can do so at the website of the Office of the Victorian Information Commissioner (OVIC). This can be competed at the following online at OVIC - FOI complaints. Significant amounts of information are available to the public for free or for a fee. The information you want may be publicly available without having to make a FOI request which will save you both time and money.  It is also worth noting that a person is not entitled to access to documents under the FOI Act where information contained in the document is available to the public for free or for a fee.   Many records can be found online through the relevant service for free. If you cannot find it on the website, it is advisable to contact the service directly and they may be able to provide it. This service is free, handled by the subject experts and is faster than a FOI request. There are many public registers in Victoria which contain information you can access for free. If the public registers do not provide you with the information you need you can send a request to the Business Licensing Authority (BLA) who manage the registers directly. The Department produces a wide range of publications such as annual and governance reports, and other policies and procedures which govern the daily operations of the department. This includes interpretations of Acts administered by the agency, manuals, guidelines and codes of conduct. If there are documents of this nature that are not currently available online, requests can be submitted directly to the relevant departmental business unit. The department will publish an annual report which contains details of the department’s objectives and how they are met. The first annual report will be available in 2024. For more information on our privacy policy, see the Privacy Statement.  Updated 30 January 2024 The Victorian Government acknowledges Aboriginal Traditional Owners of Country throughout Victoria and pays respect to their cultures and Elders past and present. © Copyright State Government of Victoria