


Publisher - India Education news, Education in India, Global Education, Universities news, Colleges, Career Options, admission, jobs, examinations, Exam results, University News, Education News

 New Delhi : Established with a vision to bring about innovation in higher education and learning in emerging areas of the knowledge society, the University of the Future, NIIT University (NU), hosted the finalists of the 9th edition of the Nanhi Chhaan National Essay Contest, in its Neemrana campus from December 12th – 16th 2022, for a personality development programme.   This national-level school essay contest is an initiative of the Nanhi Chhaan Foundation to create a platform for the youth of the country to engage in and subsequently advocate some of the fundamental issues facing our society today. The objective is to develop and create well-informed leaders of tomorrow who can work towards a socially conscious, inclusive and vibrant community. Students of classes 11 and 12 are eligible to appear for the contest.       As an institution of higher education, NIIT University believes in overall evaluation of students that considers not just their performance in exams but a lot of other factors that contribute to the overall development of young minds. Students undergo a unique Admissions Interaction Process (AIP) at NU which assesses their potential, aspirations, social sensitivities and many such attributes which cannot be tested easily. This is consistent with the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020.       Professor Rajesh Khanna, President NU, said, “We believe in holistic development of students that is aligned with the overall objective of Nanhi Chhaan Foundation. I am delighted to interact with the bright young finalists of the essay contest who showcased exceptional oratory skills and displayed immense understanding of social issues that are important today. It gratifies me to witness the evolution of this competition and I hope we continue to work together to groom leaders of tomorrow.”   The weeklong workshop was an opportunity for students from different schools across the country to meet, share ideas and debate on issues of national importance. At the same time they learnt skills and tips that will help them throughout their life through a mix of games, interactions and interactive classroom sessions.   Conceptualized as an institution of excellence, NIIT University provides exceptional education based on the Four Core Principles that make learning Industry-linked, Technology-based, Research-driven and Seamless. NU is well poised to meet the emerging needs of the knowledge economy through its focus on building strong industry linkages and a research-oriented approach.   About NIIT University (NU):   Established in 2009, NIIT University (NU) is a not-for-profit University under section 2(f) of UGC Act, notified by the Government of Rajasthan. A premier institution of higher learning and research, the University of the future, NIIT University, seeks to create original thinkers who can lead the knowledge society of tomorrow. The University inherits four decades of rich expertise and global know-how of the NIIT Group.   Nurtured by some of the foremost thought leaders and corporate-practitioners of the country, the multidisciplinary University focuses on emerging areas of technology and management. NU is a part of a 100-acre campus at Neemrana, Rajasthan, 90 minutes from Delhi Airport.   Nestled in the Aravalli hills, the fully residential green campus offers an idyllic and intellectually vibrant environment for pursuing higher education and research. Set up with the vision to be the role model of learning, research, innovation and sustainability for the knowledge society, the University of the future, NU, is dedicated to building great careers and ensuring excellent job opportunities for all its students. It has been developed as an institute of excellence to provide exceptional education based on its Four Core Principles that make learning Industry-linked, Technology based, Research-driven and Seamless.    Prev Post				 The University of Strathclyde, Glasgow is inviting applications for its MSc Digital Health Systems course starting in September 2023 Next Post  IIT Guwahati Records Multi-Fold Growth in 2022  

				J.D. Birla Institute NSS Volunteers Celebrate Rakhi with Underprivileged Children			

  

				Five-Day National Workshop on India’s National Security and Disaster Management…			

  

				Sarbananda Sonowal makes this year’s Rakshabandhan special for ministry…			

  

				Union Minister Dr. Jitendra Singh Urges Socio-Religious Organizations to Combat Drug…			

 Welcome, Login to your account. Recover your password. A password will be e-mailed to you.