E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition MALTA, N.Y. — Global Foundries (GF) recently announced the first three graduates of the GF Maintenance Technician Apprenticeship Program at Fab 8. It is the first registered apprenticeship of its kid in the US’s semiconductor industry.Launched externally in 2021 with the National Institute for Innovation and Technology (NIIT) as part of its “Growing Apprenticeships in Nanotechnology and Semiconductors” (GAINS) program, the apprenticeship offers candidates a unique opportunity to develop semiconductor experience while working in the field. It serves as a nationwide model as the U.S. faces a critical shortage of qualified talent in this high growth era.Semiconductor manufacturing requires highly specialized and automated technical equipment, and this equipment requires preventative maintenance, troubleshooting, and optimization. People with hands-on mechanical, electrical, and problem-solving skills are critical to keep the equipment optimally running in a 24 x 7 manufacturing environment.“The registered apprenticeship at GF Fab 8 has been successful as part of our ongoing commitment to workforce development, creating a new doorway into the semiconductor industry and attracting a diverse pool of locally based individuals and increasing their career growth opportunities,” said Peter Benyon, General Manager at GF Fab 8, in a news release. “It is exciting to see our first three graduates complete our GF Maintenance Technician Apprenticeship Program here at Fab 8.”The apprenticeship is a full-time paid position with benefits at GF’s Fab 8 manufacturing facility in Malta, and all training is at no cost to the apprentice. While in the program, participants follow a learning plan that includes a combination of on-the-job-training, instructor-led classes, web-based courses, and college courses. It is designed to be completed in 16-24 months with a High School diploma or equivalent, a mechanical interest, and no previous semiconductor experience required. Upon completion of the apprenticeship, the apprentices receive a journey workers card, which has state and federally recognized credentials certifying their skills and training experience.Leveraging strategic regional partnerships was critical to implementing the GF Registered Apprenticeship. Apprenticeship program college courses are offered through Hudson Valley Community College (HVCC) and are covered by a SUNY apprenticeship grant. The courses are aligned to industry requirements standards through NIIT’s Semiconductor Competency Standard, enabling employees to receive college credits that can be used towards a degree as well as training certifications for their future careers.“The GAINS program has served to enhance our partnership with GF by creating a more cohesive alignment between their gateway technician positions and our academic programs,” said Jonathan Ashdown, Executive Dean of HVCC North, in the release. “The apprenticeship has stimulated additional collaborations including a reinvestment by GF in our training facilities and equipment. We are now able to train more students with our academic programs and place them earlier into promising careers with GF.”The New York Department of Labor worked with GF to tailor the Industrial Manufacturing Trade for the semiconductor industry. The apprenticeship is a hybrid time-based and competency-based Industry Approved Apprenticeship Program. The National Institute for Innovation and Technology was the intermediary and facilitated the initial process and coordinated resources and partners. The Center for Economic Growth was the sponsoring organization, for administration of the apprenticeship and state and federal apprenticeship funding.

For more information about the GF Fab 8 Apprenticeship Program, visit https://gf.com/careers/gf-maintenance-technician-apprenticeship-malta/. Launched externally in 2021 with the National Institute for Innovation and Technology (NIIT) as part of its “Growing Apprenticeships in Nanotechnology and Semiconductors” (GAINS) program, the apprenticeship offers candidates a unique opportunity to develop semiconductor experience while working in the field. It serves as a nationwide model as the U.S. faces a critical shortage of qualified talent in this high growth era. Semiconductor manufacturing requires highly specialized and automated technical equipment, and this equipment requires preventative maintenance, troubleshooting, and optimization. People with hands-on mechanical, electrical, and problem-solving skills are critical to keep the equipment optimally running in a 24 x 7 manufacturing environment. “The registered apprenticeship at GF Fab 8 has been successful as part of our ongoing commitment to workforce development, creating a new doorway into the semiconductor industry and attracting a diverse pool of locally based individuals and increasing their career growth opportunities,” said Peter Benyon, General Manager at GF Fab 8, in a news release. “It is exciting to see our first three graduates complete our GF Maintenance Technician Apprenticeship Program here at Fab 8.” The apprenticeship is a full-time paid position with benefits at GF’s Fab 8 manufacturing facility in Malta, and all training is at no cost to the apprentice. While in the program, participants follow a learning plan that includes a combination of on-the-job-training, instructor-led classes, web-based courses, and college courses. It is designed to be completed in 16-24 months with a High School diploma or equivalent, a mechanical interest, and no previous semiconductor experience required. Upon completion of the apprenticeship, the apprentices receive a journey workers card, which has state and federally recognized credentials certifying their skills and training experience. Leveraging strategic regional partnerships was critical to implementing the GF Registered Apprenticeship. Apprenticeship program college courses are offered through Hudson Valley Community College (HVCC) and are covered by a SUNY apprenticeship grant. The courses are aligned to industry requirements standards through NIIT’s Semiconductor Competency Standard, enabling employees to receive college credits that can be used towards a degree as well as training certifications for their future careers. “The GAINS program has served to enhance our partnership with GF by creating a more cohesive alignment between their gateway technician positions and our academic programs,” said Jonathan Ashdown, Executive Dean of HVCC North, in the release. “The apprenticeship has stimulated additional collaborations including a reinvestment by GF in our training facilities and equipment. We are now able to train more students with our academic programs and place them earlier into promising careers with GF.” The New York Department of Labor worked with GF to tailor the Industrial Manufacturing Trade for the semiconductor industry. The apprenticeship is a hybrid time-based and competency-based Industry Approved Apprenticeship Program. The National Institute for Innovation and Technology was the intermediary and facilitated the initial process and coordinated resources and partners. The Center for Economic Growth was the sponsoring organization, for administration of the apprenticeship and state and federal apprenticeship funding. For more information about the GF Fab 8 Apprenticeship Program, visit https://gf.com/careers/gf-maintenance-technician-apprenticeship-malta/. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group