We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we believe in. Pricing and availability are subject to change. You may have filled your closet with sundresses and sandals for summer, but in reality, all you want to wear are sneakers and shorts. When it’s scorching hot outside, dressing for comfort is key — bonus points if your clothes are sweat-wicking. That said, if you need to refresh your closet with a few sportier pieces, DICK’S Sporting Goods is offering massive discounts in its summer clearance section. For a limited time, you can get up to 70% off select summer items and free shipping on orders over $49. Stock up on Nike running shorts, adidas sports bras, Under Armour T-shirts and more for less, but online only. There are over 12,000 products for women, men and kids listed in DICK’S Sporting Goods’ clearance section online, though. That’s a lot to sort through! If you don’t have something already in mind that you want to put in your cart, take a look below at a few top clearance picks that are surefire winners. More than 10 colors are on sale starting at $84.72. Upgrade your running shoes (or at least your running errands around town shoes) to these ultra-comfy Ultraboost sneakers. They’re on sale in at least 10 colors this weekend. On sale in multiple colors, starting at $28.67. This exercise dress has a built-in sports bra and shorts, so you can comfortably go for a run in it or wear it to an amusement park on a sweltering day. It comes in 10 colors, from neutral navy to bright rose pink. On sale in seven colors. If you’re in the market for a mountain bike, take a look at DICK’S Sporting Goods this weekend. This one is for trail riding, and it’s perfect for beginner riders. On sale in five colors starting at $18.72. These shorts can be worn on land or in the water. They’re lined with a lightweight and smooth fabric, and they have pockets at the sides and one mesh flap pocket on the back. Get them on sale in five bright colors. On sale in 15 colors, starting at $17.22. This sweat-wicking T-shirt is lightweight and perfect for training in the summertime. Get it on sale in 15 colors. Available in more colors. Get it on sale before summer ends. Yes, DICK’S sells camping and outdoor gear, and that includes fire pits like the Solo Stove. Score the Bonfire size (it’s 19.5 inches in diameter and 14 inches tall) for about $150 off. More from In The Know: This $11 cup holder attaches the top of your carry-on to stash your coffee, phone and essentials as you trek through the airport 11 timeless handbags to snag during Nordstrom's Anniversary Sale OMG! The Dyson Airwrap and Supersonic are majorly marked down at Nordstrom's Anniversary Sale — and they come in a fiery new color This extra-fluffy comforter feels 'like wrapping yourself in a marshmallow' — and it’s on sale for $27 on Amazon The post DICK’S Sporting Goods is having a massive weekend sale, and you can get up to 70% off appeared first on In The Know. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.