Tennis Channel also plans to introduce a private-label line of merchandise dedicated to the network's unique brand. Exclusively available on TennisShop.com, the product line is expected to launch in 2024.ByAssociated PressPublished Jun 08, 2023 copy_link Published Jun 08, 2023 Tennis Channel and racquet-sports equipment retailer Tennis-Point have entered a multiyear e-commerce agreement offering premium tennis clothing, gear and accessories to the network's passionate tennis fan base.The partnership includes the launch of a white-label tennis and pickleball shop on the channel's www.tennis.com, the sport's largest online platform, and a new merchandise site at www.tennisshop.com, which will launch today during Roland Garros- the most prestigious clay-court event in tennis and one of its four Grand Slam events.Fans who regularly use Tennis Channel's site to follow tournament draws, scores, and live and on-demand matches now have the chance to purchase tennis and pickleball products in an easily accessible, unparalleled space that is tailored to the site's signature design. The new e-commerce solutions greatly enhance the visitor experience and bring together Tennis Channel and Tennis-Point, two of the industries' most-visited destinations.Tennis Channel, as the sport's media home, will support the new shop with promotion across its television, digital and social media platforms. Among other efforts, this will include studio segments devoted to TennisShop.com during tournament coverage, on-air reminders, branded content, online billboards, and social integrations."Tennis-Point is truly the ideal partner in helping Tennis Channel launch and realize the fullest potential of TennisShop.com," said Ken Solomon, President, Tennis Channel. "We share strikingly similar philosophies in media and e-commerce. Both organizations grow the sports we serve through relentless innovation and the harnessing of new technologies to make tennis more accessible and enjoyable to more people than ever before. We're excited to combine our complementary strengths in developing and creating new breakthrough global opportunities together." The partnership includes the launch of a white-label tennis and pickleball shop on the channel's www.tennis.com, the sport's largest online platform, and a new merchandise site at www.tennisshop.com, which will launch today during Roland Garros- the most prestigious clay-court event in tennis and one of its four Grand Slam events.Fans who regularly use Tennis Channel's site to follow tournament draws, scores, and live and on-demand matches now have the chance to purchase tennis and pickleball products in an easily accessible, unparalleled space that is tailored to the site's signature design. The new e-commerce solutions greatly enhance the visitor experience and bring together Tennis Channel and Tennis-Point, two of the industries' most-visited destinations.Tennis Channel, as the sport's media home, will support the new shop with promotion across its television, digital and social media platforms. Among other efforts, this will include studio segments devoted to TennisShop.com during tournament coverage, on-air reminders, branded content, online billboards, and social integrations."Tennis-Point is truly the ideal partner in helping Tennis Channel launch and realize the fullest potential of TennisShop.com," said Ken Solomon, President, Tennis Channel. "We share strikingly similar philosophies in media and e-commerce. Both organizations grow the sports we serve through relentless innovation and the harnessing of new technologies to make tennis more accessible and enjoyable to more people than ever before. We're excited to combine our complementary strengths in developing and creating new breakthrough global opportunities together." Fans who regularly use Tennis Channel's site to follow tournament draws, scores, and live and on-demand matches now have the chance to purchase tennis and pickleball products in an easily accessible, unparalleled space that is tailored to the site's signature design. The new e-commerce solutions greatly enhance the visitor experience and bring together Tennis Channel and Tennis-Point, two of the industries' most-visited destinations.Tennis Channel, as the sport's media home, will support the new shop with promotion across its television, digital and social media platforms. Among other efforts, this will include studio segments devoted to TennisShop.com during tournament coverage, on-air reminders, branded content, online billboards, and social integrations."Tennis-Point is truly the ideal partner in helping Tennis Channel launch and realize the fullest potential of TennisShop.com," said Ken Solomon, President, Tennis Channel. "We share strikingly similar philosophies in media and e-commerce. Both organizations grow the sports we serve through relentless innovation and the harnessing of new technologies to make tennis more accessible and enjoyable to more people than ever before. We're excited to combine our complementary strengths in developing and creating new breakthrough global opportunities together." Tennis Channel, as the sport's media home, will support the new shop with promotion across its television, digital and social media platforms. Among other efforts, this will include studio segments devoted to TennisShop.com during tournament coverage, on-air reminders, branded content, online billboards, and social integrations."Tennis-Point is truly the ideal partner in helping Tennis Channel launch and realize the fullest potential of TennisShop.com," said Ken Solomon, President, Tennis Channel. "We share strikingly similar philosophies in media and e-commerce. Both organizations grow the sports we serve through relentless innovation and the harnessing of new technologies to make tennis more accessible and enjoyable to more people than ever before. We're excited to combine our complementary strengths in developing and creating new breakthrough global opportunities together." "Tennis-Point is truly the ideal partner in helping Tennis Channel launch and realize the fullest potential of TennisShop.com," said Ken Solomon, President, Tennis Channel. "We share strikingly similar philosophies in media and e-commerce. Both organizations grow the sports we serve through relentless innovation and the harnessing of new technologies to make tennis more accessible and enjoyable to more people than ever before. We're excited to combine our complementary strengths in developing and creating new breakthrough global opportunities together." Tennis-Point, a fan-trusted brand with a global footprint, offers a robust www.tennis-point.com retail site that reads like a who's who of the most known and widely used brands by professional and recreational tennis players around the world. A small sampling of products available on the site include racquets from Wilson, Babalot, Head and Yonex; shoes from adidas, Nike, K-Swiss and Asics; apparel from Fila and Lacoste; and pickleball paddles from JOOLA, Gamma and Onix. Tennis-Point's expert customer care team will support Tennis.com customers to ensure exceptional service."Our partners at Tennis Channel share our passion to grow the game and it's exciting to bring together two global brands and create a unique experience for tennis fans," said Colleen Leonard, Chief Brand Officer, Signa Sports United. "This is the first step in seamlessly bringing together a multi-media tennis platform and ecommerce, and we think the tennis fans will love it."Tennis Channel also plans to introduce a private-label line of merchandise dedicated to the network's unique brand. Exclusively available on TennisShop.com, the product line is expected to launch in 2024.The partnership is a first for Tennis Channel's parent company Sinclair Inc., which continues to explore innovative ways to engage consumers through their passionate communities. "Our partners at Tennis Channel share our passion to grow the game and it's exciting to bring together two global brands and create a unique experience for tennis fans," said Colleen Leonard, Chief Brand Officer, Signa Sports United. "This is the first step in seamlessly bringing together a multi-media tennis platform and ecommerce, and we think the tennis fans will love it."Tennis Channel also plans to introduce a private-label line of merchandise dedicated to the network's unique brand. Exclusively available on TennisShop.com, the product line is expected to launch in 2024.The partnership is a first for Tennis Channel's parent company Sinclair Inc., which continues to explore innovative ways to engage consumers through their passionate communities. Tennis Channel also plans to introduce a private-label line of merchandise dedicated to the network's unique brand. Exclusively available on TennisShop.com, the product line is expected to launch in 2024.The partnership is a first for Tennis Channel's parent company Sinclair Inc., which continues to explore innovative ways to engage consumers through their passionate communities. The partnership is a first for Tennis Channel's parent company Sinclair Inc., which continues to explore innovative ways to engage consumers through their passionate communities.