Nike CEO John Donahoe on CNBC this week said the company is focused on Gen Z in China. Gen Z, born between 1997 and 2012, spent big this holiday season. Other sneaker brands, including JD Sports and Anta, also are targeting the generation. Retailers and industry analysts predict shoppers will be tighter with their wallets in 2023, given continued uncertainty around the global economy. But some sneaker brands like Nike are deliberately targeting Gen Z and their supposedly frivolous spending habits to help bolster sales. Analysts believe young adults are causing a boom in luxury goods sales, as nearly half still live at home with their parents. Gen Z also spent big over the holiday season, Insider previously reported. "We're really focused on the Gen Z consumer in China, we saw a very good response from the Gen Z consumer who wants the most innovative products and wants brands that are globally relevant,"  Nike CEO John Donahoe said on CNBC's Closing Bell this week. On the company's December earnings call, Chief Financial Officer Matt Friend said Gen Z demand for Nike products on the Chinese shopping site Tmall increased 45% on Singles' Day, the annual shopping holiday. Donahoe specifically mentioned local iterations of the Air Force 1 and Dunk that better resonate with Chinese and younger consumers. Nike footwear sales in China grew 11% to $1.3 billion in its latest quarter, while total sales in China dropped 3% over 2021. Despite a rise in popularity of Chinese brands like Anta and Li Ning, Donahoe said Nike is still the "number one cool and favorite brand in Shanghai and in Beijing." The semiannual Piper Sandler survey of teenagers, which includes Gen Z, shows Nike and its Converse brand, and rival Adidas, atop the footwear category in the US. Nike and Lululemon are the top clothing brands. JD Sports, the UK-based owner of sneaker store chains Finish Line, Shoe Palace, and DTLR, recently credited Gen Z for bolstering its holiday sales by 20%. CEO Régis Schultz said the generation's spending power has grown and is not burdened by monthly bills. JD Sports and its subsidiaries sold over 2 million pairs of Nike Air Force 1s in the last three months of 2022, according to Reuters. The shoe is a staple for young Gen Z consumers. "I think that the buying power of our customer is much higher than it used to be," Schultz told reporters, referring to Gen Z. "They don't have the utility and the rent or the mortgage to pay." Meanwhile, Anta in mid-2021, announced a five-year strategy that includes focusing on Gen Z. While the company is focused on basketball and running, as part of its Gen Z strategy it's also expanding product offerings in "emerging sports" the generation and more closely working with Gen Z celebrities such as motorcycle racer Wang Yibo and freestyle skier Eileen Gu. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.