Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Video games continue to remain one of the best-selling forms of entertainment within the UK, but 90% of all sales were digital, according to a new report from the Digital Entertainment and Retail Association. This also marks the 11th year in a row that video games have outsold other forms of media in the UK, such as music and movies.
                         "Games remains the largest of entertainment’s three core sectors, accounting for 42.1% of total entertainment revenues in 2022," the report from the ERA states. It goes on to state that compared to 2021, video game sales grew by 2.3%, reaching £4,664,400. However, the ERA does report that physical game sales had fallen by 4.5% compared to the previous year.
      READ MORE: Xbox Rumored To Host New Showcase Event Later This Month
                     When comparing digital and physical sales of video games within the UK, the ERA reports that just 10% of video game sales were made physically last year. "Conversely, the best performer was console downloads, up 12.2% to £724.7m." But, as the report states, console sales were significantly smaller than mobile and tablet game sales, which were up 3.2% to £1,486,800. Despite a massive 90% of all video game sales being digital in the United Kingdom last year, a large majority of that number is due to mobile and tablet games.
                         In terms of video game sales on consoles, FIFA 23 was reportedly the best-selling game of the year, despite only being released in the final months of the year. The final FIFA game to be published by EA sold a total of 2.39 million units across both physical and digital formats. The report does not state what percentage of these sales were made digitally.
                         The report proves that video games have once again remained the biggest form of entertainment within the UK. CEO of the Digital Entertainment and Retail Association discussed the "unheralded leader of the entertainment market", saying, "While growth at 2.3% was lower than that of video or music, its scale is enormous and in terms of innovation and excitement it continues to set the pace for the entire entertainment sector.”
      NEXT: Naughty Dog's Neil Druckmann Says He Is "Intrigued" By Elden Ring's Storytelling
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. If you're on the hunt for your next JRPG fix, we have you covered! Against all odds, these games managed to become huge success stories.  Specializations play a key role in the game, especially when you are among the chosen ones who can fend off the evil lurking in the shadows. Sorry, we're closed.  We aren't just saying this to protect their feelings. In this case, size doesn't matter! On behalf of my game-critic brethren. Sorry, we get it wrong sometimes. 