
                                                        Industry Overview
                                                     Digital & Trend reports Overview and forecasts on trending topics Industry & Market reports Industry and market insights and forecasts Companies & Products reports Key figures and rankings about companies and products Consumer & Brand reports Consumer and brand insights and preferences in various industries Politics & Society reports Detailed information about political and social topics Country & Region reports All key figures about countries and regions 
                    Market forecast and expert KPIs for 1000+ markets in 190+ countries & territories
                 
                            Insights on consumer attitudes and behavior worldwide
                         
                    Business information on 100m+ public and private companies
                 Explore Company Insights
                         
                        Detailed information for 39,000+ online stores and marketplaces
                     
                    Directly accessible data for 170 industries from 150+ countries
                    and over 1 Mio. facts.
                 Statista+ offers additional, data-driven services, tailored to your specific needs. As your partner for data-driven success, we combine expertise in research, strategy, and marketing communications to deliver comprehensive solutions. Contact us directly for your individual offer. Full-service market research and analytics Strategy and business building for the data-driven economy Transforming data into content marketing and design Statista R identifies and awards industry leaders, top providers, and exceptional brands through exclusive rankings and top lists in collaboration with renowned media brands worldwide. For more details, visit our website. In June 2024, Elden Ring was the top-selling video game in the United States based on dollar sales. Second-placed Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is the latest annual installment in the Call of Duty first-person-shooter gaming franchise. 
                                    Additional Information
                                 
                                Show sources information
                            
                                Show publisher information
                            
                                Use Ask Statista Research Service
                             August 2024 United States June 2024 physical and full game digital from the Nintendo eShop, PlayStation, STEAM and Xbox platforms; excluding 1P Nintendo sales and Activision Blizzard Battle.net sales * Digital sales not included for marked titles

^ Digital sales on Nintendo and Xbox platforms not included Video Gaming & eSports U.S. top selling video games 2023 Video Gaming & eSports Top selling video games in the UK 2023 Video Gaming & eSports Leading console games in Japan 2023, based on unit sales Video Gaming & eSports U.S. top selling Xbox video games 2023 * For commercial use only 
                            Basic Account
                         
                            Starter Account
                         
                            Professional Account
                         1
                        All prices do not include sales tax. The account requires an annual contract and will renew after one year to the regular list price.
                     
                United States & Canada
             
                Germany & Europe
             
                United Kingdom (UK)
             
                France
             
                Select APAC
             * For commercial use only 
                            Basic Account
                         
                            Starter Account
                         
                            Professional Account
                         1
                        All prices do not include sales tax. The account requires an annual contract and will renew after one year to the regular list price.
                    