Nippon Ichi Software has released a music track from its brand new JRPG Xicatrice coming to PS5, PS4, and Nintendo Switch. 🎵 
Published: March 24, 2023 1:01 PM /
 
By: Giuseppe Nelva
 Nippon Ichi Software released a new video about its newest upcoming game, Xicatrice, focusing on the soundtrack. The video doesn't actually show any footage, but it reveals one of the music tracks that will appear in the game, "Shiki no Hazama." You can check it out below and enjoy the music while we wait to hear more about the actual game.  Xicatrice is coming to PS5, PS4, and Nintendo Switch, with a Japanese release scheduled on June 29. It was teased and then almost immediately announced in February.  The title is defined as an "Abnormal Powers X School JRPG"  and it prompts the player to take on the role of a teacher who leads a special unit of students to perform dangerous missions. It focuses on the freedom of character development among a vast variety of skills, allowing each player to enjoy different strategies.  The player will have to overcome challenges together with seven students who have awakened their supernatural powers and suffered emotional scars as a consequence. The title "Xicatrice" aptly derives from the french "Cicatrice," which means "Scar."  At the moment, no western release has been announced, but we can likely expect NIS America to handle the localization at some point. As you may or may not know, NIS America is Nippon Ichi Software's western publishing arm and it localizes nearly all of the Gifu-based developer's games.  Have a tip, or want to point out something we missed? Leave a Comment or e-mail us at tips@techraptor.net Started as News Editor at TechRaptor in January 2023, following over 20 years of professional experience in gaming journalism both on print media and on the… More about Giuseppe News Guides Reviews Opinions Features Previews Interviews News Guides Reviews Features Previews Interviews TechRaptor is a games media website that covers topics around video games and tabletop games for gamers.  Whether it is news, reviews, features, or guides – we're your source for high quality game coverage since 2013. Copyright © 2013-2024 TechRaptor LLC - All Rights Reserved