All work and no play makes Jack a little burned out — or something like that. Thankfully, there are more than enough ways to entertain yourself and prevent burn out, and one of the best is gaming. Video games are fun way to spend time, and if you want to pick up some new gaming gear for yourself or as a gift, check out the discounts at Amazon’s October Prime Day sale. Going on this Tuesday, Oct. 10 and Wednesday, Oct. 11, Amazon’s Prime Big Deal Days event offers generous savings on video games, consoles, controllers, headsets, carrying cases, accessories and more. So whether you’re a dedicated PC (or Steam Deck) gamer, a casual Nintendo Switch enjoyer or a fan of your Sony Playstation or Microsoft Xbox, you’ll find worthy deals on all your video game essentials at Amazon today and tomorrow. Make sure you catch all of Amazon’s Prime Day deals this week before they’re gone. The easiest way to do that? Check out the New York Post Shopping page, where we’re covering the best deals under $25, the best deals under $100 and more.  Unleash your heroes’ skills but be strategic as you dash your enemies with Mario, team jump on your allies, and hide behind covers. For even more fun, don’t forget to pre-order Mario Wonder. Live out your football player fantasies with Madden 24. Available for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, the game’s co-op eliminator mode gives you champion playing abilities, and you can run those touchdowns solo or with other players online. Cruise through galaxies and tackle bad guys and puzzles in this 3D platformer. Even more fun than the original “Ratchet & Clank” games. Available for the following platforms: PS5 and Steam. Join Mario and his entire crew to fight enemies, jump over walls and clone yourself to victory. Play alone or with up to three of your friends. Regardless, it will be a fun time! Embark on an epic saga and slash fools with some seriously sick weapons. An investment-worthy game, now available at a budget-friendly price. Available for the following platforms: PS4. Race ridiculously luxurious sports cars in exuberantly exotic locales. Sure as heck beats driving to the grocery store. Available for the following platforms: PS4, PS5 and Xbox. Relive the excitement and ground-breaking storytelling of one of the greatest narrative video games of the past 20 years. Available for the following platforms: PS5 and Steam. Swing around the entirety of New York City (or at least Manhattan) as everyone’s favorite neighborhood superhero, Spider-Man. The fighting and movement mechanics of this game keep it interesting from start to finish. Available for the following platforms: PS5. Every Nintendo Switch owner should have this side-scroller. It’s a ton of fun playing the solo mode, and even better playing co-op with friends. Available for the following platforms: Nintendo Switch. While the popular anime gains new fans from the Netflix adaptation, you can play through this adventurous RPG full of authentic characters from the “One Piece” universe. Available for the following platforms: PS5, PS4 and Xbox. Inspired by the anime RPG, this is the video game for anyone who likes excitement and good storytelling. Gather clues as you play to uncover the secrets of the city of Mato. Oh, and try to survive while encountering demonic characters! Enjoy the classic game one more time or turn someone else onto it. Filled with magic, martial arts and iconic characters, it doesn’t get old. Enemies will never see you approaching when you’re playing with camouflage controller. Works on PS4 and on the PS5 when playing PS4 games. Enjoy wireless audio whether you’re gaming on your computer or on a console. This name-brand headset works with PC, PS5, PS4, Xbox and Nintendo Switch, and provides unbeatable audio quality. Step up your racing game time with this realistic steering wheel and pedal set. It’s compatible with PC, PS5, PS4 and Xbox. Expand the storage capacity on your PS5 or PC with this 2TB SSD. Also available in 1TB and 4TB models, depending on how much game storage you need. Keep it simple with this universal replacement controller that works with PC, Android and Steam Deck. It has a durable design and comes in two colors. Check out the New York Post Shopping section for more content.