Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     We all love to dive into immersive video games. Engrossing us into worlds unfamiliar to our own, we find ourselves completely entranced by the stories unfolding in front of us. They take us on journeys that we could only dream of going on. Overall, because of their long playtime lengths, they relate to us on a larger level than we realize.
      RELATED: Most Relaxing Games
                     Although, quite a few times, we yearn for a video game experience that we can digest a little bit easier. While games that may take over six hours to complete can be masterpieces, there are masterful games that we can finish in one night. Taking us on swift adventures, here are short video games that you can get utterly lost in.
                         While it might not entirely live up to its predecessor, Until Dawn, Man of Medan does a masterful job creating an everlastingly haunting storyline in its short playtime. Allowing you to experience seven different endings, you'll want to play this game repeatedly to see them all.
                         Because of its four-hour length, Man of Medan is easy to take in at the end of the day. It immediately puts you into the thick of things right from the start. However, this is also one of its weaknesses, as the story doesn't leave room for character development to truly shine. But, at the end of the day, it's a scary good horror game.
                         A large part of what makes Donut County such a fantastic game is how much you'll get lost in it. In just its two-hour playtime, this game accomplishes pulling you into a world full of colorful characters with unique backstories. It's because of this, Donut County mainly doesn't feel as though it's only two hours long, being over before you know it.
                         Because of how short it is, this game has a high replayability value. Having physics-based gameplay, you move a big hole in the ground to swallow everything in its path. Being satisfying and intriguing with how everything plays out by the end, Donut County is a highly addictive cozy video game.
                         Building upon what made Limbo such a great game, Inside combines intense action and a dark atmosphere to bring us a melancholy experience. Filled with subtle storytelling devices and 2D platforming, you'll be captivated by all it offers in its short playtime.
      RELATED: Best 2D Platformers
                     It's best to go into Inside with barely knowing anything about it. Through its cinematic feel and drive for a meaningful narrative, slowly being able to piece together everything individually is rewarding. Inside is a mystical journey that dares you into its gloomy depths. With every step, you'll be captivated by the mystery it presents.
                         Its combination of horror and classic schoolgirl dating sims makes Doki Doki Literature Club a timeless masterpiece. Through this unique mix, we're introduced to a world that goes far beyond our expectations. In other words, you'll be thrown off in the best way when playing this game.
                         Luckily, since Doki Doki Literature Club is only around four hours long, you can finish the fascinating story in all its glory in just one sitting. It takes the classic short dating sim format and brings chilling storylines that happen in the blink of an eye. You won't quite be able to catch your breath emotionally when it comes to this game, and that's oddly a good thing.
                         You're tasked with getting to the summit amidst this vast, warm, open world. A Short Hike is a cozy exploration game at its core, allowing you to travel through the peaceful landscapes of a provincial park. In just two hours, you'll begin this game as a curious explorer and come out of it feeling more connected to the protagonist.
                         Along the journey, you'll come across other hikers and hidden treasures that make everything feel more immersive. With its pixilated graphics, you'll also feel a sense of nostalgia while playing A Short Hike, not to mention the lovely soundtrack that slowly lulls you into complete relaxation.
      Stray is a special light in the world of relaxing video games. Playing as a cat wandering through a cyberpunk city to try and find your way back home, this game encourages you to follow through with your instincts. Along the way, you'll befriend robots that work to help you back to the surface.
                         You'll be rewarded with a charming story by completing various puzzles and encountering the citizens in this forgotten cybercity. Because of how entertaining being a cat and figuring out everything as you go is, you'll wish this game was longer. Overall, Stray is an open-world masterpiece that pulls you in more than you'd ever realize.
                         This is a game that controls you more than you'd think. The Stanley Parable: Ultra Deluxe transformed the original game into a whole new work of art. Adding a bunch of new content, what was once a simple two-hour game is now an expansive world that takes under five hours to complete.
                         There are multiple "endings" to this game, which all comes down to the Narrator taking your freedom. However, this is only if you attempt to take matters into your own hands. While there is no true conclusion to The Stanley Parable: Ultra Deluxe, if you go about your actions wisely, you might get the chance to regain your freedom.
                         Set in the Wyoming wilderness, the environment in Firewatch feels welcoming but isolating. Your only sense of connection with anyone else is through a walkie-talkie, where a mysterious woman speaks to you as you go about your new job as a fire lookout.
      RELATED: Emotional Indie Games That Might Make You Cry
                     After leaving behind a messy life, you spend your days looking out for sudden wildfires and anyone who might be messing around with the forest. Your choices ultimately impact the narrative, making this story feel more personal. Firewatch is a walking simulator featuring a compelling plot littered with mystery and hope.
      Journey spends much of its time focusing on means of exploration and identity. Witnessing the ancient world before you, the warm atmospheric color schemes will change how you view these environments over time. All-in-all, soaring above ruins to a Grammy-nominated soundtrack is only the foundation of what makes Journey so charming.
                         Although you can go about your adventure alone, you also have the chance to experience this world with other players. But, sadly, you can eventually lose them in these sandy depths at the same time. You're likely to be emotional by the end of this game, making its short-lived playtime even more significant in the long run.
                         Within its nearly three-hour playtime, What Remains of Edith Finch endlessly tugs at your heartstrings. Taking your hand through a world centered around family and death, you play as Edith Finch, who goes to her childhood home to discover why she's the last living family member.
                         Each segment playing out how each family member died is swift yet immersive simultaneously. Filled with vibrant narratives, you'll find that every bit of this game is unique. Although it is depressing, there's also a sense of connection to people that are strangers to us as a player. But, to Edith, finding out about her family's history and how they died is more than everything to her.
      NEXT: Indie Games That You Can Finish In Under 5 Hours
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Fans divided regarding Dr.Disrespect's imminent return to streaming.  Despite no official announcement, this recent tweet by Geoff Keighley might hint at new Dying Light content. If you're on the hunt for your next JRPG fix, we have you covered! Kojima's shenanigans continue, but at least its something we can understand this time. We talked to Mary Kenney, associate narrative director at Insomniac Games about the lack of LGBTQ representation in gaming. Having lots of screentime is great, but what really matters is how you use it!