Sir Richard Branson’s buzzy luxury hospitality brand has landed in New York City at long last. Virgin Hotels New York City opened its doors to guests in a soft opening this month, with an official grand opening slated for spring 2023. Spanning the entire block between 29th Street and 30th Street at 1227 Broadway in the NoMad neighborhood, the newest addition to the Virgin Hotels collection is the brand’s sixth property in the U.S. and the seventh in the global portfolio. The chic new property, spanning an entire city block in New York City's NoMad district, is Virgin ... [+] Hotels' seventh property worldwide. “New York City is the perfect home for Virgin Hotels. Our brand is bold, proud, and playful, and so are New Yorkers,” said James Bermingham, CEO of Virgin Hotels, in a press release. “As our first hotel in New York City, we wanted to create a concept that was unique yet thoughtful, fusing together the local landscape with the spirit of Virgin. We teamed up with incredible partners to bring the overall design, culinary concepts and programming to life, and we’re looking forward to becoming one of the most sought-after hotels around.” Featuring 460 rooms (“Chambers” in Virgin-speak), suites, and penthouses across 39 stories, the contemporary space melds the classic Virgin aesthetic with the dynamism of the Big Apple. Virgin Hotels tapped the Brooklyn-based design team at MARKZEFF and architecture firm Stantec to spearhead the property design. Maximizing views throughout accommodations and public spaces, luxurious yet subtle design elements reference nearby Madison Square Park, with some bolder, Virgin-centric flourishes including a signature red staircase connecting the third and fourth floors and red Chamber doors. The hotel's inspired art collection numbers more than 100 pieces.  A nod to the legacy and future of the Virgin brand and New York City, the hotel’s art collection encompasses more than 100 pieces, including the lobby’s “Where’s Richard?” mural by Nigel Sussman—inviting guests to play a Virgin-themed riff on “Where’s Waldo”—and the hotel’s largest 2-D piece, "The Sweat of Disco" by artist Joeggu Hossmann, celebrating the city’s history, icons, and party scene. Ranging from 277 to 770 square feet, all Chambers feature floor-to-ceiling windows with views of the cityscape, as well as sensor-activated lighting and pet-friendly amenities for four-legged furry friends. Those keen to splurge can book Sir Richard’s Flat, a 2,800-square-foot, two-bedroom suite on the 35th and 36th floors and equipped with a luxe bathroom shower, 24-foot windows, a kitchenette, and a curated en suite art collection. Virgin Hotels’ mobile app, Lucy, allows guests to control lighting and thermostats, request services, and stream their own content or browse television programming. The hotel's 460 rooms, spread over 39 stories, feature stunning city views, the brand's signature ... [+] sleek touches, and groovy amenities. Occupying the entire third floor, the 4,000-square-foot Everdene offers sweeping city views and seasonally driven dishes, shareable plates, and specialty cocktails in a lively setting with daybeds and stadium-style seating for mingling. The fourth floor is also home to the hotel’s to-be-announced fine dining restaurant concept—encompassing immersive culinary experiences inspired by Italian and Latin cuisine—slated to open in the coming months. A fourth-floor respite from the hustle of the Big Apple, The Pool Club, exclusively for hotel guests, boasts a heated pool and indoor and outdoor space prime for cocktails and nibbles, juxtaposed against the backdrop of the Empire State Building. Before arriving, guests can sign up for the brand-wide guest loyalty program, The Know, to unlock a personalized stay, members-only rates, room upgrades, and exclusive dining and event offers. The Know members will earn double points per stay at Virgin Hotels New York City through April 30, 2023. Points can be used for rewards across the Virgin family. Set atop the 38th floor and featuring 30-foot glass walls on three sides, spectacular city views, and a private outdoor observation deck, The Sky Lounge is the crown jewel among the hotel’s array of event spaces, available for weddings and galas, launch parties, fashion shows, private concerts, and other gatherings. There’s also an intimate, 39th-floor cocktail bar perfect for private events, overlooking the lights of Broadway and the Empire State Building. Opening rates start at $595 with additional special offers currently available on the website. Visit www.virginhotels.com/nyc or call 844.556.7597 for more information or to book. On January 19, Virgin Hotels—the luxury lifestyle hospitality brand of the Virgin Group, and Virgin Limited Edition–the private global collection of unique retreats, hotels, and exclusive islands owned by Sir Richard Branson—announced they were joining forces under a new parent brand, Virgin Hotels Collection.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.