By Julian Bovill For Mailonline   Published:  13:10 EDT, 29 April 2023   |  Updated:  13:48 EDT, 29 April 2023      116 View  comments  James Maddison was left stunned at his gender reveal party as it was revealed he and his partner, Kennedy Alexa, are expecting a boy and a girl. The Leicester City, 26, star announced on social media on Friday that they were expecting twins, describing himself as 'lost for words' at the news. In footage shared on TikTok, Maddison and partner Kennedy Alexa are shown to be surrounded by friends and family, including club team-mates of the attacking midfielder. All armed with gold confetti poppers, the 10-second countdown begins and they are all let off at the conclusion. The emotional scenes see blue and pink confetti, signifying a boy and a girl, fly out. James Maddison shared the footage from their gender reveal on his personal TikTok account The Leicester attacking midfielder and his girlfriend shared an emotional embrace after letting off their confetti cannons  Gender reveal for the twins 👀  Alexa runs away from Maddison in a fit of excitement having had pink confetti fly out of her cannon, while the England international hunches over appearing stunned at the news. They then embrace with grins etched across their faces as their family and friends embrace on the steps behind them. The twins will be the couple's second and third children, joining toddler Leo Cruz Maddison who was born in July 2021. Announcing the news on social media on Friday, Maddison wrote: 'Special news to share with my friends & followers… 2 more additions to our family TWINS! 'I was and still am lost for words. So blessed. Leo can’t wait to meet his new little brother & sister.' Meanwhile, Kennedy posted on social media: 'Secrets out… we’re having TWINS! We cannot wait to meet our baby boy & baby girl.' The pair also shared a photograph of them at their home surrounded by confetti and balloons They announced the birth of their first child in August 2021 in a sweet Instagram post, with Maddison sharing a snap of himself cradling his son They were quickly inundated with messages of support from their famous pals, including other footballers and WAGs. Aaron Ramsdale, the Arsenal goalkeeper and team-mate of Maddison's for England, wrote: 'Ayy love that! Congratulations to you guys brother.'  Mason Mount and Ben Chilwell both offered their congrats, while Jamie Redknapp simply posted two 'heart' emojis. Jude Bellingham also wrote, 'Congratulations brother'. It is not clear how long the couple have been together, but they began posting photographs of each other on social media at the end of 2020. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group