A weekly newsletter with four quick bites, edited by Tim Leffel, author of A Better Life for Half the Price and The World’s Cheapest Destinations. See past editions here, where your like-minded friends can subscribe and join you.  The Remote Work Hotspot of… Tulsa? How does it work out when a city actually pays remote workers to relocate there? Apparently quite well, even when it’s a place that normally would attract close to zero of them. Tulsa, Oklahoma (USA) paid qualified applicants $10,000 to move there and stick around. More than 2,000 people took them up on the offer. “The remote workers who moved to Tulsa have a higher standard of living than they had before, they’re engaged in their new community, and most plan to stay.”  Read the full Harvard Business Review article here. Details on Spain’s Digital Nomad Visa Spain’s digital nomad visa is now officially open for applications. Here are all the requirements for what you’d have to prove. Here are the main requirements though: a monthly income of 2X the minimum wage, a clean police record, health insurance, a university degree or three years of experience, and documentation showing your job can be done remotely. Build an Airline Stopover Into Your Next Trip Which airlines are offering a stopover program these days? I recently researched and posted an update here and while most are simply a “you won’t pay extra for your broken-up flight” offering, the ones from Turkey, Dubai, and Abu Dhabi throw in some enticing extras if you stick around. The other option is to create your own: fly into a city on a long-haul airline and out on a local budget airline, putting some nights in between the two. This works especially well if the last leg is a budget airline flight in a destination where there’s lots of local competition, such as in Southeast Asia, Europe, Mexico, or Colombia. Upcoming Nomad Conferences Want to try out a conference full of working travelers? There’s one next week in Madeira, but assuming you’d like more time to plan, here are a few others in the first half of the year: A cool tool can be any book, gadget, software, video, map, hardware, material, or website that is tried and true. All reviews on this site are written by readers who have actually used the  tool and others like it. Items can be either old or new as long as they are wonderful. We post things we like and ignore the rest. Suggestions for tools much better than what is recommended here are always wanted. Once a week we’ll send out a page from Cool Tools: A Catalog of Possibilities. The tools might be outdated or obsolete, and the links to them may or may not work. We present these vintage recommendations as is because the possibilities they inspire are new. Sign up here to get Tools for Possibilities a week early in your inbox. The Sibley Guide to Trees Naturalist David Sibley, like Tory Peterson before him, made his reputation painting and annotating birds before expanding to other biological realms. Sibley’s guides to birds and bird behavior (recommended this page) are the best all-around guides to the birds of North America. Sibley’s beats out Peterson’s, and the dozens of others published today. Sibley’s newest book, also written and illustrated by him, is the best all-around guide to the trees of North America, again displacing the many other field guides to trees in print. Sibley’s illustrations are clear, crisp, and accurate. He manages to maintain distinctions in tree types where species get fuzzy, like in the oaks, or firs. His maps are specific. He includes more parts of the tree than most guides — buds, bark, branches, seeds, silhouettes, flowers, cones, etc. — which really help in identification. And he includes not only native trees but many feral varieties, and even widely planted ornamentals. One detail I appreciate: he lists alternative common names to trees, since trees seem to have local names. With Sibley’s guide I’ve been able to identify more trees than with other guides. However the book is big, not at all pocketable, or the kind of thing you are likely to take with you into the field on a hike. Perhaps future editions might remedy this. I use this quality softcover edition (a delight to browse) by taking samples and photos outside and returning home to identify. — KK Sibley’s Birding Basics Our contemporary Audubon, David Sibley, will mentor you in how to see birds. This is not one of his legendary field guides; instead it’s a masterful course on how birds work, distilled into a small compact book, and illustrated with his impeccable drawings. Even if you’ve been birding all your life, every page will illuminate the art of seeing them. How can you tell just from a flitting glance in the dark that was a white-throated sparrow? Sibley the grand master tells how he does it. It will be a very long time before anyone else understands and communicates this hard-won knowledge better. —KK Western Sandpiper in fresh (left) and worn (right) alternate plumage, with representative scapular feathers from each, showing the striking changes that take place gradually, over a period of about four months, with no molt. Most field guides can show only one example of each plumage, so they illustrate an “average” bird, somewhere between these extremes. Western Birds’ Nests + Eastern Birds’ Nests The baskets and fabrics made by birds are as admirable as their feathers. For years I’ve collected bird nests (a few in the image above) without knowing much about them. It took one obsessive Hal Harrison to find and photograph all of the nests and eggs of the birds in North America before I could begin to identify them. Unfortunately, there is no real taxonomy for nest types, so identification is still a somewhat trial and error visual match. Environmental context — where a nest is found — is a bigger ID factor. But with some sleuthing in this book (two volumes, east and west) I’ve begun to identify species of nests. That has enlarged my appreciation of birds. Oh, and these catalogs of many hundreds of nests also serves as splendid inspiration for human weavers. — KK © 2022