A 13-year-old boy is accused of sexually assaulting 2 women on Friday. Monday, a juvenile judge ruled the boy would stay in jail awaiting other court proceedings because he's a risk to public safety. A 13-year-old boy is accused of sexually assaulting 2 women on Friday. Monday, a juvenile judge ruled the boy would stay in jail awaiting other court proceedings because he's a risk to public safety. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. A 13-year-old boy is accused of sexually assaulting 2 women on Friday. Monday, a juvenile judge ruled the boy would stay in jail awaiting other court proceedings because he's a risk to public safety. A juvenile judge ordered a 13-year-old boy accused of sexually assaulting two women to stay in jail as he waits for further court proceedings.  According to Omaha police, the alleged assaults happened Friday within an hour of each other.  According to police reports, the 13-year-old first stole a car around 9 a.m. Police say he used the car to commit the assaults.  During his court hearing, prosecutors said the boy first followed a 42-year-old woman walking home near 45th and Nicholas. He told her to get into the car at knifepoint and then put his hand down her pants when she refused.  Investigators say the boy ran off when a witness saw him.  He struck again at Memorial Park. Prosecutors said during the second attack, he approached a 19-year-old woman at knifepoint and dragged her out of sight into the tree line.  Prosecutors said he then raped, choked and punched her.  The woman later told police he threatened to kill her because she'd seen his face. She said he took her phone and left when they heard sirens.  Omaha police arrested the 13-year-old after chasing him with a K9.  During the hearing, the defense said it understood how serious the case is but asked he be released to his parents because he's never been in trouble before.  The judge sided with the prosecution and ordered the boy to stay in custody. The judge also ordered he receive a psychological and competency evaluation.  The boy is expected to appear in court again next month.  Get the latest headlines from KETV NewsWatch 7 Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.