While the health care industry is still recovering from a rough two years, Nomi Health is working to slow the effects leftover from the pandemic. Right now, 1 in 5 health care workers has left the industry since the start of COVID-19. While the health care industry is still recovering from a rough two years, Nomi Health is working to slow the effects leftover from the pandemic. Right now, 1 in 5 health care workers has left the industry since the start of COVID-19. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. While the health care industry is still recovering from a rough two years, Nomi Health is working to slow the effects leftover from the pandemic. Right now, 1 in 5 health care workers has left the industry since the start of COVID-19.  In the heart of South Omaha sits One World, a crucial resource for health care within the community, especially in the era of COVID-19.  "We were really hard hit with COVID. And our community was really hard hit," CEO Andrea Skolkin said.  Leaving health care workers on the front line, fighting to keep people alive while struggling with traumas of their own.   "We saw a lot of illness and patients die and affected the well-being of our employees a great deal, and continues to this day, even though COVID is not as large, there's still after impacts from COVID," Skolkin said.  She said through One World, employees can seek out mental health help. But in the wake of the pandemic, she could see it wasn't enough, so she welcomed the help of Nomi Health.   "Tava Health is a benefit that Nomi provides all of their employees at no cost. And we thought it would be a great thing to extend that to health care workers," Rebecca Langle, director of social impact with Nomi Health, said.  In partnership with Tava Health, Nomi pledged $1 million to provide free mental health services to any health care worker in Nebraska.  Including 10 different workplaces across the state like One world, but it also extends across the country.   "We're hoping to serve about 20,000 people nationwide with that million dollars," Langle said.  Since its start in June, Langle said the demand has steadily increased. Typically, only 5% of appointments are used but One World's usage sits at 30%.  "That means the number of employees that are signing up and then coming to sessions regularly with their therapists online," Langle said.  Each person gets 12 free sessions with a mental health therapist, wherever and whenever they need someone to talk to.   "Which will help take that burden off of health care workers and hopefully help to alleviate some of those issues that they're seeing," she said.  Although new, it's something both health systems want to see continue as the future of health care changes.  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.