Sara Ratner, President of Government Programs, Nomi Health.   Despite widespread media coverage of the crisis—and an increasing amount of discussion among lawmakers and public officials at every level—the opioid epidemic continues to ravage its way through tens of thousands of American families every day. And while the narrative around the issue is oftentimes—and deservedly—humanized, showing the immense harm it has had on specific individuals, families and communities, this form of storytelling has inadvertently overshadowed the immense macroeconomic impact on society. Consider the following. • In 2020, untreated Opioid Use Disorder (OUD) cost the U.S. over $1.5 trillion a year. • The National Institute on Drug Abuse estimates that 65% of the U.S. prison population actively struggles with a substance use disorder (SUD). • While opioids account for only 6.5% of all substance use disorders, a 2021 report from Pew highlights that the opioid crisis cost the U.S. $35 billion in health care costs, $14.8 billion in criminal justice costs and $92 billion in lost productivity. • The annual number of deaths involving opioids is more than 50% higher than that of HIV/AIDS at its peak in the mid-1990s. • People experiencing homelessness encounter significantly higher rates of SUD in general (62% vs. 16%), and 32% of people experiencing homelessness suffer from opioid-related disorders. Now, with the effects of Covid-19 having dissipated, the opioid epidemic has emerged as America’s singular most pressing public health emergency. Yet despite widespread efforts and an unprecedented amount of resources allocated for the issue, efforts toward mitigation have significantly failed. The country is continuing to fall short—but the good news is that we know why. In this article, I will outline three strategies leaders can take to help solve this problem going forward. Despite the immense scale of the opioid problem, it’s not as if the challenges are entirely intractable, but there needs to be a seismic shift in how we address the crisis. Key stakeholders—including healthcare, public officials and social services—must work together to address the issue’s root causes. As Jeneen Inderlandi writes in a recent NYT Opinion piece, "There is a path out of this quagmire" (subscription required). The article goes on to outline how harm reduction and social service supports can address the underlying drivers of the opioid crisis. Currently, most opioid treatments function through siloed, disparate solutions where discrete point solutions and services aim to promote recovery. These approaches not only require patients to invest time but also possess the requisite know-how for navigating the panoply of different treatment programs—all while simultaneously managing their very real and often harrowing health and recovery process. Oftentimes, these solutions are disconnected and lack coordination, causing an underuse of services that support long-term sustained treatment and save money. These challenges are even greater for medically and socially underserved populations—which can be impacted by race, zip code, socioeconomic status and other factors. Without the connection between social and medical services, and proper coordination, the opioid use disorder will continue to persist. Fortunately, there is now an opportunity to improve. States are beginning to allocate opioid settlement dollars to abate the healthcare crisis by deploying navigators and community health workers to support the treatment process. These individuals, with shared lived experiences, function as consistent advocates who can actively help patients navigate the program fundamentals. This navigation also involves coordinating resources such as healthcare access, homeless shelters, food banks, housing providers, healthcare providers, pharmacies and social workers through a centralized platform. Failure to judiciously allocate health care and social resources can precipitate a risk of relapse—which is why it's important to have care navigators that synthesize otherwise complex process, guard against potential patient triggers and help address any gaps. With consistent guidance, these navigators can help individuals when they relapse and quickly reenter recovery. Active care coordination presumes ubiquitous data access and the ability to share across programs and platforms. Currently, however, due to both technology investment and legal reasons, the data part of the equation is lacking. There is a need to understand the duration and persistence of addiction, past utilization of resources and diagnosis and availability of support services. There are some organizations, such as CRISP, that effectively orchestrate and support data sharing. However, this is not pervasive across the state, forcing many into a crude approach that is ineffective. A difficult lesson learned during Covid-19 was that when data is immediately and concurrently available, and there is community coordination, it can materially change the public health trajectory. Resources can be deployed at scale to penetrate viral hot spots and provide access to the right care at the right time and in the right place. Settlement dollars should be deployed to deliver care in a hyper-localized approach, customized directly for patient delivery. Localization is not only driven by patient information but also by socioeconomic and geographic data and insights. It can be helpful to analyze available providers, the social vulnerability index, noticeable patterns at pharmacies and prescribing behaviors. This crisis is growing, with mounting deaths from the fentanyl crisis rising alongside the opioid pandemic. States must evaluate their strategies for their constituents so that care is deployed through an interconnected ecosystem. Solutions designed to pivot around whole-person data collection, connected stakeholders and empathetic navigation can support a more sustained approach to recovery and long-term positive outcomes—not only in healthcare but throughout communities. America—not just the families and communities directly impacted by the opioid crisis—are depending on us to get this right. Forbes Business Development Council is an invitation-only community for sales and biz dev executives. Do I qualify? 