The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Nicole Gregory or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Nicole Gregory,
                                                    Melina Jampolis, M.D.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. The Mediterranean diet, with its emphasis on fresh vegetables and fruit, whole grains, legumes, olive oil and fish, provides an array of health benefits, research suggests. These include weight loss and a lowered risk of heart disease, diabetes and some cancers. Plus, it’s easy to follow because it allows for a variety of flavorful foods and doesn’t require calorie counting. Find out if it’s right for you. (Note: Product details and price are accurate as of the publication date.) You’ve probably heard the Mediterranean diet is a healthy way of eating. But did you know it’s been around for decades? Ancel Keys, Ph.D., an American researcher, discovered in the 1950s that foods eaten by people who lived in regions around the Mediterranean, namely southern Italy and Greece, protected them against heart disease. Over the years, registered dietitians and food writers have formulated this diet into a practical and popular way of eating. The American Heart Association and Dietary Guidelines for Americans (2020-2025) have endorsed the Mediterranean diet as a way of eating that can help reduce risk of heart disease and stroke, as well as a slew of other health ailments. There is no one strict version of this diet, nor does it require calorie counting or even portion measurements. Instead, it emphasizes the importance of eating fresh vegetables, fruits, nuts, legumes and whole grains, as well as extra-virgin olive oil, lean meats, fish and red wine in moderation. It also encourages the limiting of red meat, processed foods, dairy and sweets.  The Mediterranean diet remains a popular way of eating because it’s easy to follow and successfully contributes to optimal health and longevity. In fact, the Mediterranean diet “may help prevent weight gain, type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and certain cancers, as well as preserve cognitive function with age and promote gut health, among other benefits,” says Boston-based registered dietitian Elizabeth Ward, coauthor of The Menopause Diet Plan: A Natural Guide to Managing Hormones, Health and Happiness and former spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Evidence suggests the Mediterranean diet can reduce risk of premature death from all causes in both men and women. Here are some of the specifics: Reduces Obesity and Type 2 Diabetes Eating a Mediterranean diet can help reduce obesity and type 2 diabetes, both of which can lead to heart disease and stroke, among other health problems. A review of five studies found that overweight or obese people who followed the Mediterranean lost similar or more amounts of weight than those on low-carb, low-fat or other diets. Lowers Risk of Stroke and Coronary Heart Disease in Women Results of a 20-year follow up of the Nurses Study (a large continuous study of thousands of nurses designed to identify risk factors for chronic illness) revealed that women who adhered to the Mediterranean diet had a lower risk of coronary heart disease and stroke than those who did not. Improves Gut Health A European study of older adults found that those who followed the Mediterranean diet for a year improved their gut health, which can lead to healthier aging, improved cognition and reduced frailty. Lowers Risk of Dementia and Cognitive Decline The Mediterranean Diet is associated with lower risk of dementia and cognitive impairment. May Reduce the Risk of Common Cancers Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer worldwide among men and the second most common cancer among women. Studies show that adhering to the Mediterranean way of eating may reduce the risk of colorectal, breast and prostate cancer. Reduces High Blood Pressure High blood pressure is a condition associated with heart disease and stroke. Following the Mediterranean diet can reduce high blood pressure, thus reducing those serious health risks. The Mediterranean diet can result in moderate weight loss and may help with weight loss maintenance as well, according to one 2020 study published in the British Journal of Nutrition[1]Poulimeneas D, Anastasiou CA, Santos I, et al. Exploring the relationship between the Mediterranean diet and weight loss maintenance: the MedWeight study. Br J Nutr. 2020;124(8):874-880. . Another study published in Nutrition and Diabetes notes that the Mediterranean diet may help to prevent weight gain, noting the diet’s prevention of weight accumulation in the abdominal area specifically[2]Agnoli C, Sieri S, Ricceri F, et al. Adherence to a Mediterranean diet and long-term changes in weight and waist circumference in the EPIC-Italy cohort. Nutr Diabetes. 2018;8(1):22. . Change Your Relationship With Food Noom doesn’t follow a “one-diet-fits-all” approach. What you're already eating can likely be adapted to your goals. Start your custom program today. As the Mediterranean diet doesn’t require calorie counting or strict monitoring of portions, it’s relatively easy to get started. Begin by learning about the types of foods the Mediterranean diet includes and planning a grocery list and meals that include these items. Luckily, Mediterranean diet foods aren’t unusual or hard to find, but they are fresh. “Because it’s based on fresh and lightly processed plant foods, the Mediterranean diet is rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients, which are protective plant compounds,” says Ward. Below is a list of Mediterranean diet-approved foods and how they can benefit your health. Eating plenty of vegetables can help prevent cardiovascular disease, according to a 2017 article in the journal Nutrients. And a diet that relies on vegetables and fruit can prevent some cancers, according to a study published in the Journal of the American Dietetic Association. Legumes (or all kinds of beans, including lentils) help regulate blood sugar and may have anti-cancer effects. They also provide protein, fiber, B vitamins, iron and other nutrients. Meanwhile, whole grains are also rich in fiber and contain minerals and phytochemicals, and lower the risk of heart disease, diabetes and cancer. The Mediterranean diet relies heavily on extra-virgin olive oil, an unsaturated fat source proven to help lower the chance of stroke and heart attack and reduce blood pressure. Nuts are nutrient powerhouses, packed with unsaturated fat, protein, fiber and B vitamins. Most nuts contain magnesium, which helps support healthy blood pressure and blood sugar and keeps bones strong, among other benefits. And walnuts specifically contain alpha-linoleic acid, an important omega-3 fatty acid that might reduce risk of coronary heart disease. The Mediterranean diet prioritizes fish over other meat sources. “Fish and shellfish provide high-quality protein, omega-3 fatty acids that promote heart and brain health and help fight chronic inflammation, and several vitamins and minerals, including vitamin D and selenium,” Ward says. “Coldwater fish, such as salmon, have more [healthy] fats than warmer-water fish, but all seafood offers some omega-3s.” This diet “allows for small amounts of wine with meals, but you don’t have to start drinking if you don’t already,” says Ward. “And the operative word in the recommendation is ‘small.’” The American Heart Association says this means one 5-ounce glass a day for women, and two for men. Some studies suggest that wine, especially red wine which is rich in phytonutrients, has a beneficial effect on the heart, but the results are unclear. Meanwhile, the Mediterranean diet encourages the consumption of dairy products such as eggs, cheese and yogurt in moderation. These provide calcium, phosphorus, vitamins A and D, protein and saturated fat. Measuring portions isn’t necessary with this diet, but moderation is key. “It’s important to remember that the eating pattern matters most, and no single food used in the Mediterranean diet, such as olive oil, is a magic bullet for better health,” explains Ward. “For example, you can’t slather as much olive oil as you want on your foods or eat as much feta cheese or nuts as you like.” Eat sweets and meat sparingly on the Mediterranean diet. Avoid junk food, or packaged foods that contain added sugar, saturated fat or salt but few nutrients. Not sure how this way of eating plays out in real life? Looking at the guidelines for the Mediterranean diet provided by the American Heart Association and those presented in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, here is a general meal plan: Creating a Mediterranean diet meal plan is simple, thanks to the diet’s abundance of fresh vegetables and fruit, whole grains, legumes, olive oil and fish. Using a list of foods, such as the ones included in the sample meal plan above, can help guide you decide which foods to use for your customized plan. For additional guidance on creating a Mediterranean diet meal plan that is best for your needs, consult a registered dietitian or nutritionist. The Mediterranean diet places a focus on fresh vegetables and fruit, whole grains, legumes, olive oil and fish while avoiding junk food, packaged or processed food, red meats, sweets, eggs and butter. Meals should be prepared simply without extra sauces or gravies, and portions of lean meat or chicken should be small. There are a few basic tips to help improve your likelihood of following the Mediterranean diet long term: Research shows that a person is most likely to stick to a new diet or eating style if the foods they consume already closely mirror the foods they were eating previously.When trying the Mediterranean diet, eating foods you already enjoy and basing your meals around those foods can help make the transition to the Mediterranean diet less abrupt and help with consistency. According to research, recording a food diary is shown to help people on diets measure their adherence to a certain eating plan, especially when using a diet for weight loss.. Writing down what you eat and being mindful of your diet can offer a form of accountability that may be helpful in forming dietary habits and long-term weight management. Research shows protein can promote a feeling of satiety, which may help you eat less. Forms of protein in the Mediterranean diet include lean meat and chicken, legumes, whole grains, nuts and fish. Meal planning can help lessen obesity and foster the ability to follow a healthier diet. Knowing that you plan to eat and grocery shopping according to that plan can make it easier to stick to certain eating plans like the Mediterranean diet. Research doesn’t suggest any risks associated with the Mediterranean diet, but consult with your doctor to make sure it’s safe for you before giving it a try. “Everyone needs to consider their individual nutrient needs as part of their eating style,” says Ward. “I’m a little concerned about women getting enough iron, calcium and vitamin D because of the limitations on red meat and dairy foods,” Ward says. Women over the age of 50 should also be aware of their protein intake on this diet, and include some type of protein (like eggs, yogurt, chicken, legume, nuts or fish) with every meal. Due to its focus on fish and dairy, the Mediterranean diet might not be the best choice for vegans or vegetarians, either. Pro tip: Not all fish are safe for eating. “The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) says to avoid king mackerel, orange roughy, marlin, shark, swordfish, tilefish and big eye tuna because they contain the most mercury,” says Ward. “The safest fish include salmon, haddock, canned light tuna and shrimp. And, of course, don’t eat fish if you are allergic to it.” There’s no diet that’s right for everyone so it’s important to research any diet and consider your personal health history in determining if it’s right for you. For some people, the amount of oils and fats in the Mediterranean diet may cause weight gain. There’s also the concern the diet doesn’t offer enough iron due to its small portions of red meat. Some people might also consider taking a calcium supplement while following the Mediterranean diet, due to its limited use of dairy. Speak to your health care provider to help decide if the Mediterranean diet is right for your health needs and goals. A Mediterranean diet focuses on fish, vegetables and fruits, legumes, nuts, whole grains and olives. While following the Mediterranean diet, avoid processed food, excess sweets, and too many eggs and butter. Eggs are allowed in small amounts on the Mediterranean diet. As the Mediterranean diet encourages avoiding sweets and excess sugar, it’s best to stick to water, coffee or tea. A typical lunch on the Mediterranean diet might include a plant-based meal with a small serving of lean meat or chicken, legumes, vegetables, fruits, nuts and olives. The Mediterranean diet is a good choice for people with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) as it can help with addressing inflammation. The diet’s avoidance of processed meats and refined sugar may help reduce inflammation. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Nicole Gregory is an editor and writer in Los Angeles who has contributed to the Los Angeles Times, the Orange County Register, Vegetarian Times, Good Housekeeping, Family Circle, New Woman and Living Fit, among other publications. She enjoys interviewing medical experts and researchers about their work and is passionate about communicating accurate and relevant health information to the public.
			 
				As an internist and board-certified physician nutrition specialist, Dr. Melina Jampolis specializes in nutrition for weight loss, disease prevention and treatment. She is a former president of the National Board of Physician Nutrition Specialists. She’s also the host of the podcast Practically Healthy With Dr. Melina, is the author of several books including her latest, Spice Up, Live Long, and has appeared on national television programs such as Live With Kelly and Ryan, The Doctors, Dr. Oz and more. Dr. Jampolis is also the co-founder of a new personalized nutrition company called Ahara. The website is launching in beta in July 2023. She currently maintains a small private nutrition practice in Los Angeles and serves as the chief nutrition officer of blk. water.
			