    
   SCROLL TO SITE SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Cannabidiol (CBD) may offer pain relieving benefits. Clinical studies note that topical products containing CBD, such as creams, balms and gels, can assist with alleviating pain related to conditions like arthritis, migraines, nerve damage and muscle aches. Choosing a CBD cream among the countless available options may feel overwhelming, however. To assist in your search, we did the investigative legwork for you. To choose the best CBD creams, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on more than 50 CBD cream products made from plants grown in the U.S. All have a certificate of analysis (COA), are third-party tested by ISO 17025-compliant laboratories and contain no more than 0.3% tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) by dry weight. From price to potency to special effects, learn which CBD cream products stand out as our top picks. Note: Prices listed are accurate as of the publication date. 
                            Why You Can Trust Forbes Health
                         The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on quantitative data and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about CBD that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our CBD methodology for the rankings below. Redeem Therapeutics’ CBD Pain Cream receives a five-star rating due to its price point, serving size value and clean ingredients list. This product delivers 22 milligrams of broad-spectrum CBD per application and contains 1,500 milligrams of CBD per 3.4-ounce bottle. To enhance its pain-relieving properties, the cream is formulated with menthol, capsicum and arnica to alleviate joint and muscle aches, as well as organic essential oils, such as ginger root oil, lemon peel oil and rosemary leaf extract. “This CBD cream is a great option for customers looking to avoid THC. Redeem uses a non-psychoactive CBD combined with menthol, capsicum, arnica extract and more to promote pain relief. While the cream is free of dyes, perfumes and fragrances, Redeem reports a mild, minty smell because of the organic menthol extract, which may not be ideal for customers wanting to avoid scents altogether.” Carmen’s Medicinals Better in a Balm Recovery Salve received a five-star rating for its clean ingredients list, potency and affordability. With a full-spectrum blend of hemp cannabinoids, such as CBD, CBG, CBN and up to 0.3% THC, as well as an array of essential oils, this CBD balm can provide relief for localized aches and pains while also moisturizing the skin, according to the company. Carmen’s Medicinals recommends applying the balm directly to clean, affected areas. “I appreciate this CBD cream’s organic ingredient list, especially its use of lavender, peppermint extract and other essential oils. Thanks to its full-spectrum makeup, this balm serves an array of needs, though I wish the company offered more return services for users who aren’t satisfied with their purchase after trying the product.” Aspen Green Relief CBD cream rates 4.8 stars due to its inclusion of 1,000 milligrams of CBD, as well as 33 milligrams of hemp-derived THC for users interested in a topical containing a variety of cannabinoids. The full-spectrum cream also contains organic menthol and organic tea tree oil to provide a cooling sensation upon application. Meanwhile, it’s manufactured with food-grade, all-natural ingredients without any preservatives or synthetic additives. The cream’s water-based formula allows it to absorb quickly into the skin, according to the company. “I appreciate Aspen Green’s efforts toward ingredient transparency. COAs are readily available on the company’s website, and each product comes with an identifiable QR code that ensures your order’s accuracy. The company’s online help center also provides extensive answers to common questions, as well as points of contact for further assistance.” Canna River CBD Body Balm receives 4.6 stars for its variety, formula and price. It comes in four distinct effect options for a variety of needs: chamomile, cooling, lavender and warming. This broad spectrum, high-potency balm features 1,200 milligrams each of CBD, CBG, CBC and CBN (all naturally occurring cannabinoids in the hemp plant) per container. With 31 milligrams of CBD per serving, this CBD body balm may be a great option for users looking for a stronger formula that doesn’t contain THC. “I appreciate Canna River’s commitment to affordability. Not only does this high-strength, THC-free body balm come at a fair price, but the company also offers discounts for first responders, teachers, medical professionals and more. I wish the company had a subscribe-and-save option, but the customer rewards program earns customers one point for every dollar spent.” The price and formula of Elixinol Active Hemp Balm earns it a spot on this list. This lower-potency, full-spectrum topical CBD product doesn’t contain any artificial ingredients and is formulated with exclusively plant-based materials. It’s also free of chemicals and additives. What’s more, the balm includes proprietary flavonoid and terpene blends to enhance its effectiveness, according to the company. “As someone who typically prefers a lower-potency CBD product, I like the option Elixinol offers in their active hemp balm. I also appreciate that this CBD balm doesn’t contain any harsh chemicals, additives or scents, making it a neutral option for anyone looking to simply gain the benefits of a topical CBD without the added smell and ingredients of fragrance.” Lazarus Naturals CBD Repair Cream ranks well due to its low price point and all-natural ingredients list. This CBD cream is formulated with full-spectrum CBD alongside ingredients like witch hazel, calendula and aloe to support skin health and healing, according to the company. Plus, it comes in a convenient tube design that’s easy to transport and makes application seamless. “I find Lazarus Naturals CBD Skin Repair Cream appealing because of its packaging. I prefer a tube design over a jar for travel and hygiene reasons. I also appreciate that this product is mindful of individuals with dry or damaged skin. However, as someone with sensitive skin, I’m concerned with the potential irritants included in this product’s extensive ingredient list like witch hazel and sweet almond oil.” This Green Gorilla lotion combines 1,000 milligrams of hemp extract with 250 milligrams of active CBD, grape cell extract and additional antioxidants to yield a nourishing cream that hydrates and heals skin while also easing pain and discomfort, according to the company. It made our list with its reasonable price point and use of organic hemp. What’s more, this product is non-greasy and boasts a convenient pump applicator for mess-free use. “I find the double benefits of skincare and CBD in Green Gorilla’s body lotion to be an appealing combination. As someone who has sensitive skin, I appreciate that this lotion is noted as being suitable for users with similar concerns and includes some organic ingredients.” This Muscle and Joint Cooling Formula CBD cream by CBDfx ranks for its 1,000 milligrams of broad-spectrum CBD per 1.7-ounce bottle, as well as additional ingredients to enhance cooling pain relief, including menthol, white willow bark and caffeine, according to the company. Meanwhile, the cream is bottled with a convenient pump top for a clean application. “This cooling CBD cream may be particularly helpful for individuals healing from an injury or treating soreness. Considering its compact size, pump dispenser and protective lid, I could see myself stowing this product in my gym bag or hiking backpack.” Cheef Botanicals CBD Cream makes this ranking due to its variety of potency options, use of non-GMO ingredients and more. Its lowest potency contains 500 milligrams of full-spectrum CBD in a 2-ounce jar. The cream is also available in extra-strength (1,000 milligrams) and maximum-strength (2,000 milligrams) varieties. Meanwhile, the cream contains menthol and peppermint for further pain relief, according to the company. “I really appreciate when CBD products come in a range of potencies because consumer needs vary dramatically, including the use of CBD creams like this one from Cheef Botanicals. I also love to see an all-natural ingredient list and easy ways to save as a frequent shopper.” This potent cream pairs full-spectrum CBD with menthol and arnica, providing superior relief for sore muscles, according to the company. Extensive information about CBD topicals is available on the website, including an explanation of how the cream is absorbed through the skin and how often to apply it for optimal results. The company claims this formula is designed to promote recovery, alleviate soreness and relieve stiffness. “As an active new mom who experiences more muscle aches and pains than I’d like to admit, I appreciate a formula like this one that can provide holistic relief. The organic, clean ingredient list sounds soothing, and the high CBD and THC potency makes me confident that it could help me keep moving at the pace my life requires with minimal discomfort.” To choose the best CBD creams, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on almost 100 CBD creams products that are: We then ranked CBD creams based on:  We consider a standard application size to be .05 ounces of CBD cream but provide full product pricing in addition to a per-application breakdown to help you determine the best daily value, as well as what works for your budget as a whole. CBD cream, which often includes balms and salves, is a topical application of cannabidiol. This cream offers more localized effects rather than systemic ones that edibles or inhalation can provide. “When CBD is used topically, it does not reach the bloodstream,” says Robert Milanes M.D., founder of Holistic On Call and a doctor with Heally, an alternative medicine telehealth platform. This application method makes CBD cream a good choice for people who are new to CBD and less comfortable ingesting it, but still want to benefit from CBD’s pain relief abilities. “Because it’s localized, it’s not the best method of delivery for trying to help yourself sleep or for anxiety,” says Steven Phan, founder of Come Back Daily, a CBD dispensary in New York. Compared to ingesting CBD, which can take anywhere from 30 minutes to two hours to take effect, applying CBD topically allows you to feel the localized effects pretty quickly, according to Laura Fuentes, a licensed compound pharmacist and co-founder of Green Roads, a major CBD brand. This quick uptake, paired with CBD’s inherent benefits, makes CBD cream a great option for pain, inflammation, soreness and tightness relief in specific parts of your body, she says. Research suggests the cannabinoids in topical CBD creams may be absorbed more efficiently by the body through the skin, rather than passing through digestion, as is the case with orally ingested CBD products. Although research in the U.S. is ongoing, preliminary studies show that topical CBD cream may be beneficial when it comes to treating chronic pain conditions, such as arthritis. However, additional well-designed human clinical trials are needed, as much of the existing research is based on animal studies or anecdotal results. One small, placebo-controlled 2020 study in Current Pharmaceutical Biotechnology examined the use of topical CBD in 29 participants with peripheral neuropathy, a chronic pain condition caused by nerve damage. The results showed that the 15 participants using topical CBD oil experienced significantly less pain compared to the 14 participants using the placebo after four weeks[1]Xu DH, Cullen BD, Tang M, Fang Y. The Effectiveness of Topical Cannabidiol Oil in Symptomatic Relief of Peripheral Neuropathy of the Lower Extremities. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2020;21(5):390-402. . Another 2018 study with over 300 participants with knee pain from osteoarthritis found a transdermal synthetic CBD gel significantly improved patients’ worst pain score and physical function averages. These patients were treated with 350 milligrams of CBD gel per day for 12 weeks[2]Hunter D, Oldfield G, Tich N, Messenheimer J, Sebree T. Synthetic transdermal cannabidiol for the treatment of knee pain due to osteoarthritis . Osteoarthritis and Cartilage. 2018;26:S26. . Additionally, some research suggests that the anti-inflammatory properties of CBD cream may help to improve certain skin conditions such as acne and eczema. Experience the refreshing relief of CBD Lotion + Menthol ! Blends the calming benefits of CBD with the invigorating sensation of menthol. Elevate your wellness routine with this trending fusion of natural remedies. Embrace the cooling comfort. Discover CBD Lotion + Menthol and feel revitalized today!" On Cornbread Hemp's Website CBD itself is safe and well tolerated, and it has no risks of abuse or dependence, according to the World Health Organization. “Additionally, using CBD topically reduces the likelihood of experiencing side effects typically associated with CBD use, such as drowsiness, fatigue and diarrhea,” says Dr. Milanes. Milanes and Fuentes warn that while CBD itself might be safe, there is a chance you might be allergic or sensitive to another ingredient in a CBD topical, which could cause adverse effects. To avoid unpleasant reactions, they suggest reading ingredient lists carefully. Phan also recommends talking to your doctor before using CBD if you’re on any medications— especially blood pressure medications because CBD can also lower blood pressure. Because CBD creams aren’t regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as topical drug products, it’s difficult to determine their safety and efficacy as a product category. However, the American Academy of Dermatology (AAD) reports that topical CBD products may be effective in treating conditions including acne, psoriasis and eczema with few or no side effects. Ultimately, safety and efficacy depend on the specific CBD cream product and its formulation. To apply a CBD cream, you rub it into the affected area, such as an achy knee or sore neck. “The cream is absorbed into the skin and then binds to the numerous cannabinoid receptors located in the different layers of the skin,” says Fuentes. Each topical CBD product may have unique directions, however. Some may instruct you to use a small amount while others encourage using a liberal amount. Balms and salves have a thicker consistency and often need to be warmed in your hands before applying them to the target area. And some products don’t require getting your hands dirty at all, thanks to roll-on and stick applicators. CBD creams are a popular way to use CBD in the U.S., according to a recent Forbes Health survey of 2,000 U.S. adults conducted by OnePoll. In fact, 53% of respondents who reported having tried CBD used it in lotion form, and 42% used it in a serum or other topical form.  CBD use in general is increasingly common—60% of U.S. adults have tried a CBD product before. Better yet, 60% believe it has medicinal benefits. The same survey reports that the majority of people use CBD in a variety of forms to help relieve pain. According to the Forbes Health survey, 60% of U.S. participants used CBD products for pain relief. And while more research is needed, preliminary studies show promising results when it comes to using CBD creams and other CBD topicals for acute and chronic pain relief. In an additional anecdotal case study of two patients with back pain using the same CBD cream containing 400 milligrams of CBD per 2 ounces, both participants experienced significant pain relief, highlighting the need for further research into topical CBD cream as a pain management tool[3]Eskander JP, Spall J, Spall A, et al. Cannabidiol (CBD) as a treatment of acute and chronic back pain: A case series and literature review. J Opioid Manag. 2020;16(3):215-218. . Several factors can impact the cost of a CBD cream, including the potency per application (or container) and its quality, such as whether it’s made from organic hemp. Based on data compiled by Forbes Health, the price per .05-ounce application of selected creams ranged from $.24 to $3.20, with an average of $1.18 per application. Individuals who use CBD cream may start to feel therapeutic effects within 10 to 15 minutes of application, and benefits may last anywhere from two to three hours to up to 24 hours. However, how long the benefits of CBD cream last may vary depending on how often an individual uses CBD topicals and the specific product’s formulation and potency. CBD cream may help alleviate symptoms of eczema, psoriasis and acne and may reduce pain caused by inflammation. However, whether CBD cream is right for you depends on multiple factors, such as personal preference, health history and cost. Additionally, CBD may interact with other medications and supplements, including melatonin, warfarin and more. Speak with a health care provider to determine whether you could benefit from adding CBD cream to your wellness routine. CBD creams are widely available for purchase from brick-and-mortar wellness stores and CBD shops, as well as myriad manufacturers online. Regardless of whether you’re purchasing CBD cream in person or online, it’s always best to look for a high-quality product that has a COA from a third-party laboratory showing its potency, its cannabinoid content and that it’s free of pesticides, heavy metals and other contaminants. 
                Indulge Your Senses and Soothe Your Body with Cornbread Hemp CBD Lotion + Menthol !
             Pamper your skin today. Order now and immerse yourself in the harmonious blend of CBD and menthol for a truly refreshing experience. On Cornbread Hemp's Website Our winner for the best CBD creams, balms and lotions is Redeem Therapeutics CBD Pain Cream, due to serving size for the price, as well as its non-GMO and cruelty-free ingredient list. What’s more, this product is suitable for individuals looking for a CBD product that helps soothe muscle aches and pain without THC. Other CBD creams, balms and lotions that top our list include Carmen’s Medicinals Better in a Balm Recovery Salve, Aspen Green Relief Full Spectrum CBD Cooling Cream and Canna River CBD Body Balm. Preliminary research suggests that CBD creams act locally to reduce inflammation and pain, though more research is needed. A CBD cream containing less than 0.3% THC by dry weight is unlikely to make you  fail a drug test  for THC. However, it’s important to obtain a COA for any CBD product you purchase to ensure it doesn’t contain higher levels of THC, as there is little research available regarding how CBD creams containing THC might affect different types of THC drug tests, including urine and hair analysis. The amount of time it takes for a CBD cream to work can vary based on the individual, as well as the contents of the specific CBD cream used. More research is needed to accurately determine the most effective way to deliver CBD topically for pain relief. Per the 2018 Farm Bill, CBD products, including CBD creams, derived from hemp containing no more than 0.3% THC by dry weight are considered federally legal. Specific rules and regulations may  vary from state to state, however, so it’s best to check with your state’s regulatory agency regarding the safe and legal use of CBD products where you live. No, CBD creams do not enter the bloodstream likely because the skin’s endocannabinoid receptors bind with the CBD molecules before they can pass through to the bloodstream. This binding action in the skin is what produces topical CBD’s potentially beneficial effects. While little existing research on human models examines the effects of CBD topicals on individuals with nerve pain, one small 2020 study of 29 individuals found transdermal CBD application may help alleviate pain related to nerve damage outside the brain and spinal cord[3]Eskander JP, Spall J, Spall A, et al. Cannabidiol (CBD) as a treatment of acute and chronic back pain: A case series and literature review. J Opioid Manag. 2020;16(3):215-218. . Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Lauren Silva, a freelance writer in New York City, believes in feeling good in your body and making that experience accessible to everyone across generations. The proof is in her ever-piling browser tabs and newsletters, which help her stay on top of the latest wellness trends. When she’s not researching sustainable alternatives to her everyday products, Lauren is likely attempting to make a dent in her “TBR” book pile.
			 
				Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for Forbes Health, Meaghan loves practicing yoga, reading and spending time with her family near the ocean in her home state of Maine.
			 
				For the past 25 years, Dr. Jessica Cho practiced medicine with a single mission: Help patients attain wellness and create a life full of joy, vitality and balance. As a physician, her passion is to educate and empower her patients. Her medical expertise is rooted in integrative treatments with a command of both Western and Eastern medicine. Her interdisciplinary background enables a variety of tools that help patients achieve success as she delves into the root causes of their challenges to understand why and how. She founded Wellness at Century City in Los Angeles in 2000, and she has been consistently recognized as one of the nation’s top doctors in integrative medicine and is known for her unparalleled success in promoting well-being in her patients. Philanthropy is her life’s purpose—for decades, she has traveled globally to serve the underserved in various free clinics and refugee camps on medical missions, as well as in her local Los Angeles area serving in free clinics for communities in need.
			