This nutritious fruit offers multiple health benefits. Apples may lower your chance of developing cancer, diabetes, and heart disease. Research says apples may also help you lose weight while improving your gut and brain health.  Apples are the most widely consumed fruit globally. From sweet red varieties, like Red Delicious, Fuji, or Gala, to tangy green ones, like Granny Smith — my favorite with lime juice and a little salt when I want a savory snack — there is an apple for everyone. They’re commonly used in recipes like pies, cookies, muffins, jam, salads, oatmeal, or smoothies. They also make a great snack or wedged and smeared with nut butter.  In addition to their culinary versatility and numerous colors and flavors, apples are an exceptionally healthy fruit with many research-backed benefits. Here are eight impressive health benefits of apples. Apples are considered nutrient-dense fruits, meaning they provide a lot of nutrients per serving. The current Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend 2 cups of fruit daily for a 2,000-calorie diet, emphasizing whole fruits like apples. One medium 7-ounce (oz) or 200 grams (g) apple offers the following nutrients: The same serving also provides 2–5% of the DV for vitamins E, B1, and B6. Apples are also a rich source of polyphenols, an important group of antioxidants. While nutrition labels don’t list these plant compounds, they’re likely responsible for many of apples’ health benefits. To get the most out of apples, leave the skin on, as it contains half of the fiber and most of the polyphenols. Apples are a good source of fiber and vitamin C. They also contain antioxidants, like vitamin E, and polyphenols, contributing to the fruit’s numerous health benefits. Apples are high in fiber and water, which makes them filling. In one study, eating whole apples increased fullness more than consuming equal amounts of apple juice. This may happen because whole apples reduce gastric emptying — the rate at which your stomach empties. Research also suggests apple intake may significantly reduce Body Mass Index (BMI), a weight-related risk factor for heart disease. Interestingly, apple polyphenols may also have anti-obesity effects. Apples are particularly filling due to their high fiber and water content. Their polyphenols may also have anti-obesity effects. Apples have been linked to a lower chance of heart disease. Research has found that eating 100-150 g/d of whole apples is associated with a lower chance of heart disease and risk factors such as high blood pressure. One reason may be that they contain soluble fiber. This fiber is also associated with a lower chance of heart disease. Another reason may be that they offer polyphenols. Some of these may help lower blood pressure. Studies have also linked high intakes of flavonoids with a lower chance of stroke. Another study has also linked eating apples to a reduced chance of stroke.  Apples promote heart health in several ways. They’re high in soluble fiber, which helps lower cholesterol. They also have polyphenols linked to lower blood pressure and chance of stroke. Eating apples may also reduce your chance of type 2 diabetes. A compilation of studies found that eating apples and pears was associated with an 18% reduction in type 2 diabetes risk. Just one serving per week may reduce the risk by 3%. The high amount of the polyphenol quercetin in apples could explain this beneficial effect. Eating apples is linked to a lower risk of type 2 diabetes, potentially due to their polyphenol content. Apples contain pectin, a type of fiber that acts as a prebiotic in your gut microbiome, and a healthy gut is often key to better health. Since dietary fiber cannot be digested, pectin reaches your colon intact, promoting the growth of good bacteria. It especially improves the ratio of Bacteriodetes to Firmicutes, the two main types of bacteria in your gut. New research suggests that, by beneficially altering your gut microbiota, apples may help protect against chronic diseases like obesity, type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and cancer. The type of fiber found in apples improves your gut-friendly bacteria, which may be why the fruit is thought to help protect against chronic diseases. Antioxidants in apples may offer beneficial effects against certain types of cancers, including lung, breast, and digestive tract cancers. Research suggests these effects may be attributed to apple polyphenols keeping cancerous cells from multiplying. Moreover, one study in women reported that higher apple intakes were linked to a lower chance of cancer death. However, further human research is needed to better understand the possible link between apples and cancer prevention — for example, to identify adequate amounts and eating timing. Apple’s fiber and antioxidant content has been linked to a reduced chance of getting certain types of cancer. However, more research on humans is needed. Antioxidant-rich apples may help reduce airway inflammation related to allergic asthma. Apple skin is rich in the antioxidant quercetin, which can help regulate your immune system and reduce inflammation. Theoretically, this could make apples effective against late phases of bronchial asthma responses. Supporting this, test-tube and animal studies suggest quercetin may be suitable for allergic inflammatory diseases like asthma and sinusitis. Still, more human research is needed on the topic.  Apples contain antioxidant and anti-inflammatory compounds that may help regulate immune responses and protect against asthma. However, more research, especially in humans, is needed. Quercetin in apples may protect your brain from damage caused by oxidative stress. A meta-analysis of 14 animal studies suggests quercetin may have some preventive properties against Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Still, the researchers questioned some of the study methodologies and believed more research is needed to conclude. Remember that most research focuses on a specific compound instead of whole apples. Therefore, further research is still needed, specifically on the effects of apples, before any conclusions can be drawn. Quercetin in apples may protect your brain against oxidative stress. However, further research is needed to validate the effect of eating the whole fruit. Eating more vegetables and fruit like apples may help your mental health, according to one 2020 systematic review.  That said, the study found this benefit kicks in if you eat at least 5 servings of fruit and vegetables daily, consistent with the recommendations of the American Dietary Guidelines for daily fruit and vegetable intake. In addition, a 2022 British study found that adolescents who consume fewer vegetables and fruit in their diet tend to have poorer mental health. Research suggests that eating fruit like apples may help reduce the chance of getting gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Multiple studies have also suggested that eating apples can help your food digest better, which may be helpful with constipation. But the extent of the effect may depend on the type of apple you’re eating. Apples are an incredibly nutritious fruit that offers multiple health benefits, so eating at least one apple daily will certainly benefit your health. There isn’t a specific number of apples that are best to eat daily. The American Guidelines for Nutrition recommend about five servings of fruit and vegetables a day, split evenly between fruit and vegetables.  One study on apples specifically did find that people who eat at least one apple daily seem to require fewer prescription medications. That said, more research is needed to investigate this. They’re rich in fiber and antioxidants. Eating them is linked to a lower chance of getting many chronic conditions, including diabetes, heart disease, and cancer. Apples may also promote weight loss and improve gut and brain health. Even though more research is needed to better understand how apples affect human health, you can’t go wrong with this tasty, versatile, and easily accessible fruit.  Try this today: Eat whole, unpeeled apples instead of apple juice or purée to get the best out of the fruit.  Share this article This is a detailed article about apples. What they are, what they look like, along with in-depth information on nutrition and health benefits. Pumpkin seeds are loaded with nutrients that can improve health and fight disease. Here are 11 health benefits of pumpkin seeds, backed by science. Apples are highly nutritious, but you may wonder whether they can really keep the doctor away. This article takes a close look at the old proverb and… A crispy and juicy apple can be a delightful snack, but like other fruits and vegetables, apples only stay fresh for so long. This article examines… Crab apples are tiny fruits that grow on trees and resemble bigger apples. This article reviews whether you can eat crab apples. Apples are delicious and nutritious. But are apples good for people with diabetes? Here's how apples affect blood sugar levels and how to eat them. Apples contain compounds that may help neutralize stomach acid. Learn how they may help acid reflux. Thanks to viral posts on TikTok, the popularity of cottage cheese is skyrocketing. Here are seven healthy claims about the dairy food users are making… New research suggests that the Mediterranean diet may help you feel less stressed and improve your mood, too. Here’s why. In an eight-week study, a vegan diet showed signs of slowing biological aging compared to an omnivorous diet. The Stanford Twin Study recruited… OUR BRANDS