Former Commons speaker John Bercow is taking part in the US version of the smash hit reality show, set in Ardross Castle, near Inverness, alongside Love Island's Ekin-Su Culculoglu. Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter We have more newsletters The Traitors US will return to screens in a matter of months as filming kicks off in the Highlands.  As we reported yesterday The Real Housewives of Miami star Larsa Pippen has already touched down in Scotland along with basketball player Marcus Jordan, son of NBA star Michael, ahead of the new series of the American version of The Traitors. The new season - hosted by Scots acting icon Alan Cumming - will see a host of famous faces and regular competitors take part in challenges as the 'Faithfuls' attempt to uncover the 'Traitors' living amongst them in a bid to bag the $250,000 prize. But one name has particularly caught people's attention as former Commons speaker John Bercow, who became infamous for his bellowings of "Order!" in the parliamentary building, is reported to be taking part in the next series. He's set to be joined by Love Island legend Ekin-Su Culculoglu in the line-up, which also features stars from Big Brother, Dancing with the Stars and RuPaul's Drag Race.  The show, now in its second season, is being filmed at the same Highland castle that was used for the UK version of The Traitors - Ardross Castle, near Inverness. Scottish actor Alan is set to introduce his dog Lala this series as his on-screen sidekick. A premiere date for season two is yet to be announced although Peacock TV has rumoured the series will return "early next year" and People has reported it's set to air in January 2024.  John Bercow's surprising announcement to join the cast follows an investigation which found he had been a "serial bully" and a "serial liar" who "repeatedly and extensively" bullied House of Commons staff. He quit his role in 2019 after a decade. The former speaker was accused of throwing a mobile phone, swearing at officials and making a sexually and racially discriminatory remark at a member of staff. At the time, Mr Bercow said: "All I can say is that the case against me would have been thrown out by any court in the land since it is based on the flimsiest of evidence, rooted in hearsay and baseless rumour, and advanced by old school dogmatists once intent on resisting change at all costs and now settling some ancient scores with me. It is a travesty of justice and brings shame on the House of Commons." American socialite Larsa touched down in Scotland on Wednesday and shared a clip of a car driving over the Queensferry Crossing and also a video of her visit to The House of Bruar - a department store in Pitlochry. Larsa, the ex wife of former NBA player Scottie Pippen, also re-shared a clip taken by Marcus in which he tagged Edinburgh, as The Highlands of Scotland played in the background. Larsa, 49 and Marcus, 32, are set to be the first couple to enter the game with their relationship exposed - having previously attempted to hide their romance in the Australian version of the show before being caught out.  The pair raised eyebrows when they were first linked, due to their connections to the famous Chicago Bulls team of the 1990s, which featured friends and colleagues Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen. This time round, they're going on the show being open and honest about their relationship status.  Get the latest celebrity gossip and telly news sent straight to your inbox. Sign up to our daily Showbiz newsletter here . 