Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC Here's what you need to know if you're interested in opening a Poke-Nomics franchise. Here's what you can expect to spend to start the business and what ongoing fees the  franchisor charges throughout the life of the business. 
Definition: The initial fee paid to a franchisor to join their system
           
What you need to know: Found in Item 5 of the FDD, this may be a flat fee, or may vary based on territory size, experience, or other factors.The franchise fee is an up-front (one-time) cost that a new franchisee pays to the franchisor. This fee is usually due at the signing of the franchise agreement and covers the right to use the franchisor's trademarks, name, and related business systems.
             
Definition: The total amount necessary to begin operation of the  franchise
           
What you need to know: The initial investment includes the franchise fee, along with other startup expenses such as real estate, equipment, supplies, business licenses, and working capital. This is outlined in a chart in Item 7 of the FDD, showing a range of possible costs from low to high.
             
Definition: The minimum net worth you must have in order to qualify to become a franchisee of this company
           
What you need to know: Net worth is the value of a person's assets minus liabilities. Assets include cash, stocks, retirement accounts, and real estate. Liabilities include items like mortgages, car payments, and credit card debt.
             
Definition: The minimum liquid capital you must have available in order to qualify to become a franchisee of this company.
           
Definition: A ongoing fee paid to the franchisor on a regular basis.
           
What you need to know: Most franchisors require franchisees to pay an ongoing royalty fee, which is detailed in Item 6 of the FDD. This fee is typically a percentage of weekly or monthly gross sales, but may also be a flat weekly, monthly, or annual fee.
             
Definition: The length of time your franchise agreement will last.
           
What you need to know: Franchise terms are typically anywhere from 5 to 20 years in length, but are sometimes instead dependent on factors such as the term of your lease. Once your term is up, you may have the option to renew your agreement, typically for a smaller fee than the original franchise fee.
             Some franchisors offer in-house financing, while others have relationships with third-party financing sources to which they refer qualified franchisees. Franchisors offer initial training programs and a variety of ongoing support options to help franchisees run their businesses. Additional details about running this franchise. 
Definition: The business can be run from your home and/or a vehicle, and it is not necessary to have a retail facility, office space, or warehouse.
           
Definition: This business can be run by the owner on a part-time basis (less than 40 hours per week) and/or as a side business; it is not necessary for the business to be open/run full-time.
           
Definition: An exclusive territory is a fixed area in which you are given the right to operate and in which no other units of the same  franchise may be opened.
           
What you need to know: Territory size may be based on factors such as radius, population size, zip codes, and more. Details can be found in Item 12 of the FDD.
             
                Stay up to date on the latest news and trends affecting the franchise industry.
               Are you eager to see what else is out there? Browse franchises that are similar to Poke-Nomics. Catch up on the latest franchise news, trends, and more. 
          In his nearly 40 years in business, this CEO has often been asked if there's a formula for success. There is, and he shares his here.  
         
          Driven by competitiveness in education and growing STEM job markets, the demand for math education is booming.
         
          We asked an attorney and franchise veteran what the industry should be looking for as election day approaches — and how franchise businesses can protect themselves during uncertain political times.
         
          Food franchise leaders are diversifying their investments into non-food sectors such as skincare and electronics, driven by rising costs and challenges in the restaurant industry.
         
          McDonald's France hinted at removing its "Classic Curry" dipping sauce after Curry's remarkable performance led Team USA to a 98-87 victory over France in the men's basketball gold medal game.
         
          Taco Bell generated significant buzz with The Cantinas, a unique San Diego early retirement community for its rewards members. When registration opened earlier this month, the demand was overwhelming.
         We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
