The acclaimed transportation/mobility-focused video podcast series where Host Grant Harrell speaks with the individuals and companies defining the cutting-edge of technology and shaping the way we move around. MarketScale    The automotive industry is at the cusp of a revolutionary transformation, transitioning from the traditional automotive industry to a more extensive idea of mobility. This shift brings an air of exhilaration and anticipation, especially as witnessed within the recent 19th Automotive Breakfast in downtown Detroit, Michigan, a part of Inforum’s MobilityNEXT industry group’s exciting event series. This MobilityNEXT 19th Automotive Breakfast provided an engaging platform for industry leaders, young professionals, and aspiring entrants into the mobility sector to share insights, experiences, and expectations for the evolving landscape of the automotive industry. Among the speakers was Michigan Economic Development Corporation Chief Mobility Officer Justine Johnson, who moderated an incredible panel discussion with industry leaders like Bosch, Continental, GM, and Toyota, discussing the future of mobility. Kristen Tabar from Toyota expressed her enthusiasm about the transformation of the industry and the opportunities it holds for those wishing to join this dynamic sector. The 19th Automotive Breakfast served as a microcosm of the larger conversation happening within the mobility space, offering a glimpse into the enthusiasm and commitment of various stakeholders towards not just advancing the industry but also addressing the gender disparity that has long been a concern. So, what role does gender inclusivity play in this evolution, especially in a traditionally male-dominated sphere? Are We There Yet? Host Grant Harrell ventures deeper into these discussions, segueing into a captivating conversation with Brandy Goolsby and Kara Grasso, Inforum MobilityNEXT Executive Committee members, and Executives within industry-leading companies Wind River and 360ofme, respectively. The conversation with Brandy and Kara provides a closer look at the efforts to bridge the gender gap while exploring the broader narrative of the industry’s transition from traditional automotive frameworks to a more inclusive and innovative mobility-centric approach. Harrell, Goolsby, and Grasso discuss several topics including:   Share Show In the ever-evolving world of logistics, innovation is the key to overcoming challenges and seizing new opportunities. The global supply chain was heavily impacted by the pandemic, revealing significant inefficiencies, especially in the movement of shipping containers. Thankfully, technologies like QuickLoadz’s automated container handling systems are streamlining these processes, reducing both time and costs…. Share Show As technology sees gradual and groundbreaking advancements, the conversation around electric vertical take-off and landing (eVTOL) vehicles and drones is more pertinent today than ever before. As these new innovations go from science to reality, the US Air Force is playing a pivotal role in their development and potential integration into both military and… Share Show Amazon Prime Day recently saw $14 billion in sales, underscoring the consumer demand for rapid delivery. This surge highlights the pressure on other businesses to match Amazon’s speed and efficiency. Retailers face a crucial challenge. They need to innovate to meet these delivery expectations or risk losing their market position. What solutions exist for… 
                        MarketScale creates and publishes industry-leading B2B content for industries
                        ranging from Education to Retail, and Hospitality to Healthcare delivering
                        engaging and educational live shows, online learning courses,
                        virtual events and more.
                     Sign up to receive the latest in industry-leading B2B content. Get the latest from MarketScale Thank you for joining the MarketScale.  has successfully been added. Get the latest from Inforum MobilityNext | 19TH Automotive Breakfast Thank you for joining the Inforum MobilityNext | 19TH Automotive Breakfast.  has successfully been added.