The new platinum partnership will enhance human-centric experiences for businesses by creating differentiated solutions that optimize business processes, reduce expenses, and boost the bottom line Bangalore, Karnataka, India – Business Wire India Celonis, the global leader in execution management, today announced the strengthening of its partnership with Tech Mahindra, a leading provider of digital transformation, consulting, and business re-engineering services and solutions, through a strategic Global Platinum Partnership Program. Together, Tech Mahindra and Celonis will assist clients in optimizing their business processes to accelerate transformation, reduce cost and boost the bottom line. The new platinum partnership will further capitalize on both companies' strengths by leveraging the Celonis Execution Management System (EMS) and Tech Mahindra's global capabilities and domain expertise to bolster process excellence initiatives for customers. Tech Mahindra has deep domain expertise across different industries such as Telecoms, Financial Services, Manufacturing, Oil & Gas, Retail & CPG, and more. As part of the partnership Tech Mahindra will further leverage Celonis' market-leading process mining and execution management capabilities to unlock new value for their clients' business processes, creating impact across enterprise projects and scaling multi-tower large enterprise opportunities. These programs span across multiple domains such as BPO, infrastructure management, testing, application development, and maintenance. Birendra Sen, Head of Business Process Services at Tech Mahindra, said: "Tech Mahindra has a long-standing relationship with Celonis and has deployed the Celonis EMS for 40+ customers around the world, resulting in cost savings of US$700 million. We have also embarked on a journey to co-create solutions such as R3 for duplicate payment removal, and Net Promoter Score (NPS) improvement for Information Technology Services Management processes. Together, we have optimized field services transformation across telecoms/utilities and technology companies and CFO Control Tower to increase revenue and reduce expenses. Through the platinum partnership with Celonis, we are committed to jointly developing cutting-edge solutions and further transforming the field services landscape." In addition, Tech Mahindra has established an internal CelonisCenter of Excellence (CoE) to boost the deployment of the Celonis EMS with its customers. The CoE today has over 200 process mining and execution management experts driving accelerated digitization via data-led execution for customers across the US and Europe. Bastian Nominacher, co-CEO and co-founder of Celonis, said, "We pride ourselves on partnering with global leaders and are delighted to take our collaboration with Tech Mahindra to the next level. We are confident Tech Mahindra's formidable portfolio of integrated solutions, analytics, process consulting, and outsourced operations will be of significant value to our global customers across all industries. Together, we will deliver outcomes that transform businesses and reach even more customers – helping them perform at levels they never thought possible." Tech Mahindra and Celonis have worked together since 2019, and built unique solutions such as the Frictionless Contact Center that offers customers a single platform to drive strategic initiatives in contact centers by providing a competitive advantage to increase efficiency and optimize cost by reducing friction. The Frictionless Contact Center also detects opportunities for automation and revenue optimization, and enables data-driven decisions that enhance customer experience. The Advertising Process Optimizer app improves process standardization, identifies revenue leakages, and determines improvement opportunities in advertising processes. Tech Mahindra and Celonis will enhance human-centric experiences for businesses and provide industry blueprints for different functional areas, as well as powerful capabilities that include change management, technology and process management, business analytics, and reporting. The partnership will provide solutions including rapid-start program templates for onboarding, training, and AI-driven field coaching. About Tech Mahindra Tech Mahindra offers innovative and customer-centric digital experiences, enabling enterprises, associates and the society to Rise for a more equal world, future readiness, and value creation. It is a USD 6+ billion organization with 157,000+ professionals across 90 countries helping 1290 global customers, including Fortune 500 companies. It is focused on leveraging next-generation technologies including 5G, Metaverse, Blockchain, Quantum Computing, Cybersecurity, Artificial Intelligence, and more, to enable end-to-end digital transformation for global customers. It is the only Indian company in the world to receive the HRH The Prince of Wales' Terra Carta Seal for its commitment to creating a sustainable future. It is the fastest growing brand globally in 'brand value rank' and amongst the top 7 IT brands globally in brand strength with AA+ rating. With the NXT.NOW™ framework, Tech Mahindra aims to enhance 'Human Centric Experience' for its ecosystem and drive collaborative disruption with synergies arising from a robust portfolio of companies. Tech Mahindra aims at delivering tomorrow's experiences today and believes that the 'Future is Now'. Tech Mahindra is part of the Mahindra Group, founded in 1945, one of the largest and most admired multinational federation of companies with 260,000 employees in over 100 countries. It enjoys a leadership position in farm equipment, utility vehicles, information technology and financial services in India and is the world's largest tractor company by volume. It has a strong presence in renewable energy, agriculture, logistics, hospitality and real estate. The Mahindra Group has a clear focus on leading ESG globally, enabling rural prosperity and enhancing urban living, with a goal to drive positive change in the lives of communities and stakeholders to enable them to Rise. Connect with us on www.techmahindra.com || Our Social Media Channels For more information on Tech Mahindra, please contact: Abhilasha Gupta, Global Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Email: Abhilasha.Gupta@TechMahindra.com media.relations@techmahindra.com About Celonis Celonis reveals and fixes inefficiencies businesses can't see, enabling them to perform at levels they never thought possible. Powered by its market-leading process mining core, the Celonis Execution Management System provides a full set of platform capabilities for business executives and users to eliminate billions in corporate inefficiencies, provide better customer experience and reduce carbon emissions. Celonis has thousands of implementations with global customers and is headquartered in Munich, Germany and New York City, USA with more than 20 offices worldwide. For more information on Celonis, please contact: Email: press@celonis.com To View the Image, Click on the Link Below: Celonis and Tech Mahindra Strengthen Their Global Partnership to Bolster Process Excellence Initiatives for Customers (This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)  Email: info@devdiscourse.com Phone: +91-720-6444012, +91-7027739813, 14, 15  © Copyright 2024