With so many different diets to choose from it can be hard to work out which one is best suited to your lifestyle Get our ultimate guide on things to do in North Wales with our Love North Wales newsletter We have more newsletters Get our ultimate guide on things to do in North Wales with our Love North Wales newsletter We have more newsletters The advent calendars are long gone, the Christmas decorations have been put away for another year and all that's left to do is firm up those New Year's resolutions. And for many of us, these resolutions usually begin with our health. Plenty of us use the first week in January to start the annual health kick, which usually involves drinking more water, exercising more and going on one diet or another. But which is the best one for you?  There are so many options out there - from Slimming World to simply just putting yourself in a calorie deficit. With so many to choose from, it can be hard to work out which one suits your lifestyle more.  READ MORE: Body found in search for missing ex BBC man Aled Davies The UK is one of the heaviest nations on Earth with a recent report finding over 60 per cent of adults in England are at risk of developing chronic health problems due to their weight. Around 67 per cent of men and 60 per cent of women are either overweight or obese - that's more than 35 million individuals. So, with many wanting to shed excess pounds for good in 2023, BirminghamLive looked at three of the most popular plans which promise long-term results.  On its memberships, WW says: "Unlock our easy-to-use tools to lose the weight you want. Get a science-backed and customised nutrition plan for your lifestyle, trackers, 3,400+ recipes for meal inspiration, 24/7 coach support, and more - all in our award-winning app." Adding "It's everything you need to live our programme—and build healthy habits for life". WW custom builds for you after answering a few questions to determine your metabolic rate. "We'll tailor a food plan that ensures healthy, lasting, totally livable weight loss for you," WW says. How much is it? For a 12-month Weight Watchers' core membership, you pay nothing for the first four months, then £18.95/month for 8 months - saving you £75.80. How it works WW is best known for its points system, in which every food and drink is given a value. WW calls these SmartPoints and every member has a weekly and daily budget of these to use. There are also Zero Points foods. You can follow the plan by either counting points for all your food, or go down the No Count route which involves eating mainly Zero Points foods. You also get a weekly SmartPoints budget to use for the foods that aren’t on the Zero Points list. It's also flexible in that you're able to roll over some of the Smartpoints you’ve not used in a day. Classes begin with a weigh-in with your coach which is followed by a sit-down talk with the other members to look back at the week and celebrate achievements such as weight losses, fitting back into clothes that had become too small, doing more exercise and general wellbeing. You also get ideas, recipes and plans for the week ahead to help stay on track. What you can eat You can eat anything you like as long as you write it down and keep an eye on your portion sizes. The idea is to still make and enjoy daily foods you love, ensuring you are never going hungry but being careful to make sensible choices. Items such as skinless chicken breast, fish, eggs, beans and fat-free yogurt are Zero Point foods. Foods such as fried chicken, chips, certain snacks and any foods high in saturated fat, salt and sugar have a higher SmartPoint value. Expect to lose between 1-2lbs a week. Some weeks you might lose more, other times you might gain. The company claims " Slimming World is a weight loss plan like no other," and that "millions have reached their dream weight with our generous no-hunger eating plan". Slimming World promises you'll never go hungry with its Food Optimising Plan, you will get more active and you'll have access to "unbeatable" support both online and in real life groups. How much is it? There are two membership plans on offer, one where you join a local group and another offering digital-only support. The group service means members will pay £10.95 on week one (£5 membership and £5.95 weekly fee), then £5.95 a week from then on. Slimming World's digital-only service sees members pay £60 for three months, £5 a week. How it works This plan works by dieters being given three lists of foods to choose from. There are Free Foods, which you can eat unlimited amounts of; Healthy Extras, which you’re allowed a limited number of every day; and Syns - sugary, high-fat foods which each have a Syn value. Free Foods are things such as fruit, vegetables, pasta, potatoes, rice, lean meat, fish and eggs. These foods can be eaten in unlimited amounts. There’s no calorie counting, no foods are banned. Each class is led by a consultant who is a former member who has lost weight with SW. After being weighed and given your daily and weekly Syn allowance you will receive your pack containing all the information you need about how the plan works. What you can eat The plan allows you to eat unlimited food - but shows you how to make sure the majority of it is healthy. There’s no weighing, calculating, estimating or counting and there's not a point or a unit in sight. Unlike other diets, the fatty foods we crave so much are not banned when you’re eating healthily. Syns provide the control - these are foods that would most certainly jeopardise your weight loss if you didn’t control them. Every day you can enjoy between five to 15 Syns. If you follow the plan, you can expect to lose between 4lbs to 7lbs in the first week, more if you have a lot to lose. But 2-3lbs a week is easily achievable. Noom says its weight loss programme uses the "latest in proven behavioural science to empower people to take control of their health for good". How much is it? Most Noom users start with a four-month subscription, which comes out to $42.25 per month, around £35. How it works Noom says that by using a "combination of psychology, technology, and human coaching, our platform has helped millions of our users meet their personal health and wellness goals" without restrictive diets. The aim is to help you change your habits and mindset around food. Rather than just focusing on what you should or shouldn't eat - like other weight loss programmes - it has a psychology-based approach that helps you change the way you think and feel about eating. It says: "Weight loss isn’t just about what you eat, but why you eat. Our goal is to help you develop sustainable habits that you’ll keep for a lifetime - not just the few months that you’re on the programme. On Noom Weight, you’ll track your weight, monitor what you eat, and connect with like-minded people." You’ll also learn: What you can eat Noom says its system is not a fad diet or an elimination diet, nor does it consist of pre-packaged food that you need to depend on for the rest of your life. The Noom website explains: "Noom Weight isn't a diet the way most people think of diets. It's not a fad or trend that cuts out whole food groups (like carbs) from your diet until you lose weight. Instead, we focus on helping you understand your choices, how to be in the moment and appreciate your meals, and which foods will help you feel full (with a focus on calorie density). Put simply, that means we want you to be full and satisfied while staying within your calorie range. "There’s no need to feel hungry while you’re on Noom. Noom Weight uses a three-colour traffic light system to categorise foods. Orange, green, and yellow doesn’t mean ‘good’ or ‘bad,’ though. The colours just help you to choose the foods that get you into a calorie deficit. Because if we want to lose weight, we have to eat fewer calories than we burn." READ NEXT: Woman dies after being hit by car outside Ysbyty Glan Clwyd on New Year's Day North Wales police officer died after falling from aqueduct 'Wonderful' dad-of-six given weeks to live as family seek to make the most of time they have left The bizarre items left behind at North Wales Travelodge hotels last year 'Despicable' fraudster got voucher 'for raffle for bereaved family' then used it herself Find out what's going on in your neck of the woods 