
                
                    
                        Let CFO Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              O’Keefe, who has been at the financial helm of the weight loss management platform for only two years, is departing as the company continues to face headwinds stemming from the move to digital, uncertainties in foreign markets and subscriber losses.  During her time at WW, O’Keefe played a role in the company’s rationalization strategy, according to CEO Sima Sistani. “Amy has been a valuable partner to me since I joined in March and I would particularly like to thank her for her support in our organizational realignment and rationalizing our studio footprint, as well as the successful refinancing in 2021,” Sistani said in a statement.  In-person meetings and workshop offerings have long been a pillar of Weight Watcher’s core business but the company has been forced to move online as the industry has evolved to become increasingly digital to compete with other firms such as Noom, Nutrisystem and Tivity health.   Weight Watchers reported a 17.3% decline in digital subscribers in the third quarter ended Oct. 1 compared to the year-earlier period, according to a Nov. 3 SEC filing. The company’s revenues also fell 10.7% in the quarter year-over-year.  Some competitors are also struggling. Weight-loss app Noom announced it was slashing its workforce, mostly in coaching, as their CFO departed back in October, CFO Dive previously reported. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Executives aiming to rise to the CFO seat have faced a bright landscape in recent years, with turnover unusually high. CFOs and CAOs have developed a “symbiotic relationship” as the finance function morphs into a driver of business strategy. Subscribe to CFO Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Executives aiming to rise to the CFO seat have faced a bright landscape in recent years, with turnover unusually high. CFOs and CAOs have developed a “symbiotic relationship” as the finance function morphs into a driver of business strategy. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines