Venture-backed health startups are vying for a piece of the booming market for new prescription drugs designed to help with weight loss. The drugs, which include Wegovy and Ozempic, have surged in popularity in the past year as they've trended on social media and been touted by celebrities. Known as GLP-1 agonists, the injections were developed for Type 2 diabetes but have been found to help people lose 15% to 20% of their body weight on average. Doctors have described them as game changers in obesity treatment, and some people using the drugs who've struggled with obesity have said they've never felt better. Startups wasted no time jumping on the trend. Some companies such as Calibrate formed years ago to offer weight-loss treatments exclusively. Other startups such as Ro that built their businesses treating other health conditions have launched programs to capitalize on the weight-loss craze. Established companies also want a piece of the action. Virtual-care company Teladoc and diet-company WeightWatchers both now offer the drugs. "They want to iterate to that area before the market has decided whether or not this is something that can be sustainable online," said Stephanie Davis, a senior research analyst at SVB Securities. "By the time you see this proven by one of your competitors and you try to get in, it's probably too late." The potential market for weight-loss drugs is enormous; the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has estimated that 70% of US adults were obese or overweight in 2018. Analysts at the investment bank Jefferies projected in February that the GLP-1 market across both Type 2 diabetes and obesity could reach more than $150 billion in worldwide sales by 2031. Sales related to treating obesity could make up more than $100 billion, according to the analysts. In addition to Ozempic and Wegovy — both brand names of the drug semaglutide — GLP-1 drugs include Saxenda, also made by Novo Nordisk, and Mounjaro, made by Eli Lilly. The Food and Drug Administration has approved only Wegovy and Saxenda for weight loss, but doctors can prescribe the other drugs for unapproved uses. The drugs can be hard to get, though. They can cost more than $1,000 a month, and they must be taken for the long term to prevent people from regaining weight. Many health plans don't cover the drugs. As more startups have begun offering weight-loss treatments, some companies have drawn criticism for advertising or prescribing the drugs to people who aren't overweight, and some have been accused of contributing to drug shortages. In a report published in March, The Wall Street Journal said it found that one startup, NextMed, had posted fake customer reviews on its website. Many startups offering weight-loss drugs have flooded social media platforms with ads for the shots. Ro received some backlash on the internet for the ads it plastered across the walls of New York City subway stations. Some startups have tried to differentiate themselves by providing comprehensive care, including counseling for nutrition and exercise, rather than just prescribing the drugs. Insider rounded up 13 venture-backed startups competing for customers in the lucrative GLP-1 weight-loss market, listed from least to most funding raised. This article was updated on May 25 with Noom's weight-loss offering. Founded: 2020 Total funding: Undisclosed What Measured does: Measured's online weight-loss platform is divided into two programs. One includes medication, and one does not. In addition to GLP-1s, the startup offers weight-management medications including metformin. Measured's website says both plans include meal guides, health coaching, and other educational and behavioral content. Measured charges $39 for its initial consultation and lab tests. Its medication plan costs $79 a month, while its nonmedication plan costs $49 a month. The New York-based company participated in the startup incubator Y Combinator's winter 2021 cohort. Measured told Insider it hasn't announced its funding publicly. Founded: 2020 Total raised: Undisclosed What NextMed does: NextMed began as a COVID-19 testing startup but moved into prescribing GLP-1s for weight loss in July 2022. The startup offers two programs with GLP-1 prescriptions for weight loss: one that costs $138 a month and includes initial lab tests, and another that costs $188 a month and includes lab testing every three months and access to an Apple Fitness+ membership. Both programs include monthly telehealth visits with a clinician. The startup's website says it can "guide" patients to low-cost generic medications for weight loss if their insurance doesn't cover the cost of the GLP-1s. In March, The Wall Street Journal found that some of NextMed's advertising campaigns didn't include information about the risks of GLP-1s and that before-and-after photos on its website were of people who weren't NextMed users. The Journal said NextMed made several changes to its website and stopped running some of its ads after the outlet began questioning the startup about its practices. NextMed, based in New York, is backed by Dorm Room Fund, a VC fund that invests in student founders. Its CEO, Rob Epstein, started NextMed as an undergraduate student at the University of Pennsylvania; he graduated in December 2021. NextMed didn't respond to requests for comment. Founded: 2022 Total raised: $1.15 million, according to PitchBook What Mochi Health does: Mochi launched in 2022 as an online weight-loss platform offering prescriptions for weight-loss medications and virtual visits with obesity-medicine physicians. The startup, based in San Francisco, prescribes several other medications for weight loss in addition to GLP-1s, like naltrexone, which is typically used to stop cravings in people with substance-use disorders. A subscription to Mochi Health costs $79 a month or $799 a year. Mochi recently began offering pediatric obesity care to eligible 12- to 17-year-olds. The startup said it doesn't comment publicly on its funding. PitchBook says Mochi is backed by the VC firm AngelList and other undisclosed investors. Founded: 2020 Total funding: $3.7 million What Accomplish Health does: Accomplish Health's weight-management practice includes prescriptions like GLP-1s, access to dietitians for nutrition therapy, health coaching, and remote monitoring devices like scales and blood-pressure cuffs. The New York-based startup says it also works with health systems to connect patients with additional obesity care like bariatric surgery or specialty care for chronic conditions like diabetes that are often comorbid with obesity. Accomplish Health's website doesn't say how much its services cost, but it does say that the services aren't covered by any commercial health plans and that out-of-pocket costs usually don't exceed $250 a month for provider visits, excluding any lab testing or medication not reimbursed by insurance. The company says it treats patients in eight states, including New York, Florida, and Virginia. According to PitchBook, Accomplish Health is backed by firms like Hustle Fund, Vast Ventures, and MHS Capital. Dr. Michael Albert, Accomplish Health's chief medical officer and cofounder, discusses obesity and weight loss with GLP-1s on TikTok, where he has more than 250,000 followers. Founded: 2023 Total funding: $4.5 million What Knownwell does: Knownwell announced in January that it launched with $4.5 million in seed funding led by Flare Capital Partners. The Boston startup, which was founded by Brooke Boyarsky Pratt and Dr. Angela Fitch, the president of the Obesity Medicine Association, says it offers in-person and virtual primary care, metabolic health services, nutrition counseling, and behavioral-health services. A spokesperson for Knownwell said the company is designed for people who've felt stigmatized because of their weight. She said the startup accepts insurance and can prescribe a range of obesity medications, including all GLP-1 drugs and lower-cost alternatives. Knownwell provides its services directly to consumers but intends to work with employers as well in the future, the spokesperson said. It operates one clinic near Boston and plans to open additional clinics in other states soon, she said. Founded: 2019 Total funding: $27 million What Form does: Form, based in Boston, works with employers to offer its weight-loss program to workers as an employee benefit. The program is also offered directly to consumers. Patients meet with an obesity-medicine doctor once a month virtually and a registered dietitian a couple of times a month. The company's providers treat patients for obesity and related health conditions such as polycystic ovary syndrome or hypothyroidism, Form's CEO, Evan Richardson, said. Richardson said they address nutrition, exercise, and behavior change, and they work with patients' existing providers to ensure their medicines aren't causing weight gain. Richardson said that meeting with Form providers is covered by patients' insurance plans. Patients are responsible for paying a $99 onboarding fee and any copayments, but there's no monthly subscription fee. Its doctors work to prescribe a treatment that's covered, whether it's a GLP-1 drug such as Wegovy or a lower-cost medicine like metformin. Richardson said that about 10% of Form's patients aren't prescribed a weight-loss drug but are able to achieve their weight goals over time because of Form's holistic care. "We're practicing the subspecialty of obesity medicine," he said. "We are not prescribing a medication and then walking away from that patient." Form's top investors include M13, SignalFire, and NextView Ventures. Founded: 2022 Total funding: $30 million What Sunrise does: Sunrise is the first brand of Cloud Health Systems, a startup in the Bay Area that Apoorva Mehta, the founder of Instacart, launched in 2022. The obesity and metabolic-health startup offers prescriptions, lab testing, and on-demand check-ins with Sunrise clinicians through the company's app. The program costs $149 a month before any medication costs. Sunrise says it works with insurance providers to help patients pay $25 a month or less for GLP-1 medications after meeting their deductible. Thrive Capital led Cloud Health's $30 million round, which valued the company at $200 million, in November, the Journal reported. In December, NextMed, another startup on this list, filed a lawsuit against Mehta accusing the Cloud Health founder of stealing NextMed's trade secrets, including its customer-acquisition strategy, to "create a copycat company." Sunrise didn't respond to Insider's request for comment. Founded: 2017 Total funding: $35 million What Hello Alpha does: Hello Alpha, a telehealth company in Palo Alto, California, focused on women's health, provides virtual access to clinicians who can provide weight-loss treatment. A spokesperson said the company treats more than 100 medical conditions. Hello Alpha's website says patients answer questions about their health history online before meeting with a medical provider who may prescribe weight-loss medications including GLP-1 drugs. The weight-loss service is included in a subscription plan that allows patients to visit with a provider four times a month and costs $49 a month. Prescription-drug costs and labs aren't included in the fee. The spokesperson said Hello Alpha's membership includes access to a registered dietitian for lifestyle and nutritional support, a clinical team to manage primary care, and patient advocates to help with insurance requirements. Hello Alpha's investors include SpringRock Ventures, AV8 Ventures, GSR Ventures, and Samsung Next, among others. Founded: 2020 Total funding: $127.6 million What Calibrate does: Calibrate, based in New York, offers a weight-loss program it calls "Metabolic Reset" that uses a combination of GLP-1 prescriptions and twice-monthly virtual coaching sessions to help members make changes to their diets, exercise routines, and other habits. The startup exclusively prescribes GLP-1 medications to members in its yearlong program. Calibrate's program costs $138 a month, or $1,649 for the full year, excluding the cost of GLP-1 medications. The startup says it navigates getting insurance coverage for those medications on the patient's behalf. Calibrate also in October started selling its platform to insurers and employers. The company says it aims to get its patients to a place where they no longer have to use GLP-1s to manage their weight. Research suggests most people regain most of the weight they lost within a year of stopping GLP-1s. Before starting Calibrate, Isabelle Kenyon led partnerships, growth, and business operations at the pharmacy startup Capsule. Calibrate last raised $100 million in Series B funding in August 2021, co-led by Tiger Global and Founders Fund. Founded: 2020 Total funding: $132 million What Found does: Found, based in San Francisco, says it provides a combination of weight-loss medication and coaching to help with changing behaviors. The startup's clinicians can prescribe 13 medications, many of which are generic drugs, designed to help with weight loss. It rolled out GLP-1 drugs including Ozempic and Wegovy starting in the second quarter of 2022, but it hasn't marketed them heavily, a company spokesperson said, adding that the company plans to expand access to them in the coming months. "The majority of our members are on a medication of some sort, and it's because they typically struggle with obesity and they've been trying to solve it through a lens of just eat less, exercise more," Found's CEO, Sarah Jones Simmer, told Insider in an interview. "And that's not enough if there is a biological factor that is making it challenging to be at the weight that's right for you." Found's program costs $600 for six months, and participants tend to pay cash, she said. Generic drugs are included in that cost, but GLP-1s are not. Found's website says 185,000 people have joined its program. Jones Simmer said the startup plans to work with companies to offer Found to their employees. Found's top investors include Atomic, GV, and WestCap. Founded: 2015 Total funding: $500 million What Everly Health does: Everly Health is the parent company of Everlywell, a healthcare startup that got its big break on "Shark Tank" in late 2017, where CEO Julia Cheek pitched a business that would deliver lab tests directly to people's homes and help explain the results of those tests. Everlywell began with tests for metabolism and food allergies, and has since expanded to offer a wider array of at-home assessments, including for thyroid health, STDs, and colon cancer. Austin-based Everly Health also operates fertility startup Natalist as well as Everly Health Solutions, which partners with health plans to deliver lab tests to patients. Cheek was named to Insider's list of the 100 People Transforming Business in 2022. Everlywell launched its weight loss program this year. In addition to GLP-1 prescriptions for "eligible" patients, its program includes mandatory lab tests for hormone levels and other metabolic measurements, as well as virtual visits with a clinician that aren't covered by insurance. Excluding the cost of GLP-1s, Everlywell says the initial cost to members is $254, and each monthly virtual visit is an extra $79. The startup says it helps users get insurance coverage for the pricey GLP-1 medications.  Everly Health is backed by venture firms including HealthQuest Capital, The Chernin Group, and Lux Capital.  Founded: 2008 Total funding: $669 million, according to Pitchbook What Noom does: Noom, based in New York, introduced a popular weight-loss app in 2017 that allows users to track their weight, meals, and physical activity. Its coaches offer written encouragement to users and help answer their questions through the app's messaging platform. In the fall of 2022, Noom began rolling out a new program that offered some users access to prescription anti-obesity medications, including GLP-1 drugs, after a clinician evaluation, Insider first reported. Noom publicly announced the program under the name Noom Med in May 2023. It pairs medication with patient education and nutrition and exercise tools, according to the company. Noom's investors include Silver Lake, Oak HC/FT, Temasek, Sequoia Capital, and others. Founded: 2017 Total funding: $1 billion What Ro does: Ro, a New York company best known for selling erectile dysfunction pills online, in January said it launched a new weight-loss service that includes GLP-1 drugs, including Ozempic and Wegovy. The startup previously helped patients lose weight with a different prescription treatment called Plenity. In the program, called the Body Program, patients take an at-home blood test to measure A1C, cholesterol, and thyroid and kidney function. They have a video chat with a provider, who may prescribe a GLP-1 drug if appropriate. Patients receive a digital scale to track progress, along with 24 check-ins with their provider and personal coaching with a nurse over the course of a year. "We are really trying to educate people that obesity is a chronic disease. This is not weight loss for lifestyle. This is weight loss to reset your metabolic set point in your body," said Dr. Melynda Barnes, Ro's chief medical officer. The "set point" theory is that a person has a default weight that's difficult to change. The program costs $99 for the first month and $135 per month after that. While the weight-loss drugs aren't included in that fee, Ro said it helps patients get the drugs covered by their health plans. Ro's investors include General Catalyst, FirstMark Capital, SignalFire, and Initialized Capital. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to