What :       5th Africa Resilience Forum What :       5th Africa Resilience Forum Who:        The African Development Bank Group Who:        The African Development Bank Group When:      3 - 5 October 2023 When:      3 - 5 October 2023 Where :   Noom Hotel, Mandela Room - Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire Where :   Noom Hotel, Mandela Room - Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire     The African Development Bank will hold the fifth Africa Resilience Forum from 3-5 October 2023 in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire, Noom Hotel, with the theme ‘Financing Security, Peace and Development for a Resilient Africa’. The African Development Bank will hold the fifth Africa Resilience Forum from 3-5 October 2023 in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire, Noom Hotel, with the theme ‘Financing Security, Peace and Development for a Resilient Africa’. The 2023 Africa Resilience Forum will explore innovative solutions to fill the financing gaps for African countries experiencing conflict and facing increasing insecurity. The event will also advance discussion on how to mobilize resources at scale at the nexus of peace, development, and security, channel them to the public and private sectors, and build effective partnerships for this purpose. The 2023 Africa Resilience Forum will explore innovative solutions to fill the financing gaps for African countries experiencing conflict and facing increasing insecurity. The event will also advance discussion on how to mobilize resources at scale at the nexus of peace, development, and security, channel them to the public and private sectors, and build effective partnerships for this purpose. The Forum is also an opportunity for the Bank to present its latest thinking on the fragility and resilience agenda and share some of the new initiatives being taken forward under the Bank’s new strategy for addressing fragility and building resilience in Africa (2022-2026).  The Forum is also an opportunity for the Bank to present its latest thinking on the fragility and resilience agenda and share some of the new initiatives being taken forward under the Bank’s new strategy for addressing fragility and building resilience in Africa (2022-2026).  The Africa Resilience Forum, held every two years, brings together policymakers and practitioners from humanitarian, development, peace, and security communities, across the public and private sectors, including investors, academia, think tanks and civil society. The Africa Resilience Forum, held every two years, brings together policymakers and practitioners from humanitarian, development, peace, and security communities, across the public and private sectors, including investors, academia, think tanks and civil society. The Forum comes at a critical time, the need for new approaches to finance peace, security and development is greater than ever. The Forum comes at a critical time, the need for new approaches to finance peace, security and development is greater than ever. 
Please register here(link is external) to follow the event online
For in person participation, please write to: arf@afdb.org(link sends e-mail)
For more information on ARF 2023 visit the event website
Click here(link is external) to send your questions
 