Time to fill this bad boy with great products like gadgets, electronics, housewares, gifts and other great offerings from Groupon Goods. Sign in to get personalized notifications about your deals, cash back, special offers, and more. A healthy mind is equally paramount to a healthy body, which is why Noom has recently tailored its behaviour-based technology to mental wellbeing too. If you struggle with excess stress or regular anxiety, you may just find the day-to-day changes you need in the new Noom mood program. Just like its weight-losing counterpart, the mood program aims to alter how you approach, analyse and act in your daily lives, resulting in smaller but consistent changes that will help lift your mood at even the darkest hour. Once you’ve shown Noom a little something about your mindset and daily activities through their interactive tutorial, you’ll be offered the chance to try out Noom’s software in a 14-day trial. The cost for each individual trial period is calculated according to your needs as outlined in the previous questions, but don’t let that dissuade you. As a gesture of good will and faith in their product, Noom will actually let you decide how much you pay for your trial – meaning you can even sample the software without barely spending a penny. You never know what fresh discoveries have been made that’ll help you progress towards better health, so it’s a good thing Noom does the hard work for you by entering all you need to know on their online blog. Besides recent trends in both the physical and mental healthcare industries, there’s also plenty more articles on dealing with everyday issues such as fatigue, energy levels and low mood, plus a range of healthy meal replacements that don’t skimp on taste. Whether you’ve just started your trial period or are an ongoing subscriber, reach out to customer service via live chat if you’d like to request a refund. There are no hard and fast rules about when refunds are accepted, so please talk to customer support and see what can be arranged. Whenever you need help with your Noom journey, account or subscription, visit the ‘Customer Support’ page to get your queries sorted.  As anyone who’s tried it before knows, dieting is an uphill struggle that demands consistency. Noom takes a new approach to the practice, backing up healthy foods with behavioural changes that will help you kick cravings and eat healthy with minimal effort. Those eager to start should grab a Noom promo code from Groupon before kicking off their weight-loss journey to ensure their package comes at the lowest possible price. Save 15% on Full Price Items with this FitFlop Voucher Code Free £5 Gift Card with Orders Over £40 with Lovehoney Discount Promo 40% Off or More on Selected Cycling Gear at Oakley 10% Off Servicing and MOT Bookings | Kwik Fit Offer Code Up to 50% Off in Exclusive Sale Preview + Free Delivery On Orders £40+ | Mainline Menswear Voucher Free £250 Gift Card with Orders Over £3200 + Free Data on Holiday | On the Beach Discount Code Get 10% Off Selected Four Seasons Changing Robes | Saltrock Promo Code Save 10% on Ferries to France Routes | DFDS Voucher Up to 30% Off Group Bookings with our Hotels.com Voucher £10 Off Selected TVs from £300 to £499 with this Richer Sounds Voucher £96 Off Be900 24m for 4 Months | BeFibre Discount Up to 12% Off Flights + Free £50 Gift Card with Orders Over £700 | Qatar Airways Promo Get a Free £25 Gift Card with Bookings Over £460  + There's 30% Off Early Bookings | Expedia Voucher Save 15% on Full Price Items with this FitFlop Voucher Code Free £5 Gift Card with Orders Over £40 with Lovehoney Discount Our best money-saving deals, guides and offers for 2024 

Dog-Friendly Holiday Cottages

Hot Tub Holidays
 Glamping Holidays

Birthday Freebies 2024
 Kids eat for free
 Kindle deals
 Cheap Log Cabin Breaks in UK 
 Half Term Deals
 Summer Sales
 Staycations Deals
 Travel Extras Discount codes
 Cost of Living Deals
 Groupon Rewards  
 Bet365 Promo Code
 William Hill Promo Code
 Paddy Power Promo Code  Groupon may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Groupon is an easy way to get huge discounts while discovering fun
          activities in your city. Our daily local deals consist of restaurants, spas, hotels, massages, shopping vouchers, things to do, and a whole lot more, in hundreds of cities across the world. Discover the best gift ideas with Groupon: check out great deals for  Black Friday, Gifts for Him, Gifts for Her, Gifts for Couples, Birthday Gifts, Gifts for Mothers and Affordable Gifts.