Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Kavya Pillai
          

            Jul 28, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   Building a good network is time-consuming, to say the least. Networking involves forming relationships with other people who share a common interest, such as a profession or industry, and exchanging information with them. The majority of networking takes place in social settings such as community groups or networking events. The purpose of networking is to expand your professional network and learn about job opportunities in your field. Networking online involves connecting with people on a social and professional level. Forming relationships online heavily relies on digital tools, as opposed to traditional networking. Here are some tips on how your could approach your online network to yield results faster. 1. Stand Out Prior to getting started, update your profiles on the social networking platforms you are using. List your relevant qualifications, experience, and accomplishments in your profile, and upload a professional profile photo. Whenever you are creating your profile, try to see it from a potential employer's perspective. You don't always need a long profile to be successful. Make sure your information is concise and short. You may be surprised at how powerful a well-crafted profile can be. Additionally, make sure you review your other social media channels. You might want to delete any controversial posts and check your privacy settings on social media, as potential employers and recruiters often check your social media profiles. Verify that you have not missed anything by searching your name online. 2. Personalize Your Work Networking is one of the best ways to gain new insights into your career. Build your network by adding people outside your industry as well. You probably work in an industry that overlaps with others. Find relevant people from these domains by thinking about what they could be. It is impossible to predict where a referral will come from. Impersonal messages are one of the biggest networking mistakes professionals make. If your message is generic, it's more likely that the person you're contacting will consider it spam and ignore it. Find out what you have in common with someone before adding them to your network. If you share a common educational interest or social cause, it does not have to be a professional experience. Start your message by explaining why you are contacting that person. 3. Be Active It is important to remember that quantity does not equal quality. Be sure that your posts are relevant and that your contributions have a purpose. People won't pay attention to your activity in the network if they notice that you post content just for the sake of posting it. Getting noticed requires more than joining a professional network. Engaging with posts and actively posting relevant content will help you stand out. Being active and taking part in multiple activities is a great way to demonstrate to your network that you are passionate about the field you are in. 4. Be An Early Bird Networking is often overlooked by people until they are out of a job. Being involved with industry communities can seem unnecessary when you're already employed or aren't naturally chatty. It will be hard to build a network from scratch if you wait until you're laid off to make connections. It is much easier to get involved when you network online. You can connect with people by commenting on a LinkedIn post or joining an industry forum. Maintaining an online presence and staying in touch with your peers is easy when you check your feed a few times each week. You can make use of your network when you need it by always networking, even if you are not actively seeking work. Your online relationships can be fulfilling on their own, but they will come in handy when you need advice, a referral, or a new job. Even if your relationships are entirely online, building a strong network of friends and contacts is still the best way to advance your career. Entrepreneur Staff 
          Generative AI can give us mountains of information on any topic under the sun in seconds — but is it any good at marketing? I had to find out.
         
          Use AI to gain a competitive edge and streamline your workflow.
         
          There are steps you, as a small business owner, can take to ensure financial stability and position yourself for growth
         
          CycleBar is the largest indoor cycling brand and offers a variety of low-impact, high-intensity indoor cycling workouts, which are inclusive of all fitness levels.
         
          Meet your trusted security companion for global connectivity.
         
          This article aims to provide entrepreneurs with basic knowledge and understanding of the potential of immersive technologies and generative AI in business and discuss their impact on the global business agenda.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
