About | Contact| Advertise   Swedish tech firm Exeger has introduced the 'Powerfoyle Shield', a collaboration with Nordic Semiconductor, designed for the Thingy:91 cellular IoT platform. This shield, crafted from Exeger's innovative Powerfoyle photovoltaic material, enables devices to harvest energy from both indoor and outdoor light without the need for direct sunlight. The initiative aims to enhance power management based on fluctuating light and battery conditions, ultimately extending device longevity, and diminishing the frequency of battery replacements. Beyond the hardware, Exeger provides a software development kit, allowing for the creation of apps to monitor solar device metrics. With the integration of the Powerfoyle Shield, devices can potentially become fully self-reliant, negating the necessity for conventional charging methods. This partnership underscores both companies' commitment to a sustainable and power-efficient future.  Integrate AI with your Raspberry Pi 5 with the RPi AI Kit that bundles M.2 HAT+ and Hailo AI module MAX40109 precision, single-flow calibration signal conditioning AFE for pressure sensor applications General-purpose thick-film, anti-sulfur resistors designed for long-term performance and reliability The EMC product range includes PCB and Cable ferrites, inductors, capacitors, and more... Find your electronic components easily with DigiKey's myLists and apply for our design contest now! TE Connectivity's UAM Wi-Fi Triple Band Antennas offer a compact alternative for terminal antennas Low-cost, compact, scalable development boards for quick prototyping for edge use cases Low-cost, USB multifunction DAQ devices for general purpose data acquisition applications.     Your email is safe with us, we don’t spam. Be a part of our ever growing community.  Semicon Media is a unique collection of online media, focused purely on the Electronics Community across the globe. With a perfectly blended team of Engineers and Journalists, we demystify electronics and its related technologies by providing high value content to our readers. Copyright © 2023 Circuit Digest. All rights reserved.