Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account   All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. It's the second week of the Nordstrom Anniversary Sale, and the deals are still going very strong. Of course, we're partial to the deals on menswear, but there are plenty discounts to peruse, especially on the grooming and homewares front. T To help you shop the sale, we thought we’d go through the *whole* thing—yes, the whole thing. Consider it binged, with every nook, cranny and category scoured. We pulled together some of the best markdowns across every department where deals were offered. No stone left unturned, no “Next Page” button unclicked. Heads up: The Nordstrom Anniversary Sale ends August 4, but it's not a good idea to dilly-dally. Stock is selling quickly, so if you see something, best you snag it. As always, we'll be keeping this page updated with the latest deals on offer, so check back with us. Shop by Category: Summer Essentials | Menswear | Shoes | Accessories | Grooming  |  Home Goods Unless you’re somewhere in the southern hemisphere or making summit assaults in the mountains, you’re well aware of the thermal circumstances we’re currently experiencing. And while those circumstances very much should hinder certain outdoor activities, there’s still a ton of gear that will make whatever sun-drenched plans you have that much more tolerable and enjoyable—so we pulled together a few pieces making our summer a little breezier. Rains Nordstrom Teva Nordstrom Slowtide Nordstrom Max Mara Nordstrom Billabong Nordstrom Mephisto Nordstrom Vuori Nordstrom JW Anderson Nordstrom Nike Nordstrom Barena Nordstrom While we love a good statement piece as much as anyone—maybe more, who’s to say—having trusted workhorses at the ready, ones that fit great and that you *actually* enjoy wearing is arguably more important. And though we absolutely condone paying full-price for something you’ll wear, conservatively, hundreds of times, there’s no better time to re-up, replace or rediscover a daily driver than when it’s on sale. Officine Générale Nordstrom A.P.C. Nordstrom NN007 Nordstrom Polo Ralph Lauren Nordstrom Nike Nordstrom Eton Nordstrom Rag & Bone Nordstrom NN07 Nordstrom Adidas Nordstrom Tommy John Nordstrom Nordstrom Nordstrom Brooks Brothers Nordstrom Whether you’re on the hunt for some sneakers, sandals, slip-ons or something a little more sleek, there’s a summer shoe for you to fall in love with on the Anniversary Sale’s digital shelves—including some all-time classic sneakers, like Nike Waffle Racers and Adidas Gazelles. Oh, and if you’ve even thought about thinking about getting into running, some of the best entry-level models on the market are also there for the saving. On Nordstrom Nike Nordstrom Allen Edmonds Nordstrom Johnston & Murphy Nordstrom Adidas Nordstrom Hoka Nordstrom Allen Edmonds Nordstrom AllSaints Nordstrom Sunglasses get a lot of attention when it comes to summertime accessories, but 1) the sun is a year-round character and 2) there’s an entire world of other outfit-elevating items you could be benefiting from at this very moment. Belts, bags, watches, you name it, Nordstrom’s got it on sale. And fine, there are some killer sunglasses in the mix too. Like, a lot of them. Timex Nordstrom Herschel Supply Co. Nordstrom Tom Ford Nordstrom Celine Nordstrom Magnanni Nordstrom Le Specs Nordstrom Shinola Nordstrom AllSaints Nordstrom Alright, so all those things we said about reliable workhorses and closet reinforcements up top? Throw them out when it comes to grooming products on sale. If you’ve ever been wondering if some, say, face scrub or beard balm is worth it, now is the time. So go ahead, this is the time to get the nice stuff—especially because you’ll know. Le Labo Nordstrom Malin + Goetz Nordstrom Jack Black Nordstrom Aveda Nordstrom Malin + Goetz Nordstrom Kiehl's Nordstrom Le Labo Nordstrom Hawthorne Nordstrom We can’t be the only one with a couple gaps in our home goods catalog, so we were particularly excited to see the sick range of sheet sets, towels, kitchenware, candles and more peppered throughout. And while popping a tag off a new garment is basically narcotic, using new towels is euphoric. Plus, most guests will be far more impressed with the contents of your linen closet than the contents of your closet closet. Le Creuset Nordstrom Parachute Nordstrom Parachute Nordstrom Hydro Flask Nordstrom Viking Nordstrom Diptyque Nordstrom Le Creuset Nordstrom Viking Nordstrom Parachute Nordstrom Slowtide Nordstrom More From GQ Connect © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. GQ may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices