All products and services featured are independently chosen by editors. However, StyleCaster may receive a commission on orders placed through its retail links, and the retailer may receive certain auditable data for accounting purposes. One of Nordstrom’s two biggest sales of the year is officially on. The Half-Yearly Sale, as indicated by the name, happens only twice a year. That means limited-time deals on the biggest brands. Think: Reformation, New Balance, and SKIMS. We can’t forget the steep discounts on designer names like Coach, Versace and Tory Burch, too. This year, Nordstrom didn’t hold back in offering huge markdowns (over 28,000, to be exact). Today's Top Deals This Gentle Body Scrub Is The First One to Not Scratch My Skin—& It's 20% Off For a Few More Days Users Say This Painless, Permanent Hair Removal Device Is a ‘Great Investment’—& It’s $40 Off RN This Celeb-Loved Face Cream Hydrates & Plumps Skin Like No Other—Grab It on Sale Besides Nordstrom’s Anniversary Sale, the retailer doesn’t host many massive sale events. The only other one that should definitely be on your radar is the Half-Yearly Sale that’s going down right this second. It runs from May 22 through June 2 at 11:59 p.m. PST, which means you should probably pick up the pace, especially since markdowns of up to 50 percent are involved.  So many styles are selling like hotcakes, too, so do yourself a favor and keep reading for the 10 deals that you should check out ASAP. The Nordstrom Half-Yearly Sale starts on May 22 and ends on June 2 at 11:59 p.m. PST. The Nordstrom Half-Yearly sale currently has over 28,000 markdowns. You’ll find trendy brands like Madewell, Sam Edelman, Levi’s, and more for up to 50 percent off, but you’ll also find designers like Versace, Tory Burch, and Bottega Veneta on sale. Anyone can access the over 28,000 deals in the Nordstrom Half-Yearly Sale. However, if you want early access to sales and to earn points that you can later spend at Nordstrom, join The Nordy Club. It’s easy to become a Nordstrom rewards program member—and it’s free! $138.6019830% Off Buy Now Denim midi and maxi skirts—especially ones with a front slit—are having a moment. This one from Pistola will give you a flattering fit and a chance to show off a pair of knee-high boots or strappy sandals. Add it to your cart for 30 percent off. $177.7539555% Off Buy Now We just found your new go-to bag (you’re welcome). It’s Coach’s Penn Sequin Shoulder Bag, which is covered in shiny sequins and offers a ’90s flair. This bag is 55 percent off, bringing its price down from $395 to $178. When else are you going to save $217 on a Coach bag? $675112540% Off Buy Now Did you ever think you’d find yourself buying shoes from the one and only Versace? Let dreams become reality because the Square Toe Platform Bootie is a whopping 40 percent off at this very moment. $18624825% Off Buy Now These AGOLDE cargo jeans with a plain racerback tank and pointed toe shoes peeping out = chef’s kiss. I’d wear this kind of ‘fit all day every day if I could. This pair of pants typically costs $248 but is discounted to $186 during the sale. $37.976441% Off Buy Now ICYMI, you can buy SKIMS at Nordstrom, and during the sale event, the brand’s underwear an impressive 41 percent off. Get this assorted pack of the buttery-soft Fits Everybody Thong for $38 instead of $64. $44.255925% Off Buy Now Everyone needs a pair of linen pants in their wardobe. They keep you cool during the warmer months and just look so sophisticated yet laidback. These ones from Caslon are under $45 right now. $62.9989.9930% Off Buy Now I’m always on the lookout for the best New Balance deals, and fortunately, the iconic 574 style is marked down by up to 30 percent at Nordstrom. These chunky grandpa sneaks are classic. $15325540% Off Buy Now Whenever you come across Ganni on sale, you know it’s time to pounce. These shorts can easily elevate any summer OOTD, and I’m envisioning them paired with a high-neck, sleeveless top and fisherman sandals. Don’t wait any longer to snag them for over $100 less. $208.6029830% Off Buy Now Need a new bag to wear to the office, on all your errands, and while you travel? Say hello to Tory Burch’s Ever-Ready Zip Tote. It’s incredibly spacious on the inside (maybe even ludicrously capacious??) and incredibly stylish on the outside. You truly get the best of both worlds with this bag. Oh! And it’s 30 percent off during the Half-Yearly Sale. I usually go safe with neutrals, but I’m really feeling this pop of cobalt blue. $399.99499.9920% Off Buy Now Go from drying then straightening your strands to doing both all at once thanks to the Dyson Airstrait. This hot tool simplifies your routine by taking hair from wet to dry in one step. Cop this Dyson hair straightener for $100 off at Nordstrom through June 1. Best of StyleCaster I’m Obsessed With This Boho Spring Dress I Got On Amazon For $40 I'm a Stylist Who Lives in New York & These Are the Warmest Winter Coats, Hands Down The 11 Best Places To Buy Glasses Online That Are Actually Chic The epic sale is almost over! Don't miss out on amazing discounts from brands like Ugg, Spanx, Coach, Tory Burch, Le Creuset and more. Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr spoke at the Democratic National Convention Monday night at the United Center in Chicago, where he won three NBA championships as a point guard for the Chicago Bulls. The Boy Meets World Star has a form of breast cancer that experts say is almost always curable. Snag an iPad for its lowest-ever price and a plush pair of cooling pillows marked down by over 70%, for starters. The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption.  Microsoft, a major data center operator, says 42% of the water it consumed in 2023 came from "areas with water stress."  Google, which has among the largest data center footprints, said this year that 15% of its freshwater withdrawals came from areas with "high water scarcity." Pro-Palestinian demonstrators protested outside the DNC in Chicago on Monday. Christian Polanco and Christine Cupo recap a busy and entertaining weekend in the Premier League. They also recap action in Serie A and the German Super Cup. They also break down the new USL Super League and preview the last half of the NWSL season. Access for content creators means new players can get involved at the Democratic National Convention. Freeman injured the middle finger on his right hand while fielding a ground ball on Saturday. "(If) you have a terrible person that's telling you things that you don't want to hear ... you're gonna start to believe that about yourself."