
	It was a slow start to the cross-country ski season in North Bay due to Mother Nature, however trails are now open in full force. 
	"It's been a bit colder, so the snow sets up really nice,” said Otto Bedard, a member of the North Bay Nordic Ski Club board. 
	“Nice sunny day, with most of the trails open so it's nice to see people out here.” 
	Fifty kilometres of trails are open for skiers to access, Bedard told CTV News these good conditions wouldn't be possible without the hard work of the volunteers. 
	"We had volunteers out trying to get the trails open, in front of the groomer with shovels. Digging snow from within the banks and bringing it down to the trails so that the groomer could groom for days and days," he said. 
	"All of our clearing is done in the fall to make sure all the sticks and rocks are moved, which is countless hours for that." 
	The Nordic Ski Club’s variety of trails allows skiers of all skill levels to enjoy the network. 
	"It is a physical sport, but it is accessible. We have a wide variety of trails in terms of what we can offer new and experienced skiers, hills, not hills," Bedard said. 
	Bedard said the sport continues to grow locally, with over 800 members now part of the club, more than any previous year. 
	For more information on the club, visit their website. The lawyer for 'Freedom Convoy' organizer Chris Barber told a judge Monday that a court order banning honking in downtown Ottawa during the protest wasn't clear enough.  The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month. The federal political party's decision comes as some embassies, civil servants, and local organizations pulled out of the event amid the controversy.  Statistics Canada says the median family after-tax income in 2022 fell compared with 2021, after adjustment for inflation, with young people being the hardest hit.  Party faithful are feeling invigorated by U.S. Vice-President Kamala Harris's swift ascension to the top of the ticket as the Democratic National Convention kicks off in Chicago on Monday following a tumultuous month for the party.  Former U.S. president Donald Trump has posted a fake social media image of pop superstar Taylor Swift asking people to vote for him in the November election.  British tech magnate Mike Lynch and five other people were missing after their luxury superyacht sank during a freak storm off Sicily early Monday, Italy’s civil protection and authorities said. Lynch’s wife and 14 other people survived.  Over time, Jon Kotwicki says he and his team are 'creating, you know, kind of our own little airport amusement park' in Wasilla, Alaska.  Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. could be on the verge of dominating the world's convenience store market after it offered to buy one of the sector's biggest players.  U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Monday that Israel has accepted a proposal to bridge differences holding up a ceasefire and hostage release in Gaza, and he called on Hamas to do the same, without saying whether concerns cited by the militant group had been addressed.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. Thick smoke has blanketed much of Barrie after a fire broke out at a scrapyard in central Barrie on Monday morning.  A Woodbridge, Ont. man accused of murder in the 2010 death of his friend will stand trial in March.  Two men were injured in an incident that occurred at a Barrie plaza around Cundles Road East and Sperling Drive early Monday morning.  Toronto has shattered records for the wettest summer season after a weekend of intense rain and windy weather.  Flooding in Toronto and southern Ontario last month resulted in more than $940 million worth of insured damage, the Insurance Bureau of Canada (IBC) announced Monday.  A portion of Danforth Avenue is closed in Toronto’s Greektown area after the driver of a custom Ford Model T crashed into a tree or a sign and was ejected from their vehicle, say police.  The number of organizations and leaders in Ottawa pulling out of Capital Pride events continues to grow in response to a statement the group made expressing solidarity with Palestinians last week.  In the biggest change to Ottawa's curbside waste policy since 2012, households will be limited to three items of curbside waste every two weeks starting Sept. 30.  The lawyer for 'Freedom Convoy' organizer Chris Barber told a judge Monday that a court order banning honking in downtown Ottawa during the protest wasn't clear enough.  An investigation from Western University’s Northern Tornadoes Project has classified Saturday’s tornado in Ayr, Ont., as an EF1.  Residents in Waterloo Region are being asked to conserve water for approximately one week, starting Monday while an important water pipe is repaired.  Waterloo Regional Police are investigating after a man was hurt in a Cambridge shooting.  An arrest was made after a two-hour standoff in West Lorne Monday afternoon.  Critics of leadership at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) are calling the departure of two high paid executives a step in the right direction.  Matthew McQuarrie was sentenced to life in prison for stabbing Emerson Sprung to death, and burying him in a shallow grave in a Meaford, Ont. park in May 2020.  As water leaks into both his child's bedroom and the family room of his west-end apartment unit, Daniel Banner says his family is stuck in a precarious housing situation they can’t escape.  Dozens of people gathered on Windsor’s riverfront to commemorate the 82th anniversary of the Dieppe Raid.  A 24-year-old Wallaceburg motorcyclist has been charged with impaired driving after a crash.  Montreal officials are continuing their analysis to find out what led to a major water main break that caused immense flooding just under the Jacques Cartier Bridge.  CTV Montreal was forced to set up a makeshift studio on Nuns' Island after a water main break caused water to flood into our building.  The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris.  A Winnipeg business owner wants something to be done after his office was broken into at least four times in the past two months.  The first group of dogs – who were part of a seizure of over 130 pups from a home north of Winnipeg – are ready for adoption.  On August 18, 1964, 60 years and one day ago, the Fab Four made an unscheduled stop in Winnipeg, drawing more than 1,000 fans to the airport.  The sentencing hearing for the youth charged with stabbing two staff members at Charles P. Allen High School in Bedford, N.S., resumed on Monday morning.  A search for a kayaker who went missing in Halifax on Sunday is underway.  Two lifeguards who helped rescue four swimmers at Black Brook Beach along the Cabot Trail in Cape Breton said high waves created a dangerous situation on Sunday.  Newfoundland has caught a lucky break with Hurricane Ernesto expected to pass south of the island, but the fast-moving storm will still bring a lot of rain in a short time overnight on Monday, Environment Canada says.  The project of the university's Folklore and Language Archive aims to find the first names of women who contributed remedies, recipes and local beliefs, but were only credited as a 'missus,' with their husband's last name and often his first name or initials.  Hurricane Ernesto is expected to pass Bermuda and make its way south of the Maritimes on Monday, then approach Newfoundland and Labrador later that day, a Canadian meteorological expert advised on Friday.  A suspicious death Friday evening in the northwest Calgary community of Carrington has community members concerned.  Local businesses and consumers are sounding the alarm as a nationwide rail strike looms.  Some quick-thinking Calgarians used a garden hose to put out a fire spreading up the side of their home on Monday afternoon.  Stony Plain Road will be closed until the end of November so Marigold can complete extra work on the Valley Line West LRT.  The roads heading into Jasper, Alta., are open, but officials say tourists won't be welcome in the Rocky Mountain town for the foreseeable future.  Police in Fort McMurray seized more than $100,000 worth of drugs and cash from three homes last week.  Saskatchewan RCMP say a male youth from Carry the Kettle Nakoda Nation is facing 10 charges, including manslaughter, after an 18-year-old woman was shot dead in Wolseley, Sask. early Sunday morning.  No injuries were reported after the smell of smoke and haze forced the evacuation of Regina's Cornwall Centre Monday morning.  Michael Gordon Jackson is scheduled to present arguments for sentencing as part of his own defence.  The Saskatoon Police Service alleges its officers were assaulted on Saturday night during cruise weekend, but witnesses are telling a different story.  A Saskatoon man faces a second-degree murder charge after the remains of Jordan Lee Morin were found at a home in Riversdale on Friday.  In an announcement made Saturday by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Saskatoon’s Tracy Muggli has been appointed as an independent senator for Saskatchewan to fill a vacancy in the Senate.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  A 25-year-old man who was wanted Canada-wide for his alleged role in a shooting in Ontario has been arrested on Vancouver Island.  Mounties in West Kelowna are looking for a suspect they say broke into a local home while a mother and her child were inside.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  A 25-year-old man who was wanted Canada-wide for his alleged role in a shooting in Ontario has been arrested on Vancouver Island.  A 29-year-old man is in police custody following an alleged assault on a bus driver near Victoria. 