To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. With Amazon Prime Day a mere two weeks away, you might be tempted to skip any and all Fourth of July sales to avoid scrolling fatigue—truly, who hasn’t felt that at some point while online shopping? But we’re here to save you all that legwork. Here, we’ve curated some truly worth-your-while deals that you can simply add to cart and then get back to enjoying your Independence Day. A day at the pool or beach could be in order, or maybe you’re more of a backyard barbecue person—either way, the day will feel just a little sweeter if you know some discounted Lululemon leggings, cushy Asics sneaks, or Dyson gadgets are on their way to you. We’re keeping an eye on our favorite retailers (including Amazon, Nordstrom, Target, and more) for the biggest deals available this year—here are the greatest hits. Grab these bestsellers while they’re on sale now, before they’re gone! Jump to: Amazon’s sitewide Fourth of July sales make an excellent warm-up to Prime Day (which is coming up on July 16 and 17, by the way). We’ve spotted discounts on top brands like Kindle, Apple, Ninja, Hydro Flask, and the Home Fitness Award–winning Bowflex. Pro tip: Watch out for lightning deals—these extra-steep discounts only last a few hours, so don’t wait if you find something you’ve got to have. Hydro Flask Amazon Apple Amazon Best Buy Bowflex Amazon Ninja Amazon Kindle Amazon Apple Amazon The Anniversary Sale might be Nordstrom’s big summer sales event, but don’t sleep on these early deals. You can save big on self-care treats like silky-soft pj’s, fluffy throw blankets, luxe skin care, and more. Kiehl’s Nordstrom Nordstrom Nordstrom Lunya Nordstrom Ugg Nordstrom Level up your everyday routines with some seriously discounted electronics at Target. Just two examples: An app-enabled robot vacuum cleans (and even mops) floors with a few taps, while Sony’s noise-canceling headphones help you get lost in your favorite playlist. iRobot Amazon Target Sony Target  Target Beats Target Best Buy is the place to save big on tech, with great sales on major appliances, laptops, sleek wearables, and smart home-compatible devices. Make sure to swing by if you’re shopping for some electronic upgrades or gifts for the gadget lovers in your life. Samsung Best Buy Levoit Best Buy There’s always a great range of rollbacks at Walmart, but the deals on cookware and kitchen appliances this Fourth of July are worth savoring. Keurig’s iced coffee maker is perfect for cooling off with a better-than-Starbucks latte (it also brews a nice cup of the hot stuff, if that’s your year-round preference), while Carote’s top-rated eight-piece pan set is a whopping 71% off. Keurig Walmart Carote Walmart Thinking about expanding your home gym? Ellipticals and exercise bikes from brands like Sole and Schwinn are on sale at Dick’s—no coupon required. Sole Dick's Schwinn Dick's This summer, there’s no need to brave over-the-top temps or uncomfortable humidity just to get a run in. Select items from NordicTrack’s expert-approved line of treadmills are on sale right now. NordicTrack NordicTrack NordicTrack NordicTrack Hyrdow’s Wave Rower won a Home Fitness Award last year for its space-saving design, smooth drag system, and top-notch class offerings. It’s a great machine to make your at-home rowing feel the tiniest bit more like the real thing—and it’s on sale for $200 off for the holiday. Hydrow Hydrow Amazon Some of Nike’s most popular shoes are discounted, including the Pegasus Trail 4, which is rugged enough to take on rocky off-road runs but stylish enough to wear around town. And if you live in athleisure, snag some incredibly comfy joggers for 22% off. Nike Nike Nike Nike Nordstrom Whether your summer plans involve combing the beach, relaxing at home, or strolling around town, you deserve some footwear that can support you. Luckily, this Fourth of July, Zappos is dropping deals on walking shoes, running sneakers, sandals, slippers, and, yes, Crocs. Asics Zappos Chaco Zappos Sorel Zappos New Balance Zappos Crocs Amazon Zappos Dick's Crocs Hoka Zappos You can almost always find great specials on activewear in Lululemon’s We Made Too Much section—and this Fourth of July is no exception. But sizes and colors tend to sell out quickly, so grab these pieces now (while they’re still in stock). Lululemon Lululemon Lululemon Lululemon Lululemon Lululemon Lululemon Lululemon For its big semiannual sale, Athleta is marking down some of its most-loved pieces (including the SELF Fave Trekkie North Jogger and Activewear Award–winning Salutation Stash Tight) by up to 70%. Athleta Athleta Athleta Athleta If you’re in need of some elevated workout basics, do not miss this sale: Girlfriend Collective is celebrating its anniversary with sitewide discounts of 25%. Girlfriend Collective Girlfriend Collective Girlfriend Collective Girlfriend Collective During its Fourth of July sale and clearance event, REI is making it a little easier to equip yourself for exploring the outdoors. Standouts include limited-time prices on sleeping bags, headlamps, and tents for camping adventures, and outerwear for updating your layers well ahead of shoulder season. Alpine Mountain Gear REI Patagonia REI Petzl REI REI Co-op REI Among the nicely marked down gear at Backcountry, we found some must-have pieces for all your summer outings—namely, a cute cooler bag from Cotopaxi and a protective sun hat from Outdoor Research. Cotopaxi Backcountry Outdoor Research Backcountry If your idea of the great outdoors is your own backyard, Wayfair has tons of deals on outdoor furniture (including a neat camp chair that basically comes with its own umbrella), fire pits, grills, and more patio pieces. Solo Stove Wayfair Arlmont & Co. Wayfair Cuisinart Wayfair VegTrug Wayfair Mud, sand, and pollen are no match for these Dyson faves. You can save hundreds of dollars on the brand’s sleek home appliances and vacuums (including the top-rated V8 Absolute) when you shop now. Dyson Dyson Dyson Amazon Dyson Act fast: Some of Lelo’s luxe sex toys are on sale for up to 40% off. The Sona 2 Cruise and Enigma Cruise both come highly recommended for their ability to build from soft to powerful sensations. Lelo Lelo Lelo Lelo You can find out what all the hype is about with big sex toy brands like Womanizer and We-Vibe for less when you shop at Lovehoney’s sale. We’ve spotted discounts as big as 70% on wand massagers and clitoral suction toys. Womanizer Lovehoney We-Vibe Lovehoney The Beauty Insider Event may have come and gone, but there are still some low-key great deals on Foreo, Shark, and more big-name brands at Sephora. In other words, it’s a very good time to try a buzzy beauty tool or stock up on your favorite skin care. Foreo Sephora Amazon Shark Ulta Sephora Ulta’s Big Summer Beauty sale is basically a one-stop shop for Healthy Beauty Award–winning brands: Vacation’s Classic Whip sunscreen makes reapplying your SPF a fun little treat, and NuFace’s compact facial toning device is a luxe addition to your skin care routine. Vacation Nordstrom Ulta  Ulta Looking for your next holy grail product? Dermstore should be next on your list, where you can take an extra 10% off sale items from brands like Dr. Brandt and First Aid Beauty with the code EXTRA10 at checkout. Dr. Brandt Dermstore First Aid Beauty Dermstore Get up to 50% off DreamCloud’s mattresses, including the SELF Certified Premier Hybrid, which we recommend for hot sleepers, side sleepers, or anyone who tosses and turns all night long. DreamCloud DreamCloud With discounts on mattresses, pillows, and bedding, Casper’s sale will help you give your whole bedroom a refresh. Hotel-level comfort, here you come! Casper Casper Casper Casper Target Amazon Casper Casper You don’t need a promo code to save on Brooklinen’s cozy bedding, which should make your room even more relaxing. Its beloved towels are also 20% off as part of its Heat of Summer sale. Brooklinen Brooklinen Brooklinen Brooklinen  Brooklinen Brooklinen Brooklinen Save up to $400 when you bundle a bed and a base during Purple’s Fourth of July mattress sale (and get ready for your best sleep ever). Purple Purple Related reading: Get more deal alerts and product recommendations delivered right to your inbox. SELF does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Any information published on this website or by this brand is not intended as a substitute for medical advice, and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional. More from Self Contact © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. SELF may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices