Digital shopping platform edges industry leaders like Lowes Foods and tech innovators like TikTok   BLOOMFIELD HILLS, MI Jan. 5, 2023— eGrowcery, developer of the leading retail food industry white-label eCommerce platform, was honored with the 2022 Business Expansion Award from Retail Insight Network, a leading webite for news and procurement in the retail industry. The 2022 Excellence Awards celebrate the greatest achievements and innovations in the industry and provides a platform to recognize the people and companies that are driving change. Business Expansion is one of the largest categories in the Retail Insight Network awards suite and looks at the core functions of business operations within the sector. This consists of any projects that have expanded the company’s footprint in the sector, including contract wins, launching in new territories, launching new product lines, improved logistics, partnerships and significant staff increases. The citation for the award reads: “eGrowcery is the winner of the Business Expansion category as it expanded its services allowing retailers to personalise their ecommerce solutions. The American ecommerce service can integrate with back-office and point-of-sale systems to allow retailers more flexibility in their pickup options. Rouses Markets has been one of the latest retailers to enter a partnership with the company.” “We are truly honored to receive the prestigious 2022 Business Expansion Award,” said Patrick Hughes, CEO of eGrowcery. “The team here at eGrowcery is particularly pleased we were recognized for our critical role in helping so many retailers successfully deploy and grow their digital shopping offering.” While eGrowcery was the winner for the Business Expansion category, the shortlist for the award also included Edeka, Emplifi, Lowes Foods, Nordstrom, Solace and TikTok. The other awards announced by Retail Insight Network are Diversity, Environmental, Financing, Innovation, Investments, M&A, Marketing, Product Launches, Research and Development, Safety and Social, and some of the other nominees were: Asda, Getir, Gorillas, Ninjacart, Amazon, Sainsbury, 7-Eleven, Carrefour, Walmart, Apple, DoorDash, Instacart, Albertsons, Aldi, IKEA, Save Mart, Tesco, Wakefern Food Corp. and Kroger.   About eGrowcery eGrowcery is the market-leading, white-label, SaaS based ecommerce solution designed to service grocery retailers. The eGrowcery platform is a true end-to-end, omnichannel solution that integrates with back-office/point-of-sale systems and has the most efficient personal shopping tehnology in the industry. It also enables retailers to scale their own personalized shopper experience as fast as any grocery-focused platform in the market today.   About Retail Insight Network Retail-insight-network.com is one of a network of 30+ proprietary B2B websites, with an unrivalled global audience of active decision makers, influencers, and opinion leaders across the world with a combined readership of 55 million industry professionals each year. As part of GlobalData, we have access to over 1bn data points including companies, deals, projects and forecasts and trends. Leading data informs and support our industry leading content. With expertise spanning more than 80 markets globally and driven by 800+ award-winning journalists, researchers, and analysts, we connect you with the information that makes and breaks businesses every day.     Step Up Your Fraud Prevention Approach in 2024 Unleashing GenAI Magic: Transforming Visual Commerce for Unbeatable Customer Experiences Returns Challenges, Opportunities Covered in New Webinar Multichannel Merchant: Editorial Spotlight on Returns in 2023 Webinar: The Generative AI Genie is Out of the Bottle High-Touch Returns Become Point of Differentiation for 3PLs Goods-To-Person E-Fulfillment Technology: Flexing Along With Demand Foreign Trade Zones: A Hidden Gem for Retailers Automation and Robotics: Moving Past Limitations to Gains Shipping Capacity Management: The Outlook for 2022 Peak Season Content-Based Marketing: A Post-Cookie Evolution Generative AI in Customer Service: A Balanced Blueprint Why Digital Wallets are The Key to Modern Loyalty Marketing ESG and Your Supply Chain: 3 Steps to a Streamlined Strategy Retail Cyber Threats: 5 Ways to Protect Your Business