To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. The month of May ushers in two glorious events: The unofficial start of summer and amazing Memorial Day sales. Now that Memorial Day weekend is upon us, the holiday deals are in full effect. These are some of the best discounts you’ll find in the first half of the year (before Black Friday comes around this fall, of course). It’s an excellent time to upgrade your mattress, pick up a fun new sex toy, restock your skin care, or add some cute activewear to your wardrobe. To make things simple, we’ve rounded up the best Memorial Day deals currently on our radar. Here’s a quick look at the top trending deals we’re seeing across retailers at the moment. Now, on to our full list of the best Memorial Day sales this year. Jump to: There are some sweet sitewide markdowns happening at Amazon—but prices fluctuate regularly and some deals only stick around for a limited time, so it pays or, really, saves to shop ASAP. Standout savings include deals on Apple’s best-selling gadgets, Ninja’s time-saving air fryer, and a sleek water flosser. Apple Amazon Walmart Apple Amazon Waterpik Amazon Ninja Amazon Consider Memorial Day your warm-up to Nordstrom’s Anniversary Sale, the store’s biggest yearly savings event, which you can expect later this summer. Right now there are low-key deals to be found on high-quality items like Le Creuset cookware, Kiehl’s skin care, and more. Le Creuset Nordstrom Kiehl’s Nordstrom We scanned the Memorial Day savings at Target and found great sales on floor care and Cuisinart’s highly rated air fryer–and–toaster oven combo. Shark Target Cuisinart Target If you’re specifically looking for deals on kitchen appliances this Memorial Day, Walmart is a great place to browse. Big brands like Keurig and Ninja are included in the discounts—and it’s the perfect time of year to consider snagging an ice cream maker. Keurig Walmart Ninja Walmart If you’ve been holding off on buying some nice headphones or a new smartwatch, you should browse Best Buy’s big Memorial Day sale. Samsung Best Buy Beats Best Buy Target Treadmills, exercise bikes, and more top-of-the-line fitness equipment are on sale at Dick’s now. Horizon Fitness Dick's Schwinn Dick's Speaking of treadmills, NordicTrack’s highly rated, expert-recommended 1750 tread is on sale for $300 off right now. NordicTrack Amazon If you’ve maxed out your running sneakers’ mileage (or just want some cute new walking shoes), you can find your next favorite pair at Zappos at a nice discount. New Balance Zappos Asics Zappos Amazon Lulu’s We Made Too Much section is full of luxe leggings, sports bras, shorts, and even SELF editor–approved slides at much lower-than-usual prices. Lululemon Lululemon Lululemon Lululemon With sweats, sneaks, and more athleisure staples listed for up to 40% off, Nike’s sale section is the place to be if you need an activewear update. Nike Nike Nike Nike From clarifying face masks to high-end styling tools, the sale offerings at Sephora run the beauty gamut—so it’s safe to say that you’ll be able to save big on something you like. Tata Harper Skincare Sephora Dyson Sephora The Memorial Day sale at Ulta features deals on products for your skin, body, and hair. Whether you’re stocking up on your holy grail night cream or trying something new, your savings could be major. Perricone MD Ulta Foreo Ulta The beloved sex toy company Lelo is marking down some of its biggest bestsellers by up to 50% off throughout the season. It’s known for its entire range of luxe vibes, but the clitoral massagers are especially exciting. Lelo Lelo  Lelo We turn to Lovehoney for all things sex, including vibrators, dildos, bondage basics, and lingerie. Right now, you can take up to 70% off toys from major brands like We-Vibe and Womanizer. We-Vibe Lovehoney Womanizer Lovehoney If you’re planning to get outside more this summer, you should check out REI’s current deals, which include expert-recommended hiking boots and outerwear from trusted brands like the North Face. Oboz REI Backcountry The North Face REI Backcountry’s Memorial Day Sale has some incredible bargains on past-season clothing, as well as gear like camping tents, backpacks, and bikes. This writer is especially excited to see her favorite water bottle on sale too. Patagonia Backcountry CamelBak Backcountry Amid all the home decor and major appliance sales at Wayfair, we found some nice upgrades for the next time you host, including this stainless steel pizza oven from Solo, whose fire pit won a SELF Outdoor Award last year. There are also deals on outdoor furniture like this comfy camp chair that’ll be right at home in the backyard, on the beach, at the park, or in the wilderness. Solo Stove Wayfair Arrowhead Outdoor Wayfair When it comes to extremely sleek home gadgetry, Dyson leaps to mind. And leading up to the long weekend you can save on its air purifier and the V8 Absolute cordless vacuum. Dyson Dyson Dyson Dyson Casper’s Memorial Day mattress sale features up to 35% off across the site, including the brand's pillows, sheets, adjustable bases, and bedding bundles—no promo code required. Casper Casper SELF’s associate wellness director was highly impressed by the cushy yet responsive feel of the DreamCloud Premier Hybrid Mattress. You can take up to 50% off its price tag, or off any other new mattress from the brand for that matter, during DreamCloud’s Memorial Day Deals sale. DreamCloud DreamCloud Related Reading: SELF does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Any information published on this website or by this brand is not intended as a substitute for medical advice, and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional. More from Self Contact © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. SELF may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices