Why Sign In? Subscribers, sign in to access exclusive content. Unlimited Members, sign in to enjoy sitewide access. News & Reviews News Wire Norfolk Southern funding will help bring railcars to Pullman National Park and State Historic Site 
Railroad makes $250,000 contribution for railcar experience at former manufacturing plant

 Railroad makes $250,000 contribution for railcar experience at former manufacturing plant Get the newest photos, videos, stories, and more from Trains.com brands. Sign-up for email today! CHICAGO — Norfolk Southern has made a $250,000 contribution to help create an interactive exhibit at the Pullman State Historic Site and Pullman National Historical Park that will give visitors a chance at a close-up experience with historic railcars, including those once manufactured at the site. The Historic Pullman Foundation and Illinois Department of Natural Resources announced the commitment today (Sept. 1), coinciding with the second anniversary of the Park’s Labor Day weekend grand opening. It recognizes Pullman’s significant historical impact on the American labor and civil rights movements as well as U.S. railroading. The exhibit is still in the planning phase, but is expected to restore about 1,000 feet of track and an accompanying yard, as well as a display structure over the yard, in front of the Rear Erecting Shop adjacent to 111th Street to protect the exhibit cars. “Displaying these railcars will truly bring to life the story of rail innovation celebrated at the national park and state historic site,” said Joseph C. Szabo, president emeritus of the Historic Pullman Foundation former administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration. At the request of the National Park Service and with Illinois support, Szabo is facilitating an extensive collaboration involving Norfolk Southern and a range of experts to explore exhibiting railcars at the site, which would respond to great visitor demand for a railcar experience at Pullman. “If this proposed project is approved, visitors would be able to get a first-hand view of what passenger train travel was like during its heyday,” Szabo said. “There is still much work to be done, but the generous support of Norfolk Southern is a vital first step towards the long-term vision for Pullman.” Herbert Smith, Norfolk Southern regional vice president, government relations, said, “Rolling historic railcars from different eras directly onto the property will transform Park visitors’ experience. We couldn’t be more excited for the public to see first-hand our nation’s evolution in rail transportation from the beginning.” Planning began earlier this year with an engineering and operational fesability study. The proposal would include restoration of a spur off NS’ Chicago Pullman Branch to directly serve the former Pullman manufacturing plant. “In connecting the rail car exhibit to an active rail network, the spur would help park visitors to visualize Pullman’s historic role involving civil rights and fair labor while also demonstrating how the community is continuing to evolve as a center of investment for the Far South Side, the city and the region,” said Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson. The Pullman site was designed a National Monument by President Barack Obama in 2015. Industrialist George M. Pullman built a model town to house workers at his luxury rail car factories in the late 19th Century. Although his goal was “to cure the social ills of the day, the tight control he exercised over his workers helped spark one of the nation’s most widespread and consequential labor strikes and the journey of the Pullman porters toward the civil rights movement of the 20th Century,” according to a report from Congress, which designated the site a National Park in December 2022. More information on the Historic Pullman Foundation is available here; information on the National Historic Park is here and the State Historic Site is here. I found the comment about Pullman and the Labor movement curiously interesting, in light of bitter, and deadly strike that Pullman was involved in: Pullman Strike https://g.co/kgs/AqZwtP “Back in the Day”, when Southern Railway (SOU) staff headquartered in Washington, DC and offices north of DC, traveled on company business to Atlanta, company policy was to secure an available roomette on The Southern Crescent.  True to it’s disciplined SOU heritage, The Crescent departed Union Station on-time at 4PM, arriving at SOU Spring Street Station in Atlanta (adjacent to SOU Atlanta headquarters) at 8:30 AM next morning. Just in time, on time, for full day of railroad activity. Enroute, a kindly sleeping car porter remined me to place my shoes in the little box at the base of the roomette. Alas, overnight, those shoes were spit- shined and placed back in the box. Quite a heady experience for this young, Massachusetts “Yankee”…LOL.
“Look Ahead, Look South”! Having occupied older section upper and lower Pullman berths, duplex roomettes, double bedrooms, drawing rooms and slumber coach accommodations, I am happy to see this. The California RR Museum has a nice old sleeper exhibit with a car “shaker”  to simulate the in motion feel that I enjoyed. The only trains operating now that have Section accommodations that I am aware of are the VIA Canadian and Ocean plus the Churchill Bay train. I wonder whay cars they will obtain to populate the exhibit. Mr. Wayman – Did you ever have the great pleasure of occupying a master bedroom on the Broadway or the Southern Crescent? Having occupied older section upper and lower Pullman berths, duplex roomettes, double bedrooms, drawing rooms and slumber coach accommodations, I am happy to see this. The California RR Museum has a nice old sleeper exhibit with a car “shaker”  to simulate the in motion feel that I enjoyed. The only trains operating now that have Section accommodations that I am aware of are the VIA Canadian and Ocean plus the Churchill Bay train. I wonder whay cars they will obtain to populate the exhibit. A generous gesture from Norfolk Southern. Dr. Güntürk Üstün 

                                            Canada’s labor minister to meet with CN, CPKC, union                                        
 

                                            Metro-North’s Waterbury Branch remains closed by flood damage                                        
 

                                            Arizona fire that destroyed homes blamed on BNSF track work                                        
 

                                            News & Products for the week of August 19th 2024                                        
 Members enjoy 15% off any purchase in our store. Join Today! Steam by the Numbers
 

                                    Steam by the Numbers answers many questions about steam locomotive evolution, explaining the reasons why so many wheel arrangements were developed.
 Trains Across America 2025 Calendar
 

                                    Trains' Trains Across America Calendar is back for 2025!
 Canadian National Snowburst Puzzle
 

                                    Bam! That had been a 3-foot-tall drift across the Moose Range Road grade crossing near Sycamore, Ill.
 Locomotive Complete Special Issue Archive DVD-ROM
 

                                    Get 17 years of Locomotive special issues with the Locomotive Complete Special Issue DVD-ROM!
  Get updates and special offers via email from Trains.com brands!
 Get updates and special offers via email from Trains.com brands!