Just weeks after revealing 20 new Nordstrom Rack locations, Nordstrom announced on Thursday that it will open 9 more Rack off-price stores across the country. The new locations are slated to open in California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois and Ohio in 2024 and 2025, the retailer said. More from Footwear News Charlotte McKinney Elevates Python Dress With Heeled Sandals for Nordstrom x Larroudé Spring 2023 Collection Luncheon Nordstrom Rack Opening 20 New Stores Across U.S. -- See the List of Locations & What to Know Nordstrom Closing All Canada Stores & Nordstrom Rack Locations: See the List In California, the retailer said it will open five Rack stores including a 25,000-square-foot store in Davis, Calif. in spring 2025; a 25,000-square-foot store in Gilroy, Calif. in spring 2024; a 31,000-square-foot store in Oceanside, Calif. in spring 2024; a 36,000-square-foot store in San Mateo, Calif. in fall 2024; and a 25,000-square-foot store in Elk Grove, Calif. in spring 2024. In Florida, Nordstrom will open a 30,000-square-foot Rack store in Jacksonville Beach; in Georgia, the retailer will debut a 35,000-square-foot Rack location in Snellville; in Illinois, Nordstrom will open a 29,000-square-foot Rack store in Wheaton; and in Ohio, a 28,000-square-foot Rack store is coming to Macedonia. These locations are all slated to open in spring 2024. Courtesy of Nordstrom These openings come as Nordstrom refocuses its $4.8 billion Rack off-price operation with a new brand refresh. For this project, the retailer teamed up with global branding agency Jones Knowles Ritchie for the reimagined brand identity, with the aim to “further differentiate Nordstrom Rack in a competitive and loud off-price retail market, attract new customers and better connect with existing customers,” Nordstrom said in a statement on Thursday. “Through this new comprehensive and cohesive brand identity system, we aim to evolve our brand expression … ,” Red Godfrey, VP of creative at Nordstrom, Inc. said in a statement. Courtesy of Nordstrom According to Nordstrom, the entire brand system, including the logo, was rebuilt “flexibly” and “responsively” for a digital era. As part of the system, Nordstrom Rack is rolling out a new logo inspired by the Rack logo used in the 1970s and ‘80s and “modernized” for today, the retailer said. The master brand color was also updated and expanded, from a singular mid tone color to a more vibrant palette. The blue evolved to a set of multiple signature blues “creating more flexibility and variety,” and secondary and tertiary color palettes “signal seasonal changes and amplify sales and promotions,” Nordstrom added. Customers can expect to see the new logo and refreshed identity in marketing campaigns and on the company’s digital channels including NordstromRack.com, the Nordstrom Rack app, social media and email communications as well as in person with exterior and interior signage of new and remodeled stores later this spring. Courtesy of Nordstrom Best of Footwear News Why Hawaii Only Has One Dollar Store Isn't Surprising — And Dollar Tree, Dollar General & Family Dollar Don't Exist Target Closes Store Due to Limited Parking, Foot Traffic & More Performance Challenges in Philadelphia With Minimum Wage on the Rise, These Are Some of the Highest Paid Retail Jobs Sign up for FN's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.