When it comes to a company’s commitment to transparency, few things can rival a continuous, publicly accessible live stream of a farm that grows its crops. But here it is: Trout Lake West Farm, 401 acres nestled in an organic valley in the Cascade Mountains of Washington State. This unique oceanic, alpine climate supports the growth of echinacea, blueberry and valerian, which, among other plants, are transformed into one of the most trusted and popular brands of health supplements. This is where Nutrilite is grown, and the live stream may not be the most surprising business practice (more on that later). In an era of cynicism, where trust in brands and institutions dwindles every day, consumers can visit a website showcasing Nutrilite’s traceability, allowing them to follow a “chain of custody” process from seed to supplement. It is the latest step in a decades-long effort by Amway, the Nutrilite brand’s parent company and health and wellness leader, to puncture the prevailing skepticism and demonstrate the essential ingredients to gaining public trust. Traceability (and trust) starts here Traceability and sustainability are prominent buzzwords in today’s corporate lexicon — phrases that can mean anything (or nothing) depending on the underlying actions. In concept, traceability goes beyond mere product labeling to reassure consumers of a product’s safety and effectiveness. In a world dominated by complex global supply chains, how can customers find a product’s ingredients, understand the reason for their inclusion, know their origin and how they were produced? These are details true traceability provides. And in a vast corporate landscape where companies are racing to embrace these values, Amway stands apart. While many brands trace only a single aspect of product creation, such as key ingredient origins, Amway leaders have made the decision to publicly trace every stage of their products’ life cycle — from concept to formulation to manufacturing to packaging. Essentially, this health and wellness company is inviting consumers to become company insiders, offering an unvarnished look at its manufacturing process. “Amway Independent Business Owners are trusted by their customers — people they know, to whom they provide direct service and build lasting relationships. It’s essential that our products have the same level of trust and transparency. That’s why we’ve embraced traceability from the very beginning,” said Andrew Schmidt, Amway’s managing director of Amway North America and an executive sponsor of the company’s sustainability initiative. Journey to transparency and sustainability The company’s approach has deep roots. They have quietly experimented with surprising levels of transparency and ethical, sustainable agricultural practices long before today’s public interest. Amway’s very first product — back when Dwight Eisenhower was president — was Liquid Organic Cleaner, one of the world’s first biodegradable, environmentally conscious cleaning products. In the following years, the company embraced phosphate-free home and laundry care manufacturing, product concentration to reduce packaging, and reusing its own packaging regrind whenever possible. In recent years, Amway has prioritized protecting plants and natural resources, designing even more responsible products and packaging, to globally reduce the impact of its operations. Of course, in some ways, this makes good business sense. Companies with a long view want to ensure resilient, sustainable supply chains. But as private-sector companies go, Amway offers a somewhat unexpected argument for its commitment to traceability and sustainability: it’s the morally right thing to do. In a statement to customers, the company explicitly highlights “[y]our moral right to know the ingredients are authentic and the product is not adulterated or diluted is satisfied, so you can make informed choices.” A modern-day origin story fosters unique approach Nutrilite’s origin story is an epic adventure in itself. A century ago, Carl Rehnborg was working in China and witnessing the negative health impacts of poor nutrition. Confined to a Shanghai compound by revolutionaries, he went to work gathering local leafy plants and preparing a stew for his fellow prisoners. He later contrasted the better health he and his peers enjoyed with other detainees who lacked access to such dietary boosts. Upon his release, the idea for Nutrilite was born. In another unique approach, Amway itself owns and operates nearly 6,000 acres of certified organic farmland, both in the U.S. and in unique climates abroad to source hard-to-find ingredients. Nutrilite is the only global vitamin and dietary supplement brand to grow, harvest and process plants on its own certified organic farms. These farms utilize strictly natural alternatives — free from harmful chemicals — for pesticides, fertilizers and other farming treatments. The company is boosting its use of regenerative agriculture practices, aimed at healing the land and conserving clean water. Returning to where we started, the Trout Lake farms in Washington State employ a somewhat surprising tool for crop protection: a team of falcons (the actual birds, not the football players). For companies that sell products, trust is the most valuable currency. And as corporations large and small survey their peers, they may find a surprising source of inspiration in Amway.