A LOCALLY OWNED NEWSPAPER DEDICATED TO THE SERVICE OF GOD AND MANKIND.  Reporter BELZONI – Guaranty Bank & Trust Co., a Mississippi-Delta based bank, said it was acquiring Iuka-based First American National Bank for an undisclosed sum. Both banks are privately held. Guaranty Capital Corporation, the holding company for Guaranty Bank, and FANB parent company First American Bancshares Inc., said the combined financial institutions will represent more than $2.4 billion in assets and 36 branches. Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings. 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Get the latest need-to-know information delivered to your inbox as it happens. Our flagship newsletter. Get our front page stories each morning as well as the latest updates each afternoon during the week + more in-depth weekend editions on Saturdays & Sundays. dennis.seid@djournal.com Reporter   Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Our flagship newsletter. Get our front page stories each morning as well as the latest updates each afternoon during the week + more in-depth weekend editions on Saturdays & Sundays. Get the latest need-to-know information delivered to your inbox as it happens. Get a rundown of our top sports stories from the week delivered to your inbox each Sunday morning. Get a rundown each Monday morning of all that's going on in the All-America City. From local government updates to live music schedules and more. Powered by the City of Tupelo. Get a free dose of heath care news and wellness tips delivered to your inbox each Tuesday morning. Powered by North Mississippi Health Services. Don't miss any of our Mississippi State coverage. Sign up to receive a weekly report plus need-to-know updates. From Friday nights under the lights to Saturdays on the diamond, Prep Rally is your year-round source for Northeast Mississippi high school sports coverage. Sign up to get rankings updates, news alerts, top stories and more from our preps team. Don't miss any of our Ole Miss coverage. Sign up to receive a weekly report plus need-to-know updates. Your weekly dose of Mud & Magnolias. Sign up to receive monthly e-Magazines, recipes, and stories sure to get your weekend off to the perfect start. Delivered each Friday afternoon. Sign up to get the Daily Journal e-edition delivered to your inbox each morning. Are you an Itawamba Times subscriber? Sign up to view our weekly e-editions each Wednesday with just a click. Are you a Monroe Journal subscriber? Sign up to view our weekly e-editions each Wednesday with just a click. Are you a New Albany Gazette subscriber? Sign up to view our weekly e-editions each Wednesday with just a click. Are you a Pontotoc Progress subscriber? Sign up to view our weekly e-editions each Wednesday with just a click.  Are you a Southern Sentinel subscriber? Sign up to view our weekly e-editions each Wednesday with just a click.  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.