The PGA Tour's FedEx Cup playoffs tee off Thursday at TPC Boston with the 2020 Northern Trust. Bryson DeChambeau and Justin Thomas, the 2017 FedEx Cup champion, are the 12-1 co-favorites in the latest 2020 Northern Trust odds at William Hill. Before you make any 2020 Northern Trust picks of your own, you MUST check out who Sal Johnson is backing.  Johnson  has been locked in this season, and anyone who has followed his advice has hit BIG. Before this month's WGC-St. Jude Invitational, Johnson tabbed Thomas in his best bets and also touted 100-1 long shot Phil Mickelson to contend for the title. Thomas won by three strokes, while the 50-year-old Mickelson tied for second! He also pegged Sungjae Im as a top contender before his first Tour win at the Honda Classic in March and touted surging Tyrrell Hatton before his breakthrough at the Arnold Palmer. The golf expert also had a stellar 2019 season, when he featured Tiger Woods in his best bets for the Masters, and Woods walked away with his fifth green jacket. Then, Johnson promoted Brooks Koepka in his PGA Championship best bets, and Koepka made a mockery of that tournament, building a seven-shot lead entering the weekend and rolling to victory. Johnson completely nailed the season-ending Tour Championship! He predicted Koepka, Rory McIlroy or Xander Schauffele would win, and those were the top three finishers. Anyone who followed Johnson's golf picks saw HUGE returns. Now, Johnson, the first producer of "Inside the PGA Tour," a longtime ABC Sports golf producer who worked with Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer and Greg Norman, and the founder of the world's top golf stats database, has released his highly confident 2020 Northern Trust picks, and they WILL surprise you. We can tell you Johnson is fading Collin Morikawa, even though the phenom just won his first major and has been on fire since the break! Instead, Johnson is all over a MONSTER long shot who comes in at odds higher than 50-1! This dark horse has skills that should mesh perfectly with the setup at TPC Boston, and he could be primed for a major breakthrough! Anyone who backs this MASSIVE underdog could cash in BIG.  Who wins the Northern Trust? Where do Bryson DeChambeau and Rickie Fowler finish? And which MONSTER long shot is a MUST-BACK? ... Join SportsLine now to see Sal Johnson's full leaderboard and picks for the Northern Trust, all from the insider who has crushed his PGA picks! Share This Story  2024 BMW Championship golf odds, projections: Proven golf model reveals picks, Xander Schauffele prediction and best bets 2024 BMW Championship odds, picks: Proven golf model reveals projected leaderboard, surprising predictions 2024 BMW Championship odds, projections: Proven golf model reveals picks, Scottie Scheffler prediction and best bets 2024 FedEx St. Jude Championship Round 1 odds, Pick6 picks, predictions: Proven golf expert reveals best bets for Thursday, Aug. 15