
Prime
 Simba Cement Factory in Tororo. Photo/ File 
By 
Yahudu Kitunzi
 Reporter Daily Monitor  A 45-year-old Simba Cement factory worker reportedly died after falling from a ladder which he had climbed to repair a clinker transporter conveyor belt inside the factory in Mukujju Sub County, Tororo District in eastern Uganda, police have said. Paul Ezale, a resident of Simba Cement factory staff quarters was working as mechanical fitter when he dropped from the ladder, crashing his head on the ground before he died. Bukedi South regional police Spokesperson, Moses Mugwe said investigations into the incident are ongoing.  “Ezale climbed up on the counter weights of about 16 meters high. He slid off the ladder and fell down. He was immediately rushed to Doctor Plus Hospital in Tororo town for treatment but he was referred to Mbale Cure Hospital for specialized treatment,” Mr Mugwe said.He said the scene of crime was visited and documented by detectives who obtained statements from relevant witnesses to help the investigations.Mr Mugwe said a case of rash and negligent act causing death was registered at Tororo central Police Station. The file will be submitted to the Resident State Attorney (RSA) for perusal and legal advice after when investigations are complete. Ezale had reportedly worked in the factory for only two months.“That the conveyor belt got a mechanical problem and was off at the time of repair. The deceased's helmet was recovered at the scene of crime,” Mr Mugwe added.When contacted, the plant manager, Mr Raval Heet said “I don’t have a comment” before hanging up on phone.Ezale’s body was conveyed to the mortuary pending post-mortem as investigation continues. 
We come to you.
We are always looking for ways to improve our stories. Let us know what you liked and what we can improve on.
 
The party headquarters in Najjanankumbi argues that the Katonga faction lacks locus to dissolve the party and questions the authenticity of the delegates  
The party splinter came last year amid allegations of party members receiving “dirty money” during the 2021 polls 
The couple planned to spend a day in Kampala ahead of their flight to Japan 
If you have an Ad-blocker please disable it and reload the page or try again later.
 
Nation Media Group © 2024
 
It's free!
 
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism
