Three new fire stations are opening this year in Mt. Juliet and Wilson County — and planning for more may not be far behind. Here's a look. In late May, the city started operations at a new northside station on North Greenhill Road across from Green Hill High School. It will be the Fire Department of Mt. Juliet’s third station, but it will be called Station 2. The station will staff eight personnel per day, while resources include an fire engine, ladder truck and ambulance. "This is a milestone that is long overdue and we look forward to broadening our coverage area as well as shortening response times," said Joey Edwards, who was named the city's interim fire chief after Jamie Luffman's retirement in March. Neighborhoods the north side station serves include Parrish Place, Park Glen, Silver Springs, Hickory Hills, Willoughby Station and Mt. Vernon Estates. The fire department is up more than 200 calls from the same time last year, Edwards said. Mt. Juliet has also launched its own ambulance division in March after city commission approval to allocate $1.8 million. The department has roughly 800 "patient encounters," in the three months the ambulance division has been operating, Edwards added. Approximately 500 patients have been transported to area hospitals. Eric Newman is the city's chief of Emergency Medical Services. Mt Juliet is already looking for a location for a fourth fire station with plans to replace the city's oldest station on East Hill Drive behind City Hall, city manager Kenny Martin said. WEMA opened a new station on Clemmons Road at the end of May. A temporary occupancy permit will allow Mt. Juliet to exclusively man its Station 3 building on East Hill Street. WEMA will move all its equipment, including an ambulance and personnel, to the Clemmons Road station., which now has a fire engine, a brush unit that fights grass and brush fires and two ambulances, WEMA Director Joey Cooper said. Wilson County has another station on Central Pike finishing up construction that is scheduled to open on Aug. 1, Cooper said. One ambulance will move to the Central Pike location when that opens, Cooper added. The new stations will increase the number of ambulances to the immediate area to five, Wilson County Mayor Randall Hutto said. Wilson County also recently approved the purchase of a fire truck with a 100-foot ladder that is expected to be delivered in October, Hutto said. Reach Andy Humbles at ahumbles@tennessean.com or 615-726-5939 and on Twitter @ AndyHumbles. This article originally appeared on Nashville Tennessean: New fire stations in Mt. Juliet, Wilson County with more likely on way New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.