Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  WASHINGTON — The Pentagon said Monday it is coordinating with U.S. defense titans to expedite the shipping of pending Israeli weapon orders as violence in the region escalates following a horrific weekend terror attack carried out by Hamas. "I am not going to get into specifics on this call, but the bottom line is we are working as fast as possible to provide critically needed munitions of various types and other equipment," a senior Defense official said. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity per rules established by the Pentagon, added that military cargo planes carrying security assistance have already departed U.S. soil en route to the region. The Pentagon declined to share specific details of the types of security assistance the U.S. was providing to Israel. Defense names rose broadly in the market on Monday. The iShares U.S. Aerospace & Defense ETF jumped 4.5% with Northrop Grumman surging 11%. "We are anticipating continuous delivery on some of the requests Israel has made," the official said, adding the attacks carried out by Hamas on Israeli civilians "was ISIS-level savagery." Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin on Sunday ordered the movement of U.S. firepower closer to the region in order to project force and bolster Israeli security assistance. The stalwart USS Gerald Ford Carrier Strike Group, which includes aircraft carrier USS Gerald Ford, the Ticonderoga-class guided-missile cruiser USS Normandy, the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyers USS Thomas Hudner, USS Ramage, USS Carney and USS Roosevelt, will shift to the eastern Mediterranean per Austin's orders. "We have also taken steps to augment U.S. Air Force F-35, F-15, F-16, and A-10 fighter aircraft squadrons in the region," Austin wrote in a Sunday statement. Saturday's unprecedented land, air and sea attack on Israel has since triggered a fury of Israeli retaliatory airstrikes. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called Hamas' attack on Israel "a terrible mistake" and in a televised speech warned the retaliatory strikes were "just the beginning." "The images of the devastation and destruction from the Hamas strongholds in Gaza are just the beginning. We have eliminated many hundreds of terrorists and we will not stop there," Netanyahu said. "This war was forced upon us by a terrorist enemy," the Israeli leader added. Follow CNBC's live coverage of Israel-Hamas war in the Middle East So far, the conflict has claimed the lives of more than 1,300 people, of which 11 are U.S. citizens. "We also know that American citizens still remain unaccounted for and we are working with Israeli officials to obtain more information as to their whereabouts," President Joe Biden said in a statement late Monday. Biden said that he directed his team to work with Israeli counterparts "on every aspect of the hostage crisis, including sharing intelligence and deploying experts from across the United States government to consult with and advise Israeli counterparts on hostage recovery efforts." U.S. stocks largely shrugged off concerns from the Israel-Hamas war. The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended Monday's session up nearly 200 points, and the S&P 500 climbed 0.6%. Energy stocks rallied on the back of a 4% jump in oil prices. Exxon Mobil gained 3.5% and Occidental Petroleum ended the day 4.5% higher. — CNBC's Fred Imbert contributed to this story. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by