Select Page Aug 25, 2023 The biennial Nosh Narrabri food and drink festival makes a long-awaited return to the district’s calendar this weekend at its new home on the Narrabri Creek shared pathway. Market stalls featuring a variety of produce will line the pathway with a picturesque parklands backdrop for Saturday’s festivities. An array of activities for all ages will ensure there is something at Nosh for everyone. The welcome return of Nosh has been several years in the making with the fresh-faced committee eager to see the district’s premier food festival thrive as it did in the years before the pandemic. Nosh president Kate Kahl and the committee are thrilled with the progress of the preparations for the festival’s big return. “Everything is really starting to come together now with more site set up occurring Friday and early Saturday morning with the gates to the festival opening 10.30am on Saturday,” she said. “The committee has been planning this event since early 2022. The amount of forward planning and time it takes to submit and obtain approvals through various government departments to host an event like this is massive, requiring the committee to start the work to submit applications over 12 months prior to each Nosh. “Although there is a lot of work behind the scenes, it is all worth it when we are able to deliver such a quality regional food and drink festival to the community and wider region.” In addition to celebrating Nosh’s highly anticipated return, committee members and the community have another reason to celebrate. This year’s festival marks 20 years since Nosh started. “The committee and I are proud to be involved 20 years on from what started with a group of similar likeminded people who enjoyed good food, good wine and good times,” Mrs Kahl said. Pre-covid flashback, 2019: A traditional, and tightly contested feature of the Nosh is the Great Australian Cheesecake Competition. Cheesecake chefs have dusted off their favourite recipes and their creations will be judged – and eaten at the Nosh on Saturday. Above, back in 2019, back, sampling the entries, Martha Barton and Beth Faris, front, Taryn Kirk, Georgia Herden, Xanthe Kirk, Elsie Barton and Willa White. “The event has evolved and grown over the past 20 years catering to all demographics and tastes in food and beverages alike.” “This is the first event post COVID and we are hoping we receive the beautiful weather that is predicted for the weekend so attendees can enjoy a nice day out perusing the festival,” Mrs Kahl said. “The Nosh committee is so grateful for the support of the community from local businesses and organisations to individuals who have been so generous in giving their assistance to ensure Nosh is a success.” “This time of the year is often quite busy with sporting finals and other events as the warmer weather approaches. “With so many fun family events on this weekend such as Nosh and the Wee Waa Show we encourage the community to support these events as best as they can (in the current economic conditions) and maybe even encourage some friends and family from neighbouring regions to join us for the festivities – the more the merrier!” The return of Saturday’s food and drink festival brings with it some familiar, favourite events. All eyes will be on the mouth-watering entries for the Great Australian Cheesecake Competition. The winners will be announced on stage on Saturday afternoon. Local personalities will again battle it out to see who is the supreme grill maestro at the Nosh BBQ cook-off. The cook-off will take place on the main stage from 12.30pm. Who will be crowned the 2023 Nosh homebrew champion? The art of homebrewing will be celebrated as part of the Australian Regional Homebrew Championships, with the winner also announced on Saturday afternoon. There is plenty to see and do at Nosh for children as well with the Kids’ Zone. George the Farmer is sure to be a favourite for the kids and he will have performances at 11am and 2pm. Hands on cooking demonstrations will also be on offer by Bush Kids Tucker Time at 12.30pm and 3.30pm. In addition to these activities, there will be a free jumping castle and face painting on offer for all kids during the festival. The Nosh Narrabri 2023 fun continues on Sunday with the iconic long lunch. Nosh Long Lunch-goers will be treated to a spring-themed culinary celebration by the Narrabri Creek. Get unlimited access for only $7 per month. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * COMMENT Name *  Email *   

 Boggabri students, staff, parents, carers and community members were welcomed to the Education Week assembly last Monday. Education week is coinciding with Book Week this year and after the Education Week awards, students proudly displayed their book week character costumes. Morning tea was supplied by the P & C members for the attending parents, carers and community members prior to open classrooms where students proudly displayed and shared their work. FacebookTweetEmail Local employers and industry were placed in the spotlight as the Namoi Jobs and Trades Show returned for its third year. Exhibitors put their services and opportunities on display for Narrabri Shire students at the Narrabri Jockey Club across sessions hosted for students from local schools. The jobs and trades show is a collaboration between the Narrabri Industrial Network (NIN) with FutureEDU, bringing partnering businesses together to show the best of what the shire community has to offer the future workforce. Local industrial and civil construction companies again brought their heavy machinery and vehicles ready to greet eager school students. […] The return of festivities at Eulah Creek has been celebrated as a success following a weekend of family fun at the Beulah Park Community Hall. Saturday saw the successful return of the camp oven cook-off, with the village basked in sunshine throughout the day. On Sunday, the glorious weather continued for the much-loved vintage machinery day. FacebookTweetEmail You have 5/ 5 free articles left this month. To access all articles Subscribe or Login GET IN TOUCHTelephone 02 6792 1011 Editorial [email protected]Advertising [email protected]Sales [email protected]Classifieds [email protected]Administration [email protected] 60 Maitland Street, Narrabri, NSW, 2390 ABOUT USCONTACT USADVERTISE WITH USCLASSIFIEDS ADVERTISINGSUBSCRIPTIONSPHOTO SALESPRINTING SERVICES PRIVACY POLICYCOMPLAINTS POLICYTERMS OF USE Website by TIEMENS CRƎATIVE