Nosh Arts Business City City COVID-19 Crime & Safety Events Housing Neighborhoods Schools Obituaries Opinion Berkeleyside 
					Nonprofit news. Free for all, funded by readers.				 $20B housing bond pulled | Back to class: Chaotic time for Longfellow, Adult School students • Southside road closures | Kamala: Berkeley youth • Rainbow Sign A man who set himself on fire in Sproul Plaza last week has died, the San Francisco Medical Examiner confirmed Monday. The medical examiner’s office said Chet Bohrer, 42, was from Salt Lake County, Utah, and his family has been notified.  The office didn’t release any information about his cause of death or confirm if he died at a medical facility in San Francisco. The Berkeley Scanner first reported his death.  Witnesses rushed to put out the flames after seeing the man set himself on fire in the crowded plaza on Wednesday. Dozens of students and bystanders were present when it happened.  Berkeley Fire said Bohrer sustained second-and third-degree burns over much of his body and was initially taken to Highland Hospital in Oakland. One woman who was helping put out the flames was taken to a different medical facility for minor burns, and another bystander who helped the man was treated for burns at the scene.  UC Berkeley police are investigating what happened. Berkeley’s police and fire departments and Berkeley Mental Health responded to the scene. Berkeleyside relies on reader support to remain free for everyone in our community. Your donation goes beyond supporting our journalism. It also helps your family, friends and Berkeley neighbors have access to reliable, independent reporting. The reporters and editors at Berkeleyside are dedicated to covering our city and providing you with the information you need to be an informed citizen. If you value what you get from Berkeleyside, please join us with a tax-deductible donation so we can continue doing the local reporting that matters to you.  Will you chip in to Berkeleyside today? "*" indicates required fields Δ 
							Supriya Yelimeli is a housing and homelessness reporter for Berkeleyside and joined the staff in May 2020 after contributing reporting since 2018 as a freelance writer. Yelimeli grew up in Fremont and...															
								More by Supriya Yelimeli								
 Richmondside Oaklandside Donate to Berkeleyside and support independent local journalism. 
													You must be logged in to post a comment.												