Nosh Arts Business City City COVID-19 Crime & Safety Events Housing Neighborhoods Schools Obituaries Opinion Berkeleyside 
					Nonprofit news. Free for all, funded by readers.				 $20B housing bond pulled | Back to class: Chaotic time for Longfellow, Adult School students • Southside road closures | Kamala: Berkeley youth • Rainbow Sign It’s a longstanding tradition here at East Bay Nosh: The last week of every year, our staff, as well as the staff of Cityside, Berkeleyside and The Oaklandside all come together to make our editorial picks of the East Bay’s best in food and drinks. It’s always a lot of fun to look back on the past year of great meals, provocative cocktails, and warm and glowing days and nights out.  But if there’s one thing I’ve learned since I started here at Nosh, it’s that our readers are just as — if not more — passionate about food and drinks as we are. From our many eyes on the street feeding us tips, to folks who write in to debate the merits of a spot included or excluded from a guide, every Nosh reader is blessed with strong opinions they have no fear of sharing. So this year, we’re asking you to name your top picks in a variety of categories (but please do feel free to skip any you don’t have an opinion on), using the form below. (Please don’t forget to hit “submit” when you’re through.) We’ll take the top nominees in each category, and will place them into a poll that will be open to all. The final results — Nosh’s readers’ choice awards, if you will — will be announced every day between Dec. 26-30.  Thanks in advance for participating. We’re already looking forward to seeing your faves. — Eve Batey, Nosh editoreve@eastbaynosh.org The nomination period has closed.  Featured image credit: Marco Verch, via Creative Commons 2.0 Berkeleyside relies on reader support to remain free for everyone in our community. Your donation goes beyond supporting our journalism. It also helps your family, friends and Berkeley neighbors have access to reliable, independent reporting. The reporters and editors at Berkeleyside are dedicated to covering our city and providing you with the information you need to be an informed citizen. If you value what you get from Berkeleyside, please join us with a tax-deductible donation so we can continue doing the local reporting that matters to you.  Will you chip in to Berkeleyside today? "*" indicates required fields Δ 
							Eve Batey has worked as a reporter and editor since 2004, including as the co-founder of SFist, as a deputy managing editor of the SF Chronicle and as the editor of Eater San Francisco.															
								More by Eve Batey								
 Richmondside Oaklandside Donate to Berkeleyside and support independent local journalism. 
													You must be logged in to post a comment.												