Partly cloudy. High 67F. Winds N at 10 to 20 mph..
                                 A few clouds. Low 53F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 20, 2024 @ 1:11 am The Jewish Federation of Cleveland will host a celebration of One World Day on Aug. 25 from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. at the Hebrew Cultural Garden at 1060 East Blvd. in Cleveland.  As you might expect, the purchase of commercial real estate took a dip after the onset of COVID-19.  On Saturday, July 27, a Hezbollah rocket strike next to a soccer field in the northern Israeli town of Majdal Shams left 12 Israeli Druze children dead and dozens more injured.  Lauren B. Wolf, 68, born April 24, 1956, died Aug. 17, 2024.   A new hot pot restaurant is coming to Coventry Village in Cleveland Heights in October. Called One Pot Korean BBQ and Hot Pot, the restaurant owned by Hangchun Zheng will fill the space left behind by Taco Roosters at 1925 Coventry Road. The space will undergo a complete renovation, and will custom-build its interior and equipment. Each table will be outfitted with a small grill where customers can cook their own food. Customers will be able to choose from several meats, seafoods and veggies for their hot pot, or choose a $29.99 endless option for hot pot or barbecue. It will also serve bubble tea and alcohol, like sake and soju. Zheng also owns several other restaurants, including HC Way in Columbus, two Seafood Shake locations in Coventry and Strongsville, and Hell’s Fried Chicken in Cleveland’s Uptown district. Taco Roosters closed in June after two years in the space, which was a former Panini’s Grill, Hyde Park Grille and Sal & Angelos. Zheng also operated Taco Roosters. Choose from the options below.  Choose from our popular e-newsletters and get e-mail updates right to your inbox. Choose from the CJN's informative e-newsletters.  Weekly Torah portion Weekly service times Weekly Yiddish lesson Get the award-winning Cleveland Jewish News and our popular magazines delivered directly to you. Prices start at $65 per year. Subscribe today! Find a copy of the Cleveland Jewish News. View a list of stores and vendors. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: