With spring finally here, you might be planning a campout or other off-grid outing. Well, be sure that when you leave the house, this 60W portable solar panel is in your bag. It has built-in USB-A and USB-C outputs with up to 18W of power being delivered. No plugs or adapters are required for the USB-C or A ports, and there’s also a DC output to recharge portable power stations and the like as well. On sale today for $100, you’ll save $50 which is a 33% price drop and marks the best discount that we’ve seen so far in 2023. We also have a wide selection of Tesla and e-bike discounts in today’s New Green Deals, so you won’t want to miss that either. Head below for other New Green Deals that we’ve found today and of course Electrek’s best EV buying and leasing deals. Also, check out the new Electrek Tesla Shop for the best deals on Tesla accessories. The official ROCKPALS Amazon storefront is offering its Portable 60W Foldable Solar Panel for $99.99 shipped once you clip the on-page coupon. Coming in at $50 below its typical going rate at Amazon, this 33% discount delivers the best price that we’ve seen so far this year. Designed to be thrown in your car’s trunk or backpack, this compact solar panel is perfect for camping, outdoor outings, or just to keep on hand in case the power goes out.  Even if you don’t have a portable power station, this portable solar panel can be useful. There’s a built in USB-A QuickCharge 3.0 output that delivers up to 3.3A of power, and a USB-C plug which delivers up to 18W to connected devices. This means you can plug an iPhone, iPad, or even some laptops into this solar panel and charge them directly. Also, if you need to leave the solar panel outside, it’s water-resistant and durable to withstand the elements. Keeping a portable solar panel like this in your outdoor kit will mean that you can stay off-grid for longer when camping or traveling. It allows you to not have to rely on running your vehicle or bringing tons of external batteries in order to charge things like your phone, smartwatch or fitness tracker, or even camera if staying off-grid for an extended time. On top of that, you’ll find that there’s a DC output that allows you to recharge portable power stations and other batteries as well, should that benefit your on-the-go setup. Goal Zero’s official Amazon storefront is now offering one of our favorite everyday carry upgrades for its best price yet. We first tested out the Sherpa 100 PD Qi power bank a few years back, but since then it has remained a staple in our daily setups. Now Amazon is stepping in to make it more affordable than ever before, with a discount down to $99.99 shipped. Normally fetching $150, you’re looking at 33% in savings as well as a match of the all-time low for only the second time. It’s the first discount in well over a month, too. Goal Zero’s Sherpa 100 AC arrives as a more compact take on your traditional portable power station with a more streamlined design that’s centered around a 25,600mAh internal battery that powers everything from MacBooks to iPhones and more with its versatile I/O. There’s notably a 100W USB-C port, which comes supplemented by dual USB-A slots. And up on top you’ll find an integrated Qi charger for topping off devices without even needing to dig a cable out of your bag. Then for a better idea of what to expect, dive into our Tested with 9to5Toys hands-on review. Best Buy is offering the SWFT FLEET E-bike for $699.99 shipped. Normally going for $1,000 at Best Buy, today’s deal comes in at the second-best price that we’ve seen all-time. In fact, it’s only $50 above the best price ever, which was set back in January. Ready to help you get around town this spring, the SWFT FLEET features a range of over 37 miles on a single charge. That means you’ll have plenty of charge to get to and from work without worrying about plugging in mid-day, but if you need that extra range, it’s easy enough to charge before heading home. You’ll find various pedal-assist modes to change how much either you or the bike is doing when riding, and, should you need, the bike can go up to 19.8 MPH by itself with no assistance. Of course, not a single drop of gas or oil is required to use this bike, making it a green way to get the wind in your hair and commute in 2023. Be sure to take a look at our hands-on review of the SWFT FLEET to take a deeper dive. After checking out the ROCKPALS portable solar panel on sale above, if you keep read, you’ll find a selection of new green deals that will make your Tesla experience better in multiple areas. From storage to keep recordings on to phone mounts, car chargers, and anything else we can find, it’ll be listed below. Each day we’ll do our best to find new and exciting deals and ways for you to save on fun accessories for your Tesla, making each trip unique. For more gift ideas and deals, check out the best Tesla shop. Keep reading on for e-bike, Greenworks, and other great deals. If you’re looking to get out and enjoy the sunshine still after using your new electric mower, than we recommend you experience it than on another e-bike or electric scooter you just got at a fantastic price through one of our deals and sale below. You can use it for fun, exercise, or even transportation to and from work or the coffee shop. We have several people here that will regularly commute to coffee shops or offices on their e-bike, as it cuts down on fossil fuel usage as well as allows them to enjoy some time outdoors on nice sunny days. Below, you’ll find a wide selection of new e-bike deals and electric scooter deal in all price ranges, so give it a look if that’s something you’d be interested in picking up. As always, the newest e-bike deal and electric scooter discounts and sales will be at the top, so shop quick as the discounts are bound to go away soon. After shopping the ROCKPALS portable solar panel on sale above, be sure to check out the other discounts we found today. These new green deals are wide-ranging from outdoor lawn equipment to anything else we find that could save you money in various ways, be that cutting gas and oil out of your life or just enjoying other amenities that energy-saving gear can bring. As always, the newest deals will be at the top, so shop quick as the discounts are bound to go away soon. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast. With a love of phones, drones, and computers (couldn’t make that last one rhyme), I’m always looking for the best deals around! If you’ve got a tip to an awesome deal, go ahead and drop me a line at patrick@9to5mac.com! Manage push notifications