MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--#ROI--Nucleus Research published an ROI guidebook examining the benefits of deploying the Databricks Lakehouse Platform. Nucleus interviewed multiple Databricks Lakehouse customers and found the solution delivered an average ROI of 482 percent over a three-year period, with an average annual benefit of $30.5M and a payback period of 4.1 months. 
“The mass adoption of data and AI have changed the way enterprises consume cloud computing, and legacy infrastructures are failing to keep pace with scaling data volumes. As enterprises modernize their analytics infrastructure, they also seek to consolidate systems to reduce complexity and streamline administrative efforts,” said Senior Analyst Alexander Wurm. “As a result, solutions like the Databricks Lakehouse Platform have risen to prominence for their ability to replace various legacy systems, including data warehouses, data lakes, and other specialized systems, while supporting diverse data applications, including SQL analytics, AI modeling, data transformations, governance, and more.” 
Key benefits highlighted in the guidebook include: 
To read the full Databricks ROI Guidebook, click here. 
About Nucleus Research 
Nucleus Research is the recognized global leader in ROI technology research. Using a case-based approach, we provide research streams and advisory services that allow vendors and end users to quantify and maximize the return from their technology investments. For more information, visit NucleusResearch.com or follow our latest updates on LinkedIn. 
Morgan Whitehead
Nucleus Research
mwhitehead@nucleusresearch.com 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.