Despite the less-than-ideal record of a franchise accustomed to winning, the San Antonio Spurs remain a positive group.  After the comeback win over the Atlanta Hawks last Sunday, the Spurs young core expressed their belief in the system. Before the 5-5 stretch in the previous 10 games, where they also beat the Denver Nuggets, the faith stems from Gregg Popovich's truthful disposition in the preseason.  "The point is to develop this group and give them the best possible opportunity to give them long NBA careers and enjoy the hell out of it," Popovich said. "Whoever comes after me will have an opportunity to take them to the next level". Winning is everything, but Popovich understands this group isn't ready to win at the league's pinnacle but has traits to pull out occasional impressive victories. After the Hawks' game, Popovich admired the young Spurs squad.  "They got a hell of a win that they deserved it," Popovich said. "We're thrilled with it. We got good games from a lot of guys tonight and that's what it takes to win in the NBA. It can't be one guy. Very pleased with the boys. I'm happy for them." Despite their young age, the conviction from the inexperienced San Antonio nucleus speaks volumes. Appearing in only his 36th game of the season due to a knee injury, Devin Vassell's return provided the Spurs with the necessary spark. Vassell praised his team in postgame availability on Sunday.  "Everybody played big today. We just kept the faith that we knew we were going to come back and that's just what we did," Vassell said. "At the end of the day, we are a young team and we got to feed off each other and that's what we did." Despite allowing a whopping 83 points in the first half, the Spurs destroyed the Hawks in the second half. Trailing by as many as 24 points, the Spurs clamped up the Hawks, restraining them to only 15 points in the fourth quarter, winning the contest 126-118. The Spurs' morale is at skyscraper levels with a back-to-back schedule on Tuesday against the New Orleans Pelicans and Wednesday facing the Milwaukee Bucks.  You can follow Lance Roberson on Twitter. Want the latest in breaking news and insider information on the Spurs? Click Here. Follow Inside the Spurs on Twitter. Follow Inside the Spurs on Facebook. Want even more San Antonio Spurs news? Check out the SI.com team page here.