Cloudy skies this morning will become partly cloudy this afternoon. High 81F. Winds NNW at 10 to 15 mph..
                                 Mostly clear. Low 56F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 7:05 am   Click here to stay informed and subscribe to Herald-Dispatch. Click  #isupportlocal for more information on supporting our local journalists. Learn more about HD Media  A ladle of molten steel at Nucor Steel Gallatin, is photographed on April 6 at Ghent, Ky. Nucor Corp. is shutting down a steel plate mill at Longview, Texas, and transferring work to three other mills, including one in Kentucky. Purchased by Nucor in 2016 for about $29 million, the mill produces heavy steel plate and has a rated annual capacity of 100,000 tons. The assets at Longview will be evaluated and deployed across Nucor’s mills where appropriate. All employees at Longview will be offered employment opportunities at other Nucor divisions, the company said in its announcement Wednesday morning. Nucor expects the phaseout of production to occur in the third quarter of this year. Production will be transferred to Nucor’s remaining plate mills, including its new plate mill at Brandenburg, Kentucky, which began operating earlier this year. The Brandenburg mill will produce discrete, coiled and heat-treated plate ranging from 60 to 168 inches wide, and in gauges from 3/16 of an inch to 14 inches. Nucor also has a plate mill in Hertford County, North Carolina, and a cut-to-length and discrete mill in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. “I’d like to thank our teammates at Nucor Steel Longview for their outstanding performance and achievements during the past several years. My hope is that all our teammates will choose to remain a part of our Nucor family and accept positions at other Nucor divisions,” said Al Behr, executive vice president for plate and structural products. Nucor’s planned mill at Apple Grove, West Virginia, about 28 miles north of downtown Huntington, will produce sheet steel, which is less thick than steel plate. Company officials say they plan to begin construction of that mill as soon as all federal permits are secured. Other work at the site, such as building office facilities and construction support areas, has begun. Nucor also has a sheet steel mill along the Ohio River near Ghent, Kentucky, which is between Louisville and Cincinnati. Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist The latest in news, sports and opinion delivered directly to your inbox The weekend's biggest headlines in one convenient package Stay informed with the latest on WVU and Marshall sports Comprehensive coverage of high school sports in West Virginia and beyond Your go-to source for local arts, entertainment and eats Stay up to date with the latest news from the state Capitol, including Phil Kabler's Statehouse Beat column Explore Appalachia with the latest in travel and recreation Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.