SANDUSKY, Ohio — With all four defending OHSAA state champions, Northeast Ohio should remain the measuring stick in boys basketball. Is Richmond Heights the best of them all as the small-school Division IV champion? The Spartans hold that distinction in this part of the state after sweeping through the 2022-23 season for their second straight crown. They impressed again Friday and Saturday during Midwest Live, the now annual showcase for Division I college coaches put on by the Ohio High School Basketball Coaches Association at Cedar Point Sports Center in Sandusky. Twenty area teams participated among the 120-plus schools from Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and West Virginia. It provided an early litmus test for next season. 25. Elyria (18-7 last season): The Southwestern Conference race should again be a tight one with defending champion Avon Lake, which must replace a tough senior class with SWC co-Player of the Year Matthew Stuewe but returns senior guard Peyton Lerch and Derek McCrum, who could be in store for a big football season. The Pioneers, though, have a favorite to be next season’s SWC Player of the Year in 6-foot-5 junior guard Jayden Crutcher with fellow returning starter Mateo Medina and emerging juniors Taylor Blanton and Darrion Crawford, who played well at Midwest Live during a 2-2 split in competition. 24. Berea-Midpark (14-9): Senior guard Austin Clay broke out at point guard, stepping in after Jayson Levis transferred to Lutheran West. Clay and brothers Devyn and Masyn Zahursky are multisport standouts, all on the football team, for second-year coach Kevin Braaten since his transition from the girls program. Devyn Zahursky set the school rebounding record last season. Copley upset the Titans in the first round of the Division I tournament also should be considered for a Top 25 spot with new coach Adam Cestaro and returning standout Trent Wininger. Lorain, Cornerstone Christian and Avon Lake also are on the cusp for this early Top 25 with the Titans and Elyria, who made it in. 23. North Ridgeville (18-7): In addition to Crutcher from Elyria, consider returning senior point guard Griffin Turay another favorite for SWC Player of the Year. He helped steer the Rangers to one of their better seasons in the last decade, pushing Avon Lake before finishing second in the SWC with a district semifinal run in Division I that ended against regional finalist Garfield Heights. Versatile wing Collin Jones also is slated to return in North Ridgeville. 22. Walsh Jesuit (20-8): Coming off its deepest run in coach Kevin Byrne’s five seasons, reaching the Division I regional finals, Walsh is slated to return senior guard Tyler Bell, Jesse James and 6-5 Sean Spicer. The Warriors took a recent hit, though, with the transfer of 6-4 guard Ruel Tomlinson to Glenville. Related stories 21. Holy Name (21-2): The Green Wave didn’t have Max Bollin down the stretch, which factored into an early Division II tournament loss to Benedictine after winning the Great Lakes Conference. Bollin is set for a breakout junior season under coach Ryan Patton with another junior in Drew Styers. 20. Glenville (17-9): After two straight Division II district championships, Glenville adds Tomlinson — who is favored to take snaps as the football team’s quarterback — to go with point guard Theodore Castro, who started as a freshman, and talented forward Damarion Witten, who committed Saturday to Ohio State as a 6-5 tight end and wide receiver. 19. Cuyahoga Valley Christian Academy (18-7): Darryn Peterson continues to pick up accolades on top of being one of the country’s top prospects in the Class of 2025. He won a gold medal at the FIBA Americas Championship with Team USA and began competing Monday at the NBPA 100 camp. Chris Paul’s CP3 Elite Guard Camp is still to come in August for Peterson, who remains busy and missed this weekend’s Midwest Live with CVCA. Coach Matt Futch rolled with another junior guard, who’s started along side Peterson, in Niles Nuru to go with Lavelle Sharpe Jr. and Co. 18. Brush (13-12): While Chet Mason’s Arcs are coming off an up-and-down season, they finished strong with an upset of St. Vincent-St. Mary in the Division I district semifinals. The 42-37 win ended a 14-year run of district titles by St. Vincent-St. Mary, which had won all but one of those at the Division II level. Forward Tyler Williams and sharpshooting Marlon Barnes are the big losses to graduation, but many of the guards will be back. That includes 6-3 wing Damari Dammons. 17. Maple Heights (18-6): Second-year coach Anthony Burns brings back Michael Lewondski, junior forward Da’van Aniton and added Rhodes transfer Kenyon Giles with freshman guard King Young to a team that made noise in the Lake Erie League and won 15 straight down the stretch last season. 16. Buchtel (23-6): The defending Division II state champions are without their trio of guards, including Khoi Thurmon, Amire Robinson and Marcel Boyce Jr., who all graduated since their 51-49 title win against Lutheran West in Dayton. However, senior guard Zevin Gadson is back after playing his freshman and sophomore years at Buchtel. Guard Deairre Pride Jr., Stevie Diamond and Dakota Taylor all earned big minutes or started at some points, and 7-0 senior center Ebrahim Jabbi has potential in the post after moving to Akron from North Carolina. 15. Stow-Munroe Falls (23-3): With 6-6 guard Reece Raymond-Smith back for his senior year, longtime coach Dave Close has a strong starting point with this squad. Cam Marconi emerged last season as a sophomore, as the Bulldogs beat St. Vincent-St. Mary, Green and Brecksville-Broadview Heights down the stretch before taking Walsh Jesuit to overtime in the Division I regional semifinals. 14. Medina (17-8): Chris Hassinger’s Bees fell to St. Edward in the Division I district finals for the second straight year after a regional final run in 2021. Energetic senior guard Benny Meyers is back with 6-4 Brock Beech, who drew the attention of scouts at Midwest Live, and 6-5 junior Kellon Johnson. They are among four teams from the Greater Cleveland Conference in the top 15 of this early Top 25. 13. Cleveland Heights (18-8): Count Cleveland Heights among those GCC teams now. The Tigers are new members after departing the LEL. Coach J.R. Bremer said goodbye to a talented senior class that got them to regionals in 2022 — the school’s first district title since 2003 — but this year’s reset comes with promise. Junior guard Braylyn Irby and forward Jay’Quan Stubbs are back with the addition of junior guard Carter Armstrong from Cornerstone Christian. 12. Green (17-7): Ohio State baseball commit Brady Rollyson is expected back for his senior season with 6-5 guard Jarrett Taylor and junior Nikola Bundalo. That’s trio that should give teams in the Federal League and beyond all they can handle with coach Mark Kinsley steering the ship. 11. St. Vincent-St. Mary (19-6): The Fighting Irish are remaining in Division I, based on this year’s competitive balance update. Few teams are set to move up or down next season because enrollments won’t be recounted until next year for divisional assignments. That could make for another challenging tournament run for STVM, but it’s important to note the Fighting Irish fell without injured Kent State recruit Lance “L.A.” Hayes down the stretch. Jayson Walker emerged in his absence. He’s back, along with 6-7 junior forward John Whorton, Daniel and David Ajose and 6-5 freshman Aiden Moore. Coach Dru Joyce II also now has former standout point guard Jonathan Williams on his staff. 10. Brecksville-Broadview Heights (21-4): Reigning cleveland.com Player of the Year Luke Skaljac returns for his senior season at the point. The Bees have made consecutive Division I district finals with him and also bring back junior guard Brady Ganley. Brecksville also added 6-4 wing Junior Kambomba from Lutheran West. The Bees have plenty of shooting, but they lack height and rebounding following the graduation of 6-7 Chase Garito. 9. Brunswick (18-7): Sophomore point guard Trey Drexler picked up an Akron offer earlier this month, and colleges are beginning to see the potential in Brunswick’s dynamic point guard. The Blue Devils have a one-two punch as good as anyone with 6-5 senior Tommy Morgan, who can block shots, rebound and score inside or out. Another senior guard, Quinn Barnett, adds to one of the state’s most dangerous shooting teams with junior Ethan Jean. Sophomore Sean Barnett also could make an impact for coach Joe Mackey. 8. Mentor (19-6): At this point, flip a coin between Brunswick and Mentor as a preseason favorite in the GCC. They played two of the cleanest games with high tempos and few turnovers last season. Mentor won both, so it gets the nod for now. Much of the cast is back for Bob Krizancic, minus graduated guard Ryan Ioppolo. Bigger, but younger, brother Ian Ioppolo made the All-Ohio third team as a junior. With his 6-7 frame and inside-out game, the Cardinals are tough to stop. They can play downhill and shoot it with Matthew Biddell and Ryan Calo in the backcourt. Versatile Kobe Frasure-Azzoano and Braylon Johnson are back, too. 7. St. Edward (21-3): Third-year starting forward Wendell Henry and emerging 6-7 forward Max McClellan will be matchup nightmares all season long. Senior guard Brian Sullivan and Ricky Bussey II are among a handful of guards who could see increased roles in the Eagles’ lineup. Coach Eric Flannery’s teams have won eight straight Division I district championships and 21 in the last 27 years. 6. Archbishop Hoban (26-3): Senior point guard Jonas Nichols powers the defending Division I state champions, who return senior wing Joey Hardman and 6-8 sophomore forward Sam Greer, who expects to start at left tackle this fall on the football team and already has an offer from Ohio State. Greer also has some Division I college basketball offers, emerging midway through last season as a big post player who can handle the ball in the open floor, too. Add in Canton GlenOak transfer Kenny Scott and Greer’s older brother, Josh, and this Hoban team has the pieces to establish its own identity after that memorable run. 5. St. Ignatius (19-8): Losing senior guard Ace Buckner to La Lumiere (Ind.) and Carter Jackson to Garfield Heights are considerable blows to the Wildcats, who appeared poised to be a favorite for next season’s state crown in Division I. The cupboard, however, isn’t bare for a deep run. Junior Quinn Woidke turned heads this spring after missing all but the final game of his sophomore season. Damon Friery is expected back soon after an injury this spring. The 6-9 forward, entering his junior year, is a Division I college prospect. Big 6-7 Reece Robinson also provides matchup problems. Coach Cam Joyce already got his program to Dayton twice in 2021 and ‘22. A third trip appears imminent sooner or later. 4. Lutheran West (24-3): After that two-point loss for the state title, which required a video review in Dayton, Lutheran West is now the favorite to win it all in Division II. Third-year coach Jordan Duke has his starting backcourt intact with Jayson Levis and Derek Fairley. Forwards Matthew and Joshua Meyer are back for their junior year. Despite losing Junior Kambomba to Brecksville, the Longhorns added Tino Yli-Junnila from Hudson, swapping one 6-4 guard for another one. 3. Lutheran East (22-5): No team in Division III can match what Lutheran East has in 6-9 Michigan State recruit Jesse McCulloch and 6-8 sophomore T.J. Crumble, whose growing list of offers includes Ohio State, Arizona State and Texas A&M. Chauncey Brashers is poised at point guard following the graduation of Cody Head, while Ronald Taylor and Anthony Bruce also are back. The defending Division III state champions added sophomore guard Mal’si Pearson from Buchtel and Kiir Kuany from the International Sports Academy at Andrews Osborne. 2. Garfield Heights (23-4): On paper, no team has more college prospects than Garfield Heights. Start with sophomore guard Marcus Johnson, who added Ohio State and LSU in May to his offer list with Oklahoma following June 1. DeAndre Jones has nine offers with Kent State his most recent and is growing his game as 6-9 forward. C.J. Little returns at the point, while former teammate Carter Jackson rejoins him from St. Ignatius. Sophomore forward Braylen Langley moved in from Evansville, Ind., while freshman point guard Chris Hill already has a Kent State offer. Johnson, Little and Jones led last season’s squad to the Division I regional finals, the Bulldogs’ deepest tournament run since 2017 with Marreon Jackson and Shawn Christian. Coincidentally, Christian is back at Garfield Heights as an assistant coach to Sonny Johson. 1. Richmond Heights (29-0): Are the defending Division IV state champions the best team in Ohio, regardless of classification? That question was posed at the beginning of this Top 25 and at the end of last season, as the Spartans won their 49th straight game with a second straight state crown. All five starters are back, led by junior Dorian Jones and point guard De’Erick Barber. Junior guard Demarris Winters Jr. is arguably the top shooter in the state, while Jeremy Wilson and Hosea Steele Jr. provide inside muscle with the ability to play anywhere on the court. This team is relentless on defense, and it’s why the Spartans should remain No. 1. Contact sports reporter Matt Goul on Twitter (@mgoul) or email (mgoul@cleveland.com). If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices If you opt out, we won’t sell or share your personal information to inform the ads you see. You may still see interest-based ads if your information is sold or shared by other companies or was sold or shared previously.