Global site navigation Local editions President Bola Tinubu has made appointments a routine since he assumed office. Almost every week, names of new appointees are revealed, either for one agency or government parastatals. PAY ATTENTION: Follow our WhatsApp channel to never miss out on the news that matters to you! However, some of the president's appointees have been removed after their nomination.  Political pundits attributed the development to lack of coordination and proper verification before such announcements were made. Neither the president nor his aides have given reasons for withdrawing the appointees. This has continued to fuel narratives that the president is not in charge of his government. Also, it was observed that some of the appointees either withdrew their nominations by themselves or were withdrawn after criticism from the public or political bigwigs.  PAY ATTENTION: Follow us on Instagram - get the most important news directly in your favourite app! Read also "I’ve never betrayed PDP": Wike reveals how Obaseki played him fool over second term ticket Below is the list of the affected appointees: Kashim Imam, appointed by President Tinubu on Friday, October 13, as the chairman of the Federal Road Management Authority (FERMA) Board of Directors, became the latest casualty when the presidency announced his removal on Thursday, October 19.  Imam is a 24-year-old fresh and first-class graduate of Engineering from Brighton University in the United Kingdom.  The appointment of the son of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Borno State was criticised by many who considered him too young and inexperienced for such a high-profile position because he had just finished his NYSC in 2022.  She was one of the youngest President Tinubu nominated as a minister but his nomination was withdrawn and replaced by the Presidency without telling the Nigerian public the reason for her withdrawal.  It was learnt that some bigwigs in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) went against her nomination and she learnt about her withdrawal when she arrived at the Senate for screening.  Read also Confusion over Tinubu’s N57.8 billion rice palliative for National Assembly members The former governor of Kaduna State was nominated by President Tinubu to serve as federal minister but he was rejected by the Senate during screening over issues bordering on security.  It was later reported that El-Rufai informed Tinubu that he was not interested in the position again, nominating his former commissioner, and announcing his interest to go for his PhD in abroad.  However, sources later claimed that the security report against El-Rufai was sponsored by some political bigwigs including Vice President Kashim Shettima; Senate President Godswill Akpabio; Chief of Staff to the President, Femi Gbajabiamila; and Nuru Ribadu, the national security adviser.  Oketete was one of the bright minds President Tinubu nominated to be a minister under his administration but like El-Rufai, the former head of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) was rejected by the Senate over security concerns.  Read also Betta Edu: Tinubu under pressure to sack minister as CISLAC, HURIWA, SERAP call for probe However, an analyst has linked her rejection to misogyny jamboree in the Nigeria's political milieu, a similar situation she faced when she was appointed to lead the FRSC at the age of 36.  Danladi was the third ministerial nominee of President Tinubu that the Akpabio-led Senate rejected to confirm after screening, citing some security concerns.  The Taraba State-born politician was later remoured to have been barred from taking any political office for ten years over alleged certificate forgery.  But Danladi refuted the claim, adding that no court barred him from holding political office, and that the rumour was being spread to present him in a bad light against his nomination by the President.  Legit.ng earlier reported that the Senate has begun the screening process and confirmation of Tinubu's three nominees. Read also Should Tinubu be commended for nominating 21 Supreme Court justices? Lawyer reacts Halima Shehu, Ola Olukoyede and Muhammad Hassan Hammajoda are the three nominees Tinubu forwarded to the Senate. The President appointed Ola Olukoyede as the chairman as the substantial chairman of the EFCC. PAY ATTENTION: Unlock the best of Legit.ng on Pinterest! Subscribe now and get your daily inspiration!  Source: Legit.ng 

                Bada Yusuf                                    (Politics and Current Affairs Editor)
                            
Yusuf Amoo Bada is an accomplished politics and current affairs editor, boasting over 7 years of experience in journalism and writing. He is a graduate of OAU, and holds Diploma in Mass Comm. and BA in Literature in English. He has obtained certificates in Leadership and received the "Certificate for Breakthrough of the Year 2022" in recognition of his great performance during his first year at Legit.ng. Worked as Editor with OperaNews. Contact: bada.yusuf.amoo@corp.legit.ng or call 08161717844
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you