Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: Help us change more lives, join TUKO.co.ke’s Patreon programme. Nuru Okanga and his wife Emelda continue to serve couple goals to the envy of many.  The political activist, who held his first-ever football tournament in his home constituency together with his wife, thrilled spectators with a lovely dance. PAY ATTENTION: Do you have a video that never fails to make you smile? Spread the positivity by sharing it with us via WhatsApp: 0732482690. The lovebirds, who were wearing matching tracksuits, showcased their dance moves at a local primary school before Okanga presented trophies and cash to the winners. Read also Edday's Fans Plead with Celebrity Not to Take Back Samidoh after Alleged Love Song Dedication Speaking to TUKO.co.ke, delighted Okanga said the event, which was held in Kholera ward, Matungu Constituency was a success and would hold more. The vocal content creator revealed he was to wed his beautiful wife in October but has been forced to cancel the plans.  Okanga, who recently announced that he would be vying for an MCA seat in the next general election, added that: Read also Viral This Week: Bus Company Employs Student Photographing Buses, Kikuyu Granny Awes With Rapping Skills Okanga pampered his wife with love, and he said: Okanga revealed the highest amount he ever made from TikTok was KSh 70,000, thanking his fans for supporting him.  Reacting to news that the government was planning to ban TikTok, he said; Okanga revealed through TikTok he was able to buy cement which he used to upgrade his life, and was now looking forward to buying tiles for the house through the trendy app. In a past interview with TUKO.co.ke Okanga revealed he got a new wife after parting ways with his first wife in late 2023. Read also Loitoktok Student Earning Money On TikTok by Dancing to News, Unusual Sounds Adding:  Okanga said his wife encourages him to do what he loves best, revealing he has given her permission to receive calls on his behalf. The political activist also disclosed his DMs were flooded with messages from women. He urged people never to marry someone they don't match, saying they should be compatible before taking things forward.  PAY ATTENTION: check out news exactly for YOU ➡️  click on “Recommended for you” and enjoy! Source: TUKO.co.ke 

                Caren Nyota                                    (Entertainment editor)
                            
Caren Nyota is an entertainment editor covering relationship stories. She has nine years of experience in print and digital media. Previously worked as an editor at Mpasho.co.ke, The Star Kenya and as a Features/Investigative Reporter at Radio Africa Group. She graduated with a Bachelor of Journalism & Mass Communication from The University of Nairobi. Have an extraordinary love story to share with Caren? Email: Caren.nyota@tuko.co.ke.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you