Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: Help us change more lives, join TUKO.co.ke’s Patreon programme. Raila Odinga and Azimio la Umoja's supporter Nuru Okanga has revealed he has been married for three weeks. Speaking in an interview with TUKO.co.ke, Okanga revealed he got a new wife after parting ways with his first wife a few months ago. Read also Odongo Swagg: Ohangla Star Marries His Longtime Lover Linda at Flashy Traditional Wedding PAY ATTENTION: Share your outstanding story with our editors! Please reach us through news@tuko.co.ke or WhatsApp: 0732482690. Adding: Okanga said his wife encourages him to do what he loves best, revealing he has given her permission to receive calls on his behalf. He urged people never to marry someone they don't match, saying they should be compatible before taking things forward.  Previously, TUKO.co,ke reported that single Mumias MP Peter Salasya revealed he would like to settle down, with a God-fearing, prayerful and educated woman between 23-26 years old. Read also Catherine Kasavuli's Son Martin Remembers Mum in Touching Post, Describes Her as Best Parent: "You're Missed" Salasya disclosed since he was elected, his DMs were been bursting with messages and sultry photos from women.  Salasya disclosed he wants to have 10 children, revealing he is expecting his first child with his ex-girlfriend in a week's time. PAY ATTENTION: check out news exactly for YOU ➡️  click on “Recommended for you” and enjoy! Source: TUKO.co.ke 

                Caren Nyota                                    (Entertainment editor)
                            
Caren Nyota is an entertainment editor covering relationship stories. She has nine years of experience in print and digital media. Previously worked as an editor at Mpasho.co.ke, The Star Kenya and as a Features/Investigative Reporter at Radio Africa Group. She graduated with a Bachelor of Journalism & Mass Communication from The University of Nairobi. Have an extraordinary love story to share with Caren? Email: Caren.nyota@tuko.co.ke.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you