The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Jennifer Wirth or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Jennifer Wirth,
                                                    Niraj Patel, D.O.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Hyperglycemia, or high blood sugar, is a potentially serious health condition that affects more than 45% of U.S. adults, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)[1]Hypertension Prevalence Among Adults Aged 18 and Over: United States, 2017–2018. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Accessed 1/22/2023. . Although it often affects individuals with diabetes, other people can develop the condition. If left untreated, it can lead to serious health complications including vision loss, heart disease and kidney failure. Read on to learn more about hyperglycemia, including common symptoms, risks and when to see a health care provider. Hyperglycemia occurs when the body has too much glucose, or sugar, circulating in the blood. “In order for our cells to use the glucose from food for energy, we need insulin, a naturally occurring hormone made by the pancreas,” explains Michael Marchese, M.D., a board-certified endocrinologist at Stamford Health Medical Group in Connecticut. “Hyperglycemia occurs when the pancreas isn’t making enough insulin, or it’s not utilizing the insulin it’s making appropriately.” A normal blood glucose level is considered 99 milligrams per deciliter or lower while fasting, or 140 milligrams per deciliter or lower two hours after a meal, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). High blood sugar occurs when your blood glucose levels exceed either 125 milligrams per deciliter while fasting or 180 milligrams per deciliter two hours after eating. “Elevation above a healthy threshold usually happens in people with diabetes, pre-diabetes or insulin resistance (a condition in which a person’s cells stop responding to insulin,), as their [bodies] cannot adequately process the increase in glucose,” says Kateryna Komarovskiy, M.D., a board-certified endocrinologist at Memorial Hermann in Houston, Texas. “However, it can also increase as a result of [specific] foods, stress, medications or other medical conditions that can increase stress hormone production.” Although occasional episodes of high blood sugar aren’t generally a cause for concern, an individual with frequent, prolonged or severe blood sugar elevations would likely need to seek treatment, she adds. High blood sugar symptoms can vary from person to person and range in severity, but if you experience any of the following symptoms or are worried that you may have high blood sugar, it’s important to talk to a health care provider, says Dr. Marchese. “If glucose levels are very high, over 300 milligrams per deciliter, individuals can become confused and lethargic and experience shortness of breath,” says Dr. Komarovskiy. “This [glucose level] is considered a medical emergency, and [the individual] should be seen by a medical professional as soon as possible.” If left untreated, high blood sugar can lead to serious and permanent health problems, including damage to blood vessels and internal organs, explains Dr. Komarovskiy. She adds that prolonged high blood glucose can potentially lead to: The longer blood sugar remains high, the greater the risk of complications. It’s important to get regular checkups with your health care provider to catch any changes in glucose levels before they become a major health risk, says Dr. Komarovskiy. If you believe you’re experiencing hyperglycemia symptoms, it’s important to see a health care provider as soon as possible, says Dr. Komarovskiy. “If addressed early on and aggressively, then the risk [of developing] complications or organ damage would be minimal,” she adds. Your health care provider will check your blood glucose levels using a glucose meter, known as a glucometer, or lab tests. However, they’ll likely make a formal diagnosis based on the results of a series of blood tests, which may include a fasting blood glucose test, an oral glucose tolerance test, which evaluates how well your body processes sugar, and an A1C test, which measures your average blood glucose level over the past two to three months. The results of these tests could be available within a few hours, depending on the efficiency of the lab and your health care provider’s office, according to Dr. Marchese. Based on your results and unique health history, your health care provider may recommend lifestyle modifications, such as exercise and dietary changes, medications or insulin therapy. “It’s important to work closely with your health care provider in order to get the best possible treatment plan tailored to your specific situation,” says Dr. Marchese. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Jennifer Wirth is a professional writer and SEO specialist with a focus on health, wellness, parenting and beauty. She holds a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering and is passionate about providing accurate and engaging content that’s backed by scientific research. When Wirth isn’t writing, she enjoys spending time with her husband and three young children.
			 
				Niraj Patel is a board-certified family medicine physician and the Medical Director of Cora Health. He completed his residency training through the Cleveland Clinic Akron General Health System, where he served as chief resident and was also the president of the house staff. He has also served as an assistant professor at the UNT Health Sciences Center in Fort Worth, Texas. His interests in clinical informatics and digital health led him to a career in telemedicine.
			