BlueStar Diabetes is our top pick overall  Smartphone apps have become increasingly important tools for managing certain health conditions, including diabetes. They assist with everything from diet and exercise to glucose monitoring and symptom management.
  These cleverly designed apps are useful for anyone with diabetes, from people who are newly diagnosed to those who have been living with the disease their entire lives. Review the five best apps for managing diabetes below.
 BlueStar Diabetes  BlueStar is a free, award-winning app that offers a variety of helpful tools for people who have type 1 or type 2 diabetes. It allows you to set reminders for medications, record your blood glucose levels, and plan meals for the day.
 Tracks blood sugar results  Immediate feedback with real-time, personalized, AI-driven coaching Provides recipes ideas/food barcode scanner Set medication reminders Syncs with fitness trackers Requires access code from an employer, health system or health plan Only intended for ages 18+  BlueStar is an FDA-approved, award-winning app that provides 24/7 real-time, personalized, AI-driven coaching. This comprehensive app is available only via an access code from employers, health systems, or health plans, and offers an impressive range of tools tailored to the individual. Once registered, users can receive personalized guidance based on their blood glucose, medications, current health, and a review of lifestyle factors affecting diabetes.
  In addition, BlueStar provides thousands of tailored coaching messages based on real-time glucose values and trends. While BlueStar is not intended to replace your doctor, it can greatly enhance your care, particularly if you're having difficulty controlling your blood sugar or are in need of ongoing support.
  BlueStar is intended for persons 18 and older with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. It is free for iPhone and Android. To activate the app, you will need an access code from an authorized healthcare provider.
  In the event of an emergency, the Medical ID app makes sure first responders can access important details about your health conditions (like diabetes and any others) as well as send alerts to your emergency contacts.
 Access from lock screen during emergency situations Shares location with emergency contacts Provides information on nearby hospitals Not specifically for diabetes management and care Free version doesn’t include many features  Although not a diabetes-specific app per se, Medical ID is free to download for Android. The app is visible on the lock screen of the phone, allowing first responders or others to access critical medical information such as chronic conditions, including diabetes, emergency contacts, and more.
  While it won't help you to manage your diabetes, it will alert others of your condition in the event you have a diabetes-related emergency—a severe hypoglycemic event, for example—that leaves you unable to speak for yourself.
 Fooducate  With over 300,000 foods in its database, Fooducate provides insight into your nutrition quality so you can make smarter food choices as part of your diabetes management. Simply scan the barcode of your food packages to access helpful information on your daily eats. 
 In-app community with recipes and member support Identifies foods' nutritional value (carbs, sugars, etc.) Suggests healthy alternatives for foods scanned Premium version offers diabetes-specific tips Free version doesn’t include diabetes support Doesn’t track blood sugars  Fooducate is a nutrition-focused tracking app that assesses the quality of the foods you're eating. The app uses a built-in database of hundreds of thousands of scannable barcodes so you can easily count macronutrients (carbohydrates, proteins, and fats).
  It assigns a letter grade (A, B, C, or D) to a food's nutrition quality. Fooducate then provides you with explanations and alternative recommendations, plus tips from nutrition professionals and community support so you can continue to make smart decisions for blood sugar management.
 Glucose Buddy  Glucose Buddy’s intuitive interface simplifies the process of logging carbohydrate intake, medication, exercise, and blood glucose readings. Plus, its custom insights help you understand how your lifestyle impacts your diabetes management.
 Straightforward and modern look Provides insights based on target blood glucose range Can sync data from Apple Health app More expensive than its competitors  Glucose Buddy is a must-have app for tracking blood glucose levels, insulin, medications, A1C results, and carb intake. The app syncs with Dexcom G5 and G6 glucose monitoring systems to maintain a thorough record of your glucose, but it doesn't stop there. Glucose Buddy helps you track your physical activity and food intake, and also offers to push notifications to remind you when to check your blood sugar next.
  Glucose Buddy's chart display can help you spot patterns and gain greater insight into your blood sugar trends and you can even create printable reports to bring to your next doctor's appointment.
 MyFitnessPal  MyFitnessPal is so much more than a calorie counter app: It lets you track your sugar, carb, and water intake as well as your physical activity and timing of your meals. The app has a notes section where you can record blood sugar levels and insulin injections.
 Database includes more than 14 million foods Can use smartphone camera to scan foods Access to a library of recipes and workouts Shows breakdown of macronutrients Integrates with over 50 apps Requires consistent internet connection Premium is pricey but has more benefits  MyFitnessPal is one of the most widely-used food tracking apps, thanks to its enormous food database incorporating more than 11 million foods—everything from produce to restaurant menu options to Trader Joe's snacks. The barcode scanner lets you input nearly any food from your pantry and the app also incorporates an exercise tracker that syncs with your food choices to help you meet your goals for weight management.
  Free for iPhone and Android but many of the functions that would benefit diabetics (like carb tracking) are better in the Pro version.
  Overall, BlueStar Diabetes provides the best diabetes management offerings thanks to its incredible features. You can view glucose readings, connect to an integrated insulin pump, stay up-to-date on blood sugar trends, and manage meal plans right from your smartphone. Plus, BlueStar makes taking care of yourself even easier by allowing you to track activity levels, food intake, medication, and hydration. 
  When choosing a product, the best app for managing diabetes will depend on your specific diagnosis and the features that best meet your needs and budget. For example, the Glucose Buddy app offers top-of-the-line blood sugar tracking but tends to be pricey when compared with other services.
  Free versions of these diabetes management apps provide basic features to help you manage diet, exercise, and other factors that contribute to your wellness. Keep in mind that many of these free apps charge for premium features or, in the case of BlueStar Diabetes, require a prescription to use the insulin-related features, like dosage calculation.
  You'll also want to consider the technology needed to support the apps you choose. Your healthcare provider can help to discuss these options with you. This will help to ensure the app you use will give you the data and features that you need.
 A diabetes app is a software program that helps people manage their diabetes. Some apps provide management tools for glucose tracking. Others are super helpful for monitoring carbs and physical activity. Diabetes apps offer food and exercise tracking apps that allow you to scan product barcodes for nutrition data. There are diabetes management tools like medication reminders and alerts for when it's time to self-test your blood sugar levels. Some apps even integrate with your healthcare provider's portal for personalized insights about your condition. Using a diabetes app can help you better manage your condition. Many apps have interactive features that let you input data and track your progress, as well as offer lifestyle tips and reminders to establish and maintain healthy habits that can positively impact your condition. Plus, some diabetes apps connect you to communities of people who have similar health interests and challenges. Tracking your carb intake is a vital part of managing your condition and diet. All of the apps on our list (except for Medical ID) offer carb-counting tools. Some of them might be a feature for the Pro version of the app, so do a little digging to find out. Yes, there are many free apps for diabetics. BlueStar Diabetes is the only app on our list that is completely free. The other apps all have free options or trials and then also have paid premium options.  Our methodology for evaluating diabetes apps is comprehensive and unbiased. We looked at key diabetes app features, assessed user reviews, researched the target markets for each contender, and used expert opinions to determine which apps are best for managing your condition.
  Only apps with a strong ability to meet a user's needs made the cut. We eliminated any apps that had a significant number of negative reviews, were hard to navigate, or didn’t provide valuable benefits or information for people with diabetes. Our thorough research and comprehensive analysis of each app helps our readers to make the best possible decision for their diabetes management needs.
 BlueStar Diabetes. Frequently asked questions. Dugas M, Wang W, Crowley K, et al. Engagement and outcomes associated with contextual annotation features of a digital health solution. J Diabetes Sci Technol. 2022;16(4):804-811. doi:10.1177/1932296820976409 
By Barbie Cervoni, RD

Cervoni is a New York-based registered dietitian and certified diabetes care and education specialist.
  Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up. There was an error. Please try again.