Requested tracks are not available in your region Themes: Health, Food, Metabolic Health, Diet, Stress, Glucose, Mood, Emotions, Exercise, Cortisol

Summary: 

Today I welcome Kara Collier, the co-founder and VP of Health at Nutrisense, one of America’s fastest-growing wellness-tech startups. After becoming frustrated with the shortcomings of the traditional healthcare system, she made it her mission to help others reach their maximum health potential using modern technology & expert coaching. She is the leading authority on the use of continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) technology for health optimization and disease prevention. 

In this episode, we jam about a topic not often discussed by traditional healthcare systems until it’s too late - the role of glucose and insulin response in your body and how it affects your metabolic health. Glucose monitoring is not just for people with diabetes! We talk about insulin sensitivity in our modern (often stress-filled!) lifestyles, the many factors that affect our insulin responses, and how we can monitor our insulin fluctuations to better understand how we metabolize different foods. Glucose monitoring can help us to make more informed lifestyle choices to optimize our overall well-being and long-term health.

Discover:

What glucose is and how it plays a vital role in our bodies

What metabolic health really means and how glucose affects it

How modern-day stressors create cortisol and insulin spikes

What glucose tracking is and how you can do it

Why exercise is essential for your metabolic health and longevity

How glucose fluctuates for women during menstrual cycles + menopause

What you can do if you getting a continuous glucose monitor is not an option for you


00:00 Intro 
02:50 What is metabolic health?
09:03 Glucose and insulin
12:05 How does it begin?
19:03 Metabolic health in a modern world
23:03 Understanding our relationship with food
30:21 What is a glucose monitor?
39:24 Making mindful food choices
42:16 Impact of glucose levels on mood
44:43 Effect of alcohol and stress on glucose levels
51:37 The benefits of a strong muscular system
56:05 Glucose fluctuations during menstruation and menopause
58:20 Alternative ways to monitor glucose

Links:


Website: https://www.nutrisense.io/



Special offer for my listeners! Use code CREATETHELOVE50 for $50 off the first month of any subscription at https://www.nutrisense.io/



Kara’s Instagram: @karacollier1 - https://www.instagram.com/karacollier1



Nutrisense IO Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/nutrisenseio



Sponsors:


Cured Nutrition | Use code CREATETHELOVE for 20% off all products at curednutrition.com/createthelove



Create the Love Cards | Use code CTLCARDS15 for 15% off at createthelove.com/cards



Learn more about your ad choices. Visit megaphone.fm/adchoices Related Tags - Ep 303: Glucose & Metabolic Health with Kara Collier, Ep 303: Glucose & Metabolic Health with Kara Collier from The Mark Groves Podcast - season - 1, The Mark Groves Podcast - season - 1 Ep 303: Glucose & Metabolic Health with Kara Collier, Mark Groves Ep 303: Glucose & Metabolic Health with Kara Collier, Listen Ep 303: Glucose & Metabolic Health with Kara Collier Gaana is your gateway to the best and latest in music, offering over 30 million songs across diverse languages including Hindi, English, Bollywood, and regional tracks. Stream your favourite Hindi songs, Bollywood music, English MP3 songs, radio, podcast and regional music online or download songs to enjoy anytime, anywhere! © Entertainment Network India Ltd. 2024, All Rights Reserved