The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 Have a question for Suzie Glassman or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Suzie Glassman,
                                                    Sarah Davis
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Nutrisense is a program and device that allows users to transfer blood sugar data collected by a continuous glucose monitor (CGM)—a wearable, minimally-invasive device placed on the upper arm— to their smartphone, providing immediate feedback about their blood sugar levels in real-time. I found the sensor painless and easy to apply, and my Nutrisense nutritionist responded quickly to my questions, offering guidance on what my data meant and how I could change my diet to improve my blood sugar control and feel better throughout my day. Co-founded by Alex Skryl, Kara Collier and Dan Zavortony in 2019 and based in Chicago, Nutrisense is a health technology company that takes a preventive approach to metabolic health. While CGMs have traditionally been used by people with type 1 diabetes to monitor and manage their blood sugar levels, Nutrisense states that “CGMs can have non-medical uses as part of a healthy lifestyle that can help you reach your wellness goals.” It touts that CGMs may have benefits like helping athletes optimize their performance, supporting weight loss and helping build long-term habits. The Nutrisense program combines CGM insights with personalized dietitian support to help you understand your body’s glucose response. Nutrisense works with more than 120 teammates, including partner physicians and registered dietitians, worldwide and thousands of subscribers, according to the company, with a mission to “help anyone discover and reach their health potential.” Analyze Your Glucose Levels in Real-Time with Nutrisense Get invaluable data about your blood sugar response to food, exercise, and sleep in real-time with a Nutrisense Continuous Glucose Monitor  To get started with Nutrisense, new users answer a health survey and respond to questions regarding goals and coaching preferences on the Nutrisense website. A partner physician then reviews their eligibility and issues a prescription if they meet the criteria (as CGMs in the U.S. typically require a medical prescription). The CGM is then sent by mail directly to their address. From there, users apply the sensor (which features a small, minimally-invasive needle and protective patch) to their upper arm. The sensor measures the glucose found in the fluid surrounding the cells. The sensor can be worn for up to 14 days, even while exercising or doing other activities. Approximately every eight hours (or whenever you’re curious about your glucose levels), you’ll scan the CGM with your phone to get an hour-by-hour reading of your blood sugar levels. The app then determines a glucose score, with eight to 10 as green (meaning “good”), five to seven as orange (meaning “okay”) or one to four as red (meaning “needs improvement”). The app also features detailed insights with color-coded average glucose scores (daily, weekly and more) as well as a meal score, which measures your body’s glucose response to a particular meal. Users are guided to input their meals, complete with ingredients and the time of day the meal occurred. Each meal is scored, with higher scores indicating a more optimal blood sugar response. The app also provides scores for your average glucose value for a selected period, minimum and maximum values, sleep average (from your overnight fasting glucose values) and a morning average (the last two hours of your fasting window). Nutrisense gives you access to a dietitian who can provide guidance and advice on your blood sugar metrics (and how you can improve them). This feature is free for the first month, but then costs an additional $100 per month. Nutrisense connects to other health tracking apps, like the Apple watch, Fitbit, Oura ring, Garmin devices and Samsung watches, to automatically record activity like steps and exercise.  Nutrisense currently offers the following subscription plans: With each plan, the subscriber receives two 14-day CGMs monthly and one month of free dietitian support. Users can continue receiving dietitian support for an additional $100 per month. The CGM offered by Nutrisense is the FreeStyle Libre device from Abbott. “CGMs are small plastic devices attached to the body with a flexible plastic tube that sits just under the skin,” explains Nancy Rennert, M.D., system chief of diabetes care for Nuvance Health. “They record the amount of glucose in the body through interstitial fluid every few minutes.” The data scans to a smartphone by placing the phone’s camera near the CGM’s sensor. The app is available for iOS and Android. Users can also join a private Facebook group to ask questions and learn from others. It’s important to keep in mind that while CGMs are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for people with diabetes, their use in the non-diabetic population hasn’t been widely studied. In the U.S., CGMs require a medical prescription. Dr. Rennert cautions that medical professionals don’t have much information about the variability of CGM data in people without diabetes, or which blood sugar metrics may be most important to focus on for diabetes prevention or general health. Note that Nutrisense also does not recommend its product for people under 18, those pregnant or trying to become pregnant or people undergoing cancer treatment. Additionally, it does not recommend its product for people undergoing insulin therapy (such as people with diabetes), as insulin prescriptions require careful adjustment in relation to changes in diet and lifestyle factors, and managing insulin dosage is outside Nutrisense’s scope of practice, according to a company representative. Glucose monitoring could give people insight into how their blood sugar rises or falls in response to food, stress, activity and sleep, allowing them to make better-informed decisions throughout their day, says Susan Schachter, a registered dietitian nutritionist in Maplewood, New Jersey and co-founder of 120/Life. “Like a car, it’s best to ensure the gas tank is neither overflowing nor empty,” she says. “Spikes and dips in blood sugar can affect your energy, mood, ability to concentrate, sleep and overall ability to function.” What you eat plays a large role in glucose levels, and immediate feedback allows people to experiment with different combinations of foods to keep blood sugar even, she says, adding that combining macronutrients like protein and fat with carbohydrates will keep glucose levels from spiking. She also says fiber is an important nutrient that slows down the release of glucose into the system. It could be motivating to see blood sugar levels improve in response to changes in eating and exercise, adds Dr. Rennert, potentially leading to limiting certain foods or becoming more active. “Research indicates that individuals may have ‘trigger foods’ which cause blood sugar to rise after eating for some people and not for others,” she says. “This is called individual or personalized nutrition, and CGMs can help identify these foods faster than trial and error methods.” However, Schachter and Dr. Rennert caution against becoming obsessive with the data and note that temporary or limited blood sugar spikes can be normal. “It’s important to seek professional medical advice and to arrange an appointment with your medical provider if you have any questions or concerns,” says Dr. Rennert. I’m a fitness enthusiast who loves data, and although I do not have diabetes, I’ve been curious about CGMs for a while. I don’t follow a particular diet and often eat on-the-go, which can be less than ideal. I wanted to know if my lack of meal planning affected my blood sugar levels—and therefore my energy—at work and the gym. I found the overall experience with Nutrisense informative. The dietitian who connected with me in the app explained my data and offered helpful suggestions for pairing protein with carbohydrates to slow digestion, leading to lower glucose levels. The app also provides a “metabolic mastery course” with modules on glucose, nutrition, metabolic health, glucose influencers, meal planning, diet essentials and more. Engage With Your Blood Glucose Levels Analyze in real-time how your blood glucose levels respond to food, exercise, stress and sleep with Nutrisense. Get $50 off using code FORBES50 at checkout. When my blood sugar spiked in response to a run, my dietitian explained how our bodies break down glycogen to provide energy to our heart, lungs, muscles and more, which I found reassuring. High-intensity or anaerobic exercise can cause glucose levels to spike due to the body’s higher energy demand. The data provided by my CGM and the Nutrisense app also gave me a greater sense of what to eat to stay focused and energized throughout the day, as I was able to see which foods directly impacted my blood sugar levels. For instance, eating a snack of soda crackers by themselves caused a higher than expected glucose rise, which my dietitian in the app explained happens because refined carbohydrates are quick to digest. She suggested pairing them with a nut butter to slow their digestion, leading to a much lower glucose rise. Her advice worked, and left me feeling fuller longer. Out of 112 reviews of Nutrisense on Trustpilot, 76% are five stars. Commenters liked the real-time data collection and accountability. Negative reviews concerned faulty CGMs, continued billing after the plan ended and trouble contacting customer service. I recommend Nutrisense for anyone interested in understanding how food affects their energy, mood, exercise and sleep. I found the data motivating and informative, and I loved the personalized nutrition advice based on what I actually eat, especially on busy days. I also enjoyed the modules on glucose, metabolism and meal planning. My only caution is that if you pick a longer plan, make sure you are committed to following through, as there’s no option to cancel before the term ends. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Suzie Glassman is a freelance writer specializing in health, wellness, fitness, mental health and parenting. She's also a part-time fitness and nutrition coach based in Denver, Colorado. Suzie loves breaking down complex scientific information into understandable and actionable advice and is passionate about helping others improve their quality of life. She and her husband are parents to a 12-year-old boy, 10-year-old girl and two rescue dogs.
			 
				Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and Bankrate. When she isn’t writing or editing, you can find Sarah with her nose in a book or enjoying the outdoors with her French bulldog, Honey.
			