Requested tracks are not available in your region Dan Zavorotny is the co-founder and Chief Operating Officer of Nutrisense, a metabolic health company that helps anyone discover and reach their health potential. This standout brand in the health and wearable spaces helps people own their health. We discussed all of this and more this week on the On Brand podcast.

About Dan Zavorotny
Dan Zavorotny is the co-founder and Chief Operating Officer of Nutrisense, a metabolic health company that helps anyone discover and reach their health potential. Under Dan’s leadership, Nutrisense has become one of the fastest-growing startups in America. He has led the company through rapid growth, building a team of 170 employees in just over three years, and raising 32 million. Prior to co-founding Nutrisense, Dan worked as a Healthcare Management Consultant at KPMG where he advised Fortune 500 clients and three of the top five hospitals in the US. Dan is passionate about travel, having visited over 100 countries before the age of 30.

Episode Highlights
“One-third of the United States is pre-diabetic,” Dan shared this staggering fact as we began our conversation.
“Our goal is to inspire people to take ownership of their health,” Dan said of Nutrisense. Why glucose? “Glucose is a good proxy for a lot of things,” including blood, stress, and more.
A wearable brand. Nutrisense monitors stand out in a way that evokes those first white iPod earbuds. “Our own customers become our brand ambassadors. They serve as conversation starters.”
What brand has made Dan smile recently? Dan shared his love of a Brazilian brand called iFood. “It’s like a combination of Uber they deliver anything—food, pharmaceuticals, something from your friend’s house.”
To learn more, connect with Dan on LinkedIn and check out Nutrisense.io.

As We Wrap …


Listen and subscribe at Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Amazon/Audible, Google Play, Stitcher, TuneIn, iHeart, YouTube, and RSS.


Rate and review the show—If you like what you’re hearing, be sure to head over to Apple Podcasts and click the 5-star button to rate the show. And, if you have a few extra seconds, write a couple of sentences and submit a review to help others find the show.


Did you hear something you liked on this episode or another? Do you have a question you’d like our guests to answer? Let me know on Twitter using the hashtag #OnBrandPodcast and you may just hear your thoughts here on the show.


On Brand is a part of the Marketing Podcast Network.


Until next week, I’ll see you on the Internet!
Learn more about your ad choices. Visit megaphone.fm/adchoices Related Tags - Building the Nutrisense Brand with Dan Zavorotny, Building the Nutrisense Brand with Dan Zavorotny from On Brand with Nick Westergaard - season - 1, On Brand with Nick Westergaard - season - 1 Building the Nutrisense Brand with Dan Zavorotny, Nick Westergaard Building the Nutrisense Brand with Dan Zavorotny, Listen Building the Nutrisense Brand with Dan Zavorotny Gaana is your gateway to the best and latest in music, offering over 30 million songs across diverse languages including Hindi, English, Bollywood, and regional tracks. Stream your favourite Hindi songs, Bollywood music, English MP3 songs, radio, podcast and regional music online or download songs to enjoy anytime, anywhere! © Entertainment Network India Ltd. 2024, All Rights Reserved