The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Lindsay Modglin or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Lindsay Modglin,
                                                    Niraj Patel, D.O.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Blood sugar levels are a key indicator of overall health—and it’s important to know the ideal range for your age group. While appropriate targets vary between individuals based on age, health conditions and lifestyle factors, understanding the typical ranges provides helpful insight into how your body is functioning. Nonetheless, it’s crucial to note that the following information is provided only as a guideline. If you have any concerns about your blood sugar, it’s essential to speak with your medical provider for a comprehensive assessment. There’s no one “normal” blood sugar level—your target number depends on many personal health and lifestyle factors. Below, learn more about blood sugar, including how it connects to your overall health, the range of normal levels and signs of abnormal blood sugar. Blood sugar, or glucose, is the primary type of sugar in the body. It comes from carbohydrates found in foods. Glucose is essential for providing energy to cells throughout the body, including brain cells. Your blood sugar level fluctuates throughout the day as you eat, exercise and sleep. Stress and hormones also play a role. People with diabetes should monitor blood sugar levels closely to ensure they remain within the appropriate target range—often determined by a medical provider. A blood sugar level outside the target range can have profound health implications. “When blood sugar levels are too high or too low, it can have serious health consequences, such as nerve damage, kidney damage and heart disease,” says Brenda Peralta, registered dietitian and certified diabetes educator at FeastGood.com. High blood sugar (hyperglycemia) can lead to conditions like diabetes, cardiovascular disease and stroke, she explains. Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) can cause confusion, anxiety, weakness, sweating and vision problems. Extremely low levels of blood sugar can result in seizures and fainting. Diabetes is a condition that makes it difficult or impossible for the body to regulate glucose levels on its own. When someone is living with diabetes, their body is either unable to produce enough insulin—or make enough insulin available for use. Insulin is a hormone that helps the body use glucose for energy. When insulin levels are too low, glucose accumulates in the bloodstream and can damage organs and other tissues. “Diabetes occurs when a person’s body cannot adequately manage sugar that’s ingested normally in our everyday diet,” says Jennifer Meller, M.D., chief medical officer at Sweetch—a digital health care innovation company based in Tel Aviv, Israel. “Chronically elevated sugar levels can lead to changes in both large and small blood vessels.” Over time, changes to large vessels can lead to an increased risk of heart attack and stroke, while damage to small vessels can cause nerve damage, vision loss and kidney failure, explains Dr. Meller. For people living with diabetes, maintaining healthy blood sugar levels is essential to preventing serious health complications in the future. This requires understanding target glucose levels for different age groups and making lifestyle changes accordingly, as blood sugar can go up or or down based on what you eat and when, among other factors. An A1C test, also called glycosylated hemoglobin, is a standard diagnostic tool used to measure a person’s average blood sugar levels over the past three months (90 days). It reflects how well your blood sugar is controlled during that time period. “It’s an essential measure of blood sugar control in diabetes because it provides a long-term view of blood sugar levels and can help predict the risk of complications from diabetes,” explains Peralta. The test uses a small blood sample to analyze the amount of hemoglobin—a protein found in red blood cells that carries oxygen and binds to glucose molecules. The higher the glucose level in your bloodstream, the more hemoglobin will bind to it and be detected by the A1C test. This test is often done with a finger prick in the doctor’s office.. An A1C number is expressed as a percentage, with higher percentages indicating higher levels of glucose in the bloodstream. A healthy A1C reading for someone without diabetes is between 4% and 5.7%. A value between 5.7% and 6.4% is considered prediabetic, while 6.5% and higher are consistent with diabetes[1]Hemoglobin A1C. National Library of Medicine. Accessed 1/2/2023. . One important note to consider about one’s A1C number is that it may be affected by other medical conditions such as anemia, which could result in an inaccurate reading. This is why looking at additional numbers, such as one’s fasting glucose, in conjunction with an A1C number, is usually recommended. Blood sugar is often tested with a glucometer, which measures the amount of glucose in a sample of blood. A small drop of blood from the fingertip or arm is placed on a test strip and inserted into the glucometer. The results display on the glucometer’s LCD screen within a few seconds. Another way to test blood sugar is via continuous glucose monitoring (CGM), which typically involves placing a disposable, water-resistant sensor on the back of the arm or stomach. These sensors can be scanned with a reader, and can be used for three to 14 days, depending on the brand. Many CGM sensors are used along with a smartphone, allowing the individual and others (such as caregivers) the ability to see glucose trends over the last eight hours. Those living with diabetes usually check their blood sugar levels several times a day, including before meals and snacks and two hours after eating. In certain cases, a doctor may also order other tests, such as a fasting glucose test or an oral glucose tolerance test. These tests measure the glucose levels in the blood at specific times (fasting or after eating). For many people living with diabetes, standard times to test blood sugar are before meals and before bed. However, a doctor may ask someone to test their blood sugar as often as two hours after eating and in the middle of the night, depending on their condition. The best way to determine how often to test your blood sugar is by consulting with your doctor, who can recommend times based on your specific health needs. Other instances in which a person may consider testing their blood sugar include: It’s crucial to understand that normal blood sugar levels vary depending on age, lifestyle factors and health issues. The chart below uses insight from studies including those conducted by the American Diabetes Association (ADA), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and John Hopkins Medicine to illustrate the typically recommended blood sugar levels by age. It was reviewed by Dr. Meller. Fasting and non-fasting blood sugar tests are used to screen individuals for diabetes and prediabetes. Fasting blood sugar tests measure blood sugar levels after not having eaten for eight hours and are typically performed in the morning prior to breakfast. Fasting blood sugar levels may indicate that an individual is prediabetic or diabetic based on the following ranges. Non-fasting blood sugar tests don’t require an individual to abstain from eating beforehand. Non-fasting blood sugar levels may indicate that an individual is prediabetic or diabetic based on the following ranges. If your blood sugar levels are consistently too high or low, you may experience certain signs and symptoms. According to Peralta and Dr. Meller, the following are common signs of unbalanced blood sugar: Symptoms of high blood sugar include: Symptoms of low blood sugar include: Low blood sugar—or hypoglycemia—occurs when an individual’s glucose levels fall below 70 mg/dL. Severe low blood sugar occurs when glucose levels fall below 54 mg/dL and may lead to fainting. Low blood sugar is common in individuals with type 1 diabetes and requires treatment. High blood sugar—or hyperglycemia—occurs when an individual’s glucose levels rise to 240 mg/dL or higher. If untreated, hyperglycemia may lead to ketoacidosis, a condition commonly known as diabetic coma. Analyze Your Glucose Levels in Real-Time with Nutrisense Get invaluable data about your blood sugar response to food, exercise, and sleep in real-time with a Nutrisense Continuous Glucose Monitor  Ketones are waste products made when the body breaks down fats due to insufficient insulin. They’re intolerable in large amounts and are released via a person’s urine. If the body is unable to release large amounts of ketones through urine, they may build up in the blood causing high ketone levels. This may lead to ketoacidosis, a medical emergency in which ketones make the blood more acidic, and requires immediate medical treatment. For individuals experiencing hypoglycemia, treatment consists of the following options: Individuals should test their blood sugar levels again 15 minutes after attempting to raise their blood sugar to determine whether glucose levels have reached 70 mg/dL or higher. If glucose levels remain low, continue one of the above treatments until blood sugar has returned to normal. Individuals experiencing hyperglycemia should use an over-the-counter test kit to measure ketone levels in their urine. If ketone levels are above 80 mg/dL, seek medical attention immediately. If blood sugar levels are high but a urine test detects normal ketone levels, the following options may to help lower blood sugar: Diabetes is a serious condition, and it’s important to talk to your doctor if you’re concerned about your blood sugar levels. Your provider can order tests to confirm a diagnosis of diabetes or prediabetes and provide treatment recommendations. They may also suggest lifestyle changes to help keep your blood sugar within the recommended target range. Taking steps to monitor and manage your blood sugar levels is key to maintaining good health and avoiding the long-term complications of diabetes. With proper care and regular check-ups, it’s very possible to manage your blood sugar levels. Normal blood sugar ranges one to two hours after eating are typically 180 mg/dL or lower in non-pregnant people with diabetes and 140 mg/dL or lower in pregnant people with diabetes, according to the American Diabetes Association. Healthy blood sugar levels in the morning prior to eating range from 80 to 130 mg/dL. The American Diabetes Association recommends the following target ranges for pregnant people testing blood glucose levels: For individuals without diabetes, blood sugar testing is usually unnecessary. However, if you have certain risk factors for prediabetes, such as having obesity or excess body weight, being over 45 years old or having an immediate family member with type 2 diabetes, consult with your doctor to determine if you should test your blood sugar. High blood sugar levels in the morning may result from the dawn phenomenon, waning insulin and the Somogyi effect. In the morning, the liver increases glucose production to give the body ample energy to wake up, triggering the pancreas to release insulin to keep blood sugar levels in check. However, individuals living with diabetes may not produce enough insulin to counter increases in blood sugar, which is known as the dawn phenomenon and affects nearly half of all individuals with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Waning insulin occurs when an individual’s insulin levels fall too low overnight, causing blood sugar levels to rise. Insulin levels may fall for a variety of reasons and may be attributed to insulin pumps providing too little basal (background) insulin overnight or taking too low of a dose of long-acting insulin. Waning insulin may also occur if individuals inject long-lasting insulin too early. The Somogyi effect refers to an individual’s blood sugar levels falling too low overnight. The body may produce extra glucose to compensate, resulting in high blood sugar levels in the morning. Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Lindsay Modglin is a nurse and professional writer who regularly writes about complex medical topics, as well as travel and the great outdoors. She holds a professional certificate in scientific writing from Stanford University School of Medicine and has contributed to many major publications including Insider and Verywell. As a passionate advocate for science-based content, she loves writing captivating material that supports scientific research and education. In her spare time, you can often find her exploring nature with her husband and three children.
			 
				Niraj Patel is a board-certified family medicine physician and the Medical Director of Cora Health. He completed his residency training through the Cleveland Clinic Akron General Health System, where he served as chief resident and was also the president of the house staff. He has also served as an assistant professor at the UNT Health Sciences Center in Fort Worth, Texas. His interests in clinical informatics and digital health led him to a career in telemedicine.
			