NEW ORLEANS (AP) — A lawsuit against oil and gas companies over damage to Louisiana’s wetlands will remain in state court, the U.S. Supreme Court said, rejecting an appeal by major energy companies who wanted to get the case moved to a federal court. The high court rejected the appeal in a brief order dated Monday that did not give reasons. In effect, it upheld an October appeals court decision that keeps the lawsuit by Plaquemines Parish against oil giants — including Chevron, ConocoPhillips and Exxon Mobile — in state court. It's the latest development in connection with dozens of lawsuits filed in Plaquemines, Jefferson, St. Bernard, St. John the Baptist, Vermilion and Cameron parishes between 2012 and 2017. The suits claim the defendant oil companies have failed to comply with state law governing coastal resources. The parishes cited damage to wetlands stemming from the building of service canals, disposal of hazardous waste and saltwater, and other operations. Each asked that the companies either repair the damage or pay the parishes and state for the losses. The lawsuits have long been bogged down in jurisdictional questions. Oil companies have long argued that the lawsuits involve federal questions that belong in U.S. District courts, not in the various local state courts where the suits were originally filed. Attorneys for the parishes say the disputes are over state regulations and should go before state juries. The lead attorney for the parishes in the lawsuits has called the effort to have the suits moved to federal court a delaying tactic. Earlier federal decisions have resulted in many of the cases being sent back to state court. One, a Cameron Parish case, has a trial date for Nov. 27, John Carmouche, the lead attorney for the parishes in the lawsuits, said Wednesday. The Supreme Court case turned on whether cases involving federally overseen oil and gas operations on the coast during World War II must be heard in federal court. The late U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman eventually decided that they did not — a decision later upheld by the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, and allowed to stand with Monday's Supreme Court ruling. Backers of the suits say they are needed to hold businesses accountable for damaging the vulnerable wetlands. Carmouche said Wednesday the companies should end the years-long litigation and seek an agreement with the parishes to address coastal damage. Oil industry executives have long cast the suits as a needless attack on a vital industry and major employer in Louisiana. An industry spokesperson, Tommy Faucheux, president of the Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association, said in a statement that the energy industry already contributes to coastal restoration through federal law that shares oil lease revenue with Gulf of Mexico states for coastal restoration. “Instead of pursuing legal actions that continue to discourage investments in our state, we should focus on building upon our longstanding partnership with local communities to advance the coast, economy, and the state of Louisiana for future generations,” Faucheux said in an email. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.