You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: Jun 14, 2023, 12:58pm Building a house from scratch can be a great opportunity to get the home you’ve always wanted. But construction costs can add up quickly and timelines can be unpredictable. Luckily, a variety of construction loans provide the upfront cash needed to pay for the land, materials and labor to build a new house. A construction loan is short-term financing that can be used to cover the costs associated with building a house, from start to finish. Construction loans may cover the costs of buying land, drafting plans, taking out permits and paying for labor and materials. You also can use a construction loan to access contingency reserves—if your project is more expensive than you planned—or interest reserves, for those who don’t want to make interest payments during construction. Construction loans let future homeowners borrow money to purchase materials and pay for labor necessary to build a home. You also can often use this money to purchase the land you’re building on. If you already own the land, you may be able to use the property as collateral for your loan. Because construction loans generally are intended to cover the building process, they’re typically issued for a period of 12 to 18 months. That said, some loans automatically convert into a permanent mortgage once construction is complete. Unlike traditional mortgages, construction loans aren’t secured by a completed house. For that reason, the application and approval processes for a construction loan also are more complex than for a mortgage. Your lender likely will want to inspect your architectural plans and examine your financial situation before approving you for financing. You will probably also need to provide an estimated construction timeline and budget. After you’re approved for a construction loan, you won’t receive all of the funds as a lump sum. Instead, the lender will make payments to your builder through a series of draws—or installments—as they complete various stages of construction. In this way, construction loans act as a line of credit. Draws are scheduled based on the construction timeline, and your lender likely will send an inspector to evaluate the status of construction prior to each payment. In most cases, you’ll only need to repay interest on funds as they are drawn—not on the entire loan amount. Depending on the lender, you also may have the option to convert your construction loan into a mortgage after construction is complete. If this is not an option, you can apply for a mortgage—or end loan—to pay off your construction loan. Building a home is not a one-size-fits-all process. To meet the varying needs of future homeowners, there are several types of construction loans available—primarily, construction-to-permanent and construction-only loans. Owner-builders and homeowners performing extensive renovations on an existing house have separate options. A construction loan typically covers all costs to build your new home, including the land, building permits, labor and materials. Construction loans also include closing costs like other types of home loans. Like interest rates for other types of loans, rates on construction loans generally vary based on the borrower’s creditworthiness, the size of the loan and the loan term. What’s more, interest rates for construction loans typically are variable, meaning they adjust over the course of the loan based on an index, like the prime rate. More specifically, rates usually hover at about one percentage point above standard mortgage rates. You may find construction loan rates between 5% and 6% today. This is because construction loans aren’t secured by a completed home and are therefore riskier than traditional mortgages. Construction loan requirements vary from lender to lender, but some of the common borrowing guidelines include: Construction loans are a considerable investment of time and money. Before applying for a construction loan, consider these benefits and drawbacks. There’s a lot to consider when choosing a construction loan lender, and it’s easy to get overwhelmed. For that reason, it can be tempting to settle for the first lender you find. You shouldn’t make this decision in haste. Make sure you choose a lender that fits your unique needs by asking these questions: Check your rates today with Better Mortgage. Before you can get the financing necessary to start your construction project, you’ll need to get approved for a loan. This process is typically more rigorous than for mortgages and other loans because the loan won’t be secured—or collateralized—by a home. In addition to imposing traditional borrower standards, lenders also will need to review and approve architectural plans, an estimated construction timeline and a proposed budget. To be approved for a construction loan, you will need: If you want to get a construction loan without having to make a down payment, you can apply for a U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) or Veterans Affairs (VA) construction loan. The USDA construction loan is ideal if you want to build in a USDA-eligible rural area. The USDA charges upfront and annual guarantee fees that are due in the month immediately following loan closing. VA construction loans are intended for active-duty service members and veterans of the military, as well as eligible surviving spouses. VA loans require a one-time VA funding fee, which is a percentage of the loan amount, to help offset the cost of the VA loan program to U.S. taxpayers. You can roll the fee into the loan amount, which will increase your monthly payments. Get Forbes Advisor’s ratings of the best mortgage lenders, advice on where to find the lowest mortgage or refinance rates, and other tips for buying and selling real estate. Getting a construction loan is difficult and the process is rigorous compared to a mortgage for an existing home. Borrowers with no prior building experience are likely to have their construction loan application rejected if they plan to build the house themselves. Borrowers must present a well-researched construction plan that’s convincing in terms of how they intend to build their homes. In addition to meeting the lender’s borrowing standards, you’ll also need to provide building plans, an estimated construction timeline and a proposed budget for approval. The construction loan lender must also approve your choice of builder. Lenders typically require borrowers to have a minimum credit score of 680 to qualify for a construction loan, but this can vary. Application approval times depend on the specifics of the project and if lenders are provided with a complete package of materials. The loan approval process may span as much as 45 days. You close on the loan before construction begins, and payments are made to the builder (with your approval) in several stages during the building process. Getting a construction loan or a traditional mortgage depends on your situation—particularly if you plan to buy an existing home or want to build one. A construction loan gives you the flexibility to build a home that’s customized to your exact tastes and needs, but it will cost more than buying an existing home. Getting a traditional mortgage tends to have fewer obstacles, takes less time and has a lower interest rate than a construction loan. 

 Kiah Treece is a small business owner and personal finance expert with experience in loans, business and personal finance, insurance and real estate. Her focus is on demystifying debt to help individuals and business owners take control of their finances. She has also been featured by Investopedia, Los Angeles Times, Money.com and other financial publications.