The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation is running a live stream so people can watch repair work on an Interstate 95 bridge that collapsed over the weekend in Philadelphia. A portion of the elevated section of I-95 collapsed early Sunday after a tanker truck caught fire beneath it. Pennsylvania State Police said the tractor-trailer, hauling 8,500 gallons of gasoline, flipped on an off-ramp, triggering a blaze that caused part of the interstate to fall down. The northbound tanker driver was "trying to navigate the curve, lost control of the vehicle, landed on its side and ruptured the tank,” state Transportation Secretary Mike Carroll said. You can watch the stream at the embed at the top of the page or on USA TODAY's YouTube channel. The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation is also providing a stream. The Philadelphia Medical Examiner's Office on Tuesday identified Nathan Moody as the man who died when his tanker truck crashed, the USA TODAY Network reported. Moody, a Philadelphia-area man, was an Army veteran and a proud father. The medical examiner attributed Moody's death to "blunt trauma of the head, inhalation and thermal injuries." The driver's remains, found in the truck wreckage, were identified through dental records. Latest on I-95 bridge cleanupFiery I-95 collapse puts renewed focus on critical role of interstates in American life Crews have been working to remove debris from the road, which runs through a city neighborhood. "This is going to have a ripple effect throughout the region for days, weeks and even months to come as commuters who do use this roadway find other routes," Jana Tidwell, a spokesperson for AAA, said earlier this week. Daily BriefingI-95 has no quick fix in sight State and regional officials created detours for commuters Monday. Pennsylvania officials said there was no timeline yet for reopening seven miles of I-95 closed by the fire – but repairs are anticipated to take months. Contributing: Carol Comegno, Cherry Hill Courier-Post; Grace Hauck, USA TODAY Natalie Neysa Alund covers breaking and trending news for USA TODAY. Reach her at nalund@usatoday.com and follow her on Twitter @nataliealund.