
o9’s first MVP Award honors aioneers in-depth knowledge of supply chain planning
 DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--o9 Solutions, a leading enterprise AI software platform provider for transforming planning and decision-making, today announced that it is recognizing aioneers as the best all-around partner in sales and delivery. The supply chain software company is receiving o9’s Most Valuable Partner (MVP) Award as part of its inaugural Partner Awards program.
  
Since 2020, aioneers’ strong end-to-end capabilities, from go-to-market to sales and delivery, have been essential in joint implementation projects at clients such as Fujitsu and Voestalpine. aioneers was given the most valuable partner distinction due to the company’s in-depth planning experience, its open and transparent communication style, and its ability to be seen as a trusted advisor across its clients and business partners.
 
“o9 is a thought leader in supply chain planning and supply chain management digitalization. The o9 platform enables true end-to-end planning processes, features best-in-class AI and analytics-powered decision algorithms, and is built on a powerful, flexible, and open data and knowledge base,” says Dr. Christoph Kilger, CEO Services & Solutions at aioneers. “What I particularly like about o9 is its special business orientation: o9 always focuses its efforts on creating and adding value for its customers. We at aioneers share this philosophy with o9. Therefore, our cooperation is more than joint projects: o9 and aioneers together transform businesses and build the supply chain of the future!”
 
“Accurate forecasting is crucial for us to fulfill our quality and delivery promises to our customers. The joint team of aioneers and o9 S&OP expert consultants helped us to define and implement a best-practice end-to-end demand planning process framework to substantially improve our planning results whilst increasing planning efficiency and cross-functional collaboration,” says Melanie Stevenson, E2E Forecasting Solution Programme Lead at Fujitsu. “The well-established partnership of aioneers and o9 was a true benefit for our project by leveraging the technical and Supply Chain know-how of both companies at the same time. We really appreciated the excellent collaboration.”
 
“We’re honored to recognize aioneers with our first MVP Award. They are an excellent partner in the supply chain planning space and helping joint clients to strengthen their digital execution,” says Igor Rikalo, President and Chief Operating Officer o9 Solutions. “Their dedication to serving clients and becoming a trusted resource across all aspects of digitally transforming their supply chain planning practices is very impressive and we look forward to collaborating with aioneers for many years to come.”
 
In addition to the MVP Award, o9’s annual Partner Awards will highlight the outstanding contributions made by its partner organizations across four additional categories:
 
Recipients of the o9 Partner Awards are selected based on their exceptional performance and collaboration within specific categories. The o9 Partner Awards will continue to be announced prior to the aim10x global conference, which will take place March 28-29, 2023.
 
For more information, go to o9solutions.com.
 
About aioneers
 
aioneers is a Supply Chain consulting and software company with its headquarters in Mannheim, Germany. With their holistic transformation approach, bridging business requirements with IT, aioneers add significant value to Supply Chain transformations by providing cutting-edge Supply Chain consulting services based on their extensive experience from leading global professional service companies and innovative disruptors. ​
 
aioneers owns comprehensive Supply Chain analytics tools with the AIO Supply Chain Command Center at its core that support their client's transformations holistically. The tools provide a ready-to-use end-to-end Supply Chain Management answer to establish a resilient and data-driven Supply Chain. With its AI-based recommendation engine AIO offers a unique combination of advanced analytics and decision support components linked intelligently to execution capabilities and right up to fully automated supply chain workflows. ​For more information, please visit www.aioneers.com.
 
About o9 Solutions, Inc.
 
o9 Solutions is a leading AI-powered platform for integrated business planning and decision-making for the enterprise. Whether it is driving demand, aligning demand and supply, or optimizing commercial initiatives, any planning process can be made faster and smarter with o9’s AI-powered digital solutions. Bringing together technology innovations—such as graph-based enterprise modeling, big data analytics, advanced algorithms for scenario planning, collaborative portals, easy-to-use interfaces and cloud-based delivery—into one platform. For more information, please visit www.o9solutions.com.
 
Katie Fanuko
PR Team at o9 Solutions
katie.fanuko@o9solutions.com
 o9 Solutions today announced that it is recognizing aioneers as the best all-around partner in sales and delivery. 
Katie Fanuko
PR Team at o9 Solutions
katie.fanuko@o9solutions.com
