     Sylvia Buxton, of Perfetti Van Melle, at last year's Sweets and Snacks Expo. Pic: Perfetti Van Melle Posted: 12 April 2023 Related core topics: Business news, Cocoa & chocolate, Ingredients, Regulatory, Sustainability Related people: Chakri Gottemukkala, Vincent Vloemans Related regions: europe, US, worldwide AI software enterprise o9 Solutions has confirmed that Perfetti Van Melle has struck an agreement to utilise its ‘digital brain platform’ targeting transformation of its supply chain performance, reports Neill Barston. The confectionery and gum business, which is behind global brands including Mentos, Chupa Chups, Fruit-tella, Smint and Airheads, presently distributes its ranges in more than 150 countries. Their products are produced and distributed in over 150 countries. According to the business,  the o9 platform was selected because of its best-in-class scenario planning integrated with financial information, digital on-system IBP process providing end-to-end visibility, and software under its Enterprise Knowledge Graph cube technology, enabling the company to convert data into key relevant information. As the business explained, it will enable the confectionery business to integrated business planning and supply chain planning capabilities, and Material Requirements Planning, Deployment Planning, and Multi-Echelon Inventory Optimisation. “We have an ambitious goal at Perfetti Van Melle to digitise our supply chain planning capabilities. By doing so, we can turn data into meaningful insights to make more data-driven decisions across the value chain while continuing to create value for our consumers through innovative and gratifying high-quality products,” said Vincent Vloemans, Chief Information Officer of Perfetti Van Melle. “We strive to be the world’s most innovative confectionery company.” Chakri Gottemukkala, co-founder and CEO of o9 Solutions welcomed the new partnership with the confectionery major, which he believed would prove a notable boost to its operations. He said: “We are thrilled that Perfetti Van Melle has selected the o9 Digital Brain platform to transform their integrated business planning processes digitally. o9 will provide Perfetti Van Melle with an end-to-end platform that will enable planners to have end-to-end supply chain visibility of constraints and costs, as well as improve decision making through the use of advanced scenario capabilities.” Name (required)

 Mail (will not be published) (required)

 Website

 Your comment
 


 The World Confectionery Conference is set for its fourth edition on 12 September, 2024 in Brussels, Belgium. Covering core confectionery, chocolate and snacks markets, the event will feature a high calibre of presentations representing the complete value chain of the industry. The event also incorporates our World Confectionery Awards, which will return once again next year. Catch our dedicated website, www.confectioneryconference.com for full updates including registration. ISM Middle East is set to take place in a new September date at the World Trade Centre in Dubai, featuring a strong representation of finished products from around the globe. The premier show for equipment, systems and ingredients returns once again to the Middle East, in Dubai, highlighting latest annual developments for the region within this core segments. For more details visit gulfoodmanufacturing.com The bi-annual Choco Tec event is set to return to Koelnmesse’s conference centre in Cologne, Germany, showcasing key developments across the value chain of the confectionery sector, which Confectionery Production has continued to play a supporting role. Visit choco-tec.com Food safety
Packaging
Regulatory
Processing
New products
Ingredients
Sustainability
Cocoa & chocolate
Business news cakes
automation
clean label
sweeteners
labelling
fairtrade
UK
coronavirus
farming
agriculture
policy
pandemic
trends
event
machinery
colours
nuts
consumer trends
healthy
supply chains
investment
Partnership
biscuits
new products
ice cream
Dairy
acquisition
new product development
strategy
fruit
environment
flavours
systems
health
sweets
natural
sugar
Processing
technology
manufacturing
equipment
Snacks
innovation
packaging
bakery
sustainability
ingredients
cocoa
chocolate
confectionery Bell Publishing LtdThe Maltings57 Bath StreetGravesendKent DA11 0DFUnited Kingdom Tel: +44 1474 532202
Email: [email protected] © Bell Publishing, 2024. Website design and development by e-Motive Media Limited.