o9 Solutions, a leading enterprise AI software platform provider, is boosting its partnership with project44, a leader in supply chain and logistics visibility. The partnership will offer an integrated, joint solution that enables enterprises to improve revenue and costs, enhance future planning, and make more informed decisions across their end-to-end supply chain. “As businesses face continued disruptions, the need for comprehensive logistic data is critical for planning and decision-making across all aspects of business and supply chain operations,” says Chakri Gottemukkala, co-founder and CEO of o9 Solutions. “By taking this next step in our partnership with project44, two category leaders remain committed to helping our customers proactively navigate supply chain uncertainties, both now and in the future.” Through this partnership, o9 and project44 will offer joint customers out-of-the-box integrations that connect o9’s Supply Chain Control Tower with project44’s high-quality real-time transportation visibility data—including predictive tracking, real-time ETAs, and robust historical information. o9’s Supply Chain Control Tower allows organizations to sense demand and supply changes across the network and respond in real time with optimal, automated decisions. Through the o9 and project44 collaboration, joint clients can glean valuable data to quickly identify potential supply chain risks, understand their root causes, and then take corrective actions to mitigate future disruptions, according to the vendors. “This partnership step progression with o9 Solutions provides enterprises with a more connected view of their supply chain to quickly make insightful, data-driven decisions,” said Jett McCandless, founder and CEO of project44. “project44’s accurate, real-time supply chain visibility platform working in concert with o9’s Supply Chain Control Tower will better equip mutual clients to improve their customer experience and business outcomes.” For more information about this collaboration, visit www.o9solutions.com. KMWorld is the leading publisher, conference organizer, and information provider serving the knowledge management, content management, and document management markets. All Content Copyright © 1998 - 2024 Information Today Inc.  KMWorld22 Bayview Street, 3rd FloorPO Box 404 Camden, ME 04843207-236-8524 PRIVACY/COOKIES POLICY      