Chakri Gottemukkala, co-founder and CEO, o9 Solutions, Inc. [Photo: Business Wire] Dallas tech unicorn o9 Solutions—an AI-powered platform for supply chain planning and demand forecasting—announced it has raised $116 million in new funding from existing investors, led by General Atlantic’s BeyondNetZero. The raise boosts o9’s valuation to $3.7 billion, the company said. Existing investors KKR and Generation Investment Management also participated in the round. o9’s new valuation is up from $2.7 billion on the occasion of the company’s last investment round in January 2022. The company, founded in 2009, became a unicorn in 2020 and achieved double unicorn status with its 2022 valuation. “The investment by our existing investors at a premium to our last funding round and against a backdrop of an overall pullback in market valuations is continued validation of our performance and execution against our long-term strategy,” co-founder and CEO Chakri Gottemukkala said in a statement. “We will continue our strategy of client satisfaction and innovation as a driver of efficient growth across industry verticals and markets.” o9 said the funding will be used to expand its AI capabilities for its growing customer base that includes PepsiCo, URBN, Nestle, ABInBev, Walmart Canada, Pirelli, New Balance, GE, and others. The company said the investment comes after a period of continued outperformance by o9, including 55% year-over-year growth in Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) as of the second quarter of 2023. The company also reported 67% year-over-year ARR growth as of Q1’23 and 65% growth in 2022. Along with the investment, o9 announced that General Atlantic Operating Partner and tenured business executive Gary Reiner has joined its board of directors, bringing with extensive experience at the intersection of technology, strategy, and operations. Reiner joined General Atlantic in 2010 and provides strategic support and counsel to the firm’s technology investment teams and portfolio companies. Before General Atlantic, Reiner was senior vice president and chief information officer at General Electric for nearly 20 years. Prior to that, he was a partner with The Boston Consulting Group. He serves on the boards of several public companies, including Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and Citigroup. “We continue to be thrilled with o9’s terrific customer value proposition, offering truly material and measurable outcomes relative to traditional planning software vendors and thereby providing strong blue chip client satisfaction,” Reiner said in a statement. “Since we first partnered with o9 in early 2022, the company has helped deliver significant revenue growth, working capital improvements and expense reductions for many large global enterprises,” Renner added. “Our deepened support of o9 reflects the enthusiasm we have for the business and its seasoned management team, particularly as their innovative model supports the transition to more sustainable supply chains across the enterprise. We look forward to our continued partnership.”  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   North Texas has plenty to see, hear, and watch. Here are our editors' picks. Plus, you'll find more selections to "save the date." Welcome to the pulse of North Texas, where creativity and innovation converge to shape the future of business and beyond. Dallas-based unicorn o9 Solutions is using its Digital Brain technology to predict weather patterns, transportation hiccups, and employment fluctuations months before problems occur. Then its digital twin technology can recommend solutions. CEO Chakri Gottemukkala says o9's new Supply Sensing tool applies longstanding methods to "predicting and steering clear of future supply disruptions." Peruse Dallas Innovates' special once-a-year magazines. Each edition is a keeper. Don't miss your chance to get our biggest-ever Dallas Innovates magazine. Request a complimentary copy of the once-a-year limited edition now. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Venture Dallas 2024 isn’t just another networking event—it’s where multi-million dollar deals get done and North Texas startups secure game-changing investments. Backed by J.P. Morgan and Perot Jain, this year’s summit will shine a spotlight on the region’s defense tech, biotech, and software startups, attracting investors from across the country eager to connect with the next big thing.... North Texas is a big place with plenty of opportunities. Here’s a curated roundup of contests and competitions; accelerator and recognition programs; and resource and grant opportunities for North Texas innovators. ... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Venture Dallas 2024 isn’t just another networking event—it’s where multi-million dollar deals get done and North Texas startups secure game-changing investments. Backed by J.P. Morgan and Perot Jain, this year’s summit will shine a spotlight on the region’s defense tech, biotech, and software startups, attracting investors from across the country eager to connect with the next big thing.... North Texas is a big place with plenty of opportunities. Here’s a curated roundup of contests and competitions; accelerator and recognition programs; and resource and grant opportunities for North Texas innovators. ... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.