Business, Technology, Internet and network concept.  It is no secret that the governance of publicly traded companies leaves much to be desired. Although in theory executives are subject to the oversight of shareholders and focused on creating long-term value for these constituents, this does not happen in practice. There are several reasons for this shortcoming, but these three come immediately to mind:   Misaligned incentives and poor awareness lead to negative outcomes when executives resort to fancy accounting tricks or even fraud to make analysts happy. At best, they may be reluctant to absorb short-term criticism for a valuable long-term decision out of fears that activist investors could seek to remove them. At worst, they could resort to fraud (see Enron). Today the challenge is even more acute because of the added focus on environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) investing, with a special focus on the E (especially when it comes to climate change). While companies must be responsible to shareholders, they cannot avoid their other stakeholders such as employees, community members and regulators. Unfortunately, because these do not show up on a balance sheet they often get pushed to the side. To many enthusiasts crypto was supposed to be the antidote. Because blockchains are decentralized no single actor should be able to hold sway over major decisions for a protocol or application. Improvements, roadmaps, acquisitions, etc. would have to be achieved via consensus, regardless of whether we are looking at the protocol level or a decentralized application that runs on top of a blockchain such as Bitcoin
BTC
 or Ethereum
ETH
. However, as expected for such a large undertaking, decentralized governance still comes with significant friction. Nobody controls Bitcoin, Ethereum or any other truly decentralized blockchain network. This is a feature that provides confidence and stability. But it also makes the default setting for these networks the status quo, even when changes need to be made. Oftentimes this is a good thing, but it can lead to rancorous debate (akin to televised British parliament debates) and irreversible network splits, known as hard forks, when consensus cannot be reached on important decisions. This happened to Bitcoin in 2017 during the “Blocksize wars,” when miners, developers and users were split on a way to add additional throughput to Bitcoin’s notoriously slow network. We ended up seeing the birth of Bitcoin Cash and several other variants. Things got even more complicated with Ethereum, when a disagreement on how to handle the 2016 DAO
DAO
 hack, when $60 million of ether was stolen from users led to the creation of Ethereum Classic. We were also seeing these challenges rear their ugly heads in 2021 with the London hard fork that dramatically reduced mining rewards and the Ethereum Merge, which eliminated them altogether. There are more novel blockchains such as Tezos
XTZ
 that have embedded governance protocols, but we will not truly see how well they operate until other networks become sufficiently large to truly have consequential decisions to make with hardened opinions on both sides of a dilemma. Moving up a level, dapps (decentralized applications) should theoretically have an easier time integrating governance decisions because smart contracts should formalize the processes. They would essentially serve as decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) that exist entirely on blockchains and function using smart contracts to replicate governing functions. Token holders would be able to vote on various proposals and outcomes, and they would all be aligned on the goal of creating long-term sustainable growth. Governance functions really got turbocharged in the summer of 2020 when prominent DeFi lending platform Compound
COMP
 turned itself over to the community and released a governance token, and technical standard, to users to support future development. According to his firm’s dashboard, Compound has an engaged community of 209,000 token holders that have voted on 110 governance proposals related to tweaking system parameters and deciding what tokens to support. However, the platform with the largest voting block is Optimism
OP4
, a Layer 2 scaling platform on top of Ethereum. While it has only voted on 2 proposals, there are more than 520,000 token holders and 126,000 voters Decentralized Governance Uniswap, the pre-eminent decentralized exchange (DEX) recently completed a somewhat contentious vote about which bridge to use in order to expand its network onto Binance Smart Chain. In a vote that was concluded on February 12th, more than 55.88 million votes were cast, of which 65.89% were in favor of using one particular bridge called Wormhole over a competitor known as LayerZero. The largest votes in favor were Ethereum development hub ConsenSys and Compund founder Robert Leshner. The largest voting block against the proposal was the venture capitalist firm Andreessen Horowitz. Voting Representation Unfortunately right now it is difficult for users to vote unless they actually hold their private keys on an unhosted wallet such as Casa, Ledger or Metamask. If you have the tokens and private keys then you will need to follow each dapp’s specific instructions for issuing a proposal or voting. The best way to find those instructions is by going to the project’s main webpage. If you’ve bought through an exchange such as Coinbase or purchased an indexed DeFi product, you are probably out of luck for the time being. That said, I would imagine that this is an issue that will continue to evolve.  Forbes is a bona fide news publication, not an investment advisor, registered broker-dealer, or exchange, and nothing in this publication should be construed as investment advice, research, or investment advisory services. Forbes’ site is not tailored to a specific reader’s or prospective reader’s current or future investment portfolio, investment objectives, or other needs. The content provided in this publication is for informational purposes only. No part of this publication should be construed as a solicitation, offer, opinion, endorsement, or recommendation by Forbes to buy or sell any security, investment, cryptocurrency, or digital good or property in the metaverse. You should consult your legal and tax advisors before making any financial decisions. 