Harvard physics expert and professor Avi Loeb says our universe may have been created in a lab by aliens, who have 'Godlike' intelligence and technological capabilities A Harvard professor says our universe and others may have been created in a lab by aliens because they have godlike intelligence. Avi Loeb is an expert in physics who obtained his PhD from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem when he was just 24. Just a few weeks ago, he discovered fragments at the bottom of the ocean that he said might be interstellar, which he said could prove the existence of aliens and provide insight into their technological capabilities. The material, which was obtained from a trip he took to the Pacific Ocean, was described as "faster than 95% of the stars near the sun" with "material strength" greater than most earthly minerals, he told Fox & Friends. It couldn't have come from a meteor or other form of space matter — it was crafted by some other life form in the universe, he claimed. Loeb alleges that whoever did create the material would likely be advanced enough to "unify quantum mechanics and gravity" and "create a baby universe in a laboratory." In that way, he said alien civilizations could be a "good approximation to God." For all the latest news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US "Imagine a cave dweller visiting New York City and seeing all the gadgets in technology in terms of the lights appearing as a miracle to the cave dweller," he told Fox News Digital. In this case, he said we as humans would be like the cave dwellers — a "higher level of intelligence may not be easily understandable to us," he said, and therefore, the discovery of other advanced civilizations would be a unifying spiritual experience for humanity. He has previously been criticised for alleging the existence of extraterrestrials and said that he feels it's "arrogant of us to think that we are alone, that we don't have a neighbour out there." Loeb referenced the "tens of billions of planets" in our own galaxy, the Milky Way, and the "hundreds of billions of galaxies like the Milky Way in the observable volume of the universe" that could contain civilizations and life forms like ours. Scientists like astrophysicist Steve Desch have publicly bashed the elected fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, stating that his theories are "polluting good science" and "conflating" it with "ridiculous sensationalism" that's "sucking all the oxygen out of the room," he told The New York Times. "People are sick of hearing about Avi Loeb's wild claims," he said. Loeb, however, rebutted those statements by saying that other scientists are just suffering from "academic jealousy" and are unwilling to consider the actual evidence in front of them. He further stated that there's a "fundamental difference between religion and science," that "science is guided by evidence collected by instruments" and is not simply a "subjective personal matter of belief." His discovery, he believes, is science and supports his theories of alien life. He said he hopes to conduct "space archaeology" to "figure out who preceded us" by "billions of years" and said the process would be similar to archaeological digs on Earth that have been conducted for decades, if not centuries, to study ancient civilizations. "Dead" civilizations exist in the universe, he claims, and space archaeology would be a way of discovering them and finding out more about the types of technology they harboured — and potentially cloning those technologies for the advancement of the human race. But the discovery of extraterrestrial life begins with the everyday, average human in their own backyards, he said.  If discovered, he said the knowledge of aliens would bring humanity together, serving as a "wake-up call" that will bring it to a "better place in the long term future." No matter what evidence is or isn't discovered in the future or what theories achieve widespread acceptance by scientists worldwide, Loeb said it's important to be "open-minded" about the existence of aliens. We may all be living in their laboratory simulations, after all. Get email updates with the day's biggest stories