  Mon 19 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters A £1.4bn probe is due to blast into space on Friday afternoon heading for Jupiter – after being postponed on Thursday because of the threat of lightning – in search for the first signs of life outside Earth. The spacecraft is to launch from the European Space Agency’s spaceport in French Guiana from an Ariane 5 rocket – the same type that launched Nasa’s James Webb Space Telescope in 2021. The Juice mission – which stands for Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer – will take eight years to reach the planet. The short answer is in search for life, or evidence that life once existed. The ice covered moons of Callisto, Europa, and Ganymede are all thought to contain liquid oceans that could contain more water than the oceans of Earth. Given that water is the key ingredient to life here on Earth, scientists say these moons could well represent the best hope of life outside Earth within this solar system. The water is beneath ice but could still harbour life. “With the icy moons of Jupiter, we have good reasons to believe that there is more water than on Earth,” Olivier Witasse, the mission’s project scientist, said. The idea that the best chance of finding ET life in ice-coated moons around Jupiter would have seemed highly unlikely a few decades ago. At that point, Venus and Mars were considered the best hopes for finding life in the solar system away from Earth. But since then, Venus has been found to have a surface temperature of 475°C, while Mars was found to have lost its atmosphere and surface water billions of years ago. Efforts to find surviving underground supplies on the Red Planet have so far been unsuccessful. Meanwhile, vast reserves of water have been identified on Jupiter’s moons. “The need for liquid water has meant the search for life in our solar system has concentrated on planets closer to the Sun. But we now know that the Sun’s warmth isn’t the only way to create liquid water,” said a spokesperson for Imperial College London, which is involved in the mission. “Beneath the icy crusts of moons orbiting Jupiter, there are liquid oceans. As the largest moons orbit Jupiter and pass each other, they stretch and compress via the effects of gravity, causing them to heat up and some of the ice to melt.” Even though it offers a relatively good chance of life, within the context of the solar system, it’s extremely hard to say. British astronaut Tim Peake, among others, is cautiously hopeful, however. “Personally, I’m convinced that there is life out there, somewhere. We have already identified 50 billion stars likely to have planets with a habitable zone in this galaxy alone. If you consider that there could be as many as 200 billion galaxies in the observable universe, the chance of Earth being the only planet supporting life is extremely slim in my view. The Juice launch is an important step in trying to unlock the hidden mysteries of the universe.” The mission is also aiming to build the best picture yet of Jupiter as an archetype for other gas giants throughout the universe. A complex system, Jupiter’s atmosphere, magnetism, moons, and dusty rings all interact with one another, and by finding out how these components work together, the mission will shed light on what other gas giant systems are like. Jupiter is on average 444 million miles from Earth and the journey will take eight years. But the data it will send from 2031 is hoped to provide “spectacular” insights into how life reached the solar system. But in this game, patience is a virtue, according to Michele Dougherty, professor of space physics at Imperial College London. “Space missions are long and slow, so launch only marks the halfway point of this one – because we first started thinking about it 15 years ago, and we’ll be getting the last data in 15 years’ time… But we think the results are going to be spectacular.” Experts from Imperial College London led the development of the magnetometer, known as J-Mag, which will measure the characteristics of the magnetic fields of Jupiter and its largest moon, Ganymede. It will also play a key role in detecting moving salts in the oceans beneath the icy crusts of Ganymede as well as exploring Jupiter’s other moons, Europa and Callisto. As well as J-Mag, Leicester’s scientists will also collaborate with other experts on two other instruments on Juice: Majis (Moons and Jupiter Imaging Spectrometer) – which will observe cloud features and atmospheric constituents on Jupiter; and UVS (UV imaging spectrograph) – which will characterise the composition and dynamics of the exospheres of the icy moons. University College London’s Mullard Space Science Laboratory has also provided particle detectors for Juice’s Pep (particle environment package) instrument, which will gather data on “the ‘soup’ of ions, electrons, and atoms surrounding Jupiter and its moons”. All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.