Meet artists who use science to bring their creations to the next level. 
August 6, 2024 • When you think about connections between science and war, the obvious links are in technology—advanced radar, spy satellites, more powerful explosives—and in medical innovations that seek to heal the wounds caused by conflict. But in a new book, Stories are Weapons: Psychological Warfare and the American Mind, author Annalee Newitz says that stories and narrative can be weapons too, used in battle on a psychological battlefield. Ira talks with Newitz about the history of psychological warfare, from Sun Tzu to Benjamin Franklin, and its modern American incarnation under the guidance of Paul Linebarger, who was also a science fiction author known by the pen name Cordwainer Smith. They discuss the characteristics of a psyop, how techniques of psychological warfare have been co-opted into modern politics, and whether there's a route toward "psychological disarmament." Read an excerpt from Stories are Weapons: Psychological Warfare and the American Mind. Universe of Art is hosted and produced by D. Peterschmidt, who also wrote the music. The original segment was produced by Charles Bergquist. Our show art is illustrated by Abelle Hayford. And support for Science Friday's science and arts coverage comes from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Do you have science-inspired art you'd like to share with us for a future episode? Send us an email or a voice memo to universe@sciencefriday.com.
         
July 23, 2024 • "Twisters," the long awaited follow-up to the 1996 movie "Twister" is out now. It's about a scientist (Daisy Edgar-Jones) who goes back to her home state of Oklahoma to try and stop a massive tornado outbreak from wreaking havoc on its citizens. On the way, she meets a quirky cast of storm chasers, and butts heads with a band of unorthodox "tornado wranglers" led by a YouTube personality (Glen Powell). "Twisters" delights in name-dropping tornado jargon, and its science advisory team said they hoped to make the movie as accurate as possible. The movie makes science thrilling, but it also shows the ways that tornadoes affect people's lives in the real world. For example, earlier this week, the Chicago area was hit with multiple tornadoes during a night of extreme weather, leaving thousands without power, and four tornadoes hit upstate New York, killing one person. This comes after a powerful, and some say unusual, tornado season in the Midwest. But just how tornadoes will continue to change is still unknown. Digital producer Emma Gometz talks with Dr. Bill Gallus, a meteorology professor at Iowa State University, to decode some of the science from "Twisters" and understand how real-life tornadoes are changing. Plus, on the International Space Station, resources are precious. That includes every single drop of water—which is why astronauts drink their own filtered and recycled pee. That might sound a little undignified, but things get worse when astronauts go out for a space walk. If nature comes calling, their only option is a super-strength diaper. Inspired by the stillsuits that recycle water in Frank Herbert's 'Dune' series, researchers have come up with a way to keep astronauts clean, dry, and hydrated while they're hard at work. They've designed a system that turns astronauts' pee into nice, clean drinking water while they're suited up. The researchers reported on their prototype in the journal Frontiers in Space Technology. Guest host Rachel Feltman talks with Sofia Etlin, a researcher at Weill Cornell Medicine, about the inspiration behind the stillsuit and how it works. Universe of Art is hosted and produced by D. Peterschmidt, who also wrote the music. Those original segments were produced by Emma Gometz and Rasha Aridi. Our show art is illustrated by Abelle Hayford. And support for Science Friday's science and arts coverage comes from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Do you have science-inspired art you'd like to share with us for a future episode? Send us an email or a voice memo to universe@sciencefriday.com.
         
July 9, 2024 • It's officially summertime, and the season of reading is finally here! Two science writers and voracious readers have compiled their summer reading recommendations, just for Science Friday fans. Before you head out for a week at the beach, start packing for that road trip, or stock up for a long staycation, we've got the list of science-y summer reads, straight from those familiar with the best on the shelf. Joining guest host Diana Plasker to offer listeners their recommendations are Riley Black, a Salt Lake City-based science writer and the author of several books, including The Last Days of the Dinosaurs: An Asteroid, Extinction, and the Beginning of Our World; and Deborah Blum, director of the Knight Science Journalism program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and author of several books, including The Poison Squad: One Chemist's Single-Minded Crusade for Food Safety at the Turn of the Twentieth Century, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. You can check out the full list here. Universe of Art is hosted and produced by D. Peterschmidt, who also wrote the music. Our show art was illustrated by Abelle Hayford. Support for Science Friday's science and arts coverage comes from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Do you have science-inspired art you'd like to share with us for a future episode? Send us an email or a voice memo to universe@sciencefriday.com.
         
June 25, 2024 • In the 2015 film "Inside Out," audiences met 11-year-old Riley and her team of emotions: Joy, Sadness, Fear, Disgust, and Anger, each represented by a different character. They lived inside Riley's mind to help guide her feelings and actions, and towards the end of the film, their emotional control center gets an upgrade with a puberty button. That's where the new film "Inside Out 2" picks up. Riley is now 13 years old and dealing with the slew of emotions that come with puberty. In the new film, moviegoers meet a new crew of characters: Anxiety, Envy, Embarrassment, and Ennui, who is always bored. But what's the science behind Riley's newfound teenage angst? Guest host Annie Minoff talks with psychologist Dr. Lisa Damour, who served as a science advisor to the film. Universe of Art is hosted and produced by D. Peterschmidt, who also wrote the music. The original segment was produced by Rasha Aridi. Our show art was illustrated by Abelle Hayford. Support for Science Friday's science and arts coverage comes from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Do you have science-inspired art you'd like to share with us for a future episode? Send us an email or a voice memo to universe@sciencefriday.com.
         
June 11, 2024 • For decades now, one music star has managed to show up on tracks spanning multiple genres and appear alongside many famous artists—while also remaining bafflingly under-recognized. Any guesses? Of course, we're talking about none other than the common loon—a waterbird with striking red eyes and black-and-white checkerboard plumage. This bird's calls have been used in songs by artists like Michael Jackson, Nicki Minaj, Lady Gaga, Doja Cat, and Lana Del Rey. They've also been used as a sound effect in Hollywood blockbusters like "Harry Potter" and the TV show "Game of Thrones." So how did this bird's call become a regular in everything from hip hop and EDM to pop music? A story in Audubon Magazine dove into this, and guest host Arielle Duhaime-Ross talks with author Maddie Burakoff, an associate editor at Audubon. Universe of Art is hosted and produced by D. Peterschmidt, who also wrote the music. The original segment was produced by Rasha Aridi. Our show art was illustrated by Abelle Hayford. Support for Science Friday's science and arts coverage comes from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Do you have science-inspired art you'd like to share with us for a future episode? Send us an email or a voice memo to universe@sciencefriday.com.
         
May 28, 2024 • One of the biggest, most intriguing questions in the world is quite simple: Are we alone in this universe? Astronomer and astrobiologist Dr. Aomawa Shields looks for signs of life in outer space by analyzing the climate and habitability of small exoplanets far beyond our solar system. Shields' path to science was a winding one. Through childhood and into her adult years, she toggled between two loves: acting and space. In her new memoir Life On Other Planets: A Memoir of Finding My Place in the Universe, she describes her search for signs of life in the cosmos and her quest to build a meaningful life here on Earth. She charts her life story from childhood to astronomy to acting and back to science—and what she's learned about herself and the universe along the way. Guest host Swapna Krishna talks with Shields, professor at the University of California Irvine, about her research, the power that comes from combining the arts and science, and what she's learned from pondering the universe. Read an excerpt from Life On Other Planets: A Memoir of Finding My Place in the Universe. Universe of Art is hosted and produced by D. Peterschmidt, who also wrote the music. The original segment was produced by Rasha Aridi. Our show art was illustrated by Abelle Hayford. Support for Science Friday's science and arts coverage comes from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Do you have science-inspired art you'd like to share with us for a future episode? Send us an email or a voice memo to universe@sciencefriday.com.
         
May 14, 2024 • One year ago, we launched Universe Of Art. And to our surprise, a lot of listeners have written in since the start of the podcast, telling us about the science-inspired art they've made in their spare time. And today, we're featuring three of those listeners and their art. Our first artist is Todd Gilens, a visual artist and designer who collaborated with the city of Reno, Nevada, to create a mile-long poem, called "Confluence," printed on the city's sidewalks bordering the Truckee River. He was interested in how water shapes landscapes, and how urban architecture can mirror those natural processes. He later found the Sierra Nevada Aquatic Research Laboratory, a University of California field station near Mammoth Lakes, and spent several field seasons with them to learn about stream ecology. Then, we'll meet Craig Colorusso, a punk rock guitarist-turned-sound artist who creates public sculptures and experiences that enhance visitors' connection to nature. Two of his projects, Sun Boxes and The Bridges At Coler, use solar panels to play reflective, calming music he composed. "You have this idea where you are in nature and you are listening to something that is powered by nature," he said. "I think that's perfect." And then we'll meet a listener who prefers to go by Chris, who was an engineer and avid artist who made mosaics and crocheted before developing Myalgic Encephalomyelitis, or Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS). It's a debilitating condition characterized by extreme fatigue that can't be improved by rest, and can also include brain fog, pain, and dizziness. Chris' condition is considered severe, and caused her to lose the use of her hands, and thus her preferred art mediums. However, she could still use her left hand with a rollerball mouse and realized that she could use programs like Chaotica to create fractals that she adds to collages in Photoshop, resulting in the colorful and psychedelic images. "They're just beautiful and I'm doing art again and I'm so happy about it," she said. Universe of Art is hosted and produced by D. Peterschmidt, who also wrote the music. Our show art was illustrated by Abelle Hayford. Support for Science Friday's science and arts coverage comes from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Do you have science-inspired art you'd like to share with us for a future episode? Send us an email or a voice memo to universe@sciencefriday.com.
         
April 30, 2024 • You can read a transcript for this episode here. Think back to your favorite childhood TV show—was it "Blue's Clues"? "Little Bear"? "Winnie the Pooh"? Animated TV shows are important for kids because they can teach them to read, draw, spell, and talk. Plus, the ways these shows tell stories and create colorful, fictitious worlds can broaden children's knowledge and capacity to imagine. But children's shows aren't accessible to all deaf children, which means they could miss out on a common learning experience. Among other things, that can set kids back in learning both American Sign Language (ASL) and English language skills during their formative early childhood years. Melissa Malzkuhn is third-generation Deaf and the founder and director of the Motion Light Lab at Gallaudet University in Washington, D.C. Her lab is creating ASL-focused children's media that is made by and for the Deaf community, using motion capture technology, avatars, animation, and signing storytellers. She talks with Science Friday guest host Arielle Duhaime-Ross about ASL access in childhood, the science of learning, and how she's creating "Here Comes Mavo!"—the first animated TV series with signing characters. Many thanks to Jennifer Vold for interpreting and to Jenna Beacom for consulting on this segment. Editor's note: Regarding capitalization for "Deaf" and "deaf," we believe this is an unsettled issue. For about 30 years, it was common to use capitalization to denote cultural deafness. In recent years, some national deaf organizations, like the National Deaf Center, have decided to use lowercase in their messaging to be more inclusive. Some individuals, however, prefer the capitalized version. We ask our guests to self-describe and capitalize at their request, and use "deaf" for non-self-describing communities. Universe of Art is hosted and produced by D. Peterschmidt, who also wrote the music. The original segment was produced by Rasha Aridi. Our show art was illustrated by Abelle Hayford. Support for Science Friday's science and arts coverage comes from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Do you have science-inspired art you'd like to share with us for a future episode? Send us an email or a voice memo to universe@sciencefriday.com.
         
April 16, 2024 • NASA is preparing to send humans to Mars. Although the launch date has been pushed back over the years, the agency says it wants to get there in the 2030s. And it has a lot on its to-do list. NASA needs to build new rockets, new habitable living spaces, new spacesuits, and new radiation shielding, just to name a few items. But what if the one of the biggest challenges of these missions is not the engineering, but the mental health of the astronauts? Can all of the crew members get along with each other and stay alive over the course of three years in tight quarters and unforgiving environments? How will they cope with being separated from their families and friends for so long? And what lessons can they learn from astronauts who've lived on the International Space Station—and from our collective experience of isolation during the pandemic? A new documentary, out March 8, explores all these questions and more. It's called "The Longest Goodbye," and it dives into NASA's Human Factors program, which includes a group of psychologists who are trying to figure out the best way to preserve astronauts' mental health on a long and demanding mission. Host D. Peterschmidt spoke to the film's director, Ido Mizrahy, and one of its featured astronauts, Dr. Cady Coleman, about how NASA is thinking about tackling loneliness in space and what we can learn from astronauts who've already lived on the space station. Plus, a listener shares his experience about performing a drumroll for the solar eclipse. Universe of Art is hosted and produced by D. Peterschmidt, who also wrote the music. Our show art was illustrated by Abelle Hayford. Support for Science Friday's science and arts coverage comes from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Do you have science-inspired art you'd like to share with us for a future episode? Send us an email or a voice memo to universe@sciencefriday.com.
         
April 2, 2024 • Last month, Netflix released its adaptation of the Hugo Award-winning sci-fi book The 3 Body Problem by Cixin Liu. It follows the journey of several scientists, from the Chinese Cultural Revolution to the present day, as they seek to understand why their fellow researchers are dying and why their scientific results no longer make sense. Along the way, they discover an ultra-advanced VR game and a dark secret that suggests we might not be alone in the universe. Guest host Arielle Duhaime-Ross sits down with the show's science advisor, Dr. Matt Kenzie, an associate professor of physics at the University of Cambridge, to talk about what exactly the three body problem is, why he gave the actors physics lessons, and what he hopes audiences take away from a show focused on scientists. Universe of Art is hosted and produced by D. Peterschmidt, who also wrote the music. Our show art was illustrated by Abelle Hayford. Support for Science Friday's science and arts coverage comes from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Do you have science-inspired art you'd like to share with us for a future episode? Send us an email or a voice memo to universe@sciencefriday.com.
         Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor