 Personal Loans   Best personal loans   Auto Insurance   Best car insurance   BANKING   Best high-yield savings   CREDIT CARDS   Best credit cards  You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the
				latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. 
		Advertiser Disclosure
	 Advertiser Disclosure Blueprint is an independent, advertising-supported comparison service focused on helping readers make smarter decisions. We receive compensation from the companies that advertise on Blueprint which may impact how and where products appear on this site.  The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Blueprint. Blueprint does not include all companies, products or offers that may be available to you within the market. A list of selected affiliate partners is available here. 
Investing
 
                                    Coryanne Hicks
                                 
                                                                    Farran Powell
                                                                 
                                                        “Verified by an expert” means that this article has been thoroughly reviewed and evaluated for accuracy.
                                                     
                                                BLUEPRINT
                                             Updated 1:06 p.m. UTC June 7, 2024 
			Editorial Note: Blueprint may earn a commission from affiliate partner links featured here on our site. This commission does not influence our editors' opinions or evaluations. Please view our full advertiser disclosure policy.
		 Picking a cryptocurrency exchange is usually the first step when purchasing a digital asset. It allows you to buy, sell and trade coins. But choosing a crypto exchange can be like picking the nicest toothpick in a box. Our team ranked the best crypto exchanges and apps of 2024 to help you narrow down your options. We examined more than 20 leading platforms and assessed their features, fees and more. Here are the best crypto exchanges and apps we found. Why trust our investing experts Our team of experts evaluates many investing products and analyzes various data points to help you find the best product for your situation. We use a data-driven methodology to determine each rating. Advertisers do not influence our editorial content. You can read more about our methodology below. Crypto.com Exchange is an exchange by trade. But it’s also an entire ecosystem. According to CoinMarketCap, its native coin, cronos (CRO), ranks among the top 40 cryptocurrencies by market cap. Paying in CRO can get you discounted trading fees. Crypto.com also offers a wide range of products, including its Rewards+ program. You can also earn extra rewards through Soft Lockup. It’s a yield-earning program that’s more flexible than the standard CRO lockup. Most of Crypto.com’s services are available through its mobile app. But unfortunately, New York residents can’t access them. Staking coins: 21+
ETH staking:✔️
ADA staking:✔️ Coinbase is the second-largest crypto exchange in the world. Its rare public status gives investors some badly needed peace of mind in a notoriously opaque sector. The exchange offers a wide range of coins, which is excellent for convenience. But if you use the platform’s basic version, you’ll be charged heftier trading fees. Coinbase also offers Coinbase Advanced for active traders. This version offers in-depth technical analysis and charting via TradingView and real-time order books. You can also pay a monthly subscription fee for Coinbase One to get as low as zero trading fees, more rewards and better support. Coinbase allows you to stake ethereum (ETH), solana (SOL), cardano (ADA), cosmos (ATOM), polygon (MATIC), tezos (XTZ) and polkadot (DOT). BYDFi, or BUIDL Your Dream Finance, is one of the best crypto exchanges and apps for advanced trading techniques. You don’t even need to be an expert or spend hours watching the market to do it. The platform’s Trading Bots enable automatic arbitrage trading within a fixed price range. The platform offers leveraged tokens, copy trading and crypto derivatives trades. Almost everywhere you click, you’ll find yourself staring down an intricate chart with real-time data. You can earn rewards by completing tasks like the Know Your Customer requirements. The app is well rated in the Google and Apple app store, earning 4.6 and 4.7 out of 5 stars, respectively. One area where BYDFi falls short is staking, which it doesn’t offer. This can make it less appealing to buy-and-hold investors looking for a little extra reward. Binance.US is the U.S. trading arm of Binance, the largest cryptocurrency exchange by market cap. Binance.US also ranks in the top 20 largest exchanges. Trading fees vary based on volume. They start at 0.40% for maker fees and 0.60% for taker fees at volumes of $10,000 or less. You can get a 5% discount by paying your fees in BNB. Most exciting is that BTC/USDC spot market pairs qualify for zero trading fees. The platform also supports over-the-counter trading. This lets you get customized quotes with prices negotiated directly between you and your buyer or seller. Some may appreciate the added discretion of this feature when trading large sums. There’s no additional fee for this service, although spreads apply. One point of concern is the Securities and Exchange Commission’s recent allegations regarding the platform and its partner company, Binance. Regulators accused Binance.US of operating without registering in the U.S. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission also filed a complaint against Binance. Binance.US is unavailable in Alaska, Hawaii, Maine, New York, Texas, Vermont, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands and the U.S. Virgin Islands. While Interactive Brokers is predominantly a broker-dealer for stock market trading, you can also trade cryptocurrencies. Only four coins are available: bitcoin, bitcoin cash, ethereum and litecoin. But you can trade more than individual coins. Interactive Brokers also lets you trade stocks, ETFs and mutual funds. This means you can invest in cryptocurrency without handling the coins directly. You can also invest indirectly by owning shares of Coinbase stock. Interactive Brokers is unique in that it offers a flat fee model for crypto trades. There are no markups, spreads or custody fees. Depending on your trading volume, you’ll pay a commission of 0.12% to 0.18% of the trade value. But you’ll pay no more than 1% of the trade value. Interactive Brokers doesn’t offer crypto staking. Kraken offers some of the best “bread and butter” features. You can buy cryptocurrency quickly with Kraken Instant Buy. The platform charges a flat fee for this service. A spread might be built into the price, determined at the time of the trade. Kraken Pro offers lower trading fees. The pro version charges up to a 0.20% taker fee for stablecoins, pegged tokens and forex pairs. The more you trade, the lower the costs. Volumes of $50,001 to $100,000 qualify for 0.14% maker fees and 0.24% taker fees, for instance. Kraken suspended its on-chain staking program in February 2023. But non-U.S. clients can continue through a separate Kraken subsidiary. The company has since announced that bonded staking of specific coins is available in Canada. Bitstamp is a great place to start your crypto trading journey. It offers fewer technical strategies than other platforms. But this can be a real asset to novice traders. For example, you can’t trade cryptocurrencies on margin. Given how risky this strategy is, it may be for the best. Instead, if you’re a new trader, you can focus your time in the Learn Center. You’ll find many articles, videos and how-to guides on crypto and blockchain here. That isn’t to say Bitstamp lacks a trading platform. More advanced traders can use Bitstamp Pro, which lets you chart and track to your heart’s content. The Pro version also offers lower maker-taker fees. Staking is offered but not available to residents of the U.S., U.K., Singapore, Japan or Canada. The same is true of its lending program. Uphold lets you trade fiat currencies and metals in addition to digital assets. The platform also claims to be a pioneer in transparency. It offers an all-inclusive fee model, where you’re quoted a single, flat fee before you place a trade. It also makes its assets and liabilities publicly available, with updates every 30 seconds on its transparency page. Despite its best intentions, a class-action lawsuit was filed against the platform for negligent security on client accounts. Uphold was able to have a portion of the charges dismissed. But litigation remains surrounding whether Uphold violated the Electronic Funds Transfer Act. The EFTA is a regulation that covers, in part, consumer disclosures of electronic transactions and customer liability in case of unauthorized transfers. You can stake 19 coins on Uphold. These include ethereum and cardano as well as lesser-known cryptos like fantom and hedera. But staking services aren’t available in the U.S., Canada, Japan and Singapore. New York residents are also unable to open new accounts at this time. Gemini’s cryptocurrency platform allows you to trade and store over 70 coins. It offers just three cryptos for staking: ethereum, solana and polygon. But staking solana is not available to U.S. customers. Gemini also has a currency called the Gemini dollar (GUSD), a U.S. dollar-backed stablecoin. The New York-based exchange is available in all 50 U.S. states. It’s lauded for its wide variety of features, including trading, a digital wallet and a credit card. But be mindful that the exchange charges higher fees than its competitors. For example, you’ll be on the hook for a convenience fee if you use the web or mobile app for trades. Like many exchanges, Gemini has experienced difficulties recently. Gemini Earn, the company’s yield-earning product, was terminated in January 2023. Methodology We researched some of the largest cryptocurrency exchanges to rank the best available today. Among the crypto brokers we considered, the firms that made our list excelled in areas across the following categories: Within each major category, we considered several subcategories. We then combined them to give an overall score for that category. Data points were scored on a 0.00 to 1.00 scale. The top raw score was 0.75 and was curved to a five-star rating as the highest possible score. There are countless other crypto exchanges and trading apps on the market. We didn’t include exchanges that aren’t well established or lack the necessary size. Many excellent companies exist. Unfortunately, they’re tarnished by bad actors. The lack of transparency and public disclosures led us to focus on more prominent exchanges. Each crypto exchange offers pros and cons that suit certain users over others.  There aren’t many reasons to recommend exchanges beyond the biggest ones. Many exchanges have gone under, a pattern that’s unlikely to change going forward.  More prominent exchanges aren’t immune to becoming insolvent. But they’re less likely than smaller exchanges. Larger exchanges like Binance.US and Kraken offer more features and greater customer support. Overall, our top pick is Crypto.com Exchange. It offers a wide range of cryptocurrencies and some of the lowest fees in the industry. A cryptocurrency exchange is a platform that lets you buy and sell cryptocurrency. You can trade one crypto for another or convert your fiat currency, like the U.S. dollar, into crypto and vice versa. An exchange typically charges a commission or fee for transactions.  Think of crypto exchanges as brokers for cryptocurrencies. Some online brokers, such as Fidelity and Robinhood, now operate as crypto exchanges. But they tend to be limited in the cryptocurrencies they offer. For example, Fidelity allows trading in bitcoin and ethereum, while Schwab lets clients invest in crypto funds.  “Using these companies is a good option for beginners,” said Matthew Weathers, applied instructional technology administrator and adjunct professor of mathematics and computer science at Biola University in La Mirada, California.  But one of the motivating goals of cryptocurrency was to allow users to act as their own bank by holding their assets themselves. With so many available, figuring out the best spot crypto exchanges can be challenging. You might be tempted to go with the exchange that lets you trade the largest number of assets. But there is more than size to consider. The cryptocurrency world is like the Wild West. Exchanges come and go almost as readily as crypto assets. They’re also rife with scams and fraud. So, before committing, you should research how the company protects its customer assets. Look for an exchange that doesn’t have a history of hacks, scams or other occurrences that could limit access to your assets. For example, exchanges might temporarily freeze withdrawals due to technical issues. This can be inconvenient. But the real problem is that regular freezes might be a sign of liquidity issues. For the best security, look for an exchange that is incorporated within the U.S. You might also check if it’s registered as a securities broker, money transmitter or depository institution.  You can determine if an exchange is registered as a broker by looking it up on FINRA BrokerCheck.  Money transmitters must register with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.  Depository institutions will be registered with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council National Information Center. But U.S. registration doesn’t guarantee the exchange is safe. That is evidenced by the now-defunct FTX exchange, which was registered as a money transmitter. You want to keep fees low when investing. The same applies to crypto exchanges. Ideally, the exchange you choose will have minimal fees. But a slightly higher fee might be worthwhile if the exchange offers better security.  Most important is that the exchange’s fees are transparent.  Check how easy it is to reach the exchange’s customer service department. If you’re still looking for contact information, take your assets elsewhere. Reputable exchanges should be accessible and quick to address your concerns. To open a crypto exchange account, you must register on the exchange’s platform. Each platform has its own procedure. But you can expect some commonalities wherever you go. Most exchanges — especially reputable ones — require you to provide personal information, such as your name, contact information, employment status and ID. This is because many exchanges follow the Know Your Customer standards. You might also need to be at least 18 and live in a supported country to register. After verifying your personal information, you must provide a payment method. The options available will vary depending on your exchange. But many allow for bank transfers, debit card or credit card payments. Watch out for the fees associated with whichever funding method you choose. Credit card payments, for example, often carry high transaction fees. Once you provide the necessary information and verify your ID, you can place your first trade. Tip: Before your first trade, make sure you set up a wallet account to store your crypto. The exchange will likely provide a hot wallet option, storing your coins online. But a cold wallet might be a more secure alternative. Crypto enthusiasts are optimistic that the Federal Reserve is approaching its terminal interest rate in the current cycle. The central bank could pivot to rate cuts by mid-2024, potentially relieving pressure on crypto and other risk assets. As of Jan. 10, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has greenlighted spot bitcoin ETFs from various providers. They include VanEck, WisdomTree and BlackRock. Bitcoin bulls have long believed SEC-approved spot bitcoin ETFs would make it easier for institutional and retail investors to access bitcoin. This could open the floodgates for cryptocurrency to become a mainstream asset class. While the vast majority of crypto exchanges may (and hopefully do) operate above board, the reality is that there is no way to know. Proof-of-reserve reports have helped with transparency. But there need to be more proper audits. The exception is Coinbase, which is publicly listed. For that reason, it’s required to make public disclosures that private exchanges aren’t required to make. Tip: If you don’t store your assets on an exchange and use them only to transact before withdrawing assets, that behavior should reduce your risks. Trading cryptocurrency is different from trading stocks because the regulation rules are different. Because cryptocurrency is a relatively new industry, legislation must still be built up. That means trade can be more difficult, depending on your jurisdiction. Cryptocurrency is still an experimental area where gambling is a more apt word than investment. While trading stocks is extremely risky in its own right, trading cryptocurrency is even more risk-on. Binance.US is the best crypto exchange with low fees. Bitcoin trades are free. And there are zero fees for Tier 0 pairs. When using BNB tokens to pay your trading fees, you can get 5% off all maker and taker fees. High-volume traders might qualify for even higher fee discounts. But you must trade a lot to get the best prices. No one can predict the future, especially not the future of a new and volatile asset like cryptocurrency.  The release of more cryptocurrency ETFs and mutual funds might spur demand. Bitcoin reached a new high after investors poured money into U.S. bitcoin spot ETFs and Ethereum ETFs were approved in May 2024. If this demand continues, investors could see even higher prices from crypto in the future. The most stable cryptocurrency exchanges include Coinbase, Binance and Kraken. They’re among the top 10 largest exchanges by trading volume. Higher trading volume helps stabilize market prices. That said, stability is largely asset-dependent. Even large cryptocurrency exchanges can see high volatility on thinly traded cryptocurrencies. Cryptocurrency might not be the best investment if you’re concerned about stability. You can buy cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange, an online broker, trading apps like Robinhood or money transfer apps like PayPal. Bitcoin ATMs also let you buy bitcoin with your debit card, similar to how you get cash from a standard ATM. To make a purchase, you must set up an account, which usually requires verifying your identity. If you use a bitcoin ATM, be prepared to provide documentation or your phone number.  Once your account is verified, you can purchase cryptocurrency with a bank transfer or credit card. If you choose the latter option, watch out for fees. 
			Blueprint is an independent publisher and comparison service, not an investment advisor. The information provided is for educational purposes only and we encourage you to seek personalized advice from qualified professionals regarding specific financial decisions. Past performance is not indicative of future results.
		 
			Blueprint has an advertiser disclosure policy.  The opinions, analyses, reviews or recommendations expressed in this article are those of the Blueprint editorial staff alone. Blueprint adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. The information is accurate as of the publish date, but always check the provider’s website for the most current information.
		 
                        Coryanne Hicks
                     
                    BLUEPRINT
                 
            Coryanne is an investing and finance writer whose work appears in Forbes Advisor, U.S. News and World Report, Kiplinger, and Business Insider among other publications. She discovered her passion for personal finance as a fully-licensed financial professional at Fidelity Investments before she realized she could reach more people by writing.
         
                        Farran Powell
                     
                    BLUEPRINT
                 
            Farran Powell is the lead editor of investing at USA TODAY Blueprint. She was previously the assistant managing editor of investing at U.S. News and World Report. Her work has appeared in numerous publications including TheStreet, Mansion Global, CNN, CNN Money, DNAInfo, Yahoo! Finance, MSN Money and the New York Daily News. She holds a BSc from the London School of Economics and an MA from the University of Texas at Austin. You can follow her on Twitter at @farranpowell.
        