  Your shopping cart is empty. Please add some items to your basket before proceeding.   U    2024     LS : Medical Devices & Supplies    Sep 2024   Report Code: A03785   Pages: NA   Tables: NA   Charts: NA       Business User License,& Enterprise License      Business User License,& Enterprise License      Data Pack Excel      Data Pack Excel       It comes with the additional cost of $2500.00 contact sales.     It comes with the additional cost of $2500.00 contact sales.  Report Overview   Table Of Content   Get Sample to Email Thank You For Your Response ! Our Executive will get back to you soon The left atrial appendage (LAA) is a small ear-shaped sac which is present in the wall of the top left chamber of the heart. This sac controls the electrical impulses during atrial fibrillation. The LAA closure devices are the interventional devices that is used to prevent stroke and emboli caused due to atrial fibrillation. Factors such as increase in number of product approvals of atrial intervention, rise in incidences of atrial fibrillation and heart stroke cases, rise in aging population, disorders due to hypertension, and disturbed lifestyle habits such as smoking drive the market growth. However, stringent regulations by government and high acceptance of alternatives drugs such as warfarin and dabigatran restrain the market growth. Moreover, increase in awareness programs in untapped market provide numerous opportunities for the market growth in the forecast period. The left atrial appendage closure devices market is segmented on the basis of product, end user, and geography. On the basis of product, it is bifurcated into epicardial LAA closure devices and endocardial LAA closure devices. On the basis of end user, it is divided into heart clinics, hospitals, and ambulatory service centers. By geography, the market is analyzed across North America (U.S., Canada, and Mexico), Europe (Germany, UK, France, Italy, Spain, and rest of Europe), Asia-Pacific (Japan, China, India, Australia, South Korea, and rest of Asia-Pacific), and LAMEA (Brazil, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, and rest of LAMEA). The key players operating in the market include AtriCure, Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation, Coherex Medical, St. Jude Medical, Occlutech, Lifetech Scientific, SentreHEART, Inc., Avantis Medical Systems, United-Guardian, Inc., and Carestream Health. Key Benefits St. Jude Medical,, Boston Scientific Corporation,, Carestream Health., Coherex Medical,, Occlutech,, Avantis Medical Systems,, AtriCure, Inc.,, United-Guardian, Inc.,, SentreHEART, Inc.,, Lifetech Scientific, Loading Table Of Content...  Company  Find Help Our Product & Services Resource Center  © 2024 Allied Market Research. All Rights Reserved  Enter Valid Email ID Verification code has been sent to your email ID By continuing, you agree to Allied Market Research Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Advantages Of Our Secure Login Easily Track Orders, Hassel free Access, Downloads Get Relevent Alerts and Recommendation Wishlist, Coupons & Manage your Subscription Register and Earn 500 Loyalty Points Have a Referral Code? Enter Valid Referral Code Advantages Of Our Secure Login Easily Track Orders, Hassel free Access, Downloads Get Relevent Alerts and Recommendation Wishlist, Coupons & Manage your Subscription An Email Verification Code has been sent to your email address! Please check your inbox and, if you don't find it there, also look in your junk folder.  Global Opportunity Analysis and Industry Forecast, 2023-2032