      The hybrid power plant supplies the electricity required to operate the mine and also to the nearby town of Fort Dauphin. (Image source: Wärtsilä) Wärtsilä, a company at the forefront of the energy transition, has expanded its existing operations and maintenance (O&M) agreement with QUIT Madagascar (QMM) to include a decarbonisation agreement Currently, the existing O&M agreement covers QMM’s 24MW engine power plant at the ilmenite mineral sands mine at Fort Dauphin in the country. With the signing of the new agreement, Wärtsilä will seek to optimise all assets in the microgrid, including renewable energy usage, in a bid to reduce emissions and capture cost savings. Specifically, it includes optimised dispatch of the plant’s six Wärtsilä 32 engines and QMM’s battery energy storage and renewable assets with Wärtsilä’s GEMS Digital Energy platform. The GEMS software uses machine learning technology to optimise multiple energy generation assets and ensure maximum utilisation of renewable energy. “The O&M Agreement with Wärtsilä has been in place since 2008 and we have been pleased with Wärtsilä’s performance,” remarked Jean-Francois Richer, director integrated operational services at QMM, part of the Rio Tinto group. “The reliability and efficiency of the power plant are critical to our operations, and we are therefore excited to extend this agreement. The renewed agreement allows us take advantage of Wärtsilä’s competence in power system optimisation and use renewables in the most efficient way, supporting Rio Tinto’s decarbonisation objectives and sustainable mining vision.” Christoffer Ek, director of decarbonisation services at Wärtsilä Energy, added, “Our Decarbonisation Agreement is taking energy optimisation to a new level by enabling cost savings, a reduced environmental footprint, and higher efficiency. What is more, the partnership is outcome-based with mutual incentives. This is the way forward in making decarbonised operations a viable reality.” Wärtsilä has demonstrated its efforts to realise the energy transition by pioneering the world’s first large-scale hydrogen-ready engine power plant. Click here to learn more. Africa is expected to overtake Europe  in geothermal capacity by 2030. Financial and commercial advisory service provider Greencrowd Partnership LLP has explored the potential of geothermal energy in southern Africa as Kalahari GeoEnergy Limited’s Bweengwa River project continues to progress In a report titled ‘Geothermal in Zambia: Energy Beyond Power’, Greencrowd made reference to the three key challenges facing the southern African country today – an overreliance on hydropower generation (which fuels 85% of its electricity); low levels of energy access (31% of the population has access); and an unmet energy deficit (estimated at approximately 500MW). The first of these challenges is one exacerbated by the climate emergency; severe droughts have a disastrous effect on the country’s ability to generate hydropower for instance. The resulting loadshedding (exemplified in March this year when low water levels in the Kafue and Zambezi basins led to power utility ZESCO to commence eight-hour daily loadshedding) brings even greater hardship on the population. Indeed, the Greencrowd research pointed to the knock-on effect on jobs and livelihoods, with more than half of the Zambian population thought to be living below the poverty line. That is not to say the situation is hopeless. The paper outlined the severity of situation before referencing the brightening broader financial situation of the country (which recently signed an in-principle agreement with international bondholders and is working to restructure its debt) and the enactment of energy policy and regulatory framework that is highly conducive to investment in the energy sector. More hope can be found in the near-limitless potential of geothermal power. Offering clean, reliable and stable baseload power and the ability to efficiently heat and cool homes, factories and other facilities (such as data centres) the Greencrowd research suggested it could be ‘the answer’ to the country’s energy challenges, and one that is unaffected by external weather forces. “Geothermal is the only fully renewable resource. Producing zero carbon, with a geographic footprint a fraction of the size of a solar field, geothermal energy provides constant, consistent baseload power, regardless of external factors such as water level (hydro), wind speed and direction (wind energy), or duration and intensity of sunlight (solar),” said Peter Vivian-Neal, founder and CEO of Kalahari, in the report. Discover the full piece outlining the geothermal potential and the progress made on the Bweenga River Geothermal Project by clicking here.  The Cat G3520 Fast Response natural-gas generator set is available for dealers around the world. (Image source: Cat) Caterpillar has launched the Cat G3520 Fast Response natural-gas generator set for 50 Hz applications including hospitals, data centres, retail complexes, schools, government buildings and universities, as well as research and industrial facilities According to Cat, the genset is now available to dealers around the world and provides 2.6MW for emergency standby and demand response. Engineered to address the ISO8528-5 G2 standard, it starts and accepts load from a cold start in 10 seconds, and it is capable of receiving and recovering from a 100% block load. It features Caterpillar’s EMCP 4 control system, which provides engine and generator set control, protection, and monitoring. The control system's Ethernet communication capabilities make it easy to integrate into building management systems. Its expanded features include a gas train, package-mounted radiators, and simplified wiring for easier installation. For enhanced performance, the Cat G3520 Fast Response generator set can be configured with the Cat Energy Control System (ECS), a new suite of integrated, connected and scalable controllers. The Cat ECS allows customers to manage energy needs ranging from a single generator set to cohesive, full-site microgrid solutions that optimise multiple power generation sources for resiliency, emissions and cost. “As our global customers look for mission-critical power that can also help meet their sustainability goals, the Cat G3520 Fast Response generator set provides a high-performance, natural-gas option that helps reduce their greenhouse gas emissions when compared with traditional backup solutions,” remarked Melissa Busen, vice president for Caterpillar’s Electric Power Division. With the new release, Cat has now added to its proven portfolio of natural-gas power solutions offering fast-response capabilities. Recently, African Review spoke to Carl Emery, regional sales manager for Europe, Africa and Middle East for Caterpillar Electric Power, to learn how the organisation is positioning to champion generator market growth on the continent. Discover the full Q&A at: https://africanreview.com/energy/caterpillar-positioned-to-champion-generator-market-growth The groundbreaking ceremony was attended by key representatives from the Ugandan Government, local communities and the companies involved in the project’s delivery. (Image source: AMEA Power) AMEA Power, a fast-growing renewable energy company, has broken ground at the 24MW solar PV project in Uganda in the presence of Government officials The project is being implemented by Ituka West Nile Uganda Limited, a project company registered in Uganda and fully owned by AMEA Power, and is located on a 52- hectare site in Ombachi village in the West Nile Sub-Region, around 450 km from Kampala. It includes a 1X24MVA 33/132kV transformer substation/switchyard and will be evacuated through the newly constructed Lira-Gulu-Nebbi-Arua 132kV transmission line, operated by UETCL, the offtaker. Once commissioned, it will reportedly be the first and largest utility-scale grid-connected solar PV project in the West Nile Region. The groundbreaking was marked by a ceremony attended by Ruth Nankabirwa Ssentamu, Minister of Energy and Mineral Development of Uganda; Irene Bateebe, Permanent Secretary - Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development; and Aqueel Bohra, chief investment officer at the AMEA Power. There was also senior representative from local communities and members of Ministry of Energy & Mineral Development, Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited, the Electricity Regulatory Authority, the Ugandan Embassy to the United Arab Emirates, and other government and private energy sector agencies. The investment for the US$19mn project financing was secured during COP28 from Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund (EAIF). African Trade and Investment Development Insurance (ATIDI) is supporting the project via its Regional Liquidity Support Facility (RLSF). Hussain Al Nowais, chairman of AMEA Power, remarked, “We are excited to begin construction on this landmark solar project in Uganda, marking a significant step forward in our commitment to expanding our footprint across East Africa. This project aligns perfectly with Uganda’s vision for a cleaner and more sustainable energy future, and we are confident that it will deliver substantial economic and environmental benefits for the country.” Once commissioned – expected Q3 2025 – the plant will become AMEA Power’s first operational asset in the country and will be delivered in close cooperation with local communities as part of its commitment to socioeconomic development. Generating approximately 53,940MWh of clean energy per year, the plant is set to power more than 190,000 households and offset 26,600 tonnes of carbon emissions annually. This news is the latest of a number of projects AMEA Power is undertaking on the continent. Recently, the company also brok ground at a new solar project in Tunisia, the details of which can be found by clicking here. The transaction will give TotalEnergies an interest in hydropower projects in Uganda, Rwanda and Malawi. (Image source: Adobe Stock) TotalEnergies, a global integrated energy company, is set to expand its hydropower portfolio through a strategic acquisition in Africa The company has signed an agreement with Scatec to acquire its subsidiary SN Power, which holds interests in hydropower projects through a joint venture with Norfund and British International Investment. “We are pleased to announce today’s transaction, as we believe TotalEnergies will be a strong asset owner going forward, with the ability to further develop the projects and contribute to the energy transition in Africa,” commented Terje Pilskog, CEO of Scatec. “We would like to thank the entire hydropower team for their hard work and dedication over the years, you have made a significant impact. In addition, our gratitude goes to our joint venture partners, host governments, and lenders for the support since 2020.” The new agreement will further develop TotalEnergies hydropower portfolio (it holds interests in a number of projects across the globe with a gross capacity of 3.7GW worldwide), and complement its existing one in Africa where it already has 1.5GW under development in Mozambique (the Mphanda Nkuwa project). As a result of the new transaction with Scatec, TotalEnergies will acquire a 28.3% stake in the Bujagali hydropower plant currently in operation in Uganda. With a capacity of 250MW, it covers more than 25% of the country's peak electricity demand. TotalEnergies will also acquire minority stakes in two projects under development in Rwanda (260MW) and Malawi (360MW). “This acquisition of renewable hydroelectric assets and projects in Africa reflects our desire to contribute to the continent's energy transition by bringing electricity to the people of African countries,” remarked Patrick Pouyanné, chairman and CEO of TotalEnergies. “In particular, we are delighted to be able to become a player in hydro power in Uganda, a country where we are also developing a major oil project. This is another example of TotalEnergies’ ability to implement its multi-energy strategy in oil-producing countries to support them in their energy transition.” Hydropower has traditionally formed the backbone of energy systems across the continent but is this beginning to change? Access the latest issue of African Review find out more. The Carmix 3.5TT is renowned for its robust performance in concrete mixing. (Image source: Carmix) The Cat G3520 Fast Response natural-gas generator set is available for dealers around the world. (Image source: Cat) Hyde Johannesburg marks a major milestone for Ennismore as the brand’s first hotel in Africa. (Image source: Ennismore) The transaction will give TotalEnergies an interest in hydropower projects in Uganda, Rwanda and Malawi. (Image source: Adobe Stock) Vertiv is a global provider of critical digital infrastructure and continuity solutions. (Image source: Vertiv) The initiative was unveiled at a meeting at the UIA head office. (Image source: UIA) Since inception, AIIM has raised more than US$4bn over eight funds and executed more than 70 transactions in target pan-African markets. (Image source: Adobe Stock) Bobcat has included additional features to enhance the visibility around the machines. (Image source: Bobcat) Africa Energy Forum 2024 was held in the Fira de Montjuïc in Barcelona. (Image source: ACP) The project sought to address the high accident rate at the old Breidbach intersection and the traffic congestion. (Image source: SANRAL) The groundbreaking ceremony was attended by key representatives from the Ugandan Government, local communities and the companies involved in the project’s delivery. (Image source: AMEA Power) 141 urban roads and 20 rural roads will be constructed. (Image source: Adobe Stock) Genuine Volvo Parts are specifically developed, tested and approved to get the very best results from your Volvo machine. (Image source: Volvo CE) The project will extend and modernise the Moroni and Boingoma ports. (Image source: AfDB) At the show in Johannesburg, companies and investors are encouraged to be part of Africa’s industrial renaissance. (Image source: Manufacturing Indaba) The hybrid power plant supplies the electricity required to operate the mine and also to the nearby town of Fort Dauphin. (Image source: Wärtsilä) The 2MW-capable facility is the DRC’s first live open-access, carrier-neutral and Uptime Institute Tier-III certified data centre, with ISO27001 post live certification on track for Q3 2024. (Image source: OADC Texaf Digital – Kinshasa) Bobcat can now offer its customers an even more complete package of material handling solutions. (Image source: Bobcat) Globally, an estimated one billion tyres reach the end of their useful life every year. (Image source: Adobe Stock) Africa is expected to overtake Europe  in geothermal capacity by 2030. The new airport will help establish Ethiopia as a global aviation hub. (Image source: Ethiopian Airlines) At the show in Johannesburg, companies and investors are encouraged to be part of Africa’s industrial renaissance. (Image source: Manufacturing Indaba) The Cat G3520 Fast Response natural-gas generator set is available for dealers around the world. (Image source: Cat) Through the acquisition, Mauser is extending its existing production capacities and footprint in South Africa. (Image source: Adobe Stock) Mandla Mbonambi, CEO of Africonology Solutions. (Image source: Africonology Solutions) Hyde Johannesburg marks a major milestone for Ennismore as the brand’s first hotel in Africa. (Image source: Ennismore) 141 urban roads and 20 rural roads will be constructed. (Image source: Adobe Stock) The project will extend and modernise the Moroni and Boingoma ports. (Image source: AfDB) The groundbreaking ceremony was attended by key representatives from the Ugandan Government, local communities and the companies involved in the project’s delivery. (Image source: AMEA Power) The initiative was unveiled at a meeting at the UIA head office. (Image source: UIA)