Register today to stay up-to-date with the latest news. 
 Thank you for registering! An account was already registered with this email. Please check your inbox for an authentication link. Every morning, thousands of energy professionals turn to our newsletters for the day’s most important news. Sign up for free to get the latest delivered straight to your inbox. The Energy News Network is powered by support from readers like you. Your contribution will help support vital reporting on regional energy issues that helps to both inform and watchdog important public policy discussions. Energy News Network 
					Covering the transition to a clean energy economy				 BUILDINGS: New York City’s buildings department proposes extending the deadline for large building owners making a “good faith effort” to meet a decarbonization goal, but some say that will weaken enforcement. (The City, Gothamist) ALSO:• Maryland pushes forward with a proposed energy performance standard, but business interests say a monitoring and progress measurement tool would cost property owners billions of dollars. (Maryland Matters)• After figuring out the financing for the $1 million price tag, a Vermont ski resort is installing a 3 MW electric boiler to displace about 60% of its on-site fossil fuel use. (WCAX)• New York City’s planning commission approves the first of a series of “City of Yes” proposals aimed at reforming zoning to allow more clean-energy retrofits of buildings. (SI Live) OFFSHORE WIND:• Atlantic Shores Wind’s chief executive officer discusses his frustration with misinformation swirling about the offshore wind industry, as well as the sector’s financial outlook. (ROI NJ)• In New Jersey, anti-wind protesters refuse to leave an Ocean Wind 1 onshore work site, delaying a subcontractor from beginning work on a power line. (Press of Atlantic City)• Construction begins on a substation Con Edison will use to deliver 1.5 GW of offshore wind power to the grid. (news release) FLOODS:• As Massachusetts’ governor tours damage from flash floods that brought almost 10 inches of rain in six hours to one area on Monday, New England prepares for potentially more rain from Hurricane Lee. (WBUR, Associated Press)• In Vermont, a state official says costs to repair significant flood damage in Montpelier’s historic state buildings may exceed $100 million. (WCAX) SOLAR:• A New York county comptroller’s office audit finds tax breaks for solar developers have been inconsistently applied. (Daily Freeman)• A New York town planning board appears more receptive to a 2.7 MW solar farm after the developer edited its proposal to align with a local solar ordinance. (Observer Today) TRANSPORTATION: A coalition of business interests in New Jersey asks top legislative officials not to proceed with a ban on gas-powered vehicles, citing potential financial impacts for residents. (NJ Spotlight) GAS: National Grid declines to explain why its workers didn’t shut off gas service before an explosion that destroyed a central New York home three hours after a car crashed into it. (Syracuse.com) More from the Energy News Network: Midwest | Southeast | Northeast | West  Bridget is a freelance reporter and newsletter writer based in the Washington, D.C., area. She compiles the Northeast Energy News digest. Bridget primarily writes about energy, conservation and the environment. Originally from Philadelphia, she graduated from Emerson College in 2015 with a degree in journalism and a minor in environmental studies. When she isn’t working on a story, she’s normally on a northern Maine lake or traveling abroad to practice her Spanish language skills. 
Email address: 
		

 

 U.S. Energy News


 Midwest Energy News


 Southeast Energy News


 Northeast Energy News


 Western Energy News


 Energy News Weekly

 

 The Energy News Network is an editorially independent project of  
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 Subscribe to our newsletters: 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
