The year 2022 will be over in a few weeks. OctaFX still has a couple more treats (and incentives) to bring you closer to your financial goals. This week’s special is about energy commodities and cryptocurrencies!   Energy markets tend to trend well and be quite volatile, making large price swings. Invariably, energy trading is ideal for traders looking for a high-profit potential.   Read also: Forex broker, OctaFX, receives the ‘Best Forex Broker Nigeria 2022’ award OctaFX has been a global broker providing online trading services worldwide since 2011. It offers commission-free access to financial markets and various services already utilised by clients from 150 countries with more than 12 million trading accounts.  Free educational webinars, articles, and analytical tools they provide help clients reach their investment goals. The company is involved in a comprehensive network of charitable and humanitarian initiatives, including improving educational infrastructure and short-notice relief projects supporting local communities and small to medium enterprises.  Read more: Get more from trading energy commodities and cryptocurrencies with OctaFX. On a side note, OctaFX has also won more than 50 awards since its foundation, including the 2021 ‘Best ECN Broker’ award from World Finance and the 2022 ‘Best Global Broker Asia’ award from International Business Magazine. Get the best of Africa’s daily tech to your inbox – first thing every morning.Join the community now! Thanks for subscribing to Technext Newsletter
           In this episode of Techbytes, we discussed essential topics from last week in the tech world. We also discussed the topic for the week: “Transforming Nigerian Teenagers to Becoming Tech Bros”. We discuss this with Johnson Abbaly, Foudnr, The Smartan House, as he shares insights as to bringing teens from underprivileged environments into Tech. If you’d like to get featured on our Entrepreneur Spotlight, click here to share your startup story with us. Get the best of Africa’s daily tech to your inbox – first thing every morning.Join the community now! Thanks for subscribing to Technext Newsletter
           Get the best of Africa’s daily tech to your inbox – first thing every morning.Join the community now! Thanks for subscribing to Technext Newsletter
          