The Chicago Bears are coming off a three-win season where they earned the No. 1 pick in the NFL draft. But after improvements across the roster and Justin Fields’ development, there are high expectations for Chicago heading into 2023. The Bears schedule is middle of the pack in terms of strength, and there are plenty of opportunities for wins. Especially when you consider how Matt Eberflus kept arguably the NFL’s worst roster competitive throughout the 2022 season. We shared our way-too-early game-by-game predictions for the Bears schedule back in May. Now, NFL Network’s Adam Rank, a noted Bears fan, is doing the same. Here’s a look at how Rank sees each game shaking out for the Bears in 2023, which includes a surprising record. USA Today Sports Kim Klement-USA TODAY Sports Michael Reaves/Getty Images Quinn Harris/Getty Images Quinn Harris/Getty Images Matt Marton-USA TODAY Sports AP Photo/Rick Scuteri Michael Reaves/Getty Images Derick E. Hingle-USA TODAY Sports Bob Donnan-USA TODAY Sports Nic Antaya/Getty Images Stephen Maturen/Getty Images Charles LeClaire-USA TODAY Sports Daniel Bartel-USA TODAY Sports Scott Galvin-USA TODAY Sports Mike Dinovo-USA TODAY Sports Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images Dan Powers/USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin Quinn Harris/Getty Images Rank is quite optimistic about Chicago’s chances this season, where a 12-5 record puts them in a position to win the NFC North and return to the playoffs. The Bears’ only losses in this scenario are to the Chiefs, Chargers, Saints, Vikings and Lions. Chicago also sweeps the Packers as the Jordan Love era gets underway. Considering the Bears only won three games last season, it would be quite the leap. But there are plenty of winnable games on the schedule for a Chicago team that improved this offseason. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy 
				Please re-enter your email address.			 
			You'll now receive the top Bears Wire stories each day directly in your inbox.		  





 
				© Copyright Bears Wire 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		