Seven major automakers say they're joining forces to build a North American electric vehicle charging network that would rival Tesla's and nearly double the number of fast-charging plugs in the U.S. and Canada. General Motors, BMW, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Mercedes and Stellantis said Wednesday that they will share in a multibillion-dollar investment to build "high power" charging stations with 30,000 plugs in urban areas and along travel corridors. The dramatic move is intended to speed the adoption of electric vehicles, allaying fears that chargers won't be available for long-distance travel. The companies wouldn't disclose the exact number of charging stations or financial details of the joint venture they're forming to put the network in place. While they said the first of the U.S. chargers will be ready by next summer, they also would not say how long it will take to build the entire network. The automakers said in a joint statement Wednesday that they want to build the "leading network" of reliable high-powered charging stations in North America. "The parties have agreed not to disclose specific investment numbers at this time, but the seven founding automakers intend to work as equals to ensure the success of the joint venture," the companies said in a written statement answering questions from The Associated Press. "As you can imagine, such a high-powered charging network of this scale requires a multibillion-dollar investment." There are currently just under 8,700 direct-current fast-charging stations in the U.S. and Canada with nearly 36,000 charging plugs, according to the U.S. Department of Energy. Fast chargers can get a battery to 80% of its capacity in 20 minutes to one hour, making them optimal for travel corridors and in some cases comparable to a gasoline fill-up. They're much quicker than 240-volt "Level 2" chargers that can take hours to get a battery to a full charge. The new network is expected to have 10 to 20 charging plugs per station, meaning there would be a minimum of 1,500 stations and a maximum of about 3,000. Tesla's network, with the largest number of fast chargers in North America, has 2,050 stations and more than 22,000 plugs in the U.S. and Canada, the DOE says. EVs and lower income buyers:EVs aren't for everyone, especially if you're lower income, survey shows. Here's why. The network formed by the seven automakers would be public and open to all electric vehicle owners. It will have connectors for both Tesla's North American Charging Standard plugs as well as the Combined Charging System plugs used by other automakers. The network will speed up electric vehicle sales in North America by getting people who now are reading stories about holes in the charging network that prevent long-distance travel, said Stephanie Brinley, an analyst with S&P Global Mobility. "It's stopping them even from exploring what EV life is like," Brinley said. The announcement of the network "is giving them confidence that this is going to work out." In their statement, the seven automakers said they would use renewable energy as much as possible to power the chargers, and they will be in convenient locations with canopies and amenities such as restrooms, food service and stores nearby. Brinley said a good charging experience is key to earning the trust of potential EV buyers. "The reality is consumers want to feel comfortable when they charge," she said. It will take years and billions of dollars to build out the network, which will need special electrical wiring, Brinley said. The current charging network, being built by a hodgepodge of companies, is growing but is often unreliable or in poor locations. This has prompted Ford, General Motors and others to sign agreements with Tesla to give their EVs access to its much larger network of fast chargers. Automakers also have announced they're building their own networks, but Brinley said the moves weren't enough. She also doesn't see the automakers' announcement as a threat to Tesla. "I think the reality is this is needed, and these automakers are getting together to say 'we need this'" she said. "Tesla can't build enough for everyone." Former Michigan governor and current U.S. Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm added, "This joint venture by seven major automakers furthers the concerted effort by the Biden-Harris Administration to build a nationwide EV charging network that matches the increase in EV adoption. "We are seeing tremendous momentum as private companies, cities, states, and utilities join forces behind our shared goal of convenient, reliable charging that reaches every pocket of America. This is what an all-of-America effort looks like." The automakers will seek to use U.S. government funds from the bipartisan infrastructure law to help pay for the network. Ford, which is not participating in this consortium, offers its drivers access to chargers from a variety of companies. Honda CEO Toshihiro Mibe said in a statement: "This joint venture will be a critical step in accelerating EV adoption across the U.S. and Canada." Stellantis CEO Carlos Tavares said the network is a response to significant growth that's expected in electric vehicle sales, and the group intends to exceed customer expectations. "We believe that a charging network at scale is vital to protecting freedom of mobility for all," he said. GM CEO Mary Barra said: “GM’s commitment to an all-electric future is focused not only on delivering EVs our customers love, but investing in charging and working across the industry to make it more accessible. The better experience people have, the faster EV adoption will grow.” The venture's 30,000 new DC fast-charging plugs are in addition to GM's existing commitments, which include 2,000 fast-charging stalls branded with its "Ultium Charge 360" technology at up to 500 Pilot and Flying J truck stops, and more than 3,250 fast chargers in American cities and suburbs. Charging company EVgo will operate those chargers. Mercedes-Benz Group CEO Ola Källenius said: “The fight against climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. What we need now is speed – across political, social and corporate boundaries. To accelerate the shift to electric vehicles, we’re in favor of anything that makes life easier for our customers. Charging is an inseparable part of the EV-experience, and this network will be another step to make it as convenient as possible.” Contributing: Mark Phelan, Phoebe Wall Howard and Eric Lawrence of the Detroit Free Press.