Andrew Duncan, CEO and Managing Partner, Infosys Consulting.   Supply chain disruptions, escalating energy costs, inflation, interest rate hikes, changing consumer demands and other market-altering dynamics have reshaped our global reality in the last 12 months. Next year will be a tough one for the worldwide economy with the ever-growing possibility of a recession. However, through adversity comes an opportunity for growth. Technology will play a key role in helping leaders build resilience in their businesses. In 2023, new and innovative tech will have to play an even more crucial role in helping organizations drive efficiency, profitability and new customer engagement channels. Tech leaders will want to draw on an ecosystem of digital solutions to reduce dependencies in vulnerable areas as they work to create a more resilient infrastructure. This could involve aligning with partners that are more resilient to global risks or working with suppliers across traditional industry boundaries. Mergers and acquisitions will remain in focus, and companies will explore this to bolster their tech, data and innovation expertise. For companies looking to scale up new digital initiatives, such as machine learning and robotic process automation, a quicker way to market will be strategic acquisitions to complement or lead their go-to-market strategy. This will enable them to acquire the necessary digital assets and skills at pace. Of all the trends predicted by Gartner in their 2023 Tech Trends report, there was a common thread that underpinned them all: sustainable technology. Compared to the pandemic, climate disasters will be eminently more challenging, and businesses are ensuring that environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors are at the center of their strategic vision. This includes a transition toward a circular economy (CE). Sustainable technology is a framework of digital solutions that drive ESG outcomes, such as advanced analytics for improved traceability, using automation to reduce resource-intensive activities, or AI to optimize operations and reduce carbon footprint. For example, advanced energy management systems in eco-friendly warehouses can monitor the usage of heat, water, electricity and gas across their entire facility. Businesses will need to consider the energy consumption of their digital transformation programs; we will be increasingly advising clients on the environmental impact of data centers and how to mitigate and manage 5G energy consumption, which will become an increasing drain on energy consumption. Many industries are still struggling with supply chain issues. Next year, companies will look to technology to help them map out their supply chains and explore ways to mitigate areas of supply and inflation risks. Most business leaders have already begun their journey to digital transformation, taking advantage of optimization software to streamline their operations. We continue to counsel our clients about the growing importance of supply chain control towers. A cloud-based supply chain control tower (or supply chain command center) offers end-to-end digital visibility of a supply chain and access to real-time data from any location 24/7. Use cases include visibility of inventory value, suppliers’ performance visibility, accurate and timely capacity planning forecasts, and visibility of quality levels and failure rate. Building protective measures into supply chains like these will help to deal with shortages and rising logistical costs. Technology has the power to unleash new and amazing possibilities to evolve business, amplify human capabilities and positively impact society—something that will be critically important in the new global landscape of 2023. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 