In partnership with AESP: The increasing roles of DERs, connected technology and Big Data are driving rapid change in energy efficiency. As we shape the Utility of the future, this community will help you keep up with the latest developments.  Webinar  Enhance the resiliency of your energy grid with our energy efficiency and demand response solutions. Our webinar tells you more about these flexible, turnkey programs!  Oct 31, 2023  11:00 AM EDT    Investing in Green hydrogen 2024 is the global summit uniting the world’s hydrogen visionaries. Over 800 C-level decision-makers, including policymakers, hydrogen developers, investors, off-takers, and suppliers from 55+ countries, will converge.. As a resource in another at the right moment, integrating electricity, heating, cooling, transport, water, buildings, waste, wastewater, industry, forestry, and agriculture systems will be pivotal to sustainable development. An immersive experience that unites energy and sustainability professionals from around the globe and multiple industries, it provides the chance to unlock new perspectives and cross-sector learnings. A multi-sector senior level educational and networking Summit designed for owners / operators of higher education campuses, healthcare systems and hospitals, large federal facilities and corporate campuses and industry innovators and partners... Fuelling collaboration and business: Europe's premier road transportation fuels event. Time: 8:00 am to 3:10 pm Intensive course on the fundamental concepts critical to being conversant in today’s energy industry. Attendees will obtain practical knowledge of the operations and technology of all aspects of the electricity and natural gas industries. Electrical Distribution Planner (Electrical Engineer III)
			City of Fort Collins
			Fort Collins, Colorado GIS Industry Solutions Manager - Renewable Energy
			JobTarget
			Redlands, California Industry Solutions Specialist, Energy Utilities
			JobTarget
			Redlands, California GIS Industry Solutions Manager, Gas & Pipeline
			JobTarget
			Redlands, California Energy & Environmental Advisor
			City of Rochester
			Rochester, Minnesota Substation Electrical Communications Specialist
			City of Fort Collins - Light & Power
			Fort Collins, Colorado Analyst - Senior Analyst, Utility Marketing and CX
			E Source
			Denver, Colorado Chief Executive Officer 
			Central Valley Electric Cooperative 
			Artesia, New Mexico Vice President of Engineering
			Long Island Power Authority
			Uniondale, New York Chief Executive Officer
			Kansas Electric Power Cooperative
			Topeka, Kansas President and Chief Executive Officer
			NOVEC
			Manassas, Virginia Engineering Associate II
			Lower Colorado River Authority
			La Grange, Texas Executive Director
			Redwood Coast Energy Authority
			Humboldt County, California Director, Division of Revenue & Rates
			New Jersey Board of Public Utilities
			Trenton, New Jersey Transmission Line Engineer: Operations and Maintenance (Civil/Structural)
			LCRA
			Austin, Texas Power Management Control Engineer
			City of Tallahassee
			Tallahassee, Florida Assistant General Manager for the Electric & Gas Utility
			City of Tallahassee
			Tallahassee, Florida Senior Engineer - Grid Infrastructure
			North Carolina Electric Cooperatives
			Raleigh, North Carolina Manager - Cybersecurity and Energy Management System
			Brazos Electric Cooperative
			Waco, Texas Power Plant Control Room Operator (Gas/Coal)
			Lower Colorado River Authority (LCRA)
			La Grange, Texas Chief Executive Officer
			Duck River EMC
			Shelbyville, Tennessee 