These beauty gifts help make the world a better place so you can feel warm and fuzzy about giving this Christmas  
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 There’s nothing better than choosing a product you know your loved one will appreciate - and it’s even better if you can buy that something perfect while also giving back to a cause that's close to your heart. There are lots of beauty brands which sell beautiful gifts that also benefit a wide range of organisations that support causes like mental health, homelessness, and domestic violence by donating some or all of the profits - and we’ve compiled our top picks for gifts that are guaranteed to please but give back too so you can feel good about spending your hard-earned money. Best of L’Occitane Collection, £69 | L’Occitane Every year L’Occitane launches the Best of L’Occitane Gift as their way of giving back to those in our community that need it most. This year £5 from the sale will be donated to Shelter -  the housing and homelessness charity that believes having a home is a human right. Millions of people are left devastated by the housing emergency that exists in the UK, and Shelter exists to defend the right to a safe home. The gift set contains the deliciously-scented Almond Shower Oil and nourishing Shea Butter Hand Cream. Strawberry Seed Moisturiser, £26 | My Olivianna Not only will this rich-in-essential-fatty-acids-moisturiser make early morning skincare routines even merrier, but it’ll also help inspire future generations of girls thanks to a portion of each purchase of the My Olivanna Strawberry Seed Moisturiser, supporting Girls Out Loud, a non-profit social enterprise that helps raise the aspirations of teenage girls. Glow Illuminating Elixir, £68 | Sarah Chapman Sarah Champan’s Glow Illuminating Elixir contributes to the brand's charitable initiative with The Prince’s Trust. It is one of my all-time favourite serums that rejuvenates skin at a cellular level, imparting glow and radiance on the skin. For every Glow sold, Sarah Chapman will donate £1 to The Prince’s Trust Women Supporting Women initiative, a campaign committed to help the next generation of women thrive. Peony and Moss Charity Candle, £55 | Jo Malone Who doesn’t love a Jo Malone candle? Through its Charity Candle Collection, Jo Malone donates 75% of the purchase price of the Peony and Moss Charity Candle to Shining a Light on Mental Health Foundation. The Foundation supports individuals and families affected by mental health problems through dedicated projects. NEOM x Mental Health Foundation Perfect Night's Sleep Limited Edition Candle, £48 | NEOM Not only will this small-but-powerful candle soothe your mind into a slumber, but it’s also helping fight an important cause. With a strong focus on the impact that sleep has on our mental health, Neom has partnered up with the Mental Health Foundation for its Perfect Night’s Sleep candle, a blend of pure essential oils including lavender, sweet basil, and jasmine. Not only does this candle help enrich sleep quality, but with every purchase, Neom contributes £5 to the Mental Health Foundation. Just a Smile Colour Confidence, £9 | Mii This wintery blush pink Just a Smile Colour Confidence Nail Polish by Mii has a fast-drying formula and infuses each nail with a healthy dose of vitamins like vitamin A to aid nail growth, Vitamin B5 to improve flexibility and hydrating Vitamin E to protect from peeling and yellowing. With every purchase, Mii Cosmetics donates £2 from every 14ml polish sold to Future Dreams to support breast cancer awareness.   Amazing Grace Fragrance Layering Set, £50 | Philosophy Philosophy donates profits to various mental health organisations with every product sold through their Hope & Grace initiative. The beauty brand has been able to support community-based mental health efforts through financial grants focusing on empowering women. For the perfume lover, go for the Amazing Grace Fragrance Layering Set, which includes a shower gel, body lotion, and a bottle of eau de toilette all in the iconic soft floral fragrance.  Enchanted Island Hair Care Set, £78 | Rahua This set includes plant-based biotin shampoo and conditioner as well as the Mish Enchanted Island Salt Spray - three must-haves to achieve naturally textured beach waves during the winter. Rahua will be donating 10% of proceeds to The Pink Flamingo Project which does field work in the Galapagos Island to protect endemic species, the coastline, and oceans.  Bee Lovely Nourishing Trio, £15 | Neal’s Yard Remedies With moisturising organic beeswax and energising essential oils, this gift set includes a trio of best selling products from their gorgeous Bee Lovely range. As well as silky-smooth skin from top-to-toe with these beeswax infused products, you are also able to help save the bees as Neal’s Yard Remedies donates 3% of sales to bee-friendly charities.  Liposome Advanced Purple Ribbon Set, £85 | Decorté Decorté has just launched the Liposome Advanced Purple Ribbon gift set which is packed with youth-boosting actives designed to enhance the radiance of skin. For this set, they are partnering with Refuge - an active support in aiding women and children fleeing domestic abuse. They’ve committed to raising £25,000 in the next 12 months to this important cause. Toiletry Amnesty  Alternatively, if you’re looking to give back through beauty and already have an overflowing stash of products, donate them to Toiletries Amnesty who accept unused, or some slightly used makeup, skincare, fragrance and hygiene products to give them to women in need. Go to the Toiletry Amnesty website to find out more ways to donate: https://www.toiletriesamnesty.org/ Celebrity news, beauty, fashion advice, and fascinating features, delivered straight to your inbox! An award-winning health and beauty writer, stylist and creative director, Lisa Oxenham is one of the UK’s top beauty editors and the Beauty and Style Director at Marie Claire UK. With 20 years of editorial experience Lisa is a brand partnership expert, and a popular speaker, panelist and interviewer on a range of topics from sustainability to the future of beauty in the digital world. She recently spoke at Cognition X and Beauty Tech Live and is on the Advisory Board for the British Beauty Council’s Sustainable Beauty Coalition.  A well-respected creative director she works on celebrity, model and influencer shoots with the highest calibre of photographers, filmmakers, make-up artists and hairstylists to create timeless images, attention-grabbing videos, digital events and masterclasses. Most recently Lisa has directed covers such as Lily Cole and Jameela Jamil, films such as Save The Arts featuring Francesca Hayward and sustainable fashion shoots such as Be The Change. Supporting the beauty industry over the pandemic has been a top focus, directing the British Beauty Council’s six inspirational short biographical films for their Bring Back Beauty campaign.  Lisa is a wellbeing and beauty influencer with a focus on mental health and a large and engaged audience on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. 
She is 'putting herself first' ahead of her tour
 
By Jadie Troy-Pryde
 
 
By Jenny Proudfoot
 
Here are 7 affordable alternatives
 
By Mischa Anouk Smith
 Marie Claire UK is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 