To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. The stars of this week’s best beauty Instagrams created scroll-stopping content by leaning into their expertly-honed aesthetics rather than shying away from them. Take, for example, Gisele Bündchen, whose getaway-inspired share featured her signature beach waves, toned limbs, and proximity to nature, or Kiernan Shipka, whose mirror selfie came with a power brow, roseate cheeks, and a perfected pout. Bangs and brows also defined Jenna Ortega’s look—worn in transit—while Selena Gomez opted for a signature slicked-back updo and a pop of bold color courtesy of a bright carmine lip. Elsewhere, Lupita Nyong’o said an emotional farewell to her sisterlocks, a parting of ways followed by the reveal of a fresh and aspirational buzzcut. And Kate Hudson celebrated her birthday in disco fever-dream fashion, her teased blonde and silver dusted lids putting us all in the party mood. Scroll on for the best beauty Instagrams of the week, as seen on Instagram. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. Martha Stewart’s Skincare Routine, According to Her Dermatologists The Secret to Blake Lively’s Incredible Hair? Stop Using Conditioner The Blush Hack Every Woman Over 40 Should Know How To Get the Viral Glass Manicure Marc Jacobs Tells Us Everything About His Nails Sign up for Vogue’s beauty newsletter to receive the insider’s guide to all things beauty and wellness Never miss a Vogue moment and get unlimited digital access for just $2 $1 per month. By signing up you agree to our User Agreement (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions), our Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement and to receive marketing and account-related emails from Vogue. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More from Vogue See More Stories © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty