We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. Is it worth it? You bet.  When it comes to advent calendars, the Liberty beauty advent calendar remains one of the greatest around – and this year, it has exceeded all expectations. In fact, the 2023 Liberty advent calendar is so spectacular that it has taken a full 12 months to design and collate. So yes, the hype is very much warranted. Excelling in all beauty categories, you won't be surprised to know that shoppers will often queue outside the flagship store in the hopes of bagging one. Luckily today, you can save yourself a chilly wait and purchase the calendar online; however, time is ticking until December 1, so we'd highly recommend securing yours now. If you're sitting on the edge, know that Liberty is hosting a limited-time loyalty event, which may persuade your purchase. For every £50 spent, shoppers will receive a £10 gift voucher to spend in Liberty – that's £50 when you buy the £250 beauty advent calendar. So here's your chance to treat yourself to that gorgeous cashmere jumper sitting on your wish list... Definitely! You can easily spend a whole day wandering through the stalls of Liberty's iconic Beauty Hall. But if time is your greatest enemy (especially during the festive season), the retailer's advent calendar has compiled 29 of its most covetable products for you to try in the comfort of your own home. This year the box retails at £250, yet it's brimming with 20 full-size beauty treasures worth £1,043 – that's a huge saving, and a fantastic chance to try some brands you may not have sampled before. The Liberty advent calendar contents always delight us, and this year is no exception. It's no surprise that Liberty has excelled in every category – from skincare and haircare, to makeup and fragrance. We don't want to spoil all of the surprises, but if curiosity gets the better of you, inside you'll find cult brands like Sunday Riley, Rose Inc and Le Labo. Liberty doesn't hold back in terms of generosity either; this year's chest houses 20 full-size items including the Augustinus Bader The Rich Cream, Dr. Barbara Sturm Face Cream and a Byredo Lipstick. Spectacular beauty inclusions aside, the calendar also includes a bracelet from Estella Bartlett. Plus, if you're really lucky, one box will contain a gift voucher worth £1,000 to spend exclusively in Liberty. So, start wishing now... While the lavish beauty treats are clearly the reason to invest, we also have to appreciate the beautiful box. Designed by renowned illustrator Clym Evernden, the Liberty-inspired chest remains a classic. Printed with his illustrations, it captures everything we love about Christmas – from bunting and snow to shopping and merriment. Now! If you want to avoid queueing outside the flagship store in hopes to bag one, we'd highly advise heading to the Liberty website before shelves are wiped clean. SHOP NOW  Clare Stephenson is a Beauty Ecommerce Writer for Cosmopolitan, Women’s Health, Red and Good Housekeeping, covering all things makeup, skincare and hair care, as well as deals events including Black Friday and Amazon Prime Day.   Clare has been an ecommerce writer since 2022, writing matter-of-fact reviews such as deep dives into skin concerns and shopping pages filled with her favourite products for every budget and need.   Before working at Hearst UK, she received a BA degree in Multimedia Journalism at Bournemouth University, focusing her studies on the world of magazines and editorial. From there, she worked as an editorial assistant at Voir Fashion Magazine, covering events like Fashion Week and interviewing reputable brand founders, including Rea Ann Silva creator of Beautyblender.   When she’s not testing the latest and greatest products, you can find Clare sifting through vintage clothing stores in the city or horseback riding in the countryside.    Follow Clare on Instagram @clarefrancesstephenson.   These are the best natural-looking fake tans First peep at Look Fantastic's advent calendar  Cult Beauty advent calendar 2024 waitlist is open Amazon Prime Day: Best last-chance beauty deals How to treat (and remove) stubborn blackheads Does biotin actually work for healthier hair?	 Top hyaluronic acid serums, recommended by experts Is Bubble skincare actually any good? Our verdict on Tiktok's most debated foundation 18 ways you didn't know you could use Bio-Oil Do at-home hair gloss treatments actually work? Here's why you may need a clarifying shampoo Women's Health, Part of the Hearst UK Wellbeing Network We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England 112955. All rights reserved.