Genius tips, tricks & beautiful things, straight to your inbox every day. © 2010-2021 Wow Media Products, Inc doing business as PureWow. All rights reserved. PureWow editors select every item that appears on this page, and the company may earn compensation through affiliate links within the story. All prices are accurate upon date of publish. You can learn more about the affiliate process here. I am forever amused by TikTok trends because most of them take an extremely basic concept, like wearing less makeup, slap a snappy name on it and boom, we have “clean girl aesthetic.” (Yes, the trends are sometimes problematic.) It’s silly, but you’ve got to admit your curiosity is piqued when you hear phrases like “cloud skin” and “everything shower.” Let’s talk about the latter for a second, because unlike “tomato girl makeup,” an everything shower is something I am wholly on board with. To start, an “everything shower” is a shower that goes beyond your standard steps and consists of whatever else you want to do to cleanse, exfoliate and care for your hair, skin and senses. I’ve seen routines that are supposed to last a couple of hours, but my everything shower lasts about 30 minutes, which is plenty of bathing time for me. An “everything shower” is meant to be fill thy cup, so I always set the mood by queuing up a good playlist on Spotify. Next, I put out whatever clean, comfy clothes I’ll be changing into afterwards because I’d like to minimize the number of things I have to do once I emerge from my shower. As far as pre-shower products go, I’ll occasionally use a pre-wash treatment for my hair, when it’s looking particularly straw-like (or I have something good to watch on Netflix). This mask is meant to be used on dry, unwashed hair to help smooth down frizz, nourish brittle strands and deliver instant shine, thanks to the sparkly flecks in it. (The brand says it’s like “highlighter for your hair.”) Featuring prickly pear seed oil, which is rich in fatty acids that deeply condition, it has a thick consistency to it that coats my hair nicely without running or dripping down my back. I’m also a fan of the fresh fruity scent. Again, we’re going beyond the standard “lather, rinse, repeat,” here. For my everything showers, I am doing the most. More specifically, I am shampooing twice (first using a clarifying shampoo, then a moisturizing one), masking again, exfoliating, shaving and cleansing my body and face to finish. Note: This last step is to ensure I don’t leave any pore-clogging residue on my skin. Dry shampoo (and styling products in general) tend to build up on your scalp, so I use a clarifying shampoo during my everything showers to clear everything out. This one from Odele makes my hair feel lighter and fresher without desiccating my strands, thanks to sulfate-free cleansers and chelating ingredients that help remove any product residue, dust and hard water minerals from it. It smells nice, too—sort of like the cucumber melon body spray we wore as tweens. Speaking of scent, the first thing that drew me to this shampoo was its jasmine-y fragrance. It made my shower and strands smell heavenly. More importantly though, I like the way the creamy formula works with my thick, porous hair, which can be attributed to Kamartin, the brand's vegan silk alternative to keratin and silicone that helps seal in hydration. Conditioning is always crucial, but it’s especially important after a double-shampoo day. Philip B’s new mask uses a blend of amino acids, plant oils and shea butter to rehydrate hair without weighing it down. Just make sure to concentrate the mask on your mid-lengths and ends only (far away from your scalp) for best results. I'm newly dedicated to my body care routine. In addition to moisturizing more thoroughly now, I've also added an exfoliator to the mix. This creamy AHA wash includes glycolic, lactic, pyruvic and tartaric acids to gently slough off dead skin cells and smooth out any bumpy texture on the backs of my arms and legs without being too abrasive. I can think of a hundred things I'd rather do than shave my legs, but when I do, you best believe I'm using this razor. Knock on wood, but I've yet to nick myself with this five-bladed wonder. I'm guessing the "SkinElixir lubrastrip" (lol) or the "water-activated ribbon of moisture" that sits on top of the blades has something to do with that. The pivoting head glides gracefully over all your glorious curves and any awkward-to-shave spots like the knees and around the ankles. Also included: two cartridge refills. I’ll never tire of Dove’s classic Beauty Bar. This nostalgia-inducing bar checks all the boxes: It’s cleansing, moisturizing, hydrating and free of skin-stripping sulfates. It’s pH balanced and gentle enough to use on both your body and face (though I do use a separate face wash because I’m acne-prone). Whenever I wear makeup, I double-cleanse my face, starting with an oil-based wash (like this one from Krave Beauty). For my second cleanse, I’ve been using The Inkey List’s salicylic acid cleanser because my skin has been oily and breaking out more lately. Made with 2 percent salicylic acid to help clear buildup from pores and zinc to decrease oil production, the foamy wash leaves my skin feeling refreshed but not overly dry. Tip from my derm: When using a salicylic acid cleanser, let it sit on your skin for a minute before you rinse it off to get the most out of it. Rael is a self-care brand that aims to support women throughout their menstrual cycle. From organic cotton tampons and pads to heating pads for cramps and skincare products, they have quite the lineup, but my personal favorite is their tea tree sheet mask. Made for the luteal phase, which is just before your period starts and your hormone levels can make your skin oilier than usual, the masks come soaked in antiseptic tea tree oil and other calming ingredients like cica and chamomile extract to keep you in the clear. I slap one of these on straight out of my everything shower, while my skin is still slightly damp to maximize the moisture. Throughout the years of bleaching and toning my hair various shades, I've tried many different oils and K18's is easily one of the best I've ever used. When applied to damp hair after showering, it helps tame my usual puffiness; when used on dry, styled hair, it adds a touch of moisture and shine. Featuring the brand's patented K18Peptide, it fills in the broken polypeptide chains that make up our hair, repairing damage from the inside out. Honestly, the science behind the oil is cool but my favorite thing about it is that it actually feels lightweight, so rather than sitting on top of your hair like many oils tend to do, it sinks right in. I love this lotion from cocokind for so many reasons. It's rich but not heavy, it spreads like a dream and it doesn’t have a cloying scent. Most importantly, it keeps my entire body—even my scratchy heels—soft, smooth and free of dry flakes, thanks to the fatty acids and namesake sake in it. (Fun fact: In addition to being a delightful adult beverage that complements your sushi, sake is loaded with enzymes that gently exfoliate and brighten your skin.) I apply this everywhere but the backs of my arms, where I use a separate AHA lotion on to prevent KP bumps from forming. The final step of my everything shower? A bit of selective slugging on the driest parts of my face and body (i.e., my lips, elbows and heels). This fragrance-, dye- and lanolin-free ointment from Vanicream came highly recommended from my derm friend during an eczema flareup two years ago and I haven't stopped using it since. I've tried numerous others like it over the years, but always go back to Vanicream's version because it's less greasy and hasn't broken me out once. Here's Why I Moisturize My Entire Body