Ever wonder what your favorite stars slather on after hours? From in-flight essentials to top-shelf skincare saviors, celebs are sharing their makeup must-haves. Kaitlyn is a former Assistant Style & Beauty Editor at PEOPLE.  After weighing in on the celebrity shower debate, the "WAP" rapper asked her fans if they'd like to "shower at my place" after sharing a peek at her massive selection of bath products. From the piles of Dove bar soap and rows of body wash to the expansive lotion and scrub selections, we're pretty sure Cardi's at-home drugstore will have everyone answering her question with a resounding "yes."
  In addition to being stocked with all her Goop skincare goodies, the wellness guru's minimal medicine cabinet contains plenty of other "non-toxic and clean" essentials. Some standouts: the Vintner's Daughter Active Botanical Serum, Harklinikken Hair Extract, OLAS Mouthwash, Jao Goe Oil Body Oil and Kosas Kosasport Lip Balm.
  While her son was sick with strep throat, the actress purged products in her beauty collection to narrow it down to two (very packed!) medicine cabinets. "I feel way lighter," she said on Instagram. Among her favorites that made the cut: iS Clinical Cleansing Complex, iS Clinical Active Serum, Sisley Paris Black Rose Facial Oil, Kiehl's Midnight Recovery Concentrate, Dermalogica Sleep Cocoon and multiple Sisley Paris moisturizers.
  The actress overhauled her beauty cabinet and did a serious edit to make sure she only held on to her essentials. Among the products that made the cut? Charlotte Tilbury's glow-boosting face primer, Stila's cream blush, La Mer lip balm, Caudalie's Beauty Elixir, Urban Decay lip liner, Dior mascara, Marc Jacobs Beauty highlighter and Christian Louboutin lipstick. (Her biggest bargain? A Burt's Bees lip balm!)
  To no one's surprise, Kylie Jenner keeps plenty of Kylie Cosmetics and KKW Beauty products front and center on her makeup counter (including the Kylie Cosmetics Burgundy Extended Palette, KKW Beauty Contour Palette and KKW Beauty Baking Powders), but that's not all she loves.
  Kylie appears to use a combination of the Beautyblender Bounce Foundation and Too Faced Born This Way Foundation as her base. She also gravitates towards the Anastasia Beverly Hills Modern Renaissance Palette and holds onto her makeup artist Hrush Achemyan's Tarte palette (which was a limited edition launch a few years ago).
  The self-proclaimed beauty junkie, who tells Into the Gloss she's obsessed with Sephora, swears by face masks (like MZ Skincare's gold undereye masks) and Chenot skincare, which she discovered while on vacation in Italy.
  Williams loves makeup as well, saying she turns to Nars for concealer, Huda Beauty for lip products and Anastasia Beverly Hills to fill in her brows.
  Chrissy stocks her shower with six essentials: Ouai Shampoo and Conditioner, Olaplex Bond Perfector No. 2, Ouai Scalp & Body Scrub and two bottles of iS Clinical's Cleansing Complex.
  The Last Man on Earth star would have a hard time picking one product to save in the apocalypse. She shared her full daily hair and makeup routine — in the order she uses the products! — and clarified that it's #notanad, she's just that helpful.
  Her hair products (top row, left to right), totalling $341: Philip B. Icelandic Blonde shampoo; Christophe Robin Instant Volumizing Mist with Rosewater; Sisley Paris Precious Hair Care Oil; Rene Furterer Karité Hydra shine cream; Kérastase Fibre Architecte serum; Rahua Enchanted Island Salt Spray; Klorane dry shampoo.
  Her skincare products (totalling $1,633): IS Clinical Super Serum; IS Clinical Hydra Cool serum; Dr. Nigma Talib Serum No. 1; Tom Ford Soleil Blanc shimmering body oil; Sisley Paris Botanical Floral Toning Lotion; Shani Darden Texture Reform; Sisley Paris Supremÿa La Nuit Anti-Aging Skin Care; Omorovicza cleansing foam.
  Katherine recently discovered Eminence skincare, and hasn't stopped using it thanks to the glowing results she's seen. "The line isn't cheap, but it is well worth it since the products really do what they advertise," she said on her blog, where she revealed her favorite beauty finds. Her top picks include the Clear Skin Probiotic Cleanser, Bright Skin Licorice Root Booster, Bamboo Firming Fluid, Bright Skin Moisturizer and Bearberry Eye Repair cream.
  Besides her one-brand skincare regimen, she's currently obsessed with the IT Cosmetics pressed powder, Fenty Beauty's shimmer stick and Anastasia Beverly Hills' brow pencil.
  Lea's pre-performance beauty essentials include an Artis brush and beautyblender to apply her makeup, the Stila Convertible Color Dual Lip & Cheek Palette for a pop of color, a Wander Beauty dual-sided bronzer and illuminator and her trustee Beachwaver curling iron.
  The soon-to-be mom of three keeps her nighttime ritual low key when she's on the road: she hydrates her body with her own Honest Organic Body Oil ($9.95), freshens up with Lavinila Labs natural deodorant ($14) and brushes her teeth with her gold Quip toothbrush ($40).
  Kim Kardashian stores her makeup just like the rest of us — in a cluttered drawer. The star shared a snap of her go-to preoducts with the caption "When did I become this person?" Her makeup stash features her iconic KKW Beauty Creme Contour and Highlighter kit and if you look closely there seems to be what looks like a new addition to her line: a KKW Beauty dual-sided powder brush (middle right). Could this mean the next product we'll be dying to get our hands on will be a powder? A few other of her faves include: Kylie Cosmetics Kylighters, Kylie Cosmetics Take Me on Vacation KyShadow, Tarte Shape Tape Concealer, and Benefit Cosmetics Hoola Matte Bronzer.
  The reality TV star has a daily two-hour glam sesh, so you know she's not just slapping on sunscreen and running out the door. Kim's heavily contoured look starts with a well-hydrated canvas, prepped with $814 worth of product that includes Guerlain Orchidée Impériale The Longevity Concentrate, Anastasia Beverly Hills Hydrating Oil, Lancer Contour Décolleté and many more.
  It's not secret Ashley's a makeup junkie: she created her own product line to prove it! But when it comes to her personal makeup stash, she doesn't discriminate. The star shared a peek at what she keeps stocked on her vanity (spoiler, it's a lot of blushes): Illuminate by Ashley Tisdale cream blushes and powder highlighters, multiple blushes by NARS, the Too Faced Love Flush blush in I Will Always Love You, Anastasia Beverly Hills' Modern Renaissance palette and concealer by the brand, Benefit's Hoola bronzer, Urban Decay's Naked Illuminated Powder, Tatcha's Luminous Dewy Skin Mist and plenty more.
  And Ashley's secret to flawless skin? Besides water, these luxury essentials. "My skincare, the most important thing besides water," she said on Instagram. Her ride or die favorites include plenty of products from La Mer (like The Moisturizing Soft Lotion, Crème de la Mer Moisturizing Cream and The Eye Concentrate), Sisley's All Day All Year Essential Day Care cream and products from dermatologist Christie Kidd's line.
  As a self-proclaimed "beauty junkie," we're not surprised to see the Flower Beauty founder's bathroom cabinet overflowing with products. A few standouts: the M-61 Power Glow Peel Pads, GlamGlow's Thirstymud Hydrating Treatment, Nivea Moisturizing Créme, SKII's Facial Treatment Essence and Cetaphil cleanser.
  This actress calls her arsenal of skincare products her "little soldiers," and we couldn't agree more. The star's lineup of (pricey) favorites includes the best of the best in skincare. From what we can see: Drunk Elephant's Intensive Hydration Gel Moisturizer, Clé de Peau's face cream (in its prettiest diamond-inspired packaging), Clé de Peau's Face Oil, a Joanna Vargas skincare product and a Clé de Peau Sunscreen — among many others.
  Since everyone "always asks" the Disney darling what she keeps atop her vanity, the 20-year-old decided to reveal her beauty stash to the world via Instagram. The result? Lots of beach-friendly faves, including Sun Bum Beach Formula Conditioner, St. Tropez In-Shower Gradual Tan and more.
  "The Bare Necessities," the Jungle Book star captioned the behind-the-scenes snapshot, featuring her fave Lancôme products (she's one of many gorgeous faces of the French beauty giant) of the moment: a fuchsia-hued Lip Shaker, vibrant Shine Lover lipstick and chic palette.
  The secret to supermodel skin? A cocktail of high- and low-end products, according to Dunn. From London's cult fave Pixi Glow Tonic to the eco-friendly Tata Harper Purifying Cleanser, the model finds her complexion's balance in a variety of skin treats at every price point.
  The actress just launched her very own makeup line with BH Cosmetics, Illuminate by Ashley Tisdale, so it makes perfect sense she has incorporated some of the collection's core products into her everyday beauty routine. Her current fave? The Beach Goddess Eye & Cheek palette, which she tops with a few coats of M.A.C Cosmetics In Extreme Dimension Lash Mascara.
  "I carry just enough to give me quick and easy results before landing," the supermodel told The Violet Files of her in-flight essentials, including floral favorites Santa Maria Novella Acqua di Rose, Chantecaille¹s Rose de Mai moisturizer and By Terry Baume de Rose.
  How does the former The Hills star maintain her So-Cal glow? With a few beach bag must-haves, like Aveeno Protect + Hydrate Lotion Sunscreen, SK-II Signs Eye Mask and a pretty pink tube of Origins' KissZing lip pencil.
  The Chicago P.D. star gave fans a glimpse into her beauty routine on Snapchat, showing off some of her tried-and-true favorites that help her achieve her "5-Minute Face," including Tarte's Cheek Stain in Natural Beauty, Clea de Peau pressed powder and a Laura Geller palette.
  The Honest Beauty founder not only created her own organic beauty line — she's its best model, too! When she's not relying on glam help from BFF and makeup artist Lauren Andersen, Alba gets red carpet-ready with her own kit, filled with the brand's Concealer Duo, Crème Blush and a sheer pink Truly Kissable Lip Crayon.
  The drama of the Pretty Little Liars star's mega lashes starts before the first swipe, thanks to of a studded eyelash curler and a gilded tube of mascara. But Hale's look wouldn't be complete without a lip look Aria would be proud of: a moody, wine-colored pout.
  As a jet-setting celeb, Kaling has got her packing down to a science: She carries her beauty essentials in adorably labeled tiny, travel-size tubes. Some of her faves? Dermalogica Precleanse Oil, Neocurtis Eye Care and the don't-go-anywhere-without-it Elta MD UV Clear Broad-Spectrum SPF 46.
  The star's warm-weather beauty routine is packed with makeup must-haves to enhance (and maintain!) her glow: a shimmery Youngblood bronzer, a metallic Urban Decay single eye shadow, a tiny tube of M.A.C. Cosmetics creamy lipstick and more.
  The cure-all for jet lag? Just ask the supermodel, who knows a thing or two about cross-country flights. "Baby aspirin, one a day because I'm old, arnica because I am coated in bruises, La Mer because I am dry as a bone and peel pads because my skin is made of salt right now. Eye makeup remover and vodka complete the kit," she shared on Instagram.
