From a reusable water bottle to a wireless audio transmitter, these gadgets will make your travel experience easier. A few weeks ago, we shared the skin-care products beauty editors turn to when the feel a breakout coming. But what about once it's on its way out? A healing pimple is a whole different situation — and it requires an entirely separate batch of soothing, redness-quelling, scar-thwarting, hyperpigmentation-preventing ingredients and products. Beauty editors know the importance of keeping skin properly moisturized to prevent excessive oil production, relying on antibacterial ingredients to help the healing process and incorporating science-backed brightening serums to ward off dark spots. Ahead, nine experts share their tried-and-true ways to heal a breakout for calm, clear, even-toned skin. Topicals Faded Serum, $38, available here: "Lately, I've been using these whenever I'm healing a breakout. I need something quick and effective. GRWN Skincare Microneedle Patches are promising for healing breakouts. If I'm still left with hyperpigmentation, I use my Topicals Faded cream to treat the marks." —Asia Milia Ware, Beauty and Fashion Writer, New York Magazine's The Cut Dr. Barbara Sturm The Good C Vitamin C Serum, $145, available here: "Even when I don't pick them, my breakouts tend to leave dark spots behind more often than not. To help combat these, I usually opt for a vitamin C serum, like The Good C from Dr. Barbara Sturm, along with plenty of sunscreen to prevent them from getting even darker." —Tiffany Dodson Davis, Beauty Commerce Editor, Harper's Bazaar Tower 28 SOS Daily Rescue Facial Spray, $28, available here: "When healing any type of skin inflammation, including a breakout, I always hit my face with a liberal spritz of Tower 28 SOS Spray. It's made with hypochlorous acid, a naturally antibacterial ingredient that's gentle and doesn't dry out my skin like most acne treatments, but helps spur the skin's repair systems. When I've been picking or have a post-acne flakiness, this stuff resolves it fast. I keep a refill jug in my medicine cabinet." —Megan Decker, Beauty Editor, Refinery29 Yon-Ka Paris SOS Spot Blemish Treatment, $38, available here: "I rarely get a blemish, as I'm super proactive if I feel something coming on. If I do, I've had success in eradicating them quickly with no after-marks by applying Yon-Ka's SOS Spot Blemish Treatment, which has antibacterial tea tree oil, then good ol' Clean and Clear Advantage Acne Spot Treatment, containing salicylic acid." —Gwen Flamberg, Executive Editor of Beauty and Style, Us Weekly Hero Cosmetics Mighty Patch Micropoint for Blemishes, $13, available here: "When my breakout is in need of some tender love and care, I always stick on a pimple patch to help it flatten and heal without the worries of bacteria getting all up inside it. My faves are the Hero Cosmetics Mighty Patch Micropoint for Blemishes." —Beth Gillette, Beauty Editor, Cosmopolitan Lancer Triple Peptide Drops with Vitamin E + Niacinamide, $125, available here: "Once my zit has chilled out a little bit (and is out of the "danger of popping" zone), I'll use this serum for about a week. It's got niacinamide to calm inflammation and defend against discoloration, vitamin E to keep my complexion moisturized (which is important to prevent my dry skin from overproducing oil and creating more breakouts) and peptides to promote healthy cell renewal." —Zoë Weiner, Senior Beauty Editor, Well+Good Mario Badescu Drying Lotion, $17, available here: "I'm obsessed with Mario Badescu Drying Lotion because it truly works. Whenever I see a pimple, I rely on the sulfur in this cult-favorite lotion to help cleanse my pores. I apply it before bed for several days and, before I know it, the breakout is greatly reduced. Admittedly, the sulfur smell is a bit strong, but I don't mind; the stinker the smell, the better it works." —Deena Campbell, Beauty Director, Marie Claire Skinfix Barrier+ Skin Barrier Restoring Gel Cream, $48, available here: "I always just like to make sure I'm keeping the area moisturized with something light that won’t clog my pores or make my skin any oilier. This one has definitely come in handy for me in those cases." —Danielle Jackson, Beauty Editor, Women's Health Sofie Pavitt Mandelic Clearing Serum, $54, available here: "I include chemical exfoliation in my nighttime skin-care routine. I toggle between Sofie Pavitt Mandelic Serum, because it's effective yet gentle, or Biologique Recherche P50 PIG400. I use this iteration of the cult-favorite toner because it's formulated to minimize hyperpigmentation and I'm prone to post-inflammatory dark spots (even if I don't pick my pimples)." —Erin Lukas, Deputy Beauty Editor, The Zoe Report Please note: Occasionally, we use affiliate links on our site. This in no way affects our editorial decision-making. Want the latest fashion industry news first? Sign up for our daily newsletter. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. The “Fahrenheit 9/11” director described what voters may see when Donald Trump and Kamala Harris meet onstage. Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married." This new Tampa Bay Lightning forward should be a huge addition to their roster. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. The former president shared a number of fake "Swifties for Trump" pictures including one that's clearly labelled "satire."