Ulta’s Semi-Annual Beauty Event (formerly known as Ulta 21 Days of Beauty) is in full swing. The sale started on March 8, giving shoppers the opportunity to save 50% on best-selling products from Tarte, Anastasia Beverly Hills, Estée Lauder and more. The event will be live through March 28, with new 24-hour deals launching each day. Ulta's Semi-Annual Beauty Event is in full swing. Here are the best deals to shop over the next few ... [+] days. Since the deals are only available for 24 hours, planning is key. Ulta releases seven days’ worth of deals at a time, giving you the opportunity to mark your calendar if there’s an offer you don’t want to miss. Ahead, we’ve outlined the best deals happening over the next few days and answered some of the most common questions about the event. Today, you can score skincare and beauty essentials from brands like It Cosmetics and Patchology, BareMinerals and Kopari. We’re adding these soothing Patchology eye gels to our cart. Ulta Beauty   Wednesday’s assortment of deals will help you save on skincare gadgets—like this Skin Gym LED mask—and makeup staples—like this Smashbox lipstick. You’ll also want to check out Youthforia’s unique color-changing blush oil while it’s half off. Ulta Beauty   For Thursday’s selection of deals, you can give your strands a little TLC with haircare favorites from brands like L’ange and Matrix, as well as shop beauty steals from Bobbi Brown and Elemis. Ulta Beauty   Ring in the weekend with 50% off from best-selling brands like Lancôme, Buxom, Too Faced and more. Ulta Beauty   Curl up on the couch for a little Saturday morning shopping with beauty deals from staples like Tarte, Benefit and Sunday Riley. And don’t miss your chance to pick up some Shape Tape concealer for a rare 50% off. Ulta Beauty   If you’ve been meaning to refresh your skincare routine, Sunday is your day. Ulta is offering deals from Dermalogica and Tula. You can also score some haircare must-haves from Coco & Eve and Drybar. Ulta Beauty   Ulta is starting Monday off with a bang, offering 50% off high-end tools from PMD as well as other top brands like Urban Decay, Pattern and Juvia’s Place. Ulta Beauty   The Semi-Annual Beauty Event is the new name for Ulta’s 21 Days of Beauty sale. The sale kicked off March 8 and follows the same structure as years past, with 50% off new beauty products each day of the event. The main difference is this year’s promotion extends through March 28, making it only 20 days long instead of the standard 21. Ulta's 21 Days of Beauty events typically occur twice a year—once in the spring and once in the fall. We expect that the Semi-Annual Beauty Event will follow this same pattern. The spring sale started March 8 and we predict a second installment in August or September. As we mentioned above, Ulta’s 21 Days of Beauty Sale usually happens twice a year, and we assume that the Semi-Annual Beauty Event will follow the same cadence. If so, there won’t be another major Ulta sale until late August or early September after this spring’s event. No, Sephora does not have an official 21 Days of Beauty sale. That said, right now the retailer is running similar One-Day Deals to compete with Ulta. Sephora also hosts multiple yearly sitewide sales for its Beauty Insider rewards members. The next one is scheduled for April. Ulta’s Semi-Annual Beauty Event is set to end on March 28. That means you have about two more weeks to shop the sale. Ulta releases new discounts every day, so mark your calendar and plan ahead to make the most of the event.  