UK Edition Video games that simulate 40 terrorist attacks, including the Christchurch and Buffalo atrocities, have been available to play online. A gaming platform enabled users to play as the original perpetrators, according to Tech Against Terrorism (Tat), a UN-backed group that counters extremism online. The platform also had versions of the Oslo, Utoya, Bataclan and Nairobi shopping centre attacks. Terrorist groups, particularly the far right, are increasingly using the gaming world to recruit, vet and share propaganda, according to Tat’s annual report. Exposure to white supremacist ideologies in online gaming doubled last year, according to a recent report by the Anti-Defamation League based in the United States. It highlights that only one major gaming platform, Roblox, has an extremism policy. Adam Hadley, executive director of Tat, accused the gaming platforms of being in denial. He said: “Our impression is that there are a number of gaming platforms that are in denial about how a small minority of their users are using their platforms.” He added that there was also a lack of understanding in government and among policymakers. “There’s very little recognition of this risk. And there’s almost no capability or capacity that we’re aware of among governments to take this seriously.” This month seven members of Congress have written to the top games companies putting pressure on them to do more to combat the problem. Three terrorist attacks have been livestreamed on the gaming network Twitch: a  shooting at a synagogue in Halle in 2019, a stabbing at a school in Sweden in 2021, and the killing of ten people at a supermarket in Buffalo last year. Payton Gendron, 18, the Buffalo attacker, claimed in a diary: “I probably wouldn’t be as nationalistic if it weren’t for Blood and Iron on Roblox.” Hadley said that the majority of far-right atrocities by lone attackers have been advertised in advance on the gaming network. The improved content moderation by the major tech platforms and weaker systems on gaming networks are seen as contributors to the trend. As gaming has become networked, extremists have realised that they have a good, and often willing captive audience. “Strategically, it just makes a lot of sense for them [extremists] to be on these platforms, because there are millions of users playing, they’re talking to each other. It’s just as strategically useful as being on Instagram, because it draws a lot of people. And so if you want to communicate your propaganda, it’s one of the places to be,” said Linda Schlegel, of Goethe University, in Frankfurt, in a presentation to the Extremism and Gaming Research Network, (EGRN), a section of the Royal United Services Institute. Some gamers may also have particular attributes, such as insecurities and feeling lonely, that amplify support for extremism, according to research by Rachel Kowert, a research psychologist who studies digital games. Christian Picciolini, a former American white supremacist who is now a peace activist, has detailed how far-right recruiters, often from Eastern Europe, target marginalised young people using games like Fortnite, Minecraft, and Call of Duty. He said they “drop benign hints and then ramp up” when players are “hooked” on their message. There has also been a cultural overlap — the “gamification” of terror — with killers mounting headcams to record atrocities in the style of games. Extremists have also adopted gaming elements, including points, leaderboards and rankings in their propaganda. Isis has previously referenced Call of Duty in its recruiting. The wider gaming eco-system has also been infiltrated by extremists, researchers have found. An EU funded group, the Radicalisation Awareness Network, has classified platforms that sit alongside games as “hotbeds” for radicalisation. Gaming-related platforms such as Discord, a communication network popular with gamers, Steam, a game-hosting platform and DLive, a streaming site, have been targeted. Gamers Who Hate, a 2021 report by Jacob Davey, of the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, identified the extreme right in 91 channels on Twitch, 100 on DLive, 24 chat servers on Discord and 45 public groups on Steam. As these channels step up their efforts, the extremists move to other less policed options such as Trovo and Odysee, according to EGRN. The creation of bespoke terror games, as Tat found, is rare, according to Schlegel, because of the cost and skill required. However Hezbollah, Isis and the nationalist group Identitarians have all created their own video games in the past. More common is the modification of existing games such as The Sims, where someone built a recreation of the Christchurch attack. Elsewhere in the report Tat found that terrorist operated websites have become a “blind spot” for tech companies and policymakers with some staying live for months or years. Twitter has also become more attractive to extremists because of the turmoil under Elon Musk, the group said. Tat did not identify the platform with 40 games, but said it had co-operated and removed them. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.