
                
                    
                        Let Retail Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              The company is deepening its focus on the pro segment as inflation continues to depress DIY discretionary spending. The home improvement retailer also announced Hector Padilla as the new executive vice president of U.S. stores and operations. In that capacity, his responsibilities will include leading the company's three U.S. operating divisions, which include more than 2,000 stores. Campbell will still oversee U.S. stores and operations, and the Home Depot's Canada and Mexico businesses. Chip Devine, the company’s senior vice president of outside sales, Tim Wilkerson, senior vice president of home services, and Padilla, will all report to Campbell, the retailer said. Home Depot continues to invest and focus on strengthening its pro customer base. Capturing that segment of the home improvement retail market is important as inflation continues to pressure many consumers out of making discretionary purchases, the company said last year. By uniting the outside sales and service business with the global store organization, Home Depot said the company is combining its ecosystem of expertise with its newest capabilities to serve pro customers, regardless of the size or complexity of the project they’re working on. During the company’s last earnings call, Padilla said the company was “very encouraged by the signals that we are getting from our pro customers as they engage with different pieces of the ecosystem,” according to a call transcript. “Pros continue to engage, not only in the supply chain assets that we have built and with our outside sales resources as we expanded that team, but they are visiting our stores on a more frequent basis,” Padilla said. The professional segment is “our biggest growth opportunity,” President and CEO Ted Decker said in the leadership announcement Thursday. “Ann-Marie and Hector are incredible leaders who understand the unique requirements of the pro, as well as the dynamic operating environment across stores,” Decker continued. “I'm confident their focus on our customers, dedication to our associates, and passion for our culture will help us capture the enormous opportunity ahead.” Beginning in the first quarter, Home Depot committed to making a $1 billion investment in additional compensation for frontline, hourly associates. Campbell said during the company’s last earnings call in August that the investment is paying off. Home Depot is seeing lower turnover and more consistent staffing, which in turn, contributes to improved customer service and productivity. Campbell’s prior position was executive vice president of U.S. stores and international operations, where she oversaw the company’s store fleet and led supply chain, merchandising, sourcing and strategy for Home Depot in Canada and Mexico. She joined the company in 1985 as a cashier at a store in Florida, according to a company biography. Padilla also joined the company as a frontline worker and has now been with Home Depot for nearly 30 years. He steps into his new position after serving as executive vice president of outside sales and service for Home Depot. Padilla’s previous roles with the company include serving as president of the company’s southern division, overseeing sales and operations at nearly 700 stores. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The retailer retreated from its diversity and climate goals after an “anti-woke” protest on social media — and ignited a backlash. It’s been years since M.M. LaFleur shuttered its subscription service and closed all its stores. Now it’s recommitting to both. Subscribe to Retail Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The retailer retreated from its diversity and climate goals after an “anti-woke” protest on social media — and ignited a backlash. It’s been years since M.M. LaFleur shuttered its subscription service and closed all its stores. Now it’s recommitting to both. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines