What has capitalism contributed to civilization? It made it. And nowhere has it thrived so beautifully as in America, the country that threw off the static old world to make a new one rooted in progress and individualism. With incredible erudition and historical understanding, Henry Grady Weaver tells the true story of progress for the human race with acute understanding of the fundamental cause: freedom itself. It is this that has led to unimaginable creativity and the spreading and creation of wealth that could not have been imagined centuries earlier. The book was written in 1943. Leonard Read of the Foundation for Economic Education was among those who saw the glories of the book, and reprinted it for decades, distributing hundreds of thousands of copies. Several generations count this book as the very one that started an intellectual revolution. Prepare too for some revisionist history as regards the Islamic contribution. Weaver’s text sweeps you along, inspires and teaches like few others. It is a classic by any definition, newly available from the Mises Institute. No content found Henry Grady Weaver (1889–1949) worked as a mechanic, salesman, and draftsman before becoming director of customer research for General Motors. It was for that work that he was placed on the cover of the November 14, 1938 issue of Time magazine. He is best known for his work The Mainspring of Human Progress. Talbot books 1947. FEE 1943 The Mises Institute is a non-profit organization that exists to promote teaching and research in the Austrian School of economics, individual freedom, honest history, and international peace, in the tradition of Ludwig von Mises and Murray N. Rothbard.  Non-political, non-partisan, and non-PC, we advocate a radical shift in the intellectual climate, away from statism and toward a private property order. We believe that our foundational ideas are of permanent value, and oppose all efforts at compromise, sellout, and amalgamation of these ideas with fashionable political, cultural, and social doctrines inimical to their spirit. 
    Website powered by Mises Institute donors
   
    Mises Institute is a tax-exempt 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Contributions are tax-deductible to the full extent the law allows. Tax ID# 52-1263436
  