Startups.co.uk is reader supported – we may earn a commission from our recommendations, at no extra cost to you and without impacting our editorial impartiality. We think the best Human Resources (HR) consultancy firm for SMEs is Avensure, thanks to its strong core functions, and impressive capabilities relating to employment law and health and safety. However, HR is a department that wears many hats. What works for ten other companies might not work for yours. The market is also fierce, with lots of brands promising ‘essential’ features that you might not need, at poor-value prices. We believe the following are the best you can choose between:  Don’t overspend – you can click any of the links above to begin comparing fees on HR service providers for your own business’s size and needs. Here at Startups, we have been supporting small businesses since 2000. We understand which factors, both general and sector-specific, are the most important for business owners to consider when finding the best HR service provider. In this article, we’ve selected and reviewed the 7 best HR consulting firms for small businesses and startups in the UK, with insight from senior professionals. We’ll provide an expert breakdown of what to look for from an HR consultant, what you can expect to pay, and whether it’s a good fit for your firm. For personalised help finding the right HR service at the right price, you can use our free and simple HR service cost comparison form to get a better idea of tailored costs for your business needs. In just one minute, we’ll be able to match you with HR service quotes that can give you the best value for money. Human resource (HR) consultants are third-party specialists hired by business owners to help them develop a robust and compliant people strategy. Choosing an HR service is particularly helpful for small businesses, who might not have the resources to hire a full people team when they are early-on in their growth strategy. Partnering with an HR consultant means companies can receive experienced counseling without risking budget. HR consultants can be introduced at any point in the department’s journey. You might bring one on board to improve your strategy, and advise on where there might be faults. Or, you might bring one in to help you define a specific people management plan and how you will implement it. Some of the activities that an HR consultant can help with include recruiting and onboarding new recruits, training existing employees via workshops or mentorship, developing a benefits and perks package for staff, and supporting with company messaging. Avensure was founded in 2011, and has since garnered an excellent rating on Trustpilot of 4.8, not to mention a 2019 Feefo Gold Trusted Award. Avensure has a strong track record for success and happy customers, working with clients in the retail, care, and transport industries, to name a few. Avensure offers outsourced HR services in the following packages: Avensure’s HR Protect package is offered on a fixed monthly fee basis. This helps to make the costs of the core HR functions clear and simple from your point of view as a business owner. The HS Protect service is available on a consultancy basis, depending on individual business requirements. Avensure makes sure that clients are completely covered – there are a range of packages to choose from, as well as the ability to contact the same team members whenever you need assistance. Avensure is best for HR and employment law, as well as health and safety HR consulting. Avensure’s specialisms make it ideal for a range of small to large businesses looking to outsource the essential elements of HR. Though its services aren’t designed for small businesses only, such businesses (those with 0-50 employees) do account for 53% of its clients. Rippling's automated system could be right for your business citrusHR specialises in solutions for startups, small businesses, and charities. It provides a complete and comprehensive HR support service covering everything you need, as well as offering HR and payroll software. Companies benefit from a personal HR consultant who is able to offer advice on what your business needs across various areas of HR. citrusHR covers the full range of HR requirements: Plus, you can benefit from citrusHR’s own in-house HR software, which is tailored towards small businesses. It provides a central location for managing employee data, as well as absences and holidays, plus the latest coronavirus support. Its services are cost-effective, and represent an affordable option for many small businesses. citrusHR is transparent about its pricing, and offers monthly rolling contracts. The costs for its HR Support and HR Software services are as follows: With the HR Support Service option, there’s a 10% discount available for charities. citrusHR also offers payroll software, which is available in addition to the above services, and costs as £1 per month, per employee. For both plans, you’ll also get no setup fees and no minimum contract length. citrusHR is best for catering to small businesses and charities, and for offering affordable HR packages. citrusHR is an excellent choice because it’s able to handle a range of HR issues, which can greatly relieve pressure on your business and team members. Although it may not be an ideal choice once your business has grown considerably, until that day comes, citrusHR is a perfect option. Big name brands such as Starling Bank have all used Moorepay. In fact, the company states that one in six of the UK’s working population is paid by Moorepay and Zellis. It also has more than 10,000 business customers, and can offer a personalised service with HR specialists on hand whenever they’re needed. Founded in 1966, Moorepay specialises in payroll and generalised HR services for small and large businesses alike. Moorepay makes sense of things like benefits, pensions, and payments, as well as offering general HR solutions, so that you can get on with managing other important functions of your business. Moorepay does not share its prices publicly. However, it does offer the ability to get a quote for its services. Moorepay operates through a combination of software provision and HR support. In addition to its expert payroll services, Moorepay offers generalised HR services, which include health and safety management, employment law, and people analytics. Moorepay is best for payroll services and generalised HR consulting. Having started in payroll, this is undoubtedly where Moorepay stands out from the competition. However, the range of services that it offers means that Moorepay can help small businesses to operate efficiently and effectively across a broad range of HR topics. It's easy to use, automates your HR processes, and gives you access to Moorepay's expertise. Keen to find the best HR provider for your business, but don’t want to spend too much time searching? To compare HR companies easily and quickly, use our simple cost comparison form to hear direct quotes from HR providers that match your unique business profile. Founded in 2010, Wirehouse HR describes itself as “a company steeped in a long history of service and expertise”. Customer feedback tells us that Wirehouse boasts possibly the best customer support team on this list. HR processes can be confusing to understand, but users report that Wirehouse’s prompt helpdesk keeps them on track and focusing on their main business activities. Wirehouse Employer Services offers outsourced HR services in the following areas: Wirehouse HR costs are either billed as a retained fee (package) or one-off consultancy. Prices are only available on request, so we can’t mark them highly for transparent fees. However, unlike options like citrusHR, you’ll be able to discuss pricing directly with a sales representative to design your own bespoke pricing plan, which could be seen as an advantage – particularly for those requiring specialist HR services. Advice support lines are available 24/7. Both curious business owners as well as existing customers will be able to make use of the Wirehouse support team as there are no caps on the usage. Wirehouse also claims not to have hidden renewals in its contracts, so customers should have complete control over their contract length. Wirehouse HR is best for small business employment law and health and safety. This makes it a good option for firms hiring from abroad or based in riskier sectors, like construction. HR Solutions was launched in 2001, and began life as a family-run small business. The enterprise has developed and expanded considerably since then, but its humble background means that HR Solutions understands first hand the needs of small businesses. HR Solutions offers an extensive range of HR services, including both support and software, and covers everything from audits and payroll to recruitment and more. It can also provide health and safety management. Its services are available on a per hour or per package basis, meaning that it’s easy to understand how much the support that your business requires might cost. Some pricing examples include: HR Solutions runs seminars, webinars, and online training sessions, providing plenty of ways to ensure that your small business is compliant with the correct HR policies and procedures. HR Solutions is best for startups that are looking for virtual support – HR Solutions has a wide range of support and software available online, which can provide invaluable guidance for fledgeling businesses. But with so many options available, HR Solutions may not be ideal for small businesses that are looking for a company with a more specialist approach. Katy McMinn, co-founder and director of HRi, says the key thing for any business owner to consider when bringing in an HR professional is whether they are accredited by a relevant professional body.  “This will give the business owner peace of mind, and the reassurance that the HR firm is working to a recognised industry standard and has the right capability, expertise, and knowledge to fall back on.” Peninsula has been providing HR support since 1983, and has worked with more than 33,000 businesses. It operates across the UK, as well as in Ireland, Australia, Canada, and New Zealand. Offering a range of services – including employment law and HR, as well as health and safety – Peninsula can provide on-site and software-based HR support. It offers 24-hour HR and health and safety advice, with wellbeing services such as EAP (Employee Assistance Programme) and mental health training also available. You can choose from either the HR or health and safety packages, or a combined package, which offers both services. Peninsula’s pricing is calculated on a per employee, per month basis, with one to five year terms available. As a guideline, here’s an example of starting prices for Peninsula’s mid-level product pricing, based on ten employees: Visit our HR outsourcing costs page for more general information about how much you can expect to pay for HR services. Peninsula began as a startup, meaning it knows all too well the specific requirements of small businesses. It offers a variety of HR, health and safety, and well-being services, as well as dedicated corporate solutions. And with its simple pricing system, it’s easy to understand just exactly what you’re paying for, and how much it’ll set you back. Peninsula is best for a variety of HR consultancy services, and is a highly-rated, award-winning company. However, due to Peninsula’s size and scale, some small businesses might find that it lacks the personalised approach of a smaller provider. If you’d rather take responsibility for your people team functions, then HR software is an excellent, DIY option for managing your employees.  The right software provider could still give you access to expert advice and knowledge, while giving you greater control over your HR functions at a lower cost. To find out more, read our comprehensive guide to the best HR software for small businesses. Founded in 2018, Whitecollars is a relatively fresh startup itself, and knows a thing or two about what other small businesses might need from an HR firm. It operates both in the UK and overseas, helping small businesses and corporate companies with their assorted HR demands. Whitecollars can assist with a number of HR tasks, including recruitment, performance management, and HR surveys. Its services can also be customised based on your business requirements. Pricing information isn’t available on the Whitecollars website. However, it does say that it offers a three-month trial period with a money back guarantee. Not only does Whitecollars offer a team with plenty of international experience, but 80% of its staff have Masters degrees, while all team members boast HR certifications. During a project, assistance is available 24/7, and it also offers support after a project has been completed. Whitecollars is best for small to large businesses that want to work with an HR startup, as it’s more likely to have an understanding of the current issues and challenges facing small businesses. Bringing in an HR consultancy is like hiring a new member of the team: it requires careful vetting and selection to find the best candidate for the job. Companies should spend a few weeks researching the top HR consultancy providers. Then, they should request an action plan from the service, to get an idea of how the company might help and what ideas it has for improvement. Once hired, the HR consultant will carry out employee surveys and research to formulate a full strategic plan. The help will be tailored to the needs of the company, ranging from providing employee training and support, to creating an efficient payroll system. Employee performance is another area HR specialists can help with. If you feel a person may be underperforming, HR teams can help you to develop a bespoke Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) to encourage greater productivity. Because HR consultants offer a bespoke solution compared to HR software, they tend to be more expensive than the latter. That means they’re a better option for larger teams of 10+ employees more than a year into operation, as these are likely to have slightly bigger cash reserves. Scaling companies can still invest in an HR consultant, however. If you plan to expand your team in the next few years, hiring a specialist advisor early-on will help to develop the correct policies and procedures in place to support this growth. Although all HR consultants follow general consulting practices, businesses should look for a specialist with experience in their industry. Healthcare firms will have different recruitment needs to a remote tech company, for example.  Click any of the links above to begin comparing costs on HR services for your own company’s size and needs. Selecting an HR provider is an important decision, with many factors to take into consideration. While requirements are likely to vary between businesses, we offer insight from an HR expert who details some of the essential elements to assess. Gabby Smith, HR director at British Assessment Bureau, tells Startups: “As a startup or a small business, you need to balance the cost of an HR company with a service that’s there when you need it. Look for these three vital things in your HR company: Find the best option for your business today Startups.co.uk is reader-supported. If you make a purchase through the links on our site, we may earn a commission from the retailers of the products we have reviewed. This helps Startups.co.uk to provide free reviews for our readers. It has no additional cost to you, and never affects the editorial independence of our reviews.  Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.    Δ  We value your comments but kindly requests all posts are on topic, constructive and respectful. Please review our commenting policy. 