Menu 
 London, Bloomsbury                          

 

This is the programme information for 2025 entry
If you require details of the previous year's programme, Human Sciences BSc (2024), click here


 If you require details of the previous year's programme, Human Sciences BSc (2024), click here UCL's Human Science programme combines the study of life sciences with social and historical sciences, offering you choice and flexibility. We are looking for independent and confident thinkers who not only love science but also have broader interests. UCL's Human Science programme combines the study of life sciences with social and historical sciences, offering you choice and flexibility. We are looking for independent and confident thinkers who not only love science but also have broader interests. Contextual offers are typically one to two grades lower than the standard offer. Grade and subject requirements for contextual offers for this programme will be published by 1 September 2024. Contextual offers are typically one to two grade boundaries (equivalent to A levels) lower than the standard offer. IB Diploma grade and subject requirements for contextual offers for this programme will be published by 1 September 2024. For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below: Not acceptable for entrance to this programme. Not acceptable for entrance to this programme. D3,D3,D3 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects, including a science subject (preferably Biology).   AAA at Advanced Highers (or AA at Advanced Higher and AAA at Higher), including a science subject (preferably Biology) at Advanced Higher. Not acceptable for entrance to this programme. Not acceptable for entrance to this programme. Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A levels at grades AAA, including a science subject. Preferably to include Biology. Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPC) prepare international students for a UCL undergraduate degree who don’t have the qualifications to enter directly. These intensive one-year foundation courses are taught on our central London campus. Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL. For more information see: ucl.ac.uk/upc. 
            The English language level for this programme is:                          Level 4
 Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page. A variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education. Human Sciences is an interdisciplinary degree programme which fosters broad scientific knowledge of human beings. The programme is run across two world-leading departments; the Division of Biosciences and the Department of Anthropology. In 2023, UCL was ranked ninth in the world for Life Sciences and Medicine, and fourth in the world for Anthropology in the QS World University Rankings. Human Sciences﻿ offers a wide choice of module combinations from across the Faculty of Life Sciences, the Faculty of Social and Historical Sciences, and a range of other departments. After initial knowledge-building in the first year, the programme allows you to tailor your degree and pursue your own interests within the human sciences. The first year of the programme is designed to build essential knowledge across multiple disciplines, where you will mainly take compulsory introductory modules across different departments in UCL. In the second and third year of the programme, you will choose modules from across UCL within the human sciences. Compulsory modules in Statistics and Human Sciences in Society (in year two) and the Human Sciences Seminar Project (in year three) will help develop your key and transferrable skills. You﻿ can apply to study abroad for your third year, where you will return to UCL to complete your final year modules in your fourth year. You will benefit from an interdisciplinary approach to human sciences, combining life sciences with studies in social and historical sciences. In years two and three, students have the opportunity to choose from an extensive list of modules across UCL departments, providing you with an opportunity to pursue your own areas of interest within the human sciences. Over the last three years, 60% of our students gained a first class honours degree. This degree has strong pastoral and academic support. The Human Sciences Senior Tutor and your Personal Tutor are available to consult on structuring your programme. Students can apply to study abroad in year three at some of the world's most prestigious universities.  A student committee organises academic and social events for Human Sciences students, such as a guest speaker series. In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 15 or 30 credits, adding up to a total of 120 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 30-credit module is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS). Upon successful completion of 360 credits, you will be awarded a BSc (Hons) in Human Sciences. Please note that the list of modules given here is indicative. This information is published a long time in advance of enrolment and module content and availability is subject to change. Modules that are in use for the current academic year are linked for further information. Where no link is present, further information is not yet available. In your first year, you will mostly follow a common syllabus, taking modules in human structure and function (anatomy, physiology, cell biology, molecular biology, and genetics) and in human evolution and behaviour (biological anthropology and psychology). You will also take one optional module of either a language, social anthropology, history and philosophy of sciences, or human geography. In year two of the programme, you will take the compulsory module The Human Sciences in Society, in which you will explore the engagement between science and other disciplines, such as social science, to solve problems of global and local concern (such as climate change, pandemics, loss of biodiversity, population aging, water supply and nutrition). You will also undertake a module on Statistical Methods and Computing. You will choose your remaining modules, usually at intermediate level, from an extensive range of subjects including biological sciences, medical sciences, environmental sciences, social sciences, public health, and history and philosophy. You will also have an option to take a language module, with permission from the senior tutor. In year three, you will further your interdisciplinary knowledge and skills through a compulsory Human Sciences Seminar Project, wherein you will design and carry out a small and independent research project, which you will write up as a dissertation. Similarly to year two, you will choose your remaining modules, usually at advanced level, from an extensive range of subjects across the life and social sciences and beyond. You will also have an option to take a language module, with permission from the senior tutor. Students have the opportunity to study abroad in year three, depending on the successful application of a study abroad placement. Students on the study abroad programme will return to complete their final year modules in their fourth year. The first year is typically taught through lectures, small-group tutorials, workshops, practicals and laboratory sessions. Your second year compulsory module will involve lectures, group work and debates. The optional modules taken in other departments will be taught in a variety of ways according to the nature of the module and the usual practice of the department concerned. The first year is typically taught through lectures, small-group tutorials, workshops, practicals and laboratory sessions. Your second year compulsory module will involve lectures, group work and debates. The optional modules taken in other departments will be taught in a variety of ways according to the nature of the module and the usual practice of the department concerned. Your contact hours and levels of self-directed study will depend on which modules you choose. Modules typically have one or two hour lectures followed by a seminar or practical session each week, although teaching delivery and contact hours vary. For each module, students typically undertake 4-6 hours of self-directed study each week. Your contact hours and levels of self-directed study will depend on which modules you choose. Modules typically have one or two hour lectures followed by a seminar or practical session each week, although teaching delivery and contact hours vary. For each module, students typically undertake 4-6 hours of self-directed study each week. Assessments can include essays, web-based examinations, written examinations, practical reports, briefing papers and debating performance. The third-year independent research project is assessed by a written dissertation/report. Assessments can include essays, web-based examinations, written examinations, practical reports, briefing papers and debating performance. The third-year independent research project is assessed by a written dissertation/report. Details of the accessibility of UCL buildings can be obtained from AccessAble. Further information can also be obtained from the UCL Student Support and Wellbeing team.  The degree prepares you for a wide range of careers in the public and private sectors, including government, public administration, charities and international development, politics, journalism, teaching and research, as well as non-governmental organisations. The programme aims to provide a wide and scientific knowledge of human beings. We also focus on teaching our students highly sought-after transferable skills. These include, but are not limited to: teamwork, problem solving, critical thinking/evaluation, data literacy, analysis and visualisation, scientific reading, presentation training, written/verbal communication and IT skills. Graduates of the programme can expect to be scientifically literate and numerate, with the ability to think independently and critically about topics from multiple perspectives. Graduates will be able to communicate confidently across a wide range of disciplines. After graduation, 85% of our graduates were in work or further study (Graduate Outcomes survey carried out by the Higher Education Statistics Agency, looking at the destinations of UK and EU graduates in the 2020-2021). Our alumni can be found in areas such as academic research, business, civil service, public health, higher education, law, media, medicine, recruitment, and more. The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2024/25 academic year. The UK fees shown are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for future years may be subject to an inflationary increase. The Overseas fees shown are the fees that will be charged to 2024/25 entrants for each year of study on the programme, unless otherwise indicated below. Full details of UCL's tuition fees, tuition fee policy and potential increases to fees can be found on the UCL Students website. Students will need to purchase a lab coat. This will cost approximately £10-£20. Students will need to purchase a lab coat. This will cost approximately £10-£20. A guide including rough estimates for these and other living expenses is included on the  UCL Fees and funding pages. If you are concerned by potential additional costs for books, equipment, etc., please get in touch with the relevant departmental contact (details given on this page).
 Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details. The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department. A genuine interest and curiosity in the subject should be evidenced in your application. Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS. For further information on UCL's selection process see: How we assess your application. If we have made you an offer, you will be invited to attend an offer-holder event. This may include talks from staff about the programme and the department. It could also include a research presentation, tours of UCL and the department, and a visit to a laboratory facility. All candidates will be considered on the basis of their UCAS application. Criteria will include proven and predicted academic performance, a clear demonstration of your desire to study a broad-based interdisciplinary degree, your understanding of what the degree entails, and your initiative, motivation and communication skills. If we have made you an offer, you will be invited to attend an offer-holder event. This may include talks from staff about the programme and the department. It could also include a research presentation, tours of UCL and the department, and a visit to a laboratory facility. All candidates will be considered on the basis of their UCAS application. Criteria will include proven and predicted academic performance, a clear demonstration of your desire to study a broad-based interdisciplinary degree, your understanding of what the degree entails, and your initiative, motivation and communication skills. humansciences@ucl.ac.uk UCL is regulated by the Office for Students. Register interest in your chosen subject to receive notice of undergraduate open days, events and more.