James Sowole in Abeokuta Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has said his administration would collaborate with the Nigerian Navy to ensure the protection of lives and property of Nigerians living on the Tongeji Island He stated this when he received the Flag Officer Commanding, Western Naval Command, Rear Admiral Mohammed Abdulahi, who paid him a courtesy call in his office in Abeokuta. The governor noted that the Island remained an essential part of Nigeria and Ogun State, noting that all efforts would be geared towards making the inhabitants of the Island feel a sense of belonging. He said: “Tongeji Island remains a vibrant part of our country, our state and Ipokia Local Government Area. But the problem we have there is that there is no road connection to the Island. “I must put on record the efforts of the immediate-past Chief of Naval Staff in respect to security and the feeling of being alienated by our people there, who feel abandoned and not being cared for. I recalled I had a meeting with the National Security Adviser (NSA) on the issue of insecurity on the Island. “That Island is a front burner project for us, and again, I want to thank the Nigerian Navy for the renewed commitment they have demonstrated by the deployment of their men to that Island. Before, there was very scanty presence on that Island, but now, there are more presence of the men of the navy providing security and giving our people a sense of belonging.” Abiodun said his administration would support the navy in securing the island as it is blessed with abundant mineral and natural resources which the state government planned to explore in partnership with relevant stakeholders. “I was meant to visit that Island with the Chief of Naval Staff sometime last year, but somehow, it did not happen. But now, I am committed. So, let us plan on when to go there with our Service Chiefs. It is important for us to go so that we can see what we can, talk to our people, so that as we do that, people from the other country will know that we are marking our territory and have not abandoned our people,” Abiodun said. Speaking earlier, Rear Admiral Abdulahi, called the attention of the governor to the plight of the people living on Tongeji Island, who felt neglected by the government. He said his Command had built a jetty on the Island to enable its crafts to berth, calling on the government to assist in building staff quarters in the Navy school sited on the Island. Abdulahi said: “Tongeji Island requires the attention of the government as it affects security issues. It is important for the government to strengthen the security of the area because of the economic potential that abounds on that island. We have established our presence there. “But more importantly, I want the governor to please visit that Island, and we on our part are ready to support you with the necessary logistics.” Founded on January 22, 1995, THISDAY is published by THISDAY NEWSPAPERS LTD., 35 Creek Road Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria with offices in 36 states of Nigeria , the Federal Capital Territory and around the world. It is Nigeria’s most authoritative news media available on all platforms for the political, business, professional and diplomatic elite and broader middle classes while serving as the meeting point of new ideas, culture and technology for the aspirationals and millennials. The newspaper is a public trust dedicated to the pursuit of truth and reason covering a range of issues from breaking news to politics, business, the markets, the arts, sports and community to the crossroads of people and society. You can email us at: hello@thisdaylive.com or visit our contact us page.  