From Laide Raheem, Abeokuta Determined to put the Ogun State chapter of the Labour Party in good stead ahead of the forthcoming general election, the National Working Committee of the party, has appointed a 24-man caretaker committee to run the affairs of the party in the state. The appointment followed the dissolution of the state executive committee by the NWC on December 9, 2022. In a statement jointly signed by the Chairman and the State Publicity Secretary of the caretaker committee, Looman Abiodun Jagun and Tokunbo Peters, respectively, copies made available to newsmen in Abeokuta at the weekend, the NWC inaugurated the caretaker committee on January 3, 2023, to fill the vacuum created by the dissolution of the erstwhile state exco. According to the statement, the new caretaker committee which has Lookman Jagun as the Chairman and Tunde Taiwo as Secretary, has been charged to reposition the Labour Party into a strong and virile party capable of contesting favourably and successfully for all elective offices in the state. It stated that Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and all the security agencies had been formally notified of the development by the NWC of the Labour Party. The statement reads further: “In the light of these developments, the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) and the general public are advised to stop dealing with members of the defunct state executive caretaker committee headed Mr. Michael Ashade. “As we approach the 2023 he poll, this new caretaker committee will be focused on repositioning the Labour Party in Ogun State, and uniting all members of the party and embarking on an aggressive campaign, in order to place the party in a vantage position for electoral victory in the forthcoming general election. “This new executive of the party in Ogun state, will assiduously work with the labour unions, socio-cultural and Pan- Nigeria support groups such as Afenifere, Ohaneze Ndigbo, PANDEF, Middle Belt Forum, Arewa Forum and all other interest groups that are committed towards birthing a new dawn in Ogun and Nigeria. “We hereby call on the good people of Ogun State, to support all candidates of the LP vying for elective offices in the state, inclusive of our gubernatorial candidate, Kehinde Sogunle and his running mate, Mrs. Aishat Lawal-Keshinro, as well as the party’s presidential candidate, Mr Petwr Obi and his running mate, Mr. Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed, in the forthcoming general election”.   You must be logged in to post a comment. Nigerians want to proptest because they are hungry. They are... Much as I am in sympathy with the Nigerian youth nation- wid... May his gentle soul rest in peace and may the good Lord comf... Well spoken 'The Rock'. You were supposed to be leading us i... You talk as if Nigeria goes up in flames today, you and memb...