This functionality is now available on both Android and iOS devices, offering traders a more fluid and user-centric experience. The partnership between the second-largest crypto exchange by trading volume and TradingView aims to enhance the trading experience by providing users with a more convenient and streamlined process. By connecting their OKX accounts to TradingView’s web, desktop, and mobile versions, traders can eliminate the need to switch between platforms. Under the hood, this integration offers OKX users the ability to execute spot and derivatives trades directly from TradingView’s mobile app, as well as make modifications to ongoing trades while on the go. OKX Global Chief Commercial Officer Lennix Lai said: “We’re excited to see our users benefiting from the execution of both spot and derivatives on the go via TradingView charts on the mobile app. This integration will further elevate the trading experience for all users and provide greater flexibility and convenience when directly trading with OKX through the world’s leading charting platform.” TradingView General Manager Pierce Crosby said: “We’re excited to be partnering with OKX to provide its users with seamless access to TradingView’s advanced charting and technical analysis tools, as well as the ability to perform crypto spot and derivatives trading directly through our charts. Both OKX and TradingView share the same goal to empower traders worldwide, and this partnership will enable OKX users to trade with greater ease and confidence.” OKX released yesterday its seventh proof-of-reserves report amid increasing demand of crypto investors asking for transparency from exchanges they trade with. Published on its website, the updated report shows on-chain and off-chain asset balances, and a complete list of wallet addresses is available for public viewing. The Proof of Reserves shows $10 billion held by the exchange in BTC, ETH, and USDT. Per its statement, these findings are the largest 100% clean asset reserves among major exchanges, according to third party data. OKX also pledged to release a monthly report on the 22nd day of each month to allow users to audit its reserves on a regular basis.   Unit No: BA857 DMCC Business Centre Level No 1 Jewellery & Gemplex 3 Dubai, United Arab Emirates. International House, 10 Admirals Way, London, England, E14 9XL. © 2024 FFEEDS DMCC. All Rights Reserved.
