The USA TODAY Sports women’s basketball coaches poll is conducted weekly throughout the regular season using a panel of head coaches at Division I schools. The panel is chosen by the Women’s Basketball Coaches Association. The members represent each of the 32 Division I conferences that receive an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. Each coach submits a Top 25 with a first-place vote worth 25 points, second place 24, and so on down to one point for 25th. No. 24 Princeton; No. 25 Louisville;  Iowa State 52; Louisville 29; Tennessee 27; Middle Tennessee 25; Nebraska 17; Princeton 15; Ole Miss 15; Fairfield 5; Richmond 3; Alabama 3; North Carolina 2; South Dakota State 1; Kansas 1; Jackson State 1;  The USA TODAY Sports Board of Coaches is made up of 30 head coaches at Division I institutions. All are members of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association. The board for the 2023-24 season: Natasha Adair, Arizona State; Ganiyat Adeduntan, Colgate; Matt Bollant, Eastern Illinois; Jenn Brown, Queens; Dan Burt, Duquesne; Bill Carr, Santa Clara; Tricia Cullop, Toledo; Denise Dillon, Villanova; Dalila Eshe, Yale; Heather Ezell, Wyoming; Bill Fennelly, Iowa State; Aqua Franklin, Lamar; Kristin Gillespie, Illinois State; Ty Grace, Howard; Johnnie Harris, Auburn; Brian Holsinger, Montana; Rick Insell, Middle Tennessee; Kayla Karius, South Dakota; Chris Kielsmeier, Cleveland State; Mike Lane, New Jersey Tech; Amy Mallon, Drexel; Kim McNeill, East Carolina; Lynn Milligan, Rider; Kelly Morrone, Merrimack; Dan Nielson, Utah Valley; Shawn Poppie, Chattanooga; Margaret Richards, Alabama A&M; Alaura Sharp, Presbyterian; Jeff Walz, Louisville; Coquese Washington, Rutgers. *The highest and lowest ranking each team has held during the designated season. Any team that starts the season unranked and/or falls out of the top 25 during the season will reflect a "NR" (not ranked) designation as its lowest rank. Get more in depth coverage on your favorite teams from USA TODAY. Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. Terms apply, see operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ, OH), 1-800-522-4700 (CO), 1-800-BETS-OFF (IA), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN). Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sports betting and gambling are not legal in all locations. Be sure to comply with laws applicable where you reside.