 Simply register at no cost.   Questions or problems? Email [email protected] or call 0711 046 000.  Girls in the country can now track their periods through their phones. This is after Unicef launched Oky Kenya app, the world’s first-period tracker app that provides information about menstruation in fun, creative and positive ways. The latest digital app Oky Kenya first went live on the Google play store on March 24 and was officially launched in Kenya last week. The app lets girls feel in control and more confident by tracking their periods, and getting the information that they should know. Through the app, the calendar tells you when you can expect your period every month and get predictions tailored to you. The more you track, the more accurate the predictions of when your next period will be. According to the Director of Education Policy and Partnerships at the Ministry of Education Charles Mwita, the period tracker puts girls at the heart of digital solutions for menstrual health and hygiene. Mwita said studies have shown that girls from poor families miss 20 per cent of school days in a year due to lack of sanitary towels adding that the menstrual period should not be a moment of shame. “We know that we as a government have done a lot towards improving the education of our girls in schools. However we want to recognise that menstrual health is a complex and multifaceted issue that requires sustained efforts from all stakeholders,” Mwita said. "We need to continue to raise awareness about menstrual health and hygiene, advocate for policies that promote menstrual equity and support research and innovation in this space.”  Mwita said the latest innovation breaks taboos surrounding menstruation and raises awareness of the importance of good menstrual hygiene management worldwide. He said adequate menstrual health facilities with free hygiene products and timely education for boys and girls on menstrual health are crucial, especially in school interventions to ensure health, well-being and equal learning opportunities for children. He called on all education partners and organisations to redouble their efforts to strengthen menstrual hygiene and ensure measures in schools prevent adverse health consequences. Advertise with us: Call 0711 046 000 · [email protected]  