EDITOR’S NOTE: Our most recent mock draft is found here. The San Antonio Spurs won the 2023 NBA Draft lottery and will have the opportunity to select Victor Wembanyama, the most coveted prospect since LeBron James. Wembanyama completely alters the direction of the franchise for the Spurs, and he will provide an instant bolster to their offense. He can  change the game on the defensive end of the floor with an 8-foot wingspan. His intersection of size and skill set is something we have never before seen in the NBA. While the incredibly hyped French big man is the most well-known and discussed prospect in this class, there are plenty of other names to learn before the draft on June 22. Although the Final Four didn’t feature many projectable NBA players, the most notable prospect was UConn star Jordan Hawkins. We had several other breakout stars during the NCAA men’s tournament as well. Unless noted otherwise, all data was pulled from our friends at Cerebro Sports — you can create a free account to evaluate player performance across all levels globally. The best takes and the sharpest bets on all the hoops storylines you need to know. Sign up for our Layup Lines newsletter, hitting your inbox on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. MORE: (Photo by OLIVIER CHASSIGNOLE/AFP via Getty Images) Metropolitans 92, International, 7-foot-4 center FROM: France DRAFT AGE: 19.5 It never mattered who got the No. 1 overall pick in the 2023 NBA Draft. No matter which team won the lottery, they would plan to sprint to the podium to select Victor Wembanyama. There is a reason why Magic Johnson told For The Win that he expects Wembanyama to make a similar impact as LeBron James when he first comes into the NBA. Wembanyama leads all players in the French LNB Pro A in the catch-all metric C-RAM (9.7) this season, per Cerebro Sports. He also ranks No. 1 overall in defensive statistical impact (DSI) as well as the regular-season scoring champion and rebounding champion. Marvin Gentry-USA TODAY Sports Alabama Crimson Tide, Freshman. 6-foot-9 wing FROM: Antioch, TN DRAFT AGE: 20.6 Brandon Miller was incredibly productive during his one-and-done campaign at Alabama. The only freshmen 6-foot-9 or shorter on record with a higher box plus-minus are Zion Williamson, Michael Beasley, James Harden, and Lonzo Ball. He was a consensus All-American who was named SEC Rookie of the Year, SEC Tournament MVP, and SEC Player of the Year. His blend of size and shooting touch makes him a perfect fit for the modern NBA. But he had a nightmarish month during the NCAA men’s tournament and, perhaps due to a groin injury, struggled while on the court. Miller was highly inefficient on 2-pointers and when finishing at the rim when he was matched up against a strong opponent, which was an alarming trend for Miller throughout the year. Also concerning: Miller is celebrated for shooting 40.4 percent from beyond the arc during the regular season but he was actually just 35-for-113 (30.9 percent) on 3-pointers taken from NBA distance while at Alabama, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. (Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images) Ignite, G League, 6-foot-2 guard FROM: Marietta, Georgia DRAFT AGE: 19.5 Despite playing against the toughest professional competition, G League Ignite guard Scoot Henderson averaged 16.5 points while also adding 5.4 rebounds and 6.5 assists per game. He may live in the shadow of Wembanyama, who is still the heavy favorite to hear his name called at No. 1 overall. But even Wembanyama has said that Henderson would be the NBA’s top prospect in any other class. (Photo by Adam Hagy/Overtime Elite) Elite, Overtime, 6-6 FROM: Oakland, CA DRAFT AGE: 20.4 Amen Thompson is one of the most physically gifted and twitchy prospects in this draft class. While a bit turnover prone, he is an incredible playmaker as well. He led all OTE players in floor general skills (FGS) among players with more than 10 games in Cerebro-certified events in the league. He made his way to the rim often and averaged 0.19 drives per touch, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. That is the most among all projected first-round draft picks. Gregory Fisher-USA TODAY Sports Villanova Wildcats, Freshman, 6-foot-7 wing FROM: Odenton, MD DRAFT AGE: 19.0 Villanova’s Cam Whitmore didn’t make the tournament, but he should still hear his name called as one of the first collegiate players selected in the 2023 NBA Draft. Whitmore, the MVP of the FIBA U18 Americas Tournament, earned Big East Rookie of the Year last season. He scored 0.76 points per touch on drives, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform, and Villanova also averaged 1.05 points per touch on those possessions. Both ranked as the best among all potential first-rounders. Whitmore is an explosive athlete and his max vertical at the 2023 NBA Draft Combine ranked in the 94th percentile among all participants since 2000, per Stadium Speak. Although he shot just 34.3 percent from beyond the arc for Villanova, per Stats Perform, he was 20-for-46 (43.5 percent) on 3-pointers from NBA distance. (Photo by Kyle Hess/Overtime Elite) Elite, Overtime, 6-6 FROM: Oakland, CA DRAFT AGE: 20.4 Ausar Thompson was named MVP of Overtime Elite in 2022-23 and he led all players in C-RAM during the regular season for OTE, per Cerebro Sports. He had the highest defensive statistical impact (DSI) among players with more than 10 games in Cerebro-certified events in the league. He also allowed only 0.60 defensive points per chance, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. That ranked second-best among all consensus top-100 prospects. Most encouraging, though, is that he increased his 3-point efficiency from 30.0 percent on 3.8 attempts per game in the regular season to 38.5 percent on 7.8 attempts per game during the postseason. Jerome Miron-USA TODAY Sports UCF Knights, Freshman, 6-foot-9 forward FROM: Fort Lauderdale, FL DRAFT AGE: 19.6 Based on the catch-all metric C-RAM, via Cerebro Sports, UCF’s Taylor Hendricks trailed only Miller for the best mark among all freshmen. Hendricks is one of just ten high-major freshmen to record at least 35 dunks and 3-pointers in the same season. Eight of the previous nine were lottery picks and seven heard their name called as one of the first seven picks in their respective draft class. Although he was not a consensus top-50 recruit coming out of high school, after such an impressive freshman year, it is easy to see why Hendricks may continue to rise during the pre-draft process. Jordan Prather-USA TODAY Sports Kentucky Wildcats, Freshman, 6-foot-4 guard FROM: Dallas, TX DRAFT AGE: 19.6 The SEC All-Freshman guard was perhaps the most promising of the backcourt prospects in college basketball last season. He averaged 0.77 passes per touch, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform, which was the highest among all projected first-round draft picks. Wallace shot just 34.6 percent on 3-pointers for Kentucky, which wasn’t fantastic. But he was 24-for-57 (42.1 percent) on 3-pointers from the NBA distance, via Stats Perform. According to CBB Analytics, he also shot 15-for-31 (48.4 percent) on corner 3-pointers. He maintained a high steal rate throughout the season, too, showing his prowess as a defensive playmaker. He projects well as a solid contributor both on and off the ball at the next level. © Dan Rainville / USA TODAY NETWORK Houston Cougars, Freshman, 6-foot-8 forward FROM: New Freedom, PA DRAFT AGE: 19.8 Houston’s Jarace Walker, the American Athletic Conference Rookie of the Year, is one of the most promising defensive prospects in this draft class. He is capable of guarding either the ball handler or the screener in pick-and-roll actions, which will translate well to the next level. Walker crashed the boards hard and boxed out his opponents on 39.8 percent of opportunities, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. That ranked as the most among projected first-round draft picks. Although a bit undersized for his position measuring 6 feet 6.5 inches, he makes up for it with his bounciness. His standing vertical (34.5 inches) ranked at the 2023 NBA Draft Combine ranked in the 97th percentile among all participants since 2000, per Stadium Speak. © Andrew Nelles / Tennessean.com / USA TODAY NETWORK Arkansas Razorbacks, Freshman. 6-foot-7 guard FROM: Duncanville, TX DRAFT AGE: 19.4 Anthony Black is a swiss-army-knife prospect and prospects with his blend of size, playmaking, and defensive ability tend to hear their name called early in the draft. Black was also able to draw more total shooting fouls (80) than all high-major guards except just Judah Mintz, per CBB Analytics. The biggest hole in his game is his shooting, the encouraging news is that his jump shot isn’t necessarily broken. Although the SEC All-Freshman point-forward shot only 30.1 percent on 3-pointers, he got his shot to fall when he was open. Black was 18-for-48 (37.5 percent) on his uncontested shots from beyond the arc, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform, and 16-for-34 (47.1 percent) on shots from the NBA distance. (Photo by Ed Zurga/Getty Images) Kansas Jayhawks, Freshman, 6-foot-8 wing FROM: Wichita, KS DRAFT AGE: 19.6 Any team looking for 3-point shooting in this class has the name Gradey Dick underlined and highlighted on their big boards. Despite a slump toward the end of his one-and-done campaign, Dick still ended his season shooting an excellent 40.3 percent on 3-pointers. But perhaps most impressive is the shooting gravity that he will provide. The All-Big 12 forward forced a closeout on 28.7 percent of his offensive touches, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. That is the highest among all projected first-round draft picks. Brad Penner-USA TODAY Sports Ohio State Buckeyes, Freshman, 6-foot-6 wing FROM: Orlando, FL DRAFT AGE: 19.7 Ohio State’s Brice Sensabaugh is a genuinely efficient three-level scorer who was one of the most prolific shot creators on 2-pointers in all of college basketball. He made 50 shots at the basket, 50 shots from mid-range, and 50 shots beyond the arc. Among the sixteen high-major freshmen to accomplish this before Sensabaugh, twelve were selected in the lottery. Among all freshmen with at least 50 makes in each zone, meanwhile, he joins one of just four (Markelle Fultz, Lauri Markkanen, CJ McCollum) to shoot 40.0 percent from each zone. Overall, via AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. Sensabaugh averaged 0.47 points per offensive touch. That ranked as the best among all projected first-rounders. Reese Strickland-USA TODAY Sports Baylor Bears, Freshman, 6-foot-4 guard FROM: Lewisville, TX DRAFT AGE: 19.2 Baylor’s Keyonte George will walk into the league as one of the best rebounders at his position. He grabbed 88.7 percent of his adjusted rebound chances, via AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform, which is the best mark among all projected first-rounders regardless of position. The Big 12 Rookie of the Year also averaged 0.67 points per touch on his drives, per Stats Perform, which ranked near the best among prospects with at least 100 drives tracked. Per 100 possessions, per CBB Analytics, he was also one of the leaders in unassisted 3-pointers made (1.8) last season. © Junfu Han / USA TODAY NETWORK Michigan Wolverines, Sophomore, 6-foot-5 guard FROM: Grand Rapids, MI DRAFT AGE: 19.8 All-Big Ten guard Kobe Bufkin was highly impactful for his team, averaging 14.0 points and 4.5 rebounds with 2.9 assists and 1.3 steals per game. Michigan outscored opponents by 9.9 points per 100 possessions when Bufkin was on the floor, per Pivot Analysis. They were outscored by 11.8 points per 100 when he was not featured. According to CBB Analytics, that swing ranked sixth-best among all high-major players. He is a 6-foot-4 sophomore with two years of collegiate experience but he is younger than several notable freshmen including teammate Jett Howard as well as Jarace Walker, Judah Mintz, Jalen Hood-Schifino and Brandon Miller. (Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images) Ignite, G League, 6-foot-10 forward FROM: Canada DRAFT AGE: 19.6 Although he was a bit overshadowed by his star teammate Scoot Henderson on the G League Ignite, Leonard Miller showed excellent developments during his first professional season. He is tough to stop as the ball handler in transition and averaged 20.7 points and 12.9 rebounds with 2.3 assists, 1.0 steals, and 1.2 blocks per game during his 11 games in the G League after the All-Star break. Miller is a great ball mover who finished with the highest rate of passes (4.3 percent) that led to an assist (also known as a secondary assist or a hockey assist) among all projected first-round draft picks, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. After testing the waters during the 2022 NBA Draft, he should continue to rise during the pre-draft process. Joe Camporeale-USA TODAY Sports Connecticut Huskies, Sophomore, 6-foot-5 wing FROM: Gaithersburg, MD DRAFT AGE: 21.2 UConn’s Jordan Hawkins is a movement shooter perfect for the NBA. The All-Big East guard leads all players in points scored on handoffs and off-ball screens during the NCAA men’s tournament, per Synergy. But this isn’t just a stellar run for the UConn star during March Madness. He has done this all season. The NCAA champion drew a ton of contact and led Division I with 23 fouls drawn on 3-pointers, per CBB Analytics. Even if defenders got a hand in his face, Hawkins still managed to shoot 38-for-93 (40.6 percent) on contested 3-pointers, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. © Andrew Nelles / The Tennessean / USA TODAY NETWORK Arkansas Razorbacks, Freshman, 6-foot-4 guard FROM: Jacksonville, ARK DRAFT AGE: 19.2 Although he struggled to stay healthy and wasn’t particularly efficient during his one-and-done season at Arkansas, the upside for Smith is still very high. With a clean slate free from injuries, it’s worth betting on his development that Smith could make a return to the player he was as a McDonald’s All-American and the No. 1 overall recruit coming out of high school. John David Mercer-USA TODAY Sports Duke Blue Devils, Freshman, 6-foot-7 wing FROM: 18.9 DRAFT AGE: Newark, NJ Duke’s Dariq Whitehead, who was named Mr. Basketball USA and Naismith Prep Player of the Year while taking home MVP honors at the McDonald’s All-American Game in 2022, played through injuries as a freshman. He is expected to have surgery on his foot, but he will be prepared to play at the start of next season. Even while playing through injuries, Whitehead finished his Duke one-and-done campaign shooting 42.9 percent on 3-pointers. The freshman was 24-for-48 (50.0 percent) on 3-pointers from NBA distance, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. That ranked as the second-best among consensus top-100 prospects with at least 25 attempts tracked. Bob Donnan-USA TODAY Sports Duke Blue Devils, Freshman, 7-foot-1 center FROM: Philadelphia, PA DRAFT AGE: 19.4 After a tough start to his collegiate career, Duke big man Dereck Lively eventually blossomed into a highly impactful player on the defensive end of the floor. Opponents were just 14-for-38 (36.8 percent) when he defended them in the restricted area of the paint, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. Meanwhile, via CBB Analytics, the other team was held to shoot just 29.8 percent in the paint during minutes when Lively was on the floor. While he had a very low usage rate on offense, he was an efficient finisher on his chances. Rick Osentoski-USA TODAY Sports Marquette Golden Eagles, Junior, 6-foot-8 forward FROM: Canada DRAFT AGE: 21.0 When he declared for the 2023 NBA Draft, we wrote about why Marquette’s Olivier-Maxence Prosper is the perfect fit for a team looking to draft the next OG Anunoby. Although he is still classified as testing the waters, Prosper impressed during athletic testing at the 2023 NBA Draft Combine. He ranked in the 98th percentile for standing vertical (35.0 inches) among participants since 2000, per Stadium Speak, while also finishing in the 90th percentile or better in lane agility (10.59 seconds) and max vertical (43 inches). Prosper contributed positively to winning considering Marquette outscored opponents by 26.8 points per 100 possessions when Prosper was on the court relative to when he was not, per CBB Analytics, which ranked second-best among players at all top-tier Division I programs. Opponents were 3-for-26 (11.5 percent) on 3-pointers when Prosper contested their jumper, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform, which was the lowest opposing 3-point percentage among all consensus top-100 prospects who contested at least 20 shots from beyond the arc. He was one of the leaders in drives per touch, he shot well from the corners, and he was one of only a handful of high-major players to record at least 30 dunks and 3-pointers in 2022-23. (Photo by Grant Halverson/Getty Images) Wake Forest Demon Deacons, Freshman, 6-foot-10 wing FROM: Sweden DRAFT AGE: 20.3 Sweden’s Bobi Klintman could be the “mystery man” of the 2023 NBA Draft. He is arguably one of the most interesting prospects currently testing the waters, though he will not return to Wake Forest. He opted to pull out of the 2023 NBA Draft Combine, keeping the aura of mystique strong. Klintman is a 6-foot-10 wing who can dribble, pass, and shoot and his upside is outstanding. He averaged 16.0 points, 10.0 rebounds, 5.1 assists, 2.6 steals, and 0.9 blocks per game for Sweden at the U20 Euro Championship B in 2022, via Cerebro Sports. He also played well down the stretch for Wake Forest, notching 17 points and 11 rebounds with 1 steal and 1 block during a win over Syracuse in the ACC Conference Tournament. Jeff Blake-USA TODAY Sports South Carolina Gamecocks, Freshman, 6-foot-9 forward FROM: Columbia, SC DRAFT AGE: 18.5 G.G. Jackson is the youngest player in this draft class, and he won’t even yet turn 19 years old when the next NBA season begins. Once the consensus best collegiate prospect in his class, Jackson decided to forgo his senior year of high school and reclassify to play for South Carolina last season. South Carolina struggled defensively during minutes when Jackson was on the court, but the SEC All-Freshman forward is a promising upside swing for a team willing to bet on his continued development. (Photo by Dustin Satloff/Getty Images) Iowa Hawkeyes, Junior, 6-foot-8 forward FROM: Cedar Rapids, IA DRAFT AGE: 22.9 Iowa’s Kris Murray would have benefited from a stronger performance in the NCAA men’s tournament, but it’s still worth noting that he had an excellent season. The All-Big Ten forward finished the season averaging 20.2 points, 7.9 rebounds, 2.0 assists, 1.0 steals, and 1.2 blocks per game. Kevin Jairaj-USA TODAY Sports North Carolina State Wolfpack, Sophomore, 6-foot-4 guard FROM: Greenville, NC DRAFT AGE: 20.5 NC State’s Terquavian Smith was arguably the most surprising player to withdraw from the 2022 NBA Draft and return to school. As a sophomore, he finished tied for the second-most unassisted 3-pointers per game among all high-major players, per CBB Analytics. During his second year playing college basketball, he also made strides as a playmaker. But his scoring efficiency dropped, unfortunately, which he will need to fix at the next level. James Snook-USA TODAY Sports Santa Clara Broncos, Sophomore, 6-foot-5 wing FROM: Greenfield, WI DRAFT AGE: 20.3 Brandin Podziemski scored just 22 points during the entirety of his freshman season at Illinois. He transferred to Santa Clara and enjoyed a phenomenal breakout campaign, winning West Coast Conference Player of the Year. Among all underclassmen, per Cerebro Sports, he had the highest overall grade in the catch-all metric C-RAM last season. Podziemski averaged 19.9 points and 8.8 rebounds per game while shooting 43.8 percent on 3-pointers. That is particularly impressive considering 69.9 percent of Podziemski’s 3-point attempts were contested. That was the highest rate among all consensus top-100 prospects, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. After a 26-year gap between draft picks from Santa Clara, the WCC program could potentially have a first-rounder selected in back-to-back seasons. (Photo by FRANCK FIFE/AFP via Getty Images) Metropolitans 92, International, 6-foot-6 wing FROM: France DRAFT AGE: 18.9 Bilal Coulibaly is climbing up mock drafts and big boards of late, and it’s easy to see why. While he played well as teammates with Wembanyana in France’s top-tier division, he was especially productive in the LNB Espoirs for the under-21 age group. Coulibaly averaged 21.9 points, 6.4 rebounds, 2.5 assists, 2.6 steals, and 1.2 blocks per game across 16 appearances in the LNB Espoirs. He led all players in pure scoring prowess (PSP) and defensive statistical impact (DSI), per Cerebro. © Rich Janzaruk/Herald-Times / USA TODAY NETWORK Indiana Hoosiers, Freshman, 6-foot-6 guard FROM: Pittsburgh, PA DRAFT AGE: 20.0 Indiana’s Jalen Hood-Schifino earned Big Ten Rookie of the Year after averaging 13.5 points, 4.1 rebounds, and 3.7 assists per game. He desperately needs to improve his jumper considering, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform, he was just 8-for-36 (22.2 percent) on 3-pointers from NBA distance. But any freshman who is his size and who looks as comfortable as he does in ball screens is a sure-fire first-round draft pick. Lucas Peltier-USA TODAY Sports Ignite, G League, 6-foot-8 forward FROM: France DRAFT AGE: 19.2 G League Ignite’s Sidy Cissoko found a rhythm down the stretch, averaging 15.2 points and 3.3 rebounds with 4.4 assists as well as 1.2 steals and 1.2 blocks per game during 13 appearances after the All-Star break. Opponents were just 10-for-33 (30.3) when he was credited as the nearest defender in the restricted area of the paint, per AI-Powered statistics provided by Stats Perform. That ranked as the best among consensus top-100 prospects with at least 30 attempts tracked in that zone. Cissoko has flown under the radar during the pre-draft process but could make a high impact. © Kareem Elgazzar/The Enquirer / USA TODAY NETWORK Xavier Musketeers, Junior, 6-foot-6 guard FROM: Birmingham, AL DRAFT AGE: 21.1 Xavier’s Colby Jones is a do-it-all guard who projects well as a very solid contributor at the next level. He nearly had a triple-double during the NCAA men’s tournament, recording 10 points and 14 rebounds with 7 assists during a victory over Pitt. Jones and Podziemski were the only non-seniors in Division I men’s college basketball to hold a rating of 65 or higher in each skill of the five-metric suite (5MS), per Cerebro Sports. (Photo by Justin Casterline/Getty Images) Dayton Flyers, Sophomore, 6-foot-10 center FROM: Goodyear, AZ DRAFT AGE: 20.9 As we reported last month, Dayton’s DaRon Holmes quietly declared for the draft while maintaining his collegiate eligibility. Holmes had the second-most dunks (89) of all Division I prospects last season, per Bart Torvik. He was also one of the most efficient players in college basketball when rolling to the rim after ball screens and he was one of the leaders in shooting fouls and floor fouls drawn as well. Still only 20 years old, Holmes projects as one of the most intriguing big men in this draft class. Rick Osentoski-USA TODAY Sports 31. Detroit Pistons: Jett Howard 32. San Antonio Spurs: Andre Jackson Jr. 33. Boston Celtics (via HOU): Maxwell Lewis 34. Charlotte Hornets: James Nnaji 35. Oklahoma City Thunder (via POR): Amari Bailey 36. Orlando Magic: Trey Alexander 37. Oklahoma City Thunder (via WAS): Jaime Jaquez Jr. 38. Sacramento Kings (via IND): Jalen Slawson 39. Charlotte Hornets (via UTA): Rayan Rupert 40. Denver Nuggets (via DAL): Noah Clowney 41. Charlotte Hornets (via OKC): Adem Bona 42. Washington Wizards (via CHI): Trayce Jackson-Davis 43. Portland Trail Blazers (via ATL): Ben Sheppard 44. San Antonio Spurs (via TOR): Marcus Sasser 45. Memphis Grizzlies (via MIN): Kobe Brown 46. Atlanta Hawks (via NOP): Jalen Wilson 47. Los Angeles Lakers: Julian Strawther 48. L.A. Clippers: Jaylen Clark 49. Cleveland Cavaliers (via GSW): Emoni Bates 50. Indiana Pacers (via MIA): Nikola Djurisic 51. Brooklyn Nets: Ricky Council IV 52. Phoenix Suns: Omari Moore 53. Minnesota Timberwolves (via NYK): Tosan Evbuomwan 54. Sacramento Kings: Kevin McCullar 55. Indiana Pacers (via CLE): Drew Timme 56. Memphis Grizzlies: Azuolas Tubelis 57. Washington Wizards (via BOS): Tristan Vukcevic 58. Milwaukee Bucks: Jordan Miller Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy  





 
				© Copyright For The Win 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		