MindSite News 
					Nonprofit. Independent. Resolute.				 Late last year, MindSite News staff reporter Josh McGhee co-published his first investigation for us looking at mental health-related 911 calls and the use of force that such calls sometimes generate. We partnered with data reporter Ola Giwa at WBEZ and with Block Club Chicago. The story got a great response, and Josh was invited on multiple networks to discuss the story and what it means for the city’s most impacted populations.  Now that story has been awarded a Peter Lisagor Award for Best Reporting on Crime and Justice, which recognizes Chicago’s best journalism. Josh’s reporting is helping tell the whole story about the complex – and sometimes disastrous – relationship between our mental health and criminal justice systems.  This work would not be possible without the support of the Sozosei Foundation, and for that support we’re deeply grateful.  Investigative journalism is important, but it’s also time and resource intensive. Please consider becoming a supporter of MindSite News today to help us continue to make our nonprofit journalism free to the public.  In addition to producing award-winning stories, we’ve been building publishing partnerships with local and national outlets to ensure our mental health reporting reaches as wide an audience as possible.  MindSite News and USA Today This month we published two Solutions Lab pieces in partnership with USA Today, reaching millions of new readers.  Shootings, Lockdowns, Anxiety: Kids Are Not Alright – But They’re Working On It, by Michele Cohen Marill is a piece about how schoolchildren are fighting off worries, spreading kindness – and talking about their feelings. Join the MindSite News CommunitySubscribe to our newsletter to receive our latest stories, a curation of the most interesting and important mental health news, policy stories and more! In Breaking Away from Hate, Laurie Udesky examines the ways trauma and abuse  can make people vulnerable to extremist ideology and talks to former white supremacists who are helping extricate other Americans from violent hate groups. In three essays for MindSite News, two young Youthcast Media writers chart fantasy fiction’s soaring popularity during and after the pandemic and explore its importance to their own mental health. We’re excited to feature their work: MindSite News and YouthCast Media Group Young Readers Struggling with ‘Reality Overload’ Drive Surging Sales of Sci-Fi and Fantasy Books, Experts Say By Hermes Falcon and Kendall Covington, Youthcast Media Group No Illusion: Fantasy Fiction is My Safe Space By Hermes Falcon, Youthcast Media Group Hope Was Still Waiting for Me: Finding a Sanctuary in Fantasy Fiction By Kendall Covington, Youthcast Media Group As we pass the halfway point of Mental Health Awareness Month, we hope you’ll consider becoming a supporter of MindSite News so we can continue our work shining a light on mental health. We strongly believe in the power of journalism to tell stories, build awareness and look critically at policies and outcomes. Every dollar you share will go toward these efforts.  While all donations are greatly appreciated, by becoming a monthly supporter of MindSite News, you allow us to have greater stability and impact as an organization. For as little as $5/month you can help ensure our work can continue.  Thank you for being a part of this growing community and for helping us to raise awareness about mental health.  With gratitude,  Rob, Diana, Josh, Tiffany and the entire MindSite News Team P.S. If you want to support MindSite news but right now isn’t the time for a donation, we’d also really appreciate it if you’d follow us on social media @mindsitenews and share this email with at least one other person you know who cares about mental health.   Type of work:  
							Rob Waters, the founding editor of MindSite News, is an award-winning health and mental health journalist. He was a contributing writer to Health Affairs and has worked as a staff reporter or editor at...															
								More by Rob Waters								
  Nonprofit. Independent. Resolute. Support our mission to report on the workings and failings of the
mental health system in America and create a sense of national urgency to transform it.