Ola Jordan confidently enters her kitchen in a red underwear set and cheekily tells husband James she's ready for guests, following her rapid three stone weight loss Strictly star Ola Jordan struts her stuff in red underwear while tidying the kitchen after her 3.5 stone weight loss, as her husband James joke "you've got to start putting clothes on babe."   Ola, 40, and James, 44, lost a combined 6.5 stone thanks to a lifestyle overhaul, with Ola admitting she became a 'shell of her former self' after gaining weight during lockdown.  In a new cheeky Instagram video, which James captions: "I think she's got her mojo back," Ola struts confidently into their kitchen just wearing matching bra and knickers. Her husband asks Ola, with whom he shares daughter Ella, two, what she is doing, as she picks up a cloth by the sink. "Tidying up," she replies, with James asking: "Are you not going to get ready? We've got guests coming round." Ola, still holding the cloth replies: "I am ready," with James telling her: "Ola, listen, everyone knows you've lost weight okay? We get it. You look good. But you've got start putting clothes on babe. " Ola, who had been wiping down the surfaces, looks at her husband, who is filming, and says bluntly: "But I don't want to," with him then asking: "So you're not going to get change?" The former Strictly star says no again, but then laughs and throws the cloth down, before walking out of the kitchen and smiling at her husband over her shoulder.  The pair are clearly loving their new bods, and earlier this month Ola celebrated fitting back into a catsuit from her Strictly heydays after dropping three dress sizes.  Before her weight loss, Ola had a sort through her wardrobe and found a grey lace catsuit with sparkly embellishments and filmed herself with the outfit and said that she would like to fit back into it "maybe one day". In the clip, the dancer held the ensemble up against her body and said: "I'm sorting my wardrobes out and look what I found, my – one of my favourite outfits that I used to wear. "I won't be able to fit in it now, it's like half of my body would fit in but, maybe one day." The clip then cut to Ola after her weight loss wearing the jaw-dropping number as she held her arms up and said: "Yes I'm back in my catsuit," before placing her hands on her hips and smiling at the camera.  As Ola shared the video on her Instagram page, she wrote in the caption: "I'm so glad I kept this in the back of my wardrobe! My classic catsuit.  "Back in the summer I dug it out as motivation to keep me going when we’d both decided to we needed to get off our bums and make a change. But I didn’t think I’d ever be able to get back in it!"  Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@mirror.co.uk or call us direct at 0207 29 33033  Get all the Strictly glitter and goss straight to your inbox with our Strictly Come Dancing newsletter