Ola and James Jordan took to social media to give fans a glimpse into daughter Ella's birthday celebration as they held a lavish Frozen-themed party complete with bouncy castle and face paints Ola and James Jordan gave their fans a glimpse into daughter Ella’s spectacular birthday celebration as she turned three.   The former Strictly Come Dancing professionals uploaded a few snaps to social media of the huge Disney-themed party they had thrown.  Going all out for their little girl’s special day, the couple hired party planners who decorated a large room with a Frozen theme, with large balloon arches and images of the film’s characters dotted around. There was soft play equipment for Ella and her friends to play on, including a ball pit and slide, with Ola and James also hiring a huge white bouncy castle. Two entertainers who were dressed as characters from the film also attended the party, as they could be seen singing in front of the guests. Ella wore a Frozen-themed outfit and had her face painted for her big day. There was a large spread for guests to tuck into, with a three-tier Frozen cake for Ella. Ola, 40, uploaded the images to her social media account, writing: “So Ella had the most amazing birthday party today with all her friends and family - thank you so much for everyone pulling together to create such an amazing day. Even all the adults loved it. “Especially @kids_party_finder for organising the whole thing which saved us all the stress…. Nice to work with such professionals. And also a big shout out to the amazing Josh who helped with the video.” James, 44, commented: “Made me emotional today seeing all the love for my little girl.” The couple recently updated their fans on Ella’s health condition.  Taking to their Hello! magazine column, James and Ola revealed Ella had been struggling with her hearing.  The tot suffered a chronic ear infection last year, with her hearing not making much improvement in the following months. James and Old decided to take their daughter to get some tests done, which they revealed the results of in their column. They wrote: “The test showed her left ear isn't anything to worry about. Her right ear definitely has glue ear. “They don't want to put grommets in at the moment so they're going to check her again in about three months and see how it is.” Get all the Strictly glitter and goss straight to your inbox with our Strictly Come Dancing newsletter