Israeli battery startup delivers update to its manufacturing plans and strategy  Israeli startup StoreDot has said it is on track to start producing its fast-charging batteries later this year as part of an update on its global manufacturing strategy. Thank you. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. The company says its proprietary technology for fast-charging EV batteries enables EV charging in under ten minutes. Spanning three continents, US, Europe and Asia, StoreDot’s strategy is focused on localising its supply chain to reduce carbon impact and enabling just-in-time production efficiency. StoreDot will produce its batteries in existing and future local gigafactories, rather than building its own facilities in the mid-term. The company says production is on track to start later next year. In the interim, StoreDot will continue to develop its cells in its labs in the US and Israel.   StoreDot CEO Dr Doron Myersdorf said: “Today’s announcement is an important milestone for StoreDot as we build our global supply chain and manufacturing footprint. We look forward to working with our OEM partners in the US, Europe, and Asia to supply them with our world class extreme fast charging batteries. “It’s important that leading battery developers like StoreDot can deliver batteries consistently, efficiently, conveniently, and sustainably, as we care greatly about the environmental impact of battery supply chains. By serving our OEM customers from their own locations we can do this more effectively while demonstrating our commitment to net zero.” To date StoreDot has received investments from global automotive manufacturers including Daimler, VinFast, Volvo Cars, Polestar and Ola Electric. Thank you. Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Just Auto : Just Auto Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		Automotive Industry News & Analysis | Market Research - Just Auto 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024 By clicking here, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and consent to us collection your details for the purposes of your enquiry