Sign up for our newsletter and receive the latest automotive news in your inbox! More than just “another” place to find news, reviews, spy shots, commentary, features, and guides about the auto industry. TheDetroitBureau doesn’t stop with the press releases or confuse a few lines of opinion with insightful, in-depth reporting. Like what you see? Have some ideas for making The Detroit Bureau.com even better? Let us know, we’d love to hear your voice.  
 
 
 Please leave this field empty.
 
 Δ TheDetroitBureau.com’s Headlight News offers a look at the past week’s top automotive news stories, as well as what’s coming up in the week ahead. Check out the week’s top story and our latest review…along with a dive into the past with this week in automotive history. home > news > Automakers > Mercedes-Benz to Offer Compact G-Class EV in 2027 A battery-powered G-Class SUV will begin shipping to American market in the first half of 2027, according to Mercedes-Benz, which teased the new model during the introduction of the CLA-Class at the IAA Mobility auto show in Munich.  “There will be a smaller version of one of our most iconic shapes. Yes, there will be a little G,” said Mercedes-Benz CEO Ola Källenius. “Be assured, the little G will be electric, it will be capable, it will be instantly recognizable, and it will be a lot of fun to drive both on and off the road.” The compact electric SUV should sport the same boxy profile as the original, with production slated to begin in Hungary at the end of 2026.  Given that the larger G-Class will most likely wear EQG badging, which would follow Mercedes-Benz EV naming nomenclature, it’s unclear what badging the new vehicle will be named. And given it won’t hit U.S. dealers until 2027, even less is known about the vehicle itself. What Källenius did say is that the compact G-Class would ride on the company’s Mercedes Modular Architecture, or MMA. The new platform will spawn four new entry-level EV models — a coupe, a wagon and two sport utility vehicles, one of which is the compact G-Wagen. Uniquely, two battery cell chemistries will be used in the new architecture as a cost saving move, including a less expensive lithium iron phosphate battery and a denser silicon oxide. In addition, Mercedes will attach the battery cell modules with adhesive rather than screws to minimize weight and increase stiffness. By offering a smaller, less expensive version of the G-Class, Mercedes-Benz is following the template successfully executed by Ford Motor Co. with its Bronco and smaller Bronco Sport SUVs. But before the baby G-Class arrives, expect to see the 2025 Mercedes-Benz EQG, which the company previewed in the form of the Concept EQG, with a design that the company acknowledges as being similar to that of the production EQG.  If that’s true, the 2025 Mercedes-Benz EQG will sport the G-Wagen’s iconic slab-sided style, riding on a classic ladder frame and employing a motor at each wheel while retaining its legendary off-road capabilities. Indications are it will have a two-speed gearbox for off-road work, as well as an independent front suspension. Mercedes said the electric G-Class’s battery is as much as 40% more energy dense than current ones, delivering a combined 430 kilowatts of power to its four motors. Of course, all of this should be confirmed next year, closer to the vehicle’s launch. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ