Mercedes-Benz could drop its EQ badge for electric cars as it moves toward an EV-only lineup, a German business newspaper reported. EQ was launched in 2016 as a sub-brand that would serve as a launch point for EVs, but Mercedes plans to drop the EQ nomenclature from the end of 2024, according to Handelsblatt (via Automotive News Europe).   2022 Mercedes-Benz EQB Class The change is reportedly in keeping with CEO Ola Källenius' focus on EVs. Under Källenius, Mercedes has set the goal of eliminating combustion engines from its lineup in at least some markets by 2030. That would make the electric-focused EQ sub-brand redundant. EQ did have an awkward first few years, as the brand promised charging hardware and mobility services and, instead, showed only a rebranded version of the former Smart Fortwo. More recently, the promised Mercedes-badged EQ EVs have started arriving, although the mobility ideas Mercedes also saw in EQ at the time haven't materialized.  Mercedes-Benz Vision EQXX 1,202-km run A key turning point in Mercedes' rollout of EQ models and EVs for the U.S. happened in spring 2019, when Mercedes abruptly decided to cancel the EQC SUV for the U.S.—after a launch edition had been detailed. Mercedes decided the vehicle, which was very comfortable and luxurious in a first drive, came up short in range. Mercedes has also made EQ the center stage for its transformation, with the Vision EQXX concept that, the brand says, will push its mainstream EVs for mid-decade toward more radical, efficiency-focused ideas.  
Sign up to get the latest green car and environmental news, delivered to your inbox daily!
 
I agree to receive emails from Green Car Reports. I understand that I can unsubscribe at any time. Privacy Policy.
 A bad wiper motor seal can cause those motors to fail in the Ford Mustang Mach-E, Maverick, and Bronco Sport. A defense upfitter and Tesla modification shop are outfitting the Cybertruck with thicker armor and a generator. The long-mooted tech offers precise power delivery, with a big mass penalty. A stow-away set of SUV rails could boost fuel economy. An over-the-air update done at home should remedy the problem. Cadillac's newest concept could preview a V-Series EV future. A portable twin-burner induction stove designed for the R1T and R1S fills a gap. The Chinese EV brand owned by Geely tweaked its LFP batteries to stake the claim. Acura's new concept previews a production EV based on an in-house platform and due in 2025. The Polestar 3 is now in production alongside the related Volvo EX90 at Volvo's South Carolina plant. Plug-in drivers have some good news for EV makers and networks. Charging network wants to boost number of fast chargers, and to boost the reliability of its platform overall.