TV Chef Jamie Oliver has reportedly signed-up to front a new Channel 4 show all about his passion for gardening, which will see him take a new turn away from cooking in his career TV chef Jamie Oliver is stepping out of his kitchen to front a gardening show for Channel 4 in an unexpected career move, according to reports. Famed for sharing his easy-to-cook and delicious recipes with the nation, the 48-year-old restaurateur and cookbook author catapulted to stardom after appearing on BBC Two's The Naked Chef. Oliver has since gone on to helm numerous and successful television shows – from Jamie's School Dinners to Jamie's 30-Minute Meals. But it seems is the well-liked TV star is keen to show his fans a different side to him after taking on a new project away from the kitchen. It comes after Jamie Oliver's new show The Great Cookbook Challenge was axed by the channel after just one instalment. The cooking show saw 18 chefs battle it out to win a book publishing deal in order to release their own cookbooks. The contestants hoped to follow in the successful footsteps of Jamie, 47, who is worth an estimated £240million thanks to his cooking shows and recipe books. A source told The Scottish Sun: “Jamie used to be known as the Naked Chef but he is branching out into horticulture. “He loves spending time in the garden and growing his own fruit and veg. There will still be food and cooking elements, but fans can expect to see a new side.” According the publication, the broadcaster has also handed Jamie another four-parter, Jamie Cooks The Mediterranean, which is believed to air this autumn. It has been said that the title for Jamie's new four-part gardening show Spring, Summer, Autumn and Winter. Jamie is a passionate gardener when his isn't busy rustling up a casual meal. During lockdown, Jamie gave his Instagram followers a tour around the garden of his £6million Essex mansion, proudly showing off his produce. He told them: “Look at all these figs, absolutely beautiful. Nature is so clever.” This Mirror has approached Channel 4 for comment. Obsessed with Netflix? Get the latest headlines, releases and insider-gossip direct to your inbox with our Binge-worthy newsletter