In a report released today, Hassan Ahmed from Alembic Global reiterated a Buy rating on Olin (OLN – Research Report), with a price target of $75.00. The company’s shares closed last Friday at $58.72. Ahmed covers the Basic Materials sector, focusing on stocks such as Celanese, Methanex, and TRONOX. According to TipRanks, Ahmed has an average return of 6.9% and a 51.45% success rate on recommended stocks.  The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Olin with a $64.00 average price target, representing an 8.99% upside. In a report released on July 31, Stifel Nicolaus also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $82.00 price target. See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  OLN market cap is currently $7.39B and has a P/E ratio of 9.95.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Olin Corp. engages in manufacturing of chemicals products. It operates through the following segments: Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls, Epoxy, and Winchester. The Chlor Alkali Products and Vinyls segment manufactures and sells chlorine and caustic soda, ethylene dichloride and vinyl chloride monomer, methyl chloride, methylene chloride, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, perchloroethylene, trichloroethylene and vinylidene chloride, hydrochloric acid, hydrogen, bleach products and potassium hydroxide. . The Epoxy segment produces and sells epoxy materials, which includes allyl chloride, epichlorohydrin, liquid epoxy resins and downstream products such as converted epoxy resins and additives. The Winchester segment produces and sells sporting ammunition, reloading components, small caliber military ammunition and components, and industrial cartridges. The company was founded by Franklin W. Olin in 1892 and is headquartered in Clayton, MO.  Read More on OLN: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks