Kate Hudson has jokingly urged her brother to “unfollow” her after he “complained” about a raunchy photo she posted online. The Hollywood actor, who shot to fame in Cameron Crowe’s comedy-drama Almost Famous before appearing in rom-coms such as How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days, Bride Wars and My Best Friend’s Girl, shared the image on Instagram on Wednesday (31 June). In the snap, the 44-year-old can be seen topless, covering her body parts with a book she’s reading as well as a heart emoji. She captioned the image: “Suns out, buns (and huns) out #summerready.” Her brother, fellow actor Oliver Hudson, replied, “Jesus no Kate!” to which Kate light-heartedly responded: "Summer’s just begun Oliver... It's gonna get wild. You should unfollow.” The image of the Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery star was praised by her celebrity friends including Buffy actor Charisma Carpenter, Octavia Spencer, and Paris Hilton, who called her “hot”. An irony that didn’t escape the notice of followers is the fact that Oliver’s profile photo on Instagram shows him standing fully naked with his bare buttocks on show. His response generated more than 5,000 likes and hundreds of responses from their followers, who called his comment “hilarious”. Kate and Oliver’s parents are actor Goldie Hawn and musician Bill Hudson.      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Kate Hudson (@katehudson) Oliver previously told People that “nudity has never been taboo” to him as he “grew up in a very open family”. He added: “Even now with my kids, we’re just naked people. That’s just the way it is. I’m definitely comfortable with it.” Oliver’s credits include TV shows Rules of Engagement, Nashville and new release The Cleaning Lady. Celebrity exchanges on Instagram are often one of the highlights of the social media platform. Last month, Guardians of the Galaxy star Chris Pratt received a hilarious response from his mother-in-law, Maria Shriver, after he posted a particularly “hideous” image. The 29-year-old went for one of her most daring looks while out with her sister. An Australian has captured a chilling detail in a video of a family canoeing across a seemingly harmless lake. Ayman Mohyeldin explained why this message is especially effective right now. The TLC star has certainly come a long way. "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. Rick Wilson, a co-founder of the anti-Trump Lincoln Project, said the former president has an "endless pattern" of "utter contempt" toward the armed forces. The “Fahrenheit 9/11” director described what voters may see when Donald Trump and Kamala Harris meet onstage. Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The tragic discovery is just one of a number of similar examples in recent times. Donald Trump’s financial disclosures are giving a rare look into the billionaire’s income streams, which include crypto, gold bars, Bibles and lots of real estate. The 167-page filing shows the president made $300,000 in royalties from a special edition of the Lee Greenwood Bible, which sells for $59.99. Buyers of the Lee Greenwood Bible should know it is “the only Bible endorsed by President Trump,” according to its website. For $1,000 buyers can get a signed copy as well.Trump also reported a The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. The former president described his proposal to impose tariffs on foreign-made products as a tax that "doesn't affect our country." Home and Away's Emily Weir has stepped out in a sheer Logies 2024 dress which left very little to the imagination. Read more. A club legend says a big call needs to be made on the Eels captain. More here. Brwa Shorsh shoved a man onto the tracks for ‘revenge’ because he gave him a ‘dirty look’ Princess of Wales Kate Middleton joined her husband Prince William and their family for a Nerf battle at the Gone Wild Festival at Holkham Hall in Norfolk last weekend, according to the Daily Mail.Kate, who is recovering from cancer, “grabbed a Nerf gun, ran around and played stuck in the mud with her kids,” Norfolk Nerf Parties boss Georgina Barron wrote in a Facebook post.Kate shared her cancer diagnosis in March, revealing that she had undergone major abdominal surgery in January. Read more a The fallout over the Supreme Court’s presidential immunity decision will crescendo next month, with judges in two of former President Trump’s four criminal cases set to tackle the implications. On Sept. 5, U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan will weigh how Trump’s federal indictment accusing him of conspiring to subvert the 2020 election should proceed. And… The Aussie tennis player was banished by the chair umpire. Read why here.