By Adrian Bishop For Mailonline   Published:  17:02 EDT, 28 October 2023   |  Updated:  19:19 EDT, 28 October 2023      42 View  comments  Lennox Lewis insisted he would emerge victorious if he and Tyson Fury faced each other in their respective primes. The 58-year-old was one of a number of boxing legends from yesteryear and stars in attendance as Fury took on former UFC Heavyweight Champion Francis Ngannou in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Speaking prior to the event's headline bout on pay-per-view, Lewis was asked how he believed he would fare inside the ring against Fury. The three-time world heavyweight champion revealed he would've adopted a direct approach, putting the pressure on the Gypsy King from the outset. 'He’s tall, lanky, elusive and moves well. I would just go straight at him.' Lewis said. Lennox Lewis insisted he would have defeated Tyson Fury if they had fought in their primes In addition to their shared history as British world heavyweight champions, Lewis and Fury have also honed their skills at the famous Kronk Gym in Detroit, Michigan. Lewis began working with the vaunted Emanuel Stewart at the Kronk Gym in 1995, after suffering his first defeat as a professional against Oliver McCall. Together, the pair would embark on a run of a dominance that saw Lewis become, to this day, the final undisputed heavyweight champion, before hanging up his gloves after a win over Vitali Klitschko in 2003. Meanwhile Fury has also spent time with Steward at the Kronk gym, spending several weeks with him honing his craft in 2009. Steward would pass away in 2012, but Fury has continued his association with the gym, bringing in his nephew SugarHill Steward to be his head trainer. Lewis added that if he had faced a fighter like Fury during his prime, Steward would have implored him to take the fight to him, and 'get street'. Lewis added that legendary boxing trainer Emanuel Steward (right) would have told him to take the fight to Fury Fury has his own connection to the vaunted Kronk Gym, training under Steward's nephew SugarHill (right) ‘Of course [I would beat him]’ Lewis added.  'I can hear Manny in my head, he would be saying "get street with him, get street with him."' Lewis also reflected on the frequency in which elite fighters compete in the current era compared to his heyday. 'I was much more active. Fighters nowadays they take a year off. I guess they’re making so much money that they can enjoy it.' Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group