‘Protect planet’ message greets visitors to Phoenix Park flowers festival
 Sabina Higgins shares a laugh with Esme and Polly Power as President Higgins launched Bord Bia Bloom in the Phoenix Park. Photo: Mark Condren President Michael D Higgins and Sabina Higgins with award-winning garden designer Oliver Schurmann in his show garden at Bloom on Thursday, June 1. Photo: Maxwell's Minister Simon Coveney with Aoife Phelan, her mother Bridget and sister Shelly, all from Waterford, at Bloom. Photo: Stephen Collins/Collins Photos Artist Joe Caslin at the 'Rise Garden' garden designed by young people from Oberstown Children Detention Campus. Photo: Julien Behal Anne Hogan with her grandaughter Ella enjoying the floral festivities. Pic: Mark Condren Sisters Janette O'Rourke and Deirdre Sullivan from Dublin enjoying the Bord Bia Bloom in Dublin’s Phoenix Park. Photo: Mark Condren President Michael D Higgins spoke of planetary “peril” at the opening of Bloom, while a multi-award-winning gardener pleaded for parents to gift nature back to children. Mr Higgins and his wife, Sabina, toured the beautiful and intricate show gardens on the busy first day of Bord Bia’s Bloom festival in Dublin’s Phoenix Park. The couple wound their way around a tapestry of gardens, meeting the talented designers. Mrs Higgins paused to try on a straw hat, the cherished possession of three-year-old Esme Porter, who was visiting the Walled Garden with her mother Michelle (38) and little sister Polly (1), from Navan, Co Meath, when they encountered the presidential visitors. Minister Simon Coveney with Aoife Phelan, her mother Bridget and sister Shelly, all from Waterford, at Bloom. Photo: Stephen Collins/Collins Photos Bloom is a place for relaxation and merriment, but it was clear yesterday that the President wanted to spread an ecological and ethical message. While biodiversity loss had increased at an “alarming rate”, Mr Higgins noted, there was a “collective acknowledgement across society that we live on a planet in peril”. He said that “a rhetoric of war and arms production” should not “sideline” global climate change and sustainability goals. Meanwhile, garden designer Oliver Schurmann touched on similar themes as he and his wife Liat won Best in Category and a gold medal for the First 5 Garden of Wonder and Discovery. Mr Schurmann told the Irish Independent he was concerned for today’s young people, who have been far too “deprived” of nature. President Michael D Higgins and Sabina Higgins with award-winning garden designer Oliver Schurmann in his show garden at Bloom on Thursday, June 1. Photo: Maxwell's “It’s so important that parents come and see the garden and see their children in nature and remember where they should bring them, to be part of nature,” Mr Schurmann said as children played in his woodland-inspired submission. He recalled his childhood and the first time he smelled a flower – a scent still imprinted on his mind. “We have to be so careful because we need this generation to grow up with special memories and to learn to be resilient and have their own imaginations,” he said. “And that all comes from being out in nature, not from being on screens.” He also said that, having raised his own family in horticulture, teaching children about nature and biodiversity at a young age will help “secure” the future of the planet. Mr Higgins had also earlier referenced a recent Queen’s University Belfast study, which found almost half of the world’s species are in decline. Anne Hogan with her grandaughter Ella enjoying the floral festivities. Pic: Mark Condren He said this represented a “species failure” and added that humans had shown “an inability to live in harmony with the wide diversity of life on our planet”. Mr Schurmann said the Department of Children, which sponsored his and his wife’s show garden, had been “delighted” with its reception. Designer Eugene Higgins, who enlisted the young people of Oberstown Children Detention Campus for his Rise Garden, said the project had represented something particularly mean- ingful. “The young people at Oberstown chose the colours,” Mr Higgins said. “And we picked corrugated steel to represent the walls [of the campus].” “I believe this project will have a long-term, positive effect on the young people – to know that they helped create this show garden and that it’s been at Bloom and won an award.” Sinéad Flynn, the horticulture co-ordinator at Oberstown, said the young people had selected yellow and orange flowers to represent the staff at the detention centre, and purple flowers to symbolise themselves. Artist Joe Caslin at the 'Rise Garden' garden designed by young people from Oberstown Children Detention Campus. Photo: Julien Behal “The young people’s handprints are on the stones in the garden,” she said. “This garden is part of them and they are part of it. It will go back to Oberstown, where they can continue to look after it into the future.” Ms Flynn said it was hoped the young people would be able to gain qualifications in horticulture while at the detention facility. Such an accreditation would benefit them once they leave. Separately, Colm Carty – familiar to viewers of RTÉ’s Super Garden for his design, Dawn to Dust – spoke about how he had been a novice when it came to show gardens and he had not dreamed he would win the coveted title. Sisters Janette O'Rourke and Deirdre Sullivan from Dublin enjoying the Bord Bia Bloom in Dublin’s Phoenix Park. Photo: Mark Condren The quantity surveyor, who has now set up a new business, Perennial Designs, in Warrenpoint, Co Down, said: “This is something new for me, but I really enjoyed it. “I designed a children’s element in the garden and I think it’s really special. I got to thinking, as a lot of people did during the pandemic, about what I really wanted – and this is it.” The father of two added: “Hopefully, there will be a demand for the work I do.”​ Bord Bia Bloom runs in the Phoenix Park every day until Monday. For tickets, see bordbiabloom.com Join the Irish Independent WhatsApp channel Stay up to date with all the latest news