




Filip Lagaart

FXStreet


 Lido Dao (LDO) price is starting the week on the back foot with a near 2% decline as bulls attempt to pair back earlier losses from the beginning of the week. With bulls undergoing a rejection on the topside near the red descending trend line, there is only one solution left for bulls: north. Expect to see a breakout by Friday, with LDO opening a new batch of gains that could run up all the way to $3.37 for a 35% gain. Lido Dao price action is forcing the hand of the bulls to go all in and try to create that breakout trade to the upside. After a rejection on the top side against the red descending trend line, the bulls must step up their game to avoid a strong sell-off. With a breakout, a large area with more gains is getting unlocked and is open for trading.  LDO thus will see bulls going all in this week while the Relative Strength Index (RSI) is nowhere near overheating just yet. This should open an ample amount of room for bulls to at least break above and have a weekly close above the red descending trend line. That positive close above will be enough to see more profits on the horizon.  LDO/USD  Weekly chart     Of course, the possible risk to the downside comes with the earlier rejection this week near the red descending trend line. Bears were so keen to get in and did not even wait for bulls to test the upside, which shows how forceful bears are at entering at that level. If that happens, expect to see a leg lower with support at $2.30 for a 10% decline. 
Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at the end of links posted on this page. 
If not otherwise explicitly mentioned in the body of the article, at the time of writing, the author has no position in any stock mentioned in this article and no business relationship with any company mentioned. The author has not received compensation for writing this article, other than from FXStreet.
FXStreet and the author do not provide personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. FXStreet and the author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses, injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or use. Errors and omissions excepted.
The author and FXStreet are not registered investment advisors and nothing in this article is intended to be investment advice. 
 Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at the end of links posted on this page.  If not otherwise explicitly mentioned in the body of the article, at the time of writing, the author has no position in any stock mentioned in this article and no business relationship with any company mentioned. The author has not received compensation for writing this article, other than from FXStreet. FXStreet and the author do not provide personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. FXStreet and the author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses, injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or use. Errors and omissions excepted. The author and FXStreet are not registered investment advisors and nothing in this article is intended to be investment advice.  The crypto community reacted to a report on Monday alleging that Kamala Harris will likely nominate Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler as Treasury Secretary if elected. The report accompanies the Democratic National Convention. Ethereum is down over 3% on Monday after posting weak flows across ETH ETFs and record lows in gas fees last week. The decline also coincides with ETH attempting to repeat a historical price move that it experienced in the last two years. Cardano slipped out of the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market capitalization on Monday following a bearish signal across several of its on-chain metrics. ADA has largely underperformed in the current cycle compared to other altcoins, considering its price has been on a five-month decline since mid-March.  Ripple trades at $0.5833 on Monday as the altcoin extends gains and recovers from the crypto market crash in early August. The Ripple stablecoin announcement, the Securities & Exchange Commission vs. Ripple lawsuit ruling and recent research reports published by SBI-owned HashHub are the key market movers for the altcoin this week. Bitcoin (BTC) trades above $58,000 on Friday after after testing and failing to overcome the resistance level around $62,000 earlier in the week. The risk-on mood returned to markets this week, Marathon Digital added 4,141 BTC worth $249 million to its holdings and the US SEC approved a MicroStrategy leveraged ETF, potentially giving investors more exposure to Bitcoin.  Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement. Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer. Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts. Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and omissions may occur. Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, clients or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.