
 
								By 

	Michael Schneider
 Variety Editor at Large 
	Strong Global Entertainment has acquired branded short form content company Unbounded Media Corporation, which will now operate as a part of Strong Studios. Under the deal, Strong Studios is aiming to get into the production services business in addition to its work developing content for film and TV (“Safehaven,” “Flagrant,” “Inside the Black Box”). 
	UMC develops, creates and produces film, advertising, and branded content for a broad range of clients; according to its website, that has included Draft Kings, Reebok, Maestro Dobel Tequila, NBA All World and IBM. 
	UMC was founded by Peter Odiorne, Larry Swets and Hassan Baqar; the company has been acquired in an all-stock transaction. SGE said its deal for UMC is part of a “broader strategy to acquire a portfolio of multi-disciplined content and services companies.”

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	















	VIP+
	



	
		
					Training AI With TV & Film Content: How Licensing Deals Look		
			














	
		
					Aerosmith Announces Retirement From Touring, Saying Steven Tyler's 'Recovery From His Vocal Injury Is Not Possible'		
			






 
	Under the deal, Swets will oversee acquisitions for the combined company as chairman of the studio and production division. Odiorne will serve as chief content officer and Matt Harton has been named managing director.




			Popular on Variety		




 
	“There is significant crossover of creative skills in the short form production business with long form film and television projects that could significantly enhance our overall profit potential,” said Strong Studios president David Ozer. “As we continue to build SGE and Strong Studios’ position in the global entertainment marketplace, we look forward to expanding our production capabilities and our original IP pipeline.” 
	UMC, under its Fieldhouse Entertainment division, has also been behind the feature films “Into the Storm,” “Atomic Tourists” and “Footsteps of a Giant.”    
			A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast		 The Business of Entertainment