Barclays analyst Julien Roch assigned a Hold rating to Interpublic Group of Companies (IPG – Research Report) today and set a price target of $40.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $35.21. Roch covers the Services sector, focusing on stocks such as Interpublic Group of Companies, Omnicom Group, and Mediaset España. According to TipRanks, Roch has an average return of 3.4% and a 47.93% success rate on recommended stocks.  The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Interpublic Group of Companies with a $40.60 average price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> The company has a one-year high of $39.18  and a one-year low of $24.71. Currently, Interpublic Group of Companies has an average volume of 4.03M.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 22 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of IPG in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Interpublic Group of Cos., Inc. engages in the provision of advertising and marketing services. The company specializes in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations, and specialized communications disciplines. It operates through the following segments: Integrated Agency Network (IAN), Constituency Management Group (CMG), and Corporate and Other. The IAN segment includes advertising and media services, as well as a comprehensive array of global communications and marketing services. The CMG segment offers events and public relations services as well as sports and entertainment marketing, corporate and brand identity, and strategic marketing consulting. The Corporate and Other segment refers to the Acxiom activities. The company was founded on September 18, 1930 and is headquartered in New York, NY.  Read More on IPG: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks