
                    Friday, 30 Jun 2023
                 KUALA LUMPUR: MN Holdings Bhd has secured an underground utilities contract worth RM13.1mil for the East Coast Rail Link (ECRL) project. In a statement, it said its wholly-owned subsidiary Mutu Nusantara Sdn Bhd accepted the award from the main contractor, Rentak Segar Sdn Bhd, for its appointment as the sub-contractor. Under the contract, Mutu Nusantara will be responsible for the engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning (EPCC) of the preliminaries and relocation of power cable works at Section 9 (Selangor) in the ECRL project.    MN said the ECRL project, spanning 665km and comprising 59 tunnels, includes construction works in four states, namely Kelantan, Terengganu, Pahang and Selangor, and is designed to be flood-free.   The EPCC contract will commence immediately and is targeted to be completed on July 2024. MN managing director Loy Siong Hay said this is the company's first contract win to provide relocation of power cable works in the ECRL project.   “We are delighted to be part of this strategically important mega project and to be working with China Communications Construction (ECRL) Sdn Bhd.  "We will continue to build on our 16 years of experience and expertise in delivering underground utilities and substation engineering works for major infrastructure projects,” he added.  
Tags / Keywords:
MN Holdings
                                                                ,
                                                                                                ECRL
                                                                ,
                                                                                                Rentak Segar
                                                                ,
                                                                                                construction
 
Topic:
 


 Report it to us. Thank you for your report!  Copyright © 1995-
            

 Star Media Group Berhad [197101000523 (10894-D)] Best viewed on Chrome browsers.  We would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion. Kindly fill the form below We hope you enjoy this feature!