SAINSBURY'S shoppers will lose a key service at 32 of it its supermarkets from this week. Lloyds Pharmacy will close dozens more of its chemists this month - five of which will close to shoppers tomorrow. The move comes after Lloyds Pharmacy announced that it would close 237 of its pharmacies in Sainsbury’s supermarkets by the end of 2023. At the time a Sainsbury's spokesperson said: "Lloyds Pharmacy is withdrawing pharmacy services from our stores over the coming months. "We will work with them to ensure customers are clear on how they can access an alternative pharmacy provision to meet their needs." Five Lloyds chemists will close in the following Sainsbury's supermarkets on Wednesday, June 7: Sainsbury's in Machester on the Upton By Pass will then lose its Lloyds Pharmacy on Friday, June 9. Lloyds chemists in 20 of the following Sainsbury's supermarkets will then shut permanently on Tuesday, June 13: Six more chemists will then close in the following Sainsbury's supermarkets on June Thursday, June 22: But Sainsbury's shoppers aren't the only ones losing out to their local pharmacies in-store. Asda announced a proposal to close seven of its 254 in-store pharmacies in January. Asda said it would look to close these pharmacies because of low customer usage. The supermarket consulted on the move and confirmed the closures at the end of April but didn't say when the pharmacies would shut for good. However, Asda has told The Sun that all seven pharmacies will close on Thursday, August 3. The closures will take place in Asda supermarkets in the following locations: Community pharmacies are essential for providing services to local neighbourhoods but hundreds have been shut in recent years. Pharmacies across the UK have struggled for years due to cuts in government funding and the soaring cost of medicine. Chemists are also being asked to pick up extra slack from the NHS by providing more services, such as vaccinations. The pharmacy industry has lost £1.6billion in the last ten years as the health service's pharmacy contract struggles to keep pace with inflation. As a result, pharmacies are facing big cuts to their real-term funding, which is leading to the closures. Pharmacy chain Boots also closed a string of its own stores in the spring - with more still to come.   Retailers in general have also been battling rising costs as inflation sends prices soaring and less demand among cash-strapped punters. More companies in England and Wales went bankrupt in the first quarter of 2023 than at any point over the last three years, according to the Insolvency Service. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/