E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary Monday through Friday, 8:30am to 3:00pm, please email obits@thereporteronline.com or call us at 610-235-2690 for further information.
 
Saturday & Sunday, please contact obits@thereporteronline.com
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 HARRISBURG — Montgomery County Commissioners’ Chairwoman Dr. Val Arkoosh has been nominated by Gov.-elect Josh Shapiro to become Secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Human Services.The nomination was announced Wednesday morning along with Dr. Debra L. Bogen to be Secretary of Health; Dr. Latika Davis-Jones to be Secretary of Drug and Alcohol Programs; Jason Kavulich to be Secretary of Aging, and Mike Humphreys to be Insurance Commissioner.“These experienced physicians, public health experts, and human services leaders have decades of experience and will work to improve the health and well-being of the people of Pennsylvania,” a press release from the Shapiro-Davis transition team stated.Shapiro, a native of Dresher in Montgomery County, will be sworn in Tuesday, Jan. 17, as governor. The Democrat is himself a former chairman of the Montgomery County Commissioners.Val Arkoosh“The health and safety of our communities is of the utmost importance, and I’m proud to nominate tested leaders like Dr. Val Arkoosh, Dr. Debra Bogen, Dr. Latika Davis-Jones, Jason Kavulich, and Mike Humphreys to key cabinet posts in my Administration — they are well qualified public servants who are passionate about public health and ready to get to work on day one,” said Shapiro.“With today’s announcement, we continue to build our diverse, hard-working team with leaders who will bring decades of public health experience to their roles. Every Pennsylvanian deserves access to quality, affordable health care and a social safety net that is there for them in times of need — and I’m confident these five leaders will help us deliver that for communities all across our Commonwealth,” Shapiro said in the released statement.“As a physician and public health advocate, I spent my career fighting for health care access and affordability for families, and I am deeply honored to be able to continue this fight alongside my friend, Gov.-elect Josh Shapiro,” said Arkoosh. “Working together as Montgomery County Commissioners, I saw Gov.-elect Shapiro’s commitment to enhancing the health and well-being of his constituents firsthand. I look forward to advancing the governor-elect’s agenda to ensure vulnerable populations across the Commonwealth have the support they need and every Pennsylvanian has equitable, affordable access to health care in their community.”“I am extremely honored to accept the nomination as the next Secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Human Services. I look forward to serving alongside Gov.-elect Josh Shapiro and supporting his vision to create a government reflective of the Commonwealth,” Arkoosh said in a statement released by the county.  “I thank Gov.-elect Shapiro for his support and trust in me to continue my track record of delivering equitable, efficient, and data-driven programs and services to the people of Pennsylvania.

“My experience as both a physician and public health professional continues to inform my work,” Arkoosh said. “It was front and center as I shepherded Montgomery County’s efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic through a data and science-driven response, focusing on clear communication and transparency. Throughout my career I have worked in partnership with communities, service providers and other stakeholders to create policies to improve services for children, veterans, and seniors; tackle the opioid epidemic; address maternal health disparities; and protect reproductive rights. As Secretary of DHS, I will continue to work in service to all Pennsylvanians.”Arkoosh, 62, has served as a county commissioner since she was first appointed to fill a vacancy in January 2015. She won election to a full four-year term in November 2015 and was elected to chair the three-member board in November 2016, the first woman to assume this role. She was re-elected in November 2019 and unanimously chosen by her two colleagues to again serve as chairwoman in January 2020.Prior to stepping into public service, she was a practicing physician and professor of clinical anesthesiology and clinical obstetrics and gynecology at the Perelman School of Medicine of the University of Pennsylvania. Arkoosh is a graduate of the University of Nebraska College of Medicine and received a Master of Public Health from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. She performed her residency at Jefferson Medical College in anesthesiology with a special focus on obstetrics. She has an undergraduate degree in economics from Northwestern University.Arkoosh lives in Springfield Township, Montgomery County, with her husband, Jeff Harbison, and their three children.Montgomery County president judge to oversee appointment process to fill Arkoosh’s seat The nomination was announced Wednesday morning along with Dr. Debra L. Bogen to be Secretary of Health; Dr. Latika Davis-Jones to be Secretary of Drug and Alcohol Programs; Jason Kavulich to be Secretary of Aging, and Mike Humphreys to be Insurance Commissioner. “These experienced physicians, public health experts, and human services leaders have decades of experience and will work to improve the health and well-being of the people of Pennsylvania,” a press release from the Shapiro-Davis transition team stated. Shapiro, a native of Dresher in Montgomery County, will be sworn in Tuesday, Jan. 17, as governor. The Democrat is himself a former chairman of the Montgomery County Commissioners. “The health and safety of our communities is of the utmost importance, and I’m proud to nominate tested leaders like Dr. Val Arkoosh, Dr. Debra Bogen, Dr. Latika Davis-Jones, Jason Kavulich, and Mike Humphreys to key cabinet posts in my Administration — they are well qualified public servants who are passionate about public health and ready to get to work on day one,” said Shapiro. “With today’s announcement, we continue to build our diverse, hard-working team with leaders who will bring decades of public health experience to their roles. Every Pennsylvanian deserves access to quality, affordable health care and a social safety net that is there for them in times of need — and I’m confident these five leaders will help us deliver that for communities all across our Commonwealth,” Shapiro said in the released statement. “As a physician and public health advocate, I spent my career fighting for health care access and affordability for families, and I am deeply honored to be able to continue this fight alongside my friend, Gov.-elect Josh Shapiro,” said Arkoosh. “Working together as Montgomery County Commissioners, I saw Gov.-elect Shapiro’s commitment to enhancing the health and well-being of his constituents firsthand. I look forward to advancing the governor-elect’s agenda to ensure vulnerable populations across the Commonwealth have the support they need and every Pennsylvanian has equitable, affordable access to health care in their community.” “I am extremely honored to accept the nomination as the next Secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Human Services. I look forward to serving alongside Gov.-elect Josh Shapiro and supporting his vision to create a government reflective of the Commonwealth,” Arkoosh said in a statement released by the county.  “I thank Gov.-elect Shapiro for his support and trust in me to continue my track record of delivering equitable, efficient, and data-driven programs and services to the people of Pennsylvania. “My experience as both a physician and public health professional continues to inform my work,” Arkoosh said. “It was front and center as I shepherded Montgomery County’s efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic through a data and science-driven response, focusing on clear communication and transparency. Throughout my career I have worked in partnership with communities, service providers and other stakeholders to create policies to improve services for children, veterans, and seniors; tackle the opioid epidemic; address maternal health disparities; and protect reproductive rights. As Secretary of DHS, I will continue to work in service to all Pennsylvanians.” Arkoosh, 62, has served as a county commissioner since she was first appointed to fill a vacancy in January 2015. She won election to a full four-year term in November 2015 and was elected to chair the three-member board in November 2016, the first woman to assume this role. She was re-elected in November 2019 and unanimously chosen by her two colleagues to again serve as chairwoman in January 2020. Prior to stepping into public service, she was a practicing physician and professor of clinical anesthesiology and clinical obstetrics and gynecology at the Perelman School of Medicine of the University of Pennsylvania. Arkoosh is a graduate of the University of Nebraska College of Medicine and received a Master of Public Health from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. She performed her residency at Jefferson Medical College in anesthesiology with a special focus on obstetrics. She has an undergraduate degree in economics from Northwestern University. Arkoosh lives in Springfield Township, Montgomery County, with her husband, Jeff Harbison, and their three children. Montgomery County president judge to oversee appointment process to fill Arkoosh’s seat  Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group