Autoblog writes about automotive accessories, outdoor gear and other lifestyle products. Our articles may include affiliate links; if you buy something through a link, we may earn a commission. Read more about how we select and test products. Autoblog may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Pricing and availability are subject to change. Oil filters are key to keeping your car running properly. They do the important work of removing harmful contaminants such as carbon buildup, dust, and dirt. Keeping the oil in your engine clean requires more than just changing the oil, you also need to change the oil filter. Doing so, as recommended by the manufacturer, will help prolong the life of your engine and let you drive for more miles between oil changes. To help save a little money, you can usually install a new oil filter yourself instead of going to a dealership or mechanic. Here are some of the best oil filters currently available at Amazon. 






 $5.18 at Amazon This Bosch Premium Oil Filter features FILTECH filtration technology that filters more harmful particles and dirt. The silicone anti-drain back valve makes sure the engine is receiving clean oil once the ignition is started. It has a high-lubricity gasket that provides a safe and leakproof seal. 






 $9.06 at Amazon THE FRAM Ultra Synthetic Automotive Replacement Oil Filter is designed for synthetic oil changes but will work on cars with non-synthetic oil as well. This product has a durable dual layer that adds increased filtration efficiency. This oil filter will last up to 20,000 miles. 






 $15.99 at Amazon K&N Performance has a great oil filter made specifically for motorcycles. It’s compatible with all oil types but works best with synthetic oil. It’s built with premium materials and will withstand inclement weather conditions. This filter comes with a 1 year warranty with your purchase. 






 $10.37 at Amazon This Purolator Advanced Engine Oil Filter is made from silicone and will last up to 10,000 miles when used with synthetic oil. Even though this filter is recommended for synthetic oil, it’s compatible with any oil type or viscosity. 






 $13.23 at Amazon This Mann Filter Oil Filter has PTFE-coated bypass valves that offer great resistance to weather, corrosion and rust. It has a great dirt holding capacity and a long-life filter media. This filter is compatible with most vehicle models. 






 $8.44 at Amazon This Motorcraft FL-500S Oil Filter will protect your engine oil from carbon buildup, sand, dust and metal. The pressure relief valve keeps contaminants away from the engine oil and operates efficiently under extreme cold weather conditions.  Before choosing an oil filter you have to make sure it’s compatible with your vehicle and it fits.  Next you have to make sure you know which type of oil blend your vehicle is using to make sure it’s compatible. If it’s your first time changing your own oil filter, we’ve got you covered. Here is our tutorial on changing your engine oil and filter. Oil filters on a car are very similar to oil filters on motorcycles. According to Partzilla, “the internals of a motorcycle and a car oil filter are basically the same. The engine oil passes through filter media that catches dirt, metal shavings, and any other impurities in the oil. As long as the threads on the mount match up, it’ll fit”. 
						7 thoughts about the 2024 Toyota Land Cruiser 1958 
						Shelby Super Snake Mustang could be yours in charity sweepstakes 
						2025 Ford Mustang 60th Anniversary adds Brittany Blue to the palette 
						Here are a few more details about how MLB plans to convert a NASCAR track to play baseball 
						5 promises Elon Musk made about the Cybertruck that never happened 
						Chinese EVs lose ground in Europe as tariffs take effect    Please enter a display name Please sign in to leave a comment.