Molly Alter wears a lot of hats. She’s a mocumentary filmmaker working on a project about an alternate reality where charades is big business. She’s a caesar salad connoisseur and…  Identity management is one of the most common fulcrums around which security breaches have pivoted in the last several years. One of the main reasons it has become the gift…  Index Ventures is announcing $2.3 billion in new funds to finance the next generation of tech startups globally. These new funds are spread across different stages with $800 million dedicated…  Hebbia, a startup that uses generative AI to search large documents and respond to large questions, has raised a $130 million Series B at a roughly $700 million valuation led…  Wordsmith, a fledgling Scottish legal tech startup, has somehow managed to attract the backing of two well-known venture capital firms. The startup targets in-house legal teams and law firms with…  In its three-year history, EthonAI has amassed some fairly high-profile customers including Siemens and chocolate-maker Lindt.  Death, as the famous saying goes, is one of the inevitable certainties of life. But that doesn’t make coping with it any easier — not least because while loved ones…  As part of the Metrics That Matter series, we’ve written about three analyses to track the path to profitability and two metrics to calibrate retention and expansion. These metrics serve…  Biotech and AI startup Cradle is finding success with its generative approach to protein design, landing big customers and a hefty $24 million of new investment. The company exited stealth…  Creating the many types of content needed for large-scale B2B campaigns often results in marketers juggling dozens of tools. This makes it difficult to ensure cohesive messaging across their emails,…  Braid, a four-year-old startup that aimed to make shared wallets more mainstream among consumers, has shut down. Founded in January 2019 by Amanda Peyton and Todd Berman (who left in…  London-based startup Apron announced that it has raised a $15 million Series A funding round led by Index Ventures, with Bessemer Venture Partners and Visionaries Club participating. The company wants…  Meet Worldover, a new London-based startup that recently received $3.8 million in funding (£3 million). The startup is trying to simplify the compliance process when it comes to launching new…  When Panobi co-founder Merci Grace began running growth at Slack in 2015, she helped grow the user base from 50,000 to more than 3 million in just a couple of…  Earlier this week, The New York Times shone a light on some of the desperation that founders are experiencing as they try and fail to secure compute power for their…  Artificial intelligence has been a big theme in the world of health and medical research, and specifically in the area of drug discovery. Today, another hopeful in the space is…  Some thoughts on the future of vertical SaaS, what the second half of 2023 might hold for Israeli startups, and founder well-being.  Molly Alter is joining venture capital firm Northzone after being a partner with Index Ventures since 2020.  While working at Google, Wade Norris wanted to create a project that could positively impact people’s lives. He co-founded Google Lens, Google’s computer vision-powered app that brings up information related…  GetHarley, a platform that connects consumers with skincare clinicians and related products, has raised $52 million in a round of funding led by existing investor Index Ventures. Founded out of…  While Chegg beat analyst expectations for the first quarter of the year, it also raised a warning that didn’t fall on deaf ears.  Identity management used to mean making sure you had your driver’s license when you left the house, but these days it’s not so easy: Identity fundamentally underpins how we engage…  Identity management used to mean making sure you had your driver’s license when you left the house, but these days it’s not so easy: Identity fundamentally underpins how we engage…  The ability to offer businesses more ways to accept digital payments is crucial globally, but merchants’ specific needs typically differ based on geography. In recognition of those nuances, Liquido has…  Tomer Greenwald, Uri Sarid and Ori Shoshan, software developers by trade, found themselves building and configuring software authentication and authorization mechanisms repeatedly — each time with a different tech stack.…  I took a deep dive with Covariant co-founder and CEO Peter Chen at ProMat the other week. The timing was either perfect or terrible depending on who you ask. I’m…  Hello, and welcome back to Equity, a podcast about the business of startups, where we unpack the numbers and nuance behind the headlines. This is…  Temporal, an open source microservices orchestration platform used by companies, including Netflix, Snap and Comcast, has raised $75 million from a slew of high-profile investors including Sequoia Capital and Greenoaks.…  Jumbo, an app that lets you control your privacy on the web, is hitting the reset button — sort of. While the company is still focused on privacy and security,…  The logic behind many fintech companies’ automated decisions — decisions that determine whether a customer is approved for a credit line, for example — is hard-coded into their app’s backend.…  Powered by WordPress VIP