Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved. thesouthafrican.com is a division of Blue Sky Publications Ltd. Reproduction without permission prohibited Home » COVID-19 update: Cases breach 2 500 mark, deaths up to 34 COVID-19 cases in South Africa have climbed to 2 506, with seven more deaths reported since Tuesday 14 April.  Health Minister Zweli Mkhize announced the latest COVID-19 numbers on Wednesday 15 March, saying that the caseload in South Africa has increased by 91 to 2 506. According to Mkhize, the total amount of deaths has increased to 34.  Six deaths were reported in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN), including two patients who had not had any confirmed underlying illnesses. One death was reported in Gauteng, with a 50-year-old man who had underlying chronic asthma succumbing to the illness.  The COVID-19 caseloads in each province are as follows: Media Release: The total number of tests conducted is 90 515 pic.twitter.com/eGzlr4jew6 Mkize was speaking at a briefing which also included an announcement by Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates that the two football clubs would partner with broadcaster Multichoice to assist in the fight against the spread of the virus.  The partnership between the Soweto-based rivals, who have joined forces in solidarity against a common enemy, will facilitate the provision of much-needed personal protective equipment (PPE). The contribution includes 100 000 N95 masks, 350 000 surgical masks, 100 000 gloves, 10 000 protective overalls and 100 000 shoe covers. “We would like to express our sincere appreciation for this generous act of solidarity,” said Mkhize.  “We will do everything to protect healthcare members from becoming infected.”  This is a developing story. Is jy Afrikaans? Kliek hier vir nuus in jou taal! ‘Thank you for the opportunity to welcome Deano David van Rooyen and Carloz Nodar Paz,’ the Orlando Pirates legend said. The ICC has confirmed that the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2024 will be moved from Bangladesh to the United Arab Emirates due to political instability. The Springboks have just seven Test matches remaining in 2024. Here are all the fixtures to note for the rest of the season. Air Botswana has announced their new and reinstated routes to South Africa have official start dates. Here are the details… We’re set for an interesting transfer battle between Rulani’s Wydad, Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates for a PSL star! Two more Orlando Pirates FC players look set to leave the club on loan before the transfer window shuts close next month!  
          TheSouthAfrican.com is all about South Africa and the stories that affect South Africans, wherever they are in the world.
         
          We're independent.
          
          No agenda.
          
          No bias.
         
          Our offices are for administrative purposes only, no visitors will be accepted without an appointment.
         
South Africa – Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd - Registration Number: 2005/028472/07 - Address: Regus Business Centre, 1st Floor, Block B, North Park, Black River Park, 2 Fir Street, Observatory, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa
         Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved.