The process helps to reduce stressors and guarantees early and uninterrupted access to feed and water. On-farm hatching of broiler chicks could reduce stress and improves  broiler performance and industry sustainability.   “It’s a novel and future-proof way of hatching chicks and, at the  same time, eliminate stress related to hatchery handlings and also transport of  day-old chicks to the farm,” Erik Hoeven, general manager, NestBorn. At the 2023 Poultry Tech Summit, Hoeven will  highlight how on-farm hatching could help to reduce the various stressors  associated with hatcheries, including hunger, thirst, handling and  transportation and also result in better  health and performance.   The Poultry Tech Summit, scheduled for November 6-8  at the Hilton Atlanta Airport in Atlanta, Georgia, focuses on the transition of  innovative technologies into commercial applications to advance the poultry  industry. Registration for this event is now open. Early bird savings are available. In  this scenario, pre-incubated eggs are shipped to a broiler farm, where they are  hatched directly on the floor. This guarantees an uninterrupted early  access to feed and water and an elimination of handling and transport. Transitioning to on-farm broiler hatching has several welfare  benefits, but importantly, it can also boost sustainability and productivity,  as well as help the farmer’s bottom line. For hatcheries, it also offers  opportunities to invest rather in a lean and clean “eggery,” and to hatch  solely on farms. “There is obviously an angle in terms of animal welfare, which  translates to less mortality, less footpad dermatitis and things like that, but  we also see that it provides opportunities to improve the health and technical  parameters related to hatcheries and broiler production,” Hoeven said. Join an exclusive international  gathering of industry-changing innovators, researchers, entrepreneurs,  technology experts, investors and leading poultry producers at the 2023 edition  of Poultry Tech Summit on November 6-8 at  the Hilton Atlanta Airport in Atlanta, Georgia.  Attendees can expect the same  groundbreaking innovation and insightful presentations that made the previous  events well-attended with deep dialogue on new prospective solutions and  next-generation technologies. Poultry Tech Summit focuses on the transition of  innovative technologies into commercial applications to advance the poultry  industry. Registration for this event is now open. Early bird savings are available.