Costco pictured on April 18, 2020. (Staten Island Advance/Jason Paderon)Jason Paderon Citi is continuing to remove shopping and travel protections from its credit cards, which it began doing in 2019. Beginning next year, the loss of protections now applies to the Costco Anywhere Visa Card by Citi and the Costco Anywhere Visa Business Card by Citi, according to ThePointsGuy.com. Currently, both Costco Citi credit cards offer extended warranty protection that adds 24 months to manufacturers’ warranties – totaling seven years of coverage – as well as allowing reimbursement claims of up to $10,000 or the cost to repair or replace the item, whichever is less. ThePointsGuy reported that most Costco Citi credit card holders received notice of the upcoming changes, which begin on Jan. 22, 2023, in the mail. However, even if you did not receive notice from Citi or Costco, if you have the Costco Anywhere Visa Card by Citi of the Costco Anywhere Visa Business Card by Citi, it applies to you. You can also logon to your Citi account online and head to the card benefits page, select your Costco credit card, and a message warning of a change to card benefits will pop up. The end of the extended warranty for purchases will only apply to purchases made on Jan. 22, 2023 or after. Card holders who already have extended warranty coverage for purchases made in 2020 will continue to be covered. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices