 The Dubai’s Roads and Transport Authority (RTA) partnership with Hypermedia granted the signature naming rights of Al Safa Metro Station to AI technology company, Onpassive.  Al Safa Metro Station will be fully rebranded as Onpassive Metro Station for 10 years. The station, which is on the Red Line of the Dubai Metro, is strategically located on Sheikh Zayed Road. Abdul Mohsen Ibrahim Kalbat, CEO of Rail Agency, RTA, said, “Through partnering with Onpassive, RTA is keen to showcase the high profile of Dubai as a city that appeals to international investments and matches the aspirations of entrepreneurs seeking to enhance their presence and competitiveness in the emirate. We are thrilled to see one of the global companies taking the naming rights of Al Safa Metro Station in a perfect move poised to raise its brand visibility and presence in the economic map of Dubai and the UAE in general. “Dubai is shaping into a benchmark in the quality of infrastructure, where RTA is an integral part thereof. Dubai Metro stations are among the key mass transit means that boast strategic locations in the emirate and serve hundreds of thousands of riders every day. These facts are key contributors to attracting foreign capitals, which always seek feasible and sustainable revenues over the long run, which is exactly provided by RTA,” added Kalbat. Mr. Ashraf Mufareh, founder and CEO of Onpassive, commented: “Our partnership with Dubai’s Roads and Transport Authority is one of many future steps aimed at spreading the use of artificial intelligence in the service of humanitarian causes, as Dubai is one of the most attractive destinations for multi-nationals from around the globe, with more than 8 million tourists arriving last year. Therefore, we strive to provide our best- in-class services, and we strive for excellence and innovation by providing the best smart services to Dubai Metro passengers and the broad public in the country and the world”. Mr. Mohammad Nazzal, chief marketing officer of the company, said, “This fruitful and constructive cooperation will help Onpassive to provide many of its smart digital services to the UAE community and will serve as a good opportunity to support artificial intelligence services in the country because the Metro is one of the most widely used means of mass transportation in the UAE and that the number of its users is constantly increasing and reached more than 12 million users in the first months of last year, which means that this partnership reflects Onpassive’s marketing vision to serve all customers”. “Today, more than ever, we are committed to elevating and enhancing the Dubai Metro OOH media journey to become more dynamic and interactive, paving the way for more innovative an advanced digital marketing experiences,” said, Hypermedia chairman and CEO Habib Wehbi on the 10-year strategic naming rights partnership between RTA and Onpassive. From January to March 2023, RTA will rename the station on the external as well as the indoor and outdoor directional signage. The new name will also be updated on the smart systems and RTA’s public transport apps along with the onboard audio announcements before and at the time of arriving at the station. Top news, insights and analysis every week © copyright 2022 CampaignME © copyright 2018 CampaignME