Will it hit US chipmakers hard or impact its domestic economy which is struggling to recover? Ameya Paleja 0 The US-China Tech war is taking new turns William Potter/ iStock  William Potter/ iStock  Starting August 1, traders of gallium and germanium from China needed “special permission” to export the two rare minerals outside the country. CNN reported that the result was an abrupt halt in exports of these materials required by chipmakers, further intensifying its tech war with the US.  China is the largest producer of gallium, accounting for 80 percent of the global production while retaining the lion’s share in germanium, which contributes 60 percent. In July, however, the country cited “national security” concerns. It imposed export controls on the two minerals crucial for making semiconductor chips in devices ranging from smartphones to automobiles and advanced weapons.  The very month the “special permission” requirement was brought in, exports of the two minerals dropped to zero as against 5.15 metric tons of forged gallium and 8.1 metric tons of forged germanium in July.  The move to stop exports of gallium and germanium by China is a response to a call from the US Commerce Department last year to stop exports of gallium oxide to China. Gallium oxide is used to manufacture low energy-consuming semiconductors and is expected to be a $1.5 billion industry by the decade’s end.  Later in October, the US government further extended the ban to high-end chips and chip-making equipment to prevent China from gaining experience in next-generation semiconductors. The US was hopeful that a ban, which gained support from Japan and the Netherlands, would put China on the back foot.  However, in addition to an export ban on the essential ingredient of these advanced chips, Chinese company Huawei unveiled a new generation chip on its Mate 60 Pro smartphone, a move which is expected to bring more sanctions from the US on Huawei and the chipmaker, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMIC).  Even before more sanctions take effect, China’s policy has begun to impact its markets. Gallium prices dropped nearly 20 percent to 1,900 yuan (US$260) per metric ton as supply is outstripping the demand for the mineral. The cost of germanium has remained higher at 10,050 yuan (US$1,376) per metric ton because of tighter supply, CNN said in its report.  CreativaImages/iStock  An export ban is a double-edged sword since it can help China pressure the US to ease its restrictions and impact revenues. Last month, Chinese exports shrank the most in three years, a move expected to hurt the economy struggling to recover. Weak domestic demand and a housing crisis are contributing to the economic woes in the region.  China’s position can also benefit other producers of these minerals who continue to trade with countries like the US. It also pushes businesses to move their supply chain to other markets and reduce their dependence on China.  China appears willing to soften its stance and has approved some applications for “special permission,” according to a comment from He Yadong, China’s commerce ministry spokesperson.  Stay up-to-date on engineering, tech, space, and science news with The Blueprint. By clicking sign up, you confirm that you accept this site's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Ameya Paleja Ameya is a science writer based in Hyderabad, India. A Molecular Biologist at heart, he traded the micropipette to write about science during the pandemic and does not want to go back. He likes to write about genetics, microbes, technology, and public policy. a day ago a day ago a day ago a day ago