 An official State of Texas website. Here's how you know. Here's how you know.  The .gov means it’s official.  State and federal government websites often end in .gov. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on an official government site.  The site is secure.  The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Texas Health and Human Services Commission (HHSC), John H. Winters Building, Public Hearing Room 125, First Floor
701 West 51st Street, Austin, Texas 
78751
United States This meeting will be webcast. Members of the public may attend the meeting in person at the address above or access a live stream of the meeting at https://texashhsmeetings.org/HHSWebcast. Select the tab for the Winters Live on the date and time for this meeting. Please e-mail Webcasting@hhsc.state.tx.us if you have any problems with the webcasting function. This meeting will also be conducted via videoconference call in accordance with the requirements of Section 551.127, Government Code. The member of the Council presiding over the meeting will be physically present at the location specified above. Attendees who wish to provide public comment should see the Public Comment section below. The Council may take any action on any agenda item. Public Comment: HHSC welcomes public comments about topics related to the PANS Advisory Council. Members of the public who would like to provide public comment from the following options: Note: These procedures may be revised at the discretion of HHSC. Contact: Questions regarding agenda items, content, or meeting arrangements should be directed to Kynthia Brooks, Program Development Specialist, Health and Human Services Commission, 512-438-4715, or odpc@hhs.texas.gov. This meeting is open to the public. No reservations are required, and there is no cost to attend this meeting. Persons who want to attend the meeting and require assistive technology or services should contact Kynthia Brooks at 512-438-4715 or odpc@hhs.texas.gov at least 72 hours before the meeting so appropriate arrangements can be made. © Copyright 2016-2024. Texas Health & Human Services Commission. All rights reserved.