 Taking mobile livestreaming to a whole new level, Smart Communications, Inc. (Smart) and US-based Radisys® Corporation, a subsidiary of Jio Platforms Limited, successfully ran its beta test of the Smart LiveStream App boasting groundbreaking features at the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2023. As FIBA’s official global partner, Smart, the wireless unit of PLDT Inc. collaborated with Radisys in tapping select Filipino personalities to experience the future of mobile streaming as they watched the much-anticipated FIBA Basketball World Cup 2023 match of Philippines versus Italy last August 29. The all new features of the enhanced Smart LiveStream App includes a 360 Camera for users to freely adjust their viewing angle by swiping across their screen – capturing all the hardcourt action and thrill of the game. An interactive Live Chat feature makes streaming more engaging and fun for users, including a Live Poll to ask the viewers’ sentiments on the game. ‘Match Up’ and ‘Box Score’ tabs show team and individual stats, respectively, in real-time. A ‘Watch Party’ tab allows users to share the livestream with up to seven other people, with enabled video and audio for them to talk, share images, and post emojis while watching the game. This is the first beta test by PLDT and Smart with Radisys since their August 2023 announcement of a cross-border collaboration for enhanced digital experiences in the Philippines. “The successful showcase of game-changing features on the Smart LiveStream App is a major step forward in our ongoing collaboration with Radisys, and in our shared thrust to provide the best mobile experience to Filipinos. It gives a glimpse of a more fun, interactive, and immersive streaming experience that we will soon bring to the fingertips of our subscribers powered by our award-winning mobile network,” said PLDT and Smart President and CEO Alfredo S. Panlilio. “Radisys is thrilled at the progress of our collaboration with PLDT-Smart. With the success of our beta test and positive reception from participants, we are eager to share and leverage our expertise and experience as we roll out breakthrough innovations relevant to our customers,” said Arun Bhikshesvaran, President and CEO, Radisys. The successful beta test of the new Smart LiveStream App is among Smart’s efforts to bring the best on-ground and online basketball experiences to Filipinos during the country’s hosting of the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2023 from August 25 to September 10.  Smart has made history as the first and only Philippine mobile operator to be recognized as the country’s Best Mobile Network for three consecutive reporting periods by Ookla, the global leader in mobile and broadband network intelligence. To earn the prestigious recognition, Smart won both Ookla’s ‘Fastest Network’ and ‘Best Mobile Coverage’ categories within the same reporting periods – first in Q1-Q2 2022, Q3-Q4 2022, and most recently in Q1-Q2 2023.     © All Rights Reserved, Newspaper Theme.