Tri County Tech’s Creative Communications Instructor Wyatt Gerth was named the Oklahoma Association of Career and Technology Education’s 2023 New Teacher of the Year during the annual CareerTech Summit at the Cox Business Convention Center. The award recognizes an outstanding CTE educator with up to five years of experience in a career or technical education setting. This educator has not only introduced meaningful contributions toward career and technical education programs, but has also showcased remarkable professional commitment from the onset of their career. Gerth received a $5,000 cash award along with a plaque and student-designed trophy. Getting noticed: Tri County Tech receives national recognition for STEM curriculum, career readiness “Winning Oklahoma Career Tech’s New Teacher of the Year is an incredible honor that humbles me beyond words. As an educator, my passion has always been to light the path of knowledge and skills for my students, guiding them toward a future filled with opportunities," Gerth said. "This award is a testament to the hard work and dedication Tri County Tech has poured into creating an innovative and inclusive learning environment. I am deeply grateful for this recognition, and I am more committed than ever to continue nurturing the talents of my students, equipping them for success in the dynamic world of career and technical education." Based in Bartlesville, Tri County Tech serves students from Washington, Osage and Nowata counties. Other statewide winners announced at the ceremony include Teacher of the Year Jonathan Walden from Oklahoma Agricultural Education Teachers Association, Support Staff Member of the Year Amber Sutton from Autry Technology Center and Postsecondary Professional of the Year Jona Kay Squires from Metro Technology Centers. More: Tri County Tech receives grant for aeronautics program “We congratulate Wyatt Gerth on being awarded the OkACTE New Teacher of the Year. Mr. Gerth’s unwavering dedication, innovative teaching methods, and passion for Creative Marketing Communications have profoundly impacted his students’ lives and Tri County Tech. I am proud to have such an incredible educator among us, and we extend our heartfelt congratulations on this well-deserved achievement,” said Dr. Tammie. Strobel, Tri County Tech’s Superintendent & CEO. This article originally appeared on Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise: Tri County Tech's Gerth wins New Teacher of the Year award New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.