Get an annual AARP membership for only $12. Limited time offer. 
                            Learn about how to save on internet and stay safe online.
                         SeniorLiving.org is supported by commissions from providers listed on our site. Read our Editorial Guidelines Thank you for your inquiry Someone will be in touch shortly Choosing the best internet service on a low or fixed income means finding the right balance between quality and value. Fortunately, some of the top providers in the country offer competitive rates, fast speeds, and plenty of extra perks. To help you fast-track your search, here are some of the highest-rated internet providers we have reviewed. The internet has endless possibilities for older adults. Whether you want to connect with friends and family, learn a new recipe, stay up-to-date on the news, or shop until you drop, everything is a click or two away. In this guide to all things internet, we'll cover costs and providers and offer tips on how to snag the best internet plan for your needs. We'll also dive into internet fraud and theft to help you learn how to avoid becoming a victim. Looking for an internet provider in your area? We’ve reviewed the nation’s top providers so you can find the one that’s right for your needs and budget. Whether you want to learn how to make your internet faster or get food delivered straight to your door, these resources will help you make the most of your internet connection.
delivered straight to your door, these resources will help you make the most of your internet connection. Older adults are more internet savvy than ever! According to a recent survey by Pew Research Center, 96 percent of adults ages 50 to 64 use the internet. The number drops slightly to 88 percent with adults ages 65 and up.1 From internet and cell phones to wearable technology and home security, older adults are embracing the benefits of technology and being powered up and plugged in. As you shop for an internet provider and plan, you'll discover that pricing varies widely. That's why comparison shopping is crucial. Basic internet plans for low-income seniors start at $10 a month. Older adults requiring a top-of-the-line plan with support for multiple devices, high-speed downloads, and lag-free streaming can expect to pay between $50 and $100 monthly. Internet service and plan pricing are heavily impacted by: If your post-retirement budget is tight, you're not alone. Many older adults, including veterans, lower-income seniors, and people with disabilities, struggle to pay for internet coverage. Nearly 22 million American seniors lack internet access at home, representing 42 percent of the nation's over-65 population.2 Luckily, there is a place to turn for affordable internet. Participants in Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), the Supplemental Nutritional Access Program (SNAP), veterans benefits, and other federal and state assistance programs may be eligible for free or low-cost internet through the Lifeline Support for Affordable Communications program, which is part of the Federal Communications Commission. Lifeline helps low-income consumers access phone and internet services. Eligible low-income subscribers get a discount of $9.25 monthly and up to $34.25 monthly if they live on Tribal lands. Check out Lifeline's comprehensive site to learn more about the program, its eligibility requirements, and how to apply. Want to learn more about free internet for seniors? Watch our video below!  If you’re shopping for a new internet provider, you’re likely wondering who the best providers are for older adults. Let’s take a look at our top picks. With a wide range of plans, including AT&T Access low-cost internet, you can choose a plan that meets your budget and needs. AT&T provides coverage in 21 states. Worried about staying safe online? AT&T has you covered with antivirus software and an AT&T Internet Security Suite powered by McAfee. You can also pair your internet and AT&T cell phone plan for optimum savings! Spectrum is part of Charter Communications, a leading broadband connectivity company and cable operator serving over 32 million customers in 41 states. It offers three packages through Spectrum Internet, including Spectrum Internet Assist for low-income adults. The company also offers Spectrum TV and internet packages to bundle your services. Spectrum offers customers extra perks, such as a free modem and antivirus software. With a 30-day money-back guarantee and no contract or data caps on internet usage, Spectrum is certainly customer-focused. CenturyLink offers DSL and fiber internet packages in 36 states. Customers can choose a plan tailored to their online needs with low-, moderate-, and high-speed plans. Tech-savvy seniors can take advantage of CenturyLink's free self-installation kit. If you're not the do-it-yourself type, help is just a phone call away with 24/7 technical support. Be sure to cash in on savings by bundling services and opting for paperless billing. Cox provides strong and fast internet connectivity in 18 states across the U.S. There are several plans to choose from, including Cox's StraightUp prepaid internet plan. You can try Cox's service risk-free with its 30-day money-back guarantee. If you're looking for a bundle, check out Cox's cable TV, internet, and phone packages. All Cox internet plans come with Cox Security Suite, an antivirus software powered by McAfee to protect up to five devices. Cox provides 24/7/365 service, so you can always connect to a representative for support. Available in 40 states, Xfinity is part of Comcast NBC Universal and is a leader in innovation and entertainment. Customers can opt to bundle services for access to high-speed internet, hundreds of HD channels with Xfinity cable TV packages, and a home phone line. Xfinity also offers affordable internet options for older adults, including the Xfinity Internet Essentials plan designed and priced for low-income customers. Choosing the best internet service for your needs takes some detective work. Below are our tips for finding the right provider. Did You Know? Internet discounts are just the beginning! From grocery and retail to travel and insurance, our research team has compiled over 100 senior discounts to cash in on. The Federal Trade Commission's latest data regarding internet crimes is alarming. The FTC received 2.4 million fraud reports from consumers in 2022; the top fraud categories were imposter scams and online shopping scams. Security Tip: The National Council on Aging says the most common scam targeting seniors is the government impersonation scam. The criminal imposters pretend to be from the IRS or Social Security and use special technology to spoof real phone numbers from government agencies. The scammers may request payment in specific forms (like cash, wire transfer, or prepaid debit cards) and threaten if payment isn't made immediately. Older adults need to be especially vigilant against cyberattacks. Research shows that 50 percent of all scams against older adults occur online rather than over the phone or in person. Luckily, you can protect yourself by learning about common senior scams. Just follow the six simple steps below to safeguard your information and not fall prey to people with criminal intent. Pro Tip: If you are interested in returning to the dating game online, keep an eye out for scammers. Some senior dating sites, such as SilverSingles, take your safety and security seriously. Contact the site's management if you're concerned. Watch the video below if you enjoy checking in on friends and family on social media. Our editor-in-chief, Jeff Hoyt, will walk you through the best ways to stay safe on social media.  Whether you need an introductory lesson on connecting your laptop to the internet or a refresher course on downloading Zoom to chat with the grandkids, there are several ways to keep up with the latest tech! Community colleges and universities: Many community colleges offer noncredit classes geared toward older adults, including computer technology classes. Many universities also offer free or discounted tuition for seniors. GCFLearnFree.org: Supported by the Goodwill Community Foundation, GCFLearnFree.org offers completely free resources on over 300 topics, including over 6,000 lessons and 2,000 videos. National Association of Area Agencies on Aging: The National Association of Area Agencies on Aging (n4a) provides support and resources for older adults. Based on your city, state, or ZIP code, n4a serves as a gateway organization to help you find local resources. Public libraries: The library in your town is a fantastic resource for computer assistance and classes. Senior Planet: Senior Planet from AARP taps into technology to offer courses, programs, and activities to help older adults learn new skills. Pro Tip: Visit our guide to tech for older adults for more resources and step-by-step guides on topics ranging from mobile apps to video chatting to food delivery services. The internet is a great place to start if you're interested in learning a new skill or mastering an old one. Many websites and organizations offer free or inexpensive online courses, and you can sign up with just a few clicks.  Did you find this content helpful?

 Yes
			 No
			 Great to hear! Please share what was helpful to you today:
What can we do to improve this content?


 Pew Research Center. (2024). Internet/Broadband Fact Sheet. Aging Connected. (2021). Exposing the Hidden Connectivity Crisis for Older Adults. FTC. (2021). New Data Shows FTC Received 2.2 Million Fraud Reports from Consumers in 2020. UC Berkeley. (2021). Online Safety During COVID-19: What Older Adults Need to Know.   Name


  Email


  Phone


  What would you like to share with us?


 
 The content, including without limitation any viewpoint or opinion in any profile, article or video, contained on this website is for informational purposes only. Any third party contributor to any such profile, article or video has been compensated by SeniorLiving.org for such contribution. It is advised that you conduct your own investigation as to the accuracy of any information contained herein as such information, including without limitation any medical advice, is provided "as is" for informational purposes only. Further, SeniorLiving.org shall not be liable for any informational error or for any action taken in reliance on information contained herein. © Copyright 2024 SeniorLiving.org a Centerfield Media Company