Converge ICT Solutions Inc. said Monday it emerged as the winner of the Ookla Speedtest Award for best ISP video experience in the Philippines for the second half of 2022. The company recorded an overall 80.99 video score, reflective of the results of consumer-initiated scoring during a six-month period. The video scoring, which ranges from 0 to 100, rates users’ video experiences. “Filipinos have spoken, and we have emerged as the ISP giving the superior video experience to them. This speaks for itself: our high speed, high capacity internet produces the best experience in streaming and consuming video content whether for gaming or entertainment. This is a mark of excellence in service for us,” said Converge co-founder and chief executive Dennis Anthony Uy. Converge has been a consistent performer in Ooklas consumer-initiated ratings, winning Most Consistent Network across five regions in the last quarter of 2021 and being crowned the Top Rated Fixed Network for the first half of 2022. The company also topped video streaming giant Netflix’s ISP Speed Index in December 2022, proving its steady No. 1 ranking in Netflix’s monthly speed index for most of 2022. Converge upgraded its suit of connectivity plan offers in November, doubling the speed of its base plan from 100 Mbps to 200 Mbps at no extra cost and still offering unlimited bandwidth with no data caps. The company is the first and only internet service provider in the Philippines to upgrade its network backbone data transmission capacity to 800 Gbps, making it possible to facilitate high-speed data transfers that are vital for streaming. “Our mission has always been to give Filipinos the best digital experience. Winning this award attests to our hard work of continuously upgrading and expanding our network and diversifying our products and services,” said Converge chief operations officer Jesus Romero. “This award confirms the value of our end to end network design objective to implement and operate a network that is high availability, low latency and non-blocking. Video applications whether video streaming or video conferencing are very susceptible to network quality issues such latency, packet loss and jitter. This award, based on user generated tests, is a firm validation of the end-to-end, overall quality of our network. Technology at work to provide the best possible customer experience,” he said. Ookla, the company behind the semi-annual Speedtest Awards, is the global leader in mobile and broadband network intelligence, testing applications and related technologies. © All Rights Reserved, Newspaper Theme.