Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript. Advertisement You can also search for this author in PubMed
 Google Scholar
 The crowd in the auditorium began murmuring, then gasping, as Emma Curtis-Lake put her slides up on the screen. “Amazing!” someone blurted out.   Access Nature and 54 other Nature Portfolio journals Get Nature+, our best-value online-access subscription $29.99 / 30 days cancel any time Subscribe to this journal Receive 51 print issues and online access $199.00 per year only $3.90 per issue Rent or buy this article Prices vary by article type from$1.95 to$39.95 Prices may be subject to local taxes which are calculated during checkout Nature 612, 600-601 (2022) doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-022-01860-3 Reprints and permissions 


                        
                        Landmark Webb telescope releases first science image — astronomers are in awe
                    
 


                        
                        ‘Bit of panic’: Astronomers forced to rethink early Webb telescope findings
                    
 


                        
                        JWST’s best images: spectacular stars and spiralling galaxies
                    
 Primordial black holes are too scarce to explain dark matter News & Views 19 AUG 24 Jupiter mission will attempt first-ever fly-by that harnesses Earth and Moon’s gravity News 15 AUG 24 Black holes regulate cool gas accretion in massive galaxies Article 14 AUG 24 These labs have prepared for a big earthquake — will it be enough? News 18 AUG 24 Jupiter mission will attempt first-ever fly-by that harnesses Earth and Moon’s gravity News 15 AUG 24 Dinosaur-killing Chicxulub asteroid formed in Solar System’s outer reaches News 15 AUG 24 A temperate super-Jupiter imaged with JWST in the mid-infrared Article 24 JUL 24 This glowing speck is a freezing exoplanet six times the size of Jupiter News 24 JUL 24 A hot-Jupiter progenitor on a super-eccentric retrograde orbit Article 17 JUL 24 The Yakoub and Sulzer labs at Harvard Medical School-Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Columbia University Boston, Massachusetts (US) Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital CMLR's goal is to advance machine learning-related research across a wide range of disciplines. Beijing, China Center for Machine Learning Research (CMLR), Peking University ISM, based on this program, is implementing the reserve talent strategy with postdoctoral researchers. Suzhou, Jiangsu, China Suzhou Institute of Systems Medicine (ISM) YNL recruits leading scientists in agriculture: crop/animal genetics, biotech, photosynthesis, disease resistance, data analysis, and more. Sanya, Hainan, China Yazhouwan National Laboratory We aim to foster cutting-edge scientific and technological advancements in the field of molecular tissue biology at the single-cell level. Guangzhou, Guangdong, China Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine and Health(GIBH), Chinese Academy of Sciences  


                        
                        Landmark Webb telescope releases first science image — astronomers are in awe
                    
 


                        
                        ‘Bit of panic’: Astronomers forced to rethink early Webb telescope findings
                    
 


                        
                        JWST’s best images: spectacular stars and spiralling galaxies
                    
 An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday. Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily. 

                    Nature (Nature)
                

ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
    

ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
    
 © 2024 Springer Nature Limited