Advanced Search News Microsoft announced multiple products that reached  "general availability" (GA), or commercial release, during the Microsoft Build event for developers, happening this week.  The following GA list was extracted from Microsoft's "Book  of News" (BoN) publication  for Microsoft Build. It possibly includes some products that reached GA even before  Microsoft Build, but it also has stragglers expected to reach GA later this year.  There were no standouts, but the highlights might include the new Burst Capacity for Azure  Cosmos DB users, the Azure Monitor support for Prometheus container monitoring  as a managed service, plus the ability of the Azure Kubernetes Service to use Azure  Linux as a container host OS. Also, avatars for Teams users are expected next month. Azure Services GA Features
Document Translation in Language Studio reached GA. It helps  developers by using AI to "translate documents in batches" (BoN 2.1.1). Azure Machine Learning Registries reached GA. It lets  developers "promote, share and discover machine learning artifacts such as  models, pipelines and environments across multiple workspaces in an  organization for more efficient cross-team operations and collaboration"  (BoN 2.1.2). Azure Container for PyTorch reached GA, giving developers  access to the "latest PyTorch 2.0 capabilities and optimization software  such as DeepSpeed and ONNX Runtime" for large model training. PyTorch is a  Linux Foundation open source machine learning framework that's used for natural  language and computer vision processing (BoN 2.1.2). Azure Cosmos DB "Burst Capacity" reached GA. It gives  databases or containers extra throughput capacity "during short bursts  when requests exceed the throughput limit." Also, Azure Cosmos DB's  "Hierarchical Partition Keys" reached GA, which lets databases be partitioned  by "up to three partition keys" instead of just one, which broadens performance  and scale options (BoN 2.2.3). The open source Prometheus solution for monitoring workloads  in containers is now available as a fully managed service within Azure Monitor,  a capability that reached GA. This managed service can be useful for larger  organizations by "automating complex tasks such as scaling, high  availability and long-term data retention" (BoN 2.3.2). Red Hat Enterprise Linux now can serve as the guest operating  system on "AMD-based confidential virtual machines," where the guest  OS's memory gets protected against host access by chipset-generated encryption  keys. This capability is said to have reached GA, but just for the "Red  Hat Enterprise Linux 9.2 Tech Preview image" (BoN 2.4.2). The Azure Container Instances service now has support for  "confidential containers," which is at the GA release level using AMD  EPYC processors. Essentially, these containers can be run in a "hardware-based  and attested Trusted Execution Environment," which serves to protect the data  that's in memory (BoN 2.4.3). Azure Deployment Environments, which gives developers a  portal and templates for spinning up code environments, has reached the GA  stage. Templates will be available for "Terraform" (preview) or "Azure  Resource Management files." Azure Deployment Environments also can be used  to "spin up dev boxes from Microsoft Dev Box" (BoN 2.5.1). Microsoft  Dev Box  for Windows apps isn't at GA  yet, but it will be "in July." The idea behind Microsoft Dev Box is  that developers can create workspaces with all of the resources needed for a  project, which can then be remotely accessed via a browser or remote desktop  application. It's a Windows 365-based service for developers that also lets IT  pros do auditing, control patching and set conditional access policies. Microsoft  has added "new starter developer images" in the Azure Marketplace for  Microsoft Dev Box users, which is now at the GA stage. Also, a Developer Portal  capability for managing Azure Deployment Environments is now GA (BoN 2.5.2). Azure API Management, which is a multicloud management solution  for application programming interfaces (APIs), now has a "WebSocket API  Passthrough" capability at GA. This capability lets organizations "manage,  protect, observe and expose WebSocket APIs running in container environments  with the API Management self-hosted gateway container." Also,  organizations can now use Azure Active Directory tokens with the self-hosted  gateway, which "allows customers to avoid manually refreshing a gateway  token that expires every 30 days" (BoN 2.5.4). Azure Communications Services, which offers REST APIs for  integrating communication features (such as voice, video and chat) into  applications, will get new APIs to support "intelligent calling workflows"  augmented with Azure Cognitive Services' AI capabilities. This capability will  reach GA "next month" (BoN 2.5.5). Azure Kubernetes Service can now use Azure Linux as a  container host OS, a capability that reached GA. Azure Linux is Microsoft's  apparently new name for its CBL-Mariner Linux  distro, which is used across its own services. Microsoft claimed that Azure  Kubernetes Service users will gain better performance and increased security  for their applications by using Azure Linux as a container host OS (BoN 2.5.7).  Azure Kubernetes Service now has a "long-term support"  option at GA, which gives organizations two years of support for a particular version  of Kubernetes. Also, "Transactable Kubernetes Apps" are now available  from the Azure Marketplace, offering access to "first- and third-party  Kubernetes-ready solutions" (BoN 2.5.10). Semantic  Kernel, an "open-source framework for building AI apps," is now  at GA, with support for C# and Python. It lets developers "add intelligence  to their apps" and works with template scripts. Semantic Kernel also is  previewing as a VS Code extension (BoN 3.1.3). Microsoft Edge Browser GA Features
Microsoft  Edge Workspaces, a capability that lets users collaborate using "the  same set of browser tabs together," will reach GA "in the next few months  for enterprises." It'll be also available at some point for consumers (BoN  4.1.4).  Microsoft Edge's "Sidebar" in the browser now supports  developers adding progressive Web apps at the GA stage. It's done by adding "one  to two lines of code to the JSON manifest" (BoN 4.1.5). Microsoft 365 Services GA Features
The Live Share Software Development Kit (SDK) for Microsoft Teams  has reached the GA stage. Microsoft explained that "with apps built for  Live Share, participants can annotate, edit, zoom in and out and interact with  shared content in a variety of other ways in the Teams meeting stage" (BoN  5.14). Microsoft Teams developers got several new capabilities at GA.  Independent software vendors (ISVs) can now "target apps to select  geographies" and see details about app use in the developer portal. ISVs can  use keywords to improve the discovery of their apps, and they have access to  user app reviews through the Partner Center. ISVs also got a license management  solution at the GA stage for tracking "SaaS licenses purchased in Teams  and Teams admin center" (BoN 5.1.5). Microsoft Teams Windows and Mac desktop app users will get  avatars at the GA stage "staring this week" for "all Microsoft  365 Business and Enterprise licenses" (BoN 5.1.6). Power Platform GA Features
Copilot in Power Virtual Agents reached the GA stage. Power  Virtual Agents provides a way to create "intelligent chatbots," and  there's now a new "bot-building canvas" that also reached GA (BoN  6.1.3). Power Automate for automating workflows now has a  "format data by examples" capability at GA. It lets users show examples  of "a value they want to format and the desired output." In response,  Power Automate will "suggest the appropriate expression to use" (BoN  6.1.4). Security GA Features
Source-code classifiers to detect intellectual property  embedded in files or used in chats or other apps reached the GA stage. This  machine learning security capability "supports 70-plus file extensions, 23  programming languages and can detect embedded and partial source code, based on  key customer inputs" (BoN 8.1.1). A Microsoft Entra Verified ID Wallet Software Development Kit  library will reach GA in "June 2023." Organizations can use this SDK  to "build verifiable credentials wallets directly into their apps." Microsoft  Entra Verified ID reached  the GA stage last year. It's a decentralized blockchain approach that lets  users establish identity information and have control its submission (BoN  8.1.3). Windows GA Features
Microsoft Store on Windows will get an "AI Hub" for  learning about the benefits of AI and a "review summary" showing app  reviews. These features will reach GA "soon" (BoN 9.1.1).  Windows on Arm will be getting the Unity Player middleware  engine in "early June" (BoN 9.1.4). About the Author 

Kurt Mackie is senior news producer for 1105 Media's Converge360 group. 
                    

 
                        Starting in October, Microsoft will require multifactor authentication (MFA) for all Azure sign ins. 
                        
                        
                        
                     
                        Data security's biggest threat might not come from outside attackers, but from management getting in the way. 
                        
                        
                        
                     
                        Microsoft's monthly security update is here with 88 fixes spread across the company's products and services. 
                        
                        
                        
                     
                        Face Check with Microsoft Entra Verified ID, a consent-based method used to confirm a person's identity, is now generally available.
                        
                        
                        
                     
                        Lessons Learned About Windows Subsystem for Linux Accounts, Part 2: Refresh
                        
                        
                        
                     Subscribe on YouTube More Summits More Webcasts More Tech Library Problems? Questions? Feedback? E-mail us.