Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Free-to-play games come in many shapes and sizes. Battle royales and hero shooters are probably the most oversaturated in this day and age, but genres like MOBAs and MMOs are not going away anytime soon. The latter tend to have a few big names that dominate the scene, but they occasionally welcome new properties that manage to survive beyond a year or two.
      Free open-world games are not extremely common, with most examples falling squarely in the MMORPG sphere. Simply put, these sorts of projects are huge investments for developers and publishers, so they rarely go the free-to-start route unless they are specifically focusing on multiplayer. Still, not every MMO is open-world, and the ones that do qualify cover a wide range of quality. What are the best free-to-play open-world games?
      Updated July 27, 2024 by Mark Sammut: The last few weeks were huge for the free-to-play scene, with three major games making their debuts. While two of them do not qualify, one recent title is open-world.
                     The rankings are not based solely on quality. For instance, a recently released project might take the top spot so it receives more exposure.
                          Between July 1 and 9, three major free-to-play games made their debuts, which could have been a record. While featuring a hub city, Zenless Zone Zero is a gacha game that is primarily split into linear missions and does not qualify as open-world. The First Descendant is somewhat open, with the map gradually expanding to coincide with the story's progression. Basically, missions are set in specific sections that can be explored relatively freely, although they are not particularly packed with optional content. The First Descendant has great visuals and fun gameplay, but it cannot be recommended to anyone specifically craving an open-world experience.
                         Finally, there is Once Human, an ambitious hodgepodge of mechanics that is very much set in a large sandbox. While far from flawless, Starry Studio's project can be a lot of fun, regardless if it is played solo or with a few friends. Due to an alien substance known as Stardust, Earth has fallen in dark, apocalyptic times, leaving behind a corrupted hellscape overrun with twisted mutants that once were humans (or something else entirely).
     Looking to level up your character and Battle Pass in Once Human? Here are some of the best methods to level up fast!                     Along with following a story that explores the group responsible for this situation, Once Human is primarily an open-world survival game with third-person shooter gameplay and a fun creature-collection system. Players must collect resources, craft shelter and tools, fight monsters, and even collect them so they can help out. Although not too unique, the open-world benefits from pretty good visuals and creative monster designs that reward exploration. The crafting and building aspects are arguably Once Human's strongest feature, and they are both relatively deep. The gunplay is decent too, even if enemies do not put up much of a fight.
       Destiny 2 and Warframe have somewhat similar takes on open-worlds. For the most part, the games focus on missions set in fairly self-contained areas; however, players can visit open locations that are designed to be explored freely, and they contain stuff like missions. Basically, they are expansive hub areas, and they are not immediately available. New players will have to work their way through a somewhat lengthy tutorial/opening section before gaining access to these landscapes. Still, they are worth the effort and add a great deal of content to the overall experience.
                         Unlike Destiny 2's limited free-to-play options, Warframe is quite accessible and does not punish players for not investing cash. The campaign can still be a grind, but the combat and lore are both good enough to keep things interesting. If someone is looking to immediately play an open-world project, Warframe is not the best pick; however, those who are fine with an open-world being one piece of an overall great puzzle should check out this freebie.
                          Somehow, RuneScape is still thriving more than two decades following its debut. The MMORPG was one of the first of its kind on the market, and while hundreds of other games have shown up to take its place, precious few have had the longevity and appeal of RuneScape.
                     The RPG's calling card is its progression system that allows players to gain experience points through the execution of skills. It makes most actions feel purposeful, even if the combat itself is quite simplistic. The open-world offers a surprising amount of variety, although the free version does come with its share of restrictions that reduce the overall enjoyment of the experience.
       Genshin Impact was a massive success right out of the gate, and miHoYo has done a good job of maintaining the game's momentum. Set in the beautiful world of Teyvat, the action RPG allows players to build teams of four characters that they can swap in battle, and the campaign's harder challenges require a balanced party filled with fighters who complement each other.
     Genshin Impact welcomes another new region, and along with it comes tons of new quests, mechanics, characters, weapons, and new materials to grind for                     Combat is generally the main focus, but the game encourages exploration as well. Genshin Impact launched with a reasonably large open-world, and subsequent updates introduced new regions to expand the map. Although the end-game can be frustrating for non-paying users, the main story is quite accessible by free-to-play standards, provided someone tolerates Genshin's gacha system.
                          Launching in 2014 and still going strong, Unturned has enjoyed a long and healthy life. Largely revolving around survival, the game has a few notable things that have helped heighten its popularity. For one, most modern PCs should be able to run Unturned since it really does not require powerful specs. Obviously, its "free" price tag does not hurt, especially since the game can generally be enjoyed without requiring monetary investment. The community is also active and fairly welcoming, and this extends to the modding scene.
     Unturned offers players plenty of ways to survive and explore. With these mods, though, the game only gets more interesting.                     Although not much of a looker compared to plenty of modern open-world games, Unturned's voxel art style actually sets it apart from most of the genre's survival offerings since they tend to lean into realistic visuals. Sure, Minecraft is an exception, but Unturned is closer in gameplay and tone to something like DayZ.
                          In 2015, Guild Wars 2 went free-to-play, instantly making it one of the best free open-world games. While expansions need to be purchased, the unpaid version of Guild Wars 2 includes plenty of content since it allows players to experience the base game.
     From Grim Dawn to Golden Sun, these top-tier RPGs feature some great multiclass features to enjoy.                     There are a couple of restrictions regarding exploration (for instance, free accounts are limited to starter maps until their character reaches level 10), but players can mostly travel Central Tyria to their heart's content. Guild Wars 2's expansions are generally worth it, but newcomers can try the free version to see if they want to eventually invest in the game.
                          Thegamecompany has earned its immaculate reputation. Journey is rightfully hailed as one of the greatest games of all time, and the developer followed up that masterpiece by crafting an expansive MMORPG built around creating connections. Rather than focusing on combat, Sky: Children of the Light is all about exploration and socializing, two elements that should be treated as inseparable. Now, technically, the game can be enjoyed solo, and players can spend weeks flying through this kingdom's various regions in search of winged lights. However, the process is way more fun with a couple of companions.
      Sky is not immediately a fully open experience, and players will need to gradually unlock different areas as they work through the campaign (which does not have much of a story). However, they will eventually have all the realms available to them, and at that point, Sky essentially becomes a standard open-world with regions rather than one continuous map.
                          Although initially premium products, Crackdown and its sequel are both free on the Xbox Store, and the games are backward compatible with the Xbox One and Series X/S. While the second entry has its positives, the original Crackdown is generally regarded as the franchise's peak since it was a fresh experience at the time of its release. Cast as an agent tasked with taking down three gangs, players rampage their way through Pacific City as they slowly but surely transform into overpowered superheroes.
     With many Xbox games eventually coming to PCs thanks to Microsoft, there are some titles that are confusingly missing from that lineup.  Crackdown utilizes a skill-based progression system that rewards experience orbs depending on the player's actions; basically, the more somebody uses a skill, the more proficient they become at it. This creates a satisfying and rewarding gameplay loop that ensures players never feel static. As the project debuted in 2007, Pacific City is a fairly quaint open-world by modern standards, although it works well as a sandbox to facilitate absolute mayhem.
      Crackdown 2 is also available to download and contains another sandbox for players to act out their power fantasies. The sequel is nowhere near as highly regarded as its predecessor, but it is still a fine free option for Xbox owners.
       Albion Online can be grueling, but the game can also be really addictive. Rather than focusing on an overarching story, the MMORPG is primarily driven by its resource-gathering, crafting, and Fame systems. The latter determines the equipment players can equip, and acquiring weapons and armor serves as the main gameplay loop. Essentially, players grind until they can craft their desired equipment and then head out into the world's zones to take part in PvP. If an adventurer is killed by another player, they lose their equipped loot (if they are in a Full Loot area), which means they will have to start crafting once again.
      Albion Online does offer different ways for players to approach its content. For instance, if someone wants to solely focus on PvP combat, they can skip the whole crafting element by simply buying weapons and armor from other players. While fairly vast, the open-world is sectioned into zones to accommodate various playstyles or routines. Certain areas only have PvE, while others incorporate PvP action but lessen the death penalty.
       Wuthering Waves takes a few obvious hints from HoYoverse's playbook, to the point of mostly incorporating the same mechanics, just slightly tweaked. While not garnering too many points for originality, Kuro Games turned to these systems for a reason: they are popular. Wuthering Waves brings to life a post-apocalyptic setting where humanity has been pushed to the brink due to a phenomenon that has caused monsters to appear, and Resonators are the only people capable of taking on these threats. After picking a gender, players are cast as Rover, an amnesiac with a few unique Resonator abilities. Mostly a blank slate, the protagonist does not have much going for them beyond good designs for both genders; consequently, the campaign quickly pairs them up with a couple of characters who have bigger personalities.
     Here are some tips to make Wuthering Waves easier to grasp and efficient when starting as a beginner.                     At the moment, Wuthering Waves is very much a mixed bag with plenty of positives and negatives. On the one hand, the real-time combat is fast-paced, satisfying, and relatively challenging. Unsurprisingly for a gacha game that wants to encourage rolling for new Resonators, players have access to a party of characters at any time, allowing them to switch between fights in the middle of battle (and swapping is promoted). Echoes are another neat mechanic that grants players an opportunity to pick up a defeated enemy's echo, which can then be equipped. Moving away from combat, Wuthering Waves becomes a bit more messy. While not terrible so far, the story is so front-loaded with exposition that conversations become tiresome rather quickly. The open-world looks decent, especially Huanglong, but is not extremely fun to explore at the moment, although that could change in the future.
      Wuthering Waves has the potential to be a great free open-world game, but it is not quite there yet. That said, the main campaign should not take that long to complete at this stage, with most playthroughs likely lasting just over 20 hours. As such, this is not a bad time to give Wuthering Waves a try. If the gameplay does not strike a chord with someone, they can just move on.
                          Launching out of nowhere alongside Fortnite Rocket Racing, Lego Fortnite sounds like a match made in heaven, and the crossover is well on its way to proving that. While not officially labeled as "early access," Epic's spin-off feels like a work in progress. Consequently, Lego Fortnite is currently a bit light on content and might struggle to keep someone's attention as indefinitely as a few other survival games like Valheim. However, the game's current state contains more than enough positives to justify a recommendation, especially if players plan to engage in co-op. Outside a few (very popular) releases, the survival genre tends to cater to older players rather than younger ones, so a project that prioritizes the latter is always welcome since the world needs alternatives to Minecraft.
     As they explore the fascinating world of LEGO Fortnite, new players should avoid making these mistakes to maximize their chances of survival.                     Dropping players into randomly generated worlds, Lego Fortnite challenges players to craft a base by gathering materials. The game does not try to reinvent the wheel, opting instead to streamline some of the genre's core concepts while still encouraging creativity and experimentation. When venturing into the unknown, players can expect to engage in a touch of combat, which is generally quite simplistic. Nevertheless, these encounters offer a pleasant change of pace from the material-gathering and base-building loop, and they can be somewhat difficult too.
                          This absolutely free RPG lets players fully immerse themselves in the universe of the Star Wars franchise. What's interesting about Star Wars: The Old Republic is that besides having eight different classes to choose from (and great customization options), the game has a different storyline for each of them.
                         This tailors a unique narrative experience depending on how players play the game. There are also various PvE and PvP activities sprawled across more than 20 different planets across the galaxy far far away, making for an impressive amount of content for even free-to-play players.
                          Yet another movie franchise-based RPG game, Lord of the Rings Online lets players explore the shared open-world of Middle Earth. There are six different races to choose from in the game; dwarf, elf, high-elf, hobbit, man, and beorning. There is also a wide array of classes and specializations to select from in LOTRO.
     For those interested in combat through other means besides swords and magic, these titles allow players to role-play as bards.                      The game is an amazing recreation of Tolkien's books and is available for everyone to immerse themselves in. Whether someone is a fan of the movies or an MMORPG-head in general, this is a title worth getting into; however, LOTRO shows its age in quite a few places, particularly its uninspiring combat. That said, any die-hard fan of the source material should take it upon themselves to try out the game. The developers do a great job of adapting the world and storylines, to the point of being the most thorough version on the market. The free content should keep somebody busy for a very long time.
                          At this point, Planetside 2 is more than a decade old and in the twilight of its life. The people still playing are generally those who have been around for years, and newcomers might be a tad hesitant to jump into a PvP world filled with grizzled vets. Servers can be quiet for long stretches as well, although they do pop off fairly regularly.
                         For the uninitiated, Planetside 2 drops players in a continuous world defined by a forever war pitting three factions against each other (although players can unlock a fourth option as well). Large-scale combat is the name of the game, and battles have long-reaching consequences as armies engage in a tug-of-war to expand their faction's influence across the land. Even though its age shows, Planetside 2 offers a unique experience that no other free open-world game fully replicates.
                          Nowadays, the market is oversaturated with RPG Maker games, to the point that many of these releases can blend together. However, despite inspiring many fan projects and spiritual successors, there is only one Yume Nikki. Madotsuki does not need to physically leave her room to visit strange worlds – she only needs to fall asleep. Once the girl starts dreaming, players can jump into more than 10 worlds (and many strange locations within them), each of which comes with its own surreal aesthetic.
      Yume Nikki foregoes a story in favor of atmosphere and free-roaming. Madotsuki is essentially lucid dreaming, and the indie game does an incredible job of replicating that feeling. Outside of collecting costumes, the title leaves players to their own devices, encouraging them to lose themselves within the bizarre and uncomfortable environments. While not for everyone, Yume Nikki is such a unique experience that most people should give it a go.
       Babbdi is a different type of open-world game, especially for the free-to-play market. Since most of these projects lean into MMO territory, they are designed to keep players coming back for weeks, months, and years. Even if they might not cost any initial money, they are huge time investments that not everyone can afford. Consequently, Babbdi offers a refreshing change of pace since it will likely not keep anyone busy for more than maybe an hour or two. Created by a very small team, the game drops players in the eponymous city and challenges them to escape. That is largely it. While not completely devoid of lore or environmental storytelling, Babbdi's selling point is primarily exploration, along with the implementation of some neat items like a trumpet.
                         Open-world games are defined by scale and ambition, and that extends to this release. Sure, the city is relatively small and barren, but it is atmospheric and has impressive verticality. The world is fascinating and oddly relaxing, all the while still coming across like something ripped from a fever dream. There are not all that many indie open-world free games, so Babbdi fills a niche while not overstaying its welcome.
       Tower of Fantasy has lived in Genshin Impact's shadow since its launch, despite the games not overlapping all that much in most categories. However, they are both free-to-play open-world action RPGs with anime visuals and gacha systems, so comparisons were always going to happen. While rough-around-the-edges, Tower of Fantasy has its positives that justify a recommendation, and one of them happens to be perfect for this discussion. In terms of open-world exploration, this project is surprisingly good, delivering both fun traversal mechanics and a varied range of locations.
                         The game has quite a few major regions and cities, like Aesperia and Vera, and they are not only expansive but also gorgeous while having distinct styles. Tower of Fantasy also generally nails its mobility, presenting players with quite a few exploration options so they can decide how to tackle the map. In other areas, Tower of Fantasy can be hit-and-miss, although the combat and character selection are both respectable for the most part.
                          Featuring an origin story that is almost more interesting than the release itself, Muck is an addictive roguelike survival game that does the basics extremely well. Players spawn into a sandbox and simply have to survive, which involves crafting, eating, fighting monsters, working with allies, or engaging in PvP. All these elements are fairly conventional for both the sandbox and survival genres, but Muck combines them in a way that is both accessible and fairly challenging.
                         While the core experience does not change much, Muck has a few different game modes that slightly alter its rhythm. For instance, if players want to have a more leisurely playthrough, they can pick Creative Mode so they won't have to constantly fear for their lives. Although not overly packed with sights to see, the islands/maps are pretty in their own stylish way.
                          Launching into open beta in 2023, Palia has become more accessible thanks to a Switch port and a Steam release. The full release is expected to drop at some point in 2024, so anyone who decides to dive into this free open-world game should expect a few bugs; however, Palia is not too terrible in that area, even if experiences can vary from user to user. Singularity 6's life sim aims to provide a carefree escape from reality, dropping players into a rich and peaceful fantasy world. As with most of these games, players will spend their time setting up their perfect homestead, which involves developing a decently-sized plot.
     Palia, from Singularity 6 Inc., has a steep learning curve for beginners. Here are the best tips for getting started in this new community sim MMO.                     Now, Palia moves at a slow pace, purposefully so. Farming and refining resources take a while, and quite a few hours will pass before players have a proper home to call their own. Everything takes time, although this is negated by a skill system that features eight professions that should be developed; consequently, players should be jumping from skill to skill rather than waiting for one to complete a cycle.
      Palia is not going to be for everyone. As popular as life sims have become, they are still an acquired taste, and Singularity 6 has taken the genre and stripped away intrinsic incentives or traditional goals. However, if someone is craving a second life, Palia presents that opportunity.
                         Technically, total conversion mods are not truly free as they, typically, require users to own their base games, be it Skyrim or Gothic 2. However, releases like Enderal: Forgotten Stories and The Chronicles of Myrtana: Archolos completely revamp their chosen games, essentially serving new full campaigns that can rival some of the best RPGs on the market.
                         Anyone deep into the modding scene is likely familiar with these sorts of releases since they tend to attract a fair amount of attention. Meanwhile, newcomers who wish to extend their time with one of their favorite titles should dive into sites like NexusMods or Moddb to see if there are any projects that grab their attention.
     With few evolution games to choose from, and even fewer with an open world, which is the best one to play? Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. We hope you like the items we recommend and discuss! Game Rant has affiliate and sponsored partnerships, so we receive a share of the revenue from some of your purchases. This won’t affect the price you pay and helps us offer the best product recommendations. We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful. Your comment has not been saved This thread is open for discussion. Be the first to post your thoughts.  While the character reruns leaked for Genshin Impact’s next update are both great characters to have, they may not be what fans are hoping for. The Vizored are powerful Soul Reapers with Hollow powers, but who's the strongest of the team? Following in the footsteps of RE1, the original Resident Evil 2 will be making a comeback sooner rather than later. The planetary fonts of Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth's Cosmo Canyon make up beautiful backdrops for the region's protorelic quests while honoring the past.  Brawhalla's recent Borderlands crossover event brings a multitude of new cosmetic items to the game, including skins, avatars, and more. The survival horror game Alien: Isolation sees its largest player count spike since 2020 and over a decade after the game's original launch. Fortnite Chapter 5 Season 4: Absolute Doom features an incredible arsenal of unvaulted weapons that can help everyone's loadout. 