Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     In June 2022, Sony unleashed its new PlayStation Plus. Split into three tiers, the service offers subscribers access to hundreds of games from across PlayStation's history, including PS1 and PSP projects. Along with showing love for the brand's history, PS Plus also covers most genres, be it horror, platformers, RPGs, or strategy. Unsurprisingly, PS Plus does not skimp out on open-world games either.
                         Whether searching for a PlayStation exclusive or a third-party juggernaut, PS Plus Extra and Premium should have most players covered. With so many titles to pick from, knowing where to start can be challenging, and that extends to open-world projects. PS Plus covers this genre quite extensively, including everything from first-person shooters to survival and role-playing games. Therefore, let's take a look at the best open-world PS Plus games.
                         While every mentioned open-world game is on PS Plus Premium, some are not part of the Extra tier.
                         Also, the games are not ranked solely by quality. New additions will be highlighted first.
      Updated July 19, 2024: This month's PS Plus Extra and Premium lineup included a couple of open-world games, including one that is divisive. No More Heroes 3 made the controversial decision to bring back its open-world/hub area, which is essentially one big city filled with side activities that need to be completed in pursuit of unlocking the next boss fight. While the latter are generally fun and bombastic, the open-world falls fairly flat, being defined by empty nondescript streets and repetitive challenges that get old really quickly. NMH3 is still worth a playthrough, but it cannot be recommended for its open-world.
                         Remnant 2 is not a full open-world, with its campaign being divided into different universes that offer quite a bit of exploration. While not a candidate for this discussion, the game is an easy recommendation for Soulslike or third-person shooter fans. Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous can feel like a pseudo-open-world at times, but it is mainly a linear RPG that grants players some choices in the order they tackle quests.
  Mount & Blade 2 is a very open game that features an impressive large map that can be explored fairly freely. However, traveling is done automatically on the world map, with players taking direct control when they come across a town or battle. M&B2 qualifies as open-world, but it might not fit everyone's definition of the concept.
                         Ubisoft also added back a sports game with a great open-world.
                       The spiritual predecessor to Riders Republic, Steep gives players the Alps as their playground, allowing them to ski, snowboard, paraglide, or wingsuit their way across the gorgeous terrain. Delivering relatively grounded gameplay, the 2016 game generally lets players do their own thing, with the main progression loop revolving around completing challenges to expand the map. While standard for most open-world games, this structure makes a lot of sense for Steep since, in real life, slopes are divided by skill level; consequently, players having to show their mastery of entry-level areas before moving on to higher peaks fits the setting.
                         When it comes to the sports themselves, someone's mileage will likely vary quite a bit between all four of them. Each activity is suitably different and comes with a learning curve, and they all change the gameplay's tempo considerably. While players are free to focus on their favorite specializations if they are not driven to be completionists, they will need to dip their toes into all of them if they want to unlock the full map.
                          Despite being more than 5 years old by this point, Red Dead Redemption 2 is still among the most impressive open-world games on the market, let alone Sony's subscription service. Rockstar's projects continuously push consoles to their limits, crafting experiences that fully showcase the hardware's capabilities. Not only is it not an exception, but RDR2 might be the developer's crowning achievement in most areas, be it technical or artistic. The former is evident in the photorealistic graphics and expansive world inspired by the late 19th century Wild West; meanwhile, the latter involves a personal story that ties thematically into the historical setting, emphasizing the inescapable nature of evolution and the consequences of going against the winds of change.
     Dutch van der Linde always has powerful words to say across Red Dead Redemption 2, whether that's to show his descent or his pride.   RDR2 borders on an immersive sim at times, although it is not a standard entry in the genre. While certainly plot-driven, the campaign is filled with slow-life moments designed to showcase Arthur Morgan's daily routine beyond the shootouts and internal squabbles of the Van der Linde gang. Traveling across the map is an arduous and lengthy process, one filled with tiring elements that emphasize an outlaw's hard life. RDR2's adherence to detail and authenticity can be exhausting and polarizing, but they contribute significantly to the unique brilliance of Rockstar's masterpiece.
      Red Dead Online also warrants a mention as a multiplayer alternative to the base experience.
                          The PS4's swan song as Sony's main console, Ghost of Tsushima transports players back in time to the 13th century as the Mongols invade Japan's Tsushima Island. After failing to stop the invasion and almost meeting his end, Jin Sakai goes on a quest to recruit fighters that could help turn the tide of battle.
      Ghost of Tsushima's open-world is gorgeous, be it on the PS4 or the PS5. Tsushima Island is lavish, varied, and breathtaking. The same can also be said about Iki Island, the location of the expansion that is included in the Director's Cut. Within this map, players can look forward to engaging in intense samurai-themed battles and decent side quests with memorable NPCs.
                          Approximately a year following its debut, Horizon Forbidden West was added to PS Plus Extra. Besides being a big get for the platform, this announcement could provide some indication of how Sony plans to treat first-party titles when it comes to its subscription service.
                         Guerrilla Games' sequel sees Aloy heading west, visiting areas that were once part of Utah, Nevada, and California, just to name a few featured states. Horizon Forbidden West retains what worked in Horizon Zero Dawn, which is also on PS Plus Extra, all the while expanding on a few things that could have been improved upon. While the 2017 release has a beautiful and impressive open-world, its sequel fills it with more interesting side content and micro stories. Consequently, HFW's map feels slightly more alive. When it comes to combat, the game delivers thrilling encounters that pit Aloy against both humans and robots. The latter is undoubtedly the campaign's highlight.
      Horizon Zero Dawn is also on PS Plus Extra.
                          Debuting in 2011, Skyrim was a massive hit right out of the gate, and its popularity has not waned over the last decade. The Special Edition is the definitive way to experience Bethesda's masterpiece on consoles, as it improves the visuals and provides support for mods (which have played a huge part in extending the RPG's lifespan).
      Skyrim's open-world approaches perfection as it encourages exploration and discovery. The main storyline is fine, but the game's success lies in its immersive locations, customization options, and character writing. Even as the years continue to pass, Skyrim still comes across as a big deal, and its addition to PS Plus Extra makes the service seem far more complete.
      The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion is also on PS Plus Premium (but not Extra). The Elder Scrolls Online is on PS Plus Extra.
                          Bethesda's latest single-player Fallout is on offering with PS Plus for players who are looking to patrol through the wastelands. With a map that's even larger than Skyrim's, Fallout 4 gives players tons of areas to explore, with a multitude of sidequests to complete and secrets to uncover. Those looking for an FPS-style RPG with a myriad of areas to conquer should definitely fall in love with the iconic release.
                         The franchise has been going strong, offering players a multitude of great open-world adventures and Fallout 4 is no exception. Players can expect to put some serious time into this game if they want to "see and do everything possible," and that's not even counting the DLC add-ons.
      Fallout 76 is also on PS Plus Extra, while Fallout 3 and New Vegas are on PS Plus Premium.
                          PS Plus Extra has a plethora of Assassin's Creed games, including fairly recent releases such as Odyssey and Valhalla. Subscribers can readily spend half a year playing through the franchise's PS Plus projects, allowing them to explore a wide range of historical worlds. Picking a favorite will likely come down to a person's preferred setting; someone might gravitate toward Syndicate's UK aesthetic or feel more at home in Origins' Ancient Egypt. The latter is a good entry point since the game acts as something of a soft reboot, along with having one of the franchise's best open-worlds.
                         However, Black Flag should not be ignored either, especially since the game stands on its own quite well. Set during the height of piracy, Black Flag takes place in the West Indies, a map filled with diverse locations, three central cities, and lots to discover. The campaign quickly puts the player behind the wheel of a ship and gets them out on the water, encouraging them to explore to their heart's content. Black Flag is, first and foremost, a pirate game rather than an Assassin's Creed sequel, and this helps differentiate it from everything that came before and after.
                         The following open-world Assassin's Creed games are on PS Plus Extra:
                          PS Plus has Batman fans well-fed. Rocksteady's full Arkham trilogy, Arkham Origins, and the maligned Gotham Knights are available on the Premium tier; meanwhile, Extra-level subscribers can play Arkham Knight and Gotham Knights. While the latter has some positives that make it not a complete write-off, the former is undoubtedly the superior package, and it is not particularly close. In 2015, Arkham Knight garnered some controversy due to its terrible PC launch and the heavy inclusion of the Batmobile, resulting in a positive reception that did not quite live up to Arkham Asylum and Arkham City's best-of-all-time standards.
                         Nevertheless, Arkham Knight is an impressive achievement, and it features arguably gaming's best rendition of Gotham to date. Even nearly a decade later, the game's open-world remains a sight to behold – it is visually striking, dense with architecture, and dripping in style and personality. Putting aside the polarizing Batmobile sections, Arkham Knight is generally fantastic and features the deepest combat system in the franchise.
      Arkham Asylum and Arkham City are available on PS Plus Premium, but they are the Return to Arkham PS4 versions. While still worth playing, these versions are not perfect.
       Like a Dragon might be all about turn-based combat nowadays, at least the main entries, but the Judgment spin-off series has kept the franchise linked to its beat 'em up roots. While a third entry does not seem all that likely, both games are great fun, and they are available on PS Plus Extra. Newcomers should start with 2019's Judgment, which introduces Takayuki Yagami, a lawyer who quit the business to become a private investigator. Known to take on risky cases, Yagami gets dragged into a challenging murder case in the original game, which eventually puts him in contact with the Yakuza.
                         The sequel does not deviate too far from its predecessor's ideas, but it does fine-tune some elements to craft a superior overall package. For instance, both games incorporate lackluster detective-style mechanics, but the sequel spreads them out a bit more to try and make them less annoying. The melee combat is fast-paced and satisfying in both titles, and it should hit the spot with fans of Kiryu's Yakuza era; however, Lost Judgment just adds a tinge more depth to the system.
                         While all of that is great, Lost Judgment's main selling points are its storyline and world, the latter of which comes packed with side quests and minigames. Like quite a few entries in this license, the game is set in Kamurocho, which is inspired by Tokyo's Kabukicho district. The reused map might get tiresome for long-time Yakuza fans, but the open-world is great in isolation. Story-wise, Lost Judgment focuses on bullying, a touchy subject that the game treats seriously but also struggles to explore with nuance. Nevertheless, the campaign produces more than a few awesome moments.
                          PS Plus has three Saints Row games: Saints Row 2, Saints Row 4, and Gat Out of Hell. Despite falling within the same franchise, all three games are fairly different from each other. Saints Row 4 and its spin-off, Gat Out of Hell, are unapologetically over-the-top to the point that they bear almost no resemblance to reality. They play somewhat similar to Crackdown, and they cast players as superhero-style characters who have abilities that make most of the conventional components of an open-world game like vehicles and weapons obsolete. Saints Row 4 is fun, provided players know what they are getting into.
                         On the other hand, Saints Row 2 is more down to earth, while nevertheless leaning into parody and comedic territory. Set in Stillwater, the story tasks the protagonist with reforming the Saints, which naturally means they will need to take on other gangs that have gotten a foothold in the city. Even if it is not as absurd as later entries in the franchise, the sandbox game still gives players all the tools they need to spread mayhem on the street. It just happens to be accompanied by a pretty good story and some great characters.
                          Insomniac's Marvel's Spider-Man is arguably the Wall-Crawler's greatest game, although it does have stiff competition from a few older titles. Unfortunately, the 2018 release is not available on PS Plus Extra, having been removed in May 2023; that said, superhero fans yearning to swing through New York City can jump into Miles Morales, a spin-off that maintains the main entry's high standard of quality.
                         Even though it ties into Spider-Man in a few ways, Miles Morales can be treated as a standalone experience since it has a fairly self-contained story. As its subtitle suggests, the game swaps Peter Parker for Miles, who is still in his infancy as a hero. Both games do splendid jobs of recreating New York City, and while it is not overly packed with memorable side content, the open-world is nevertheless fun to explore due to Miles Morales' satisfying movement. Compared to other games of this ilk, Insomniac's spin-off is on the short side as it can be readily completed in under 10 hours, which is a decent enough length for a PS Plus game.
                          By the time 2004 rolled around, Naughty Dog's Jak & Daxter franchise has morphed into a very different beast. While still utilizing platforming as a core mechanic, Jak 2 and 3 greatly ramped up the action and replaced The Precursor Legacy's (fairly) linear levels with larger and more open-ended areas. Jak 3 really emphasizes its free-roaming element, encouraging players to explore its two cities and wasteland as much as possible.
                         Compared to its predecessors, Jak 3 can come across as unfocused and disjointed; however, it is still one of the better action-adventure games on the PS2. As far as its open-world is considered, Jak 3's map is not nearly as expansive or diverse as some of its high-profile contemporaries like Grand Theft Auto 3. That said, the core gameplay is strong enough to keep things interesting for the relatively short campaign.
                          A Hideo Kojima project is always going to be something special, and Death Stranding's bizarre reveal and early trailers instantly made that apparent. Set in a post-apocalyptic version of the United States, players portray Sam, a person charged with traveling across the country delivering packages and establishing communication points.
      Death Stranding is very much about the journey; in fact, Sam has to carefully plan his trips and every step he takes along the way. Barren landscapes dominate the scene, and the gameplay can be quite meditative once players get used to its rhythm.
       The Division 2 has been out for more than four years, and while things have not always been smooth sailing, Ubisoft's game has cemented itself as one of the better live-services games on the market.
                         Set in Washington D.C., Ubisoft's title envisions a post-apocalyptic alternate reality filled with warring factions and nature-covered landmarks. The series has quite a realistic presentation, although the sequel is slightly more colorful than its predecessor. The Division 2 has plenty of multiplayer-focused content, including PvP and an extensive endgame, but the story can be played solo and experienced as a single-player game.
      Tom Clancy’s The Division is also on PS Plus Extra.
                          All the Infamous games on PS Plus Premium are worth playing. While Cole's entries are highly rated, Second Son tends to get overlooked due to its (relatively) early release in the PS4's lifecycle. Despite coming out within a year of the console's launch, Infamous: Second Son is still one of the best-looking games on the PS4, and its iteration of Seattle is incredible.
                         As Delsin Rowe unlocks new powers and ways to interact with the world, Second Son grows into something truly special. This is also a pretty short open-world PS Plus game, presenting a nice alternative to something like Horizon Zero Dawn or Ghost of Tsushima.
      Infamous: First Light is also on PS Plus Extra, while Infamous, Infamous 2, and Infamous: Festival of Blood are on PS Plus Premium.
                          Although hardly hated, Days Gone launched to a fairly meek response compared to other PS4 exclusives, which caused the game to slip by the wayside after a while. Nowadays, Bend Studio's release is relatively forgotten, and while garnering some online support, it hardly seems destined to become a modern cult classic. By 2019, open-world games had grown so commonplace that they were threatening to become tried; meanwhile, zombie stories had already faced some backlash due to overexposure. Basically, Days Gone was fighting an uphill battle from the start, and debuting with a myriad of technical issues certainly did not help. The story can also be difficult to get into since the protagonist, Deacon St. John, starts out as rather unlikable, and he does not really improve until a good few hours into the campaign.
     There are 15 melee skills in Days Gone and some of them are worth unlocking as quickly as players can.                     If someone looks past Days Gone's uneven reputation and pushes through the narrative's slow early moments, they will eventually find themselves playing a refreshingly intense open-world experience. The game's main selling point is its zombie hordes, and a run-in with these armies of Freakers never fails to be exciting and terrifying. Although it might not seem that original, Days Gone's world is fairly impressive, and it is filled with minor details that provide context for society's current situation. The project does a good job of populating its map with small events that add an element of spontaneity, and this goes beyond just zombies as there are plenty of humans running about as well.
       Untitled Goose Game is a borderline open-world project since players won't have access to the full map at once, although they are free to rampage through a specific area while they are in it. Consequently, the campaign is a bit more restrictive than most releases in the genre, all the while still offering thrills associated with it. More importantly, Untitled Goose Game is simply a fun time. Cast as a normal goose, players are unleashed on an ill-prepared English village, with their goal being to annoy people and ruin a few days. That's largely it. The goose has a few objectives they need to accomplish in each area, which provides players with some direction on how to proceed. Otherwise, they can do whatever they want, and they are encouraged to explore the sandbox and cause as much havoc as a goose can cause.
      Untitled Goose Game does not take itself very seriously and has a strong sense of humor. Silly as the concept sounds, the game works because it is fairly grounded, at least in the sense that this scenario could realistically play out in quaint villages. The setting is quite idyllic, making it prime for an influx of mayhem caused by a mischievous animal. Unlike many traditional open-world projects, Untitled Goose Game can be completed in a few hours and has very little "fluff" content. This makes it an ideal candidate to slot in between lengthier games that take weeks or months to complete.
       Lego is primarily associated with licensed games, but the franchise occasionally releases standalone projects with no ties to other brands. Lego 2K Drive, Bricktales, Brawls, and Worlds are somewhat recent names that saw the IP branching into fresh territories and genres, and they are all enjoyable. Out of the many games released during the 2010s, Lego City Undercover garnered arguably the most love, and it represents a high point in the franchise's legacy. Unlike some of the series' other original titles, this project largely sticks to the formula present in the licensed Lego games, providing players with a comedic action-adventure romp through a sandbox filled with collectibles and secondary content.
     LEGO games have been an iconic staple of gaming culture, and if players are looking for an open-world brick adventure, these are some great choices.  City Undercover tends to be cited as Lego's take on GTA, and while its world is nowhere near as stuffed with content as most of Rockstar's later releases, this comparison is not unfounded either. Lego City's design emphasizes variety, offering a wide selection of districts that each have their own flavor. The side quests and optional activities are relatively rudimentary and traditional for a Lego game, but the city itself is fun and relaxing to explore. The main story is also a blast, playing out like an action blockbuster ripped right out of the '80s. Lego City Undercover might be the best PS Plus Extra open-world game for kids, and older players could get a kick out of it too.
                         Here are all the open-world Lego games on PS Plus Extra and Premium:
                          PS Plus Extra has a couple of Far Cry games, including the most recent entry. Although not especially well-received, Far Cry 6 has the best gunplay in the franchise so far, and its open-world is impressively big. If someone has never played a Far Cry project, they will likely have a blast with the sixth entry since one of its main criticisms is its map's visual similarities to its numbered predecessor. Far Cry 3 Classic Edition is also a decent option, but the beloved game shows its age by this point.
      Far Cry Primal takes place during an era when (gaming) conflicts were solved with bows and clubs rather than machine guns. The prehistoric setting was a refreshing change of pace in 2016, and that is still the case all these years later. While not a full-blown survival experience, Primal incorporates more elements from the genre than the license's modern main entries, and it strikes a nice balance between a traditional Far Cry experience and a more experimental adventure.
                         Here are all the Far Cry games on PS Plus Extra:
                          Part of PS Plus Extra and Premium's November 2023 lineup, Dragon's Dogma: Dark Arisen is the upgraded version of a cult favorite open-world game that has garnered enough love to warrant Capcom to announce and develop a sequel. While the original title is still impressive to an extent, Dark Arisen is the definitive version since it adds a whole new area, one that naturally comes with a range of fresh equipment. More importantly, Bitterblack Isle is far harder than the base content, especially since the latter has a somewhat challenging opening but becomes fairly easy as it moves along.
     Dragon's Dogma fans should check out these other fantastic RPGs.  Dragon's Dogma is all about its combat and customization, which both emphasize build variety and player freedom. While overpowered, the game's magic system is impressive and satisfying, especially once players really start to fine-tune and personalize their setup. Pawns are also one of the game's selling points, as these are AI-controlled support characters that players create and can share with other users. This mechanic allows players to form well-rounded parties as they can pick Pawns that make up for their own character's blind spots.
                         When it comes to the open-world itself, Gransys is not particularly big, nor is it especially unique from a visual standpoint. However, the map can seem more expansive than it is due to limited fast travel and a lack of hand-holding. Dragon's Dogma's world is nothing special, but it does not detract from the things the game excels in.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. We hope you like the items we recommend and discuss! Game Rant has affiliate and sponsored partnerships, so we receive a share of the revenue from some of your purchases. This won’t affect the price you pay and helps us offer the best product recommendations. We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful. Your comment has not been saved This thread is open for discussion. Be the first to post your thoughts.  Whether searching for an arcade title or a realistic sim, PlayStation Plus has racing fans covered. Dragon Age: The Veilguard seems primed and ready to benefit from a Dragon's Dogma 2 pre-release tactic that became a huge hit among fans. A fun glitch occurring during the Destiny 2: The Final Shape Excision activity turns a player's Titan Guardian into a powerhouse of the light. Monster Hunter Wilds shares a brand new compilation of the 14 weapons and the new mechanics that will be included in the game. Dexter: Resurrection will continue Dexter Morgan's dark story, but what do fans think is going to happen in the new series? Final Fantasy 16 lead Hiroshi Takai shares his thoughts on a potential Xbox Series X/S port in the wake of the confirmed PC version of the game. Specialized Memory Fragments can be a great help in Once Human, but players will have to spend some time, effort, and resources to get them.