The 2023 French Open draw was announced Thursday, and somewhat surprisingly, Carlos Alcaraz and Novak Djokovic are in the same half of the bracket. That sets them up for an epic meeting in the semifinals, which would be just the second time they've faced each other. The positioning of Alcaraz in the bracket was a foregone conclusion — as the No. 1 seed, he was automatically placed in the top. The bracket makers then had two options for the placement of Djokovic, the No. 3 seed: in the top half with Alcaraz or in the bottom half with No. 2 seed Daniil Medvedev. They chose to put Djokovic in the top, which denies him and Alcaraz the chance to meet in the final. This arrangement allows for a more robust competition since Djokovic and Alcaraz, who can be suffocatingly good, are confined to one half. That means someone who isn't Djokovic or Alcaraz actually has a chance of making it out of the bottom half of the draw. The only other time Alcaraz and Djokovic have played each other was in the 2022 Madrid Open semifinal. (Alcaraz beat Rafael Nadal earlier in the tournament.) Alcaraz won, making him one of the only people to beat both Nadal and Djokovic in the same clay-court tournament. Here's the full French Open men's draw. Full men's Roland Garros 2023 draw: pic.twitter.com/QlnMguUhDU — Tumaini Carayol (@tumcarayol) May 25, 2023 It's pretty normal for the No. 1 seed to have a difficult path to the final. But Iga Swiatek's path is hilariously difficult. Iga's path to repeat at @rolandgarros 🔁🏆 pic.twitter.com/JijIOfL4DC — US Open Tennis (@usopen) May 25, 2023 To win, Swiatek will likely have to cross rackets with Barbora Krejcikova, 2021 French Open champion, in Round 4. Then in the quarterfinal, it's Coco Gauff, who lost to Swiatek one year ago in the 2022 French Open final. In the semifinal, she's likely up against 2022 Wimbledon champion and 2023 Australian Open runner-up Elena Rybakina. Finally, there's Aryna Sabalenka, the 2023 Australian Open champion who beat Swiatek the last time they faced off in the final of the Italian Open. Swiatek isn't on the kind of ridiculous, "I will destroy you" winning streak that she was riding into the 2022 French Open, but she doesn't need that to win. However, with that kind of road ahead of her, no one could blame her for wanting it just a bit. Here's the full French Open women's draw. Full Roland Garros women's singles draw: pic.twitter.com/RyHFDYinqA — Tumaini Carayol (@tumcarayol) May 25, 2023 Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine recap Team USA’s win over Brazil, preview Thursday’s game against Serbia and go through all of the NBA news they can find. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said.