(Bloomberg) -- South Africa said it will provide diplomatic immunity to attendees of two meetings of officials from the BRICS group of countries — a practice the government said is routine — as it prepares to host Russian President Vladimir Putin at a summit in August. Most Read from Bloomberg Winklevoss Twins Attempt Pivot After Gemini Loses Money and Employees Twitter Is Now Worth Just 33% of Elon Musk’s Purchase Price, Fidelity Says Putin Orders Tighter Defenses After Drone Strikes on Moscow JPMorgan Builds Unit for World’s Richest Families in Wealth Bet McCarthy Confident on Debt Vote Despite Hard-Line Ouster Threat The immunity covers a meeting of foreign ministers from the bloc, which groups Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, who will gather in Cape Town from June 1-2, according to a Government Gazette published on Monday. It also applies to a summit of the BRICS heads of state scheduled to take place Aug. 22-24, the Department of International Relations and Cooperations said in the official notice. “This is a standard conferment of immunities that we do for all international conferences and summits held in South Africa, irrespective of the level of participation,” the department said on Tuesday. “The immunities are for the conference and not for specific individuals. They are meant to protect the conference and its attendees from the jurisdiction of the host country for the duration of the conference.” Putin, who South Africa invited to attend the August gathering, is wanted by the International Criminal Court on charges related to Russia’s war with Ukraine. As a signatory to the Rome Statute which established the court, South Africa would be obliged to arrest him if he attends. Read more: Could Putin Really Be Prosecuted for War Crimes?: QuickTake “These immunities do not override any warrant that may have been issued by any international tribunal against any attendee of the conference,” the department said. Read more: Ramaphosa Adamant South Africa Will Remain Non-Aligned The government previously drew international criticism in 2015, when it refused to execute an ICC arrest warrant for then-Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir, who had been indicted for war crimes and genocide, while he was attending a meeting of African leaders in Johannesburg. South Africa’s Supreme Court of Appeals ruled that the government had acted unlawfully and the ICC found that it had failed to failed to comply with its international obligations. Former South African President Jacob Zuma proposed withdrawing from the ICC in 2016, though that plan was later abandoned after he left office. The government is currently taking legal advice on how to handle the arrest warrant for Putin. Among the options being considered by the government is a legislative amendment that would “domesticate” the Rome Statute, which could theoretically enable it to grant immunity to visiting heads of state. “Given that parliament is reaching the end of its current term, as well as the upcoming two-month recess between mid-June and early August, it is highly unlikely that any legislative amendments will be deliberated in earnest before the BRICS summit,” said Emma Louise Powell, the main opposition Democratic Alliance’s shadow minister for international relations. ““As things stand, South Africa has two options available: the minister of international relations and cooperation or the president must either retract Putin’s invitation to physically visit the country, or we must arrest him upon arrival.” The DA on Tuesday said it had requested the High Court to issue a declaratory order that would compel the government to arrest Putin if he did visit. “This pre-peremptory court action aims to ensure that South Africa upholds its obligations in terms of the Rome Statute of the ICC,” the party said in a statement. Read more: How BRICS Became a Real Club and Why Others Want In: QuickTake --With assistance from Monique Vanek, Robert Brand and S'thembile Cele. (Updates with South Africa failing to arrest Sudanese leader in first paragraph below first story tout.) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek Assault Allegations Plague a $1.4 Billion Home Eldercare Startup Republicans Hail Big Spending Cuts That Economists Say Will Have Little Impact on the Economy Sergey Brin Has a Secret Plan to Put Airships Back in the Skies Adidas After Yeezy You’re the CEO and Your Company Got Hacked—What Now? ©2023 Bloomberg L.P. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.