Rafael Nadal beat Norway's Casper Ruud to win last year's French Open title French Open 2023 Dates: 28 May-11 June Venue: Roland Garros, Paris Coverage: Live text and radio commentaries of selected matches across BBC Radio 5 Sports Extra, the BBC Sport website and app Rafael Nadal has had keyhole surgery on the left hip injury that ruled him out of the French Open. The 36-year-old Spaniard, who plans to retire after the 2024 season, has not played since sustaining the injury at the Australian Open in January. Nadal, a 14-time men's singles champion at Roland Garros, has been practising in recent weeks, but was not fit enough to play competitively. The results of the surgery will be made public on Saturday morning. When confirming he would miss the French Open for the first time in 19 years last month, Nadal added that he was aiming to put himself in the best position physically for his farewell season next year. Nadal, who has won 22 Grand Slam singles titles, holds the joint record number of men's major triumphs alongside Serbia's Novak Djokovic. Live scores, results and order of play Alerts: Get tennis news sent to your phone The Official Home of Tennis For Britain - LTA 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.