Scientists found tools in a northern corridor dating back 84,000 years. Sejal Sharma 0 General view of Wadi Gharandal riverine wetland along the Jordan Rift Valley Mahmoud Abbas/Shantou University  Mahmoud Abbas/Shantou University  Homo sapiens evolved in Africa approximately 300,000 to 200,000 years ago, leaving the continent using many routes. However, it’s long been thought that they used a southern crossing via the Red Sea from the horn of Africa to get to southwestern Arabia. A new study hints at another route from the North. The researchers conducted their study in Arabia and found tools of various kinds laden on the path, which suggested that the route, now desert, was once chosen by travelers to cross The Levant towards western Asia and northern Arabia via Jordan. “The dispersal route via the northern corridor from the Sinai Peninsula to the Levant and to Arabia has been considered an optimum route as it was the only terrestrial route out of Africa. Dated fossils and archaeological evidence strongly supported the use of this corridor,” said the study. The researchers say it was a ‘well-watered corridor’ allowing travelers to use it as their base for resting and hunting food. “The presence of water could have allowed modern humans to migrate through a  green corridor from Africa to Arabia and beyond,” said the study. “Although previous studies have looked for large lakes as potential watering holes, in fact small wetlands were very important as staging posts during the migration,” said Paul Carling, Professor of Geomorphology at the University of Southampton and co-author of the study. To conduct research on the hand tools uncovered in the Jordan Rift Valley, the team used luminescence dating techniques to find out which period the tools belonged to and how long they had been buried. This method estimates how long it has been since sediment was last exposed to light, said the press release. These dated paleoclimatic records are an essential part of understanding how climate change played a role in promoting the immigration of ancient human populations. The results indicated that the tools were used approximately 84,000 years ago. “The paleohydrological evidence from the Jordan desert enhances our understanding of the environmental setting at that time. Rather than dry desert, savannah grasslands would have provided the much-needed resources for humans to survive during their journey out of Africa and into southwest Asia and beyond,” said Dr. Mahmoud Abbas, the study’s lead author from Shantou University, China. The study drew on links between climate, chronological, and archaeological data from the Levant and Arabia for their research.  The study titled ‘Human dispersals out of Africa via the Levant’ was published in the journal Science Advances. Study abstract: Homo sapiens dispersed from Africa into Eurasia multiple times in the Middle and Late Pleistocene. The route, across northeastern Africa into the Levant, is a viable terrestrial corridor, as the present harsh southern Levant would probably have been savannahs and grasslands during the last interglaciation. Here, we document wetland sediments with luminescence ages falling in the last interglaciation in the southern Levant, showing protracted phases of moisture availability. Wetland sediments in Wadi Gharandal containing Levallois artifacts yielded an age of 84 ka. Our findings support the growing consensus for a well-watered Jordan Rift Valley that funneled migrants into western Asia and northern Arabia.  Stay up-to-date on engineering, tech, space, and science news with The Blueprint. By clicking sign up, you confirm that you accept this site's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Sejal Sharma Sejal is a Delhi-based journalist, currently dedicated to reporting on technology and culture. She is particularly enthusiastic about covering artificial intelligence, the semiconductor industry and helping people understand the powers and pitfalls of technology. Outside of work, she likes to play badminton and spend time with her dogs. Feel free to email her for pitches or feedback on her work. a day ago a day ago a day ago a day ago