e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 A few species of the animal kingdom are led by alpha males. Through the dynamics of the survival of the fittest, an order of alpha male dominance is established. They garner a bevy of females to pass on their alpha genes. From the dawn of human civilization, homo sapiens women tended to home and children. Males were hunter gatherers and defenders of the tribal homestead. Hazards intrinsic to gender specific functions resulted in disparate casualties, particularly during the vibrant years of sexual fertility. Polygamy equalized the “playing” field. In modern times, revolutionary inventions and mechanized tools render physiological prowess separating functions of the sexes largely superfluous. Less than 10% of mammals are monogamous, compared to 90% of the avian species. Monogamy is for the birds. For homo sapiens, monogamy is a cultural norm rather than a biological imperative. Monogamous relationships provide durable familial accountability and stability secured by enforceable commitments. Noncommittal “at will” cohabitation now abounds. The legal screw of “til death do us part” has been de-threaded. A marriage is as “at whim” as cohabitation. Dissolution of a formalized marriage requires only a unilateral assertion of “irreconcilable differences,” without any legally articulated conditions or justifications. Past United States alpha presidents reputed to have indulged in extramarital dalliances include Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson, William Henry Harrison, John Tyler, James Garfield, Grover Cleveland, Warren Harding, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, and George H.W. Bush. Their hanky-panky in the boudoir did not materially encumber or distract them from making significant contributions to the nation’s security and welfare while in the Oval Office. Donald Trump has a predilection for knockout beautiful models. He married Czech born Ivana (née Zelnickova ) in 1977, Marla Maples in 1993, and Slovenian American Melania (née Knauss) in 2005. A penchant to pursue trophy women might suggest narcissism rather than a selfless commitment. Trump’s chapters of domestic bliss and miss have been buffeted by sizzling bolts of lightning and thunderous jolts of acrimony. In 2016 Trump vied for the United States presidency in a razor thin race against Hillary Clinton. Before the election, American Media, which owns the National Enquirer and had close ties to Trump, bought the exclusive rights to Playboy model Karen McDougal’s story for $150,000. McDougal claimed she had a consensual sexual relationship with Trump in 2006-07. The story wasn’t published in a journalistic tactic tantamount to paying hush money. Adult film actress Stormy Daniels (née Stephanie Clifford), alleges that in 2006, she engaged in a sexual fling on the wing with Trump at a Lake Tahoe celebrity golf tournament. In 2016, Trump’s former legal eagle and “fixer” Michael Cohen paid Stormy $130,000 hush money. Trump has denied both affairs, however admitted reimbursing Cohen. Pre-election publicity of either the McDougal affair or Stormy tryst, whether true or false, could have inflicted a damaging blow to Trump’s chance of winning the presidency in 2016. Rudy Giuliani, another lawyer in Trump’s stable of barristers, opined the $130,000 paid Daniels was a personal matter motivated by Trump’s desire to protect family, not influence the campaign (which would have implicated a criminal campaign-finance violation). Trump’s payment to hush infidelity to protect his family would make Trump a super alpha ox-y-moron. In April of 2023, Trump was charged in Manhattan Criminal Court with an indictment containing 34 counts of falsifying business records in the first degree. Trump calls this prosecution the “greatest witch hunt of all time.” The blistering excoriation does have the ring of truth. Trump after all hunts models, not witches! Should Trump again be elected president in 2024, he could make America great again, even assuming he is a cad and womanizer. Irrespective of the hijinks in his private personal life, such indiscretions are not necessarily incompatible with alpha leadership as commander in chief. What however harbors relevant concern is that if Trump paid skinny models hush money to shield his reputation, does this not suggest that he could be vulnerable to blackmail wielded by rival heavyweight alphas Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping, Kim Jong Un, or ideological extremists, both foreign and domestic? Could this not compromise the sovereign and domestic integrity of the nation, as its tactical military preparedness and efficacy? Ralph Josephsohn is a longtime resident of Longmont and a semi-retired attorney. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group