Our content is funded in part by commercial partnerships, at no extra cost to you and without impact to our editorial impartiality. Click to Learn More Google Voice is great little add-on for making international calls over the internet, but its on-call features are limited and some users struggle to get a number for their desired area code. So, it makes sense to make the switch, and luckily there are plenty of options, regardless of your software budget. Our research suggests that the best alternative to Google Voice is 8×8, which I’ve found has a much bigger feature catalog than Google Voice but equally strong security. With plans starting from $24 per month, it’s not as cheap as Google — but you get far more bang for your buck. In this article, I take a closer look at the best alternatives to Google Voice, but also the cheaper options available in a similar price range to Google Voice, such as Zoom Phone,which costs roughly the same but has significantly more features. I’ve also examined the free apps on the market that you could use instead of Google Voice’s free, personal plan  – although like that plan, they aren’t suitable for businesses. Click on the links to start comparing prices for Google Voice alternatives today. In This Guide:  Google Voice is one of the most secure calling tools we have tested, and comes as a low-cost add-on to the already-popular Google Workspace, which costs $7.20 per user, per month. Google Voice prices start from $10 per user, per month, which puts it right at the cheapest end of the VoIP market. However, we’ve found that Google Voice lacks the features, integrations, and customer support options offered by the industry’s best VoIP providers. Plus, you can get Zoom Phone’s Metered plan for a similar price to Google Voice – but you don’t have to pay for the Workspace subscription. Google Voice 8×8 Zoom Phone RingCentral GoTo Connect Ooma Nextiva OpenPhone Grasshopper Monster VoIP Telzio $10/user/month Custom $10/user/month $20/user/month Custom(was $24/user/month) $19.95/user/month $20/user/month $15/user/month $14/month Custom Pricing  $50/month Small businesses that prioritize security Security Value for money Integrations Managing large volumes of inbound calls Overall customer experience Professional services Mobile startup teams Lots of features on the Solo tier App add-ons Multiple users at a flat fee No free trial 30 days None 15 days Free demo only 30 days 30 days 7 days 7 days Yes (length not specified) 30 days Our research found that Zoom, RingCentral, and 8×8 are the best VoIP options overall. They have better features and will cater to both medium-sized and large businesses in a way that Google Voice can’t – but naturally, they cost a little more because of this. We’d recommend the likes of 8×8 to sales teams over Google Voice, as it has more features for managing outbound calls and training staff on the job, like call whisper and call barge, as well as video conferencing for up to 500 participants. RingCentral performed better than Google Voice in every category aside from security and has lots of inbound call features that make it a better choice for healthcare, hospitality, and retail businesses. Microsoft Teams is also a stellar pick, providing a low-cost option with some serious scalability, but you’ll find a lot of features you don’t need if you’re working solo or in a small team. Ooma is well-rated by customers with strong customer support channels, but it scores poorly for security – and that’s an area where Google Voice excels. Google Voice is a great option if you’re already using Google Workspace and want to extend your stay under Google’s reassuring security umbrella. In fact, it’s one of the most secure ways to make a call over the Internet. However, providers like Zoom have significantly upgraded their security offerings in recent years. I spoke to the Zoom team a few weeks ago, and they pointed out several improvements they’d made to the platform, such as providing more ways for users to authenticate their accounts. Now that it’s closed the security gap, it’s actually a much better platform overall than Google Voice – Zoom has way more features for managing inbound calls, so will be a better choice than Google Voice for healthcare, customer service, and retail teams. There’s also 24/7 customer support available, which is always great to have on hand!  Note for reader: At Tech.co, we conduct independent research into all the products, software, and services we write about. This includes devising extensive market research frameworks that allow us to score products. For our VoIP research series, we scored providers against more than 80 different criteria. Find out more in our methodology section.  Price: from $24 per user, per monthDownside: Pricier than Google VoiceKey takeaway: Incredible features, security is just as strong as Google Voice Pros Cons 8×8 is one of the most popular and robust VoIP providers on the market today, with over 3 million users globally.  It’s home to a range of features that make it highly scalable, including user limits, call queues, ring groups, local numbers, and a whole host of tools for training staff, such as call monitoring and supervision tools. Features like these mean that 8×8 now is a much smarter long-term solution if you’re running a growing business than Google Voice, which won’t be suitable for large teams and doesn’t include these features. I recently took 8×8 out for a spin and I was impressed by how palatable the interface was, considering the number of features. It’s actually not a world away from Google Voice’s layout: Making calls in 8×8 is easy, whether you’re on your desktop (like I was in the image above) or using the mobile app. Image: Tech.co 8×8’s biggest selling point as a Google Voice alternative, however, is that it is the only VoIP provider in our research to have the same level of security as Google Voice, with both scoring a perfect 5 out of 5 (these were the only two providers awarded full marks in this assessment area). 8×8 offers everything from password rules and multi-factor authentication to TLS/SRTP encryption and a vast array of compliances across all plans. Plus, 8×8 is always evolving, and announced the 8×8 Technology Partner Ecosystem last year to help customer service organizations integrate more software into their platform. Viewing a contact’s profile in 8×8. Image: Tech.co If you need a heavy-duty VoIP solution with the kind of on-call features a call center crew or customer service team might need, then Google Voice just won’t do. 8×8 even offers features like an online whiteboard, which you can use to make your internal and external meetings more interactive. Google Voice doesn’t offer features like this. 8×8 also has a native video calling function accessible via the left-hand menu bar, but you’ll need Google Meet if you want to make a call in Google Voice. However, both have a 100-attendee cap, so they’re pretty similar in that regard. Making a call with 8×8 during my test of the platform. Image: Tech.co Recently, 8×8 removed the publicly available pricing on their website. However, the prices listed below are what they were in our most recent research, so that should give you a good idea of what’s available. 8×8 offers two pricing plans for standard VoIP use —  X2, and X4 — which cost $24 per user per month and $44 per user per month, respectively. Additionally, 8×8 offers three call center plans — X6, X7, and X8 — which are more expensive but are aimed at larger businesses that need to handle lots of incoming calls and cost a lot more. These plans will run you $85 per user per month, $110 per user per month, and $140 per user, per month, respectively. You can also check out our 8×8 pricing and review guide for more information Price: from $10 per user, per monthDownside: Poor securityKey takeaway: No-brainer solution for a great price Pros Cons There’s no doubt you’ve heard of Zoom before. The video conferencing tool that was used fervently throughout the pandemic for everything from happy hours to work meetings has built out its business offerings and now also offers a VoIP system in the form of Zoom Phone. Our independent research found Zoom Phone to be the third best VoIP option on the market, scoring an impressive 4.4/5 in our research analysis, thanks to its easy-to-use interface and strong feature set. In fact, we found Zoom Phone to be the best value for the money across the entire industry, with prices starting on the lower end of the spectrum. Even better, Zoom Phone is always adding new features, including advanced encryption for voicemails in a July 2023 update. There are also two-factor authentication options and a password rule feature to ensure that all end users secure their accounts appropriately. Zoom Phone also has user permissions now, which used to set Google Voice apart.  With Zoom Phone, all your contacts can be grouped into segments like “Accounting,” “Billing,” or others.Image: Zoom Zoom pricing for the Metered plan comes in at $10 per user, per month, the Unlimited plan costs $15 per user, per month, and the Global Select plan costs $20 per user, per month, all of which are more affordable than some starter plans on this list. It’s also worth noting that although Zoom Phone is still sold as a standalone product (and this is the cheapest way to purchase it) Zoom Phone is also part of Zoom One, the provider’s new product which combines Zoom Phone with Meetings, Team Chat, and other Zoom video conferencing features. However, you’ll need the Zoom One Business Plus plan ($25 per license, per month) or the Enterprise plan (no public pricing) if you want VoIP features. Check out our Zoom Phone review for more information about this VoIP solution Price: from $20 per user, per monthDownside: pricier than Google VoiceKey takeaway: Far better integrations with other tools than Google Voice Pros Cons Chances are you’ve seen RingCentral mentioned before in your online VoIP searches. A huge company with a global reach, RingCentral is very much a safe pair of hands, particularly as a Google Voice alternative. In our testing, RingCentral scores higher (5/5) for customer support than Google Voice (3.1/5) – you can contact RingCentral by live chat, phone, or email, and there’s 24/7 live support on offer too, as well as onboarding support for new customers. There’s no onboarding support for Google Voice, nor live chat or email support, so it didn’t score as highly. One of the selling points for Google Voice is that it’s easy to use and set up, which our research found to be true for RingCentral as well. It’s also worth noting that, just like Google Voice, RingCentral includes unlimited calls to the US and Canada as part of its package. As you can see from the image below, the interface is pretty friendly, tidy and won’t take you long to get to grips with: RingCentral makes it simple and easy to join a desktop conference call. Image: RingCentral The platform will cost you $20 per user, per month for its Core VoIP package or $25 per user, per month for its Advanced plan – so it’s a little more expensive than Google Voice, which starts at $10 per user, per month. The Advanced plan might be the smarter choice depending on your needs and business size. For this price, you’ll get features like automatic call recording, whisper, barge, and more CRM integrations such as Salesforce, Zendesk, and more. Those interested in the unlimited storage, as well as device status reports and alerts, might even consider the Ultra plan, at $35 per user, per month. RingCentral may be a slightly pricier prospect than some of the other Google Voice alternatives on our list, but there’s no doubt that it’s a fully featured platform that won’t leave your business wanting. For more information, check out our RingCentral pricing guide. Price: from $19.95 per user, per monthDownside: Terrible security compared to Google VoiceKey takeaway: Ooma customers are well-supported and satisfied Pros Cons  Ooma marries strong features, integrations, and value into one appealing bundle, and we feel that it’s a great alternative to Google Voice for small businesses. We really like the integrations that are available with Ooma, such as Salesforce, Microsoft Dynamics, Zendesk, Microsoft 365, and ServiceNow. However, it’s not an exhaustive list, which is why the provider only scores 2.7/5 for integrations compared to RingCentral’s 4.3/5 and 8×8’s 4.2/5. Google Voice does a little better though, scoring 2.8/5. It integrates with CRM platforms such as Zoho CRM, Copper, Pipedrive, Salesforce, Freshsales, Agile CRM, and HubSpot, which is a better range than Ooma. However, you’ll also have Google Meet and Google’s other workspace tools on hand too, giving it the edge. Ooma can be navigated with a left sidebar that holds buttons for a directory, call history, settings, and more. Image: Ooma Read our head-to-head Ooma vs Google Voice comparison to learn more It’s not ranked more highly on our list, however, because its security is pretty bad. Ooma scores just 1 out of 5 in our research compared to Google Voice’s whopping 5 out of 5 rating for security, which was better than RingCentral (4/5). Google Voice will let you enforce password rules, manage user permissions and protect all your staff with multi-factor authentication. What it does do well, is support its clientele, and support them in supporting their customers. When we looked into user satisfaction levels, Ooma matched Google Voice’s 4.4/5 rating from its user base, and beat Google Voice on its Support options, scoring 4.5 stars vs Google Voice’s 3.1 rating, thanks to 24/7 live chat and phone support, and extensive onboarding support, the latter of which Google Voice does not offer.  Ooma Office starts at $19.95 for the Essentials plan, and unlike some basic tiers, this one is actually well worth your time and your wallet. With it you can expect a bevy of features, including a virtual receptionist, which gives it a serious leg up on Google Voice. However, it’s almost twice the price of Google Voice’s Starter plan. For $24.95 per user per month, you can get the Pro plan, which gives companies higher usage limits for audio conferencing and extension monitoring. Finally, the Pro Plus plan is available for $29.95 per user, per month, which adds Salesforce integration and advanced call management features. If you really want to make sure that Ooma suits your business needs, simply sign up for the free trial offered by the provider. Check out our Ooma Office review to learn more Price: CustomDownside: Higher entry price and fewer integrations than other Google Voice alternativesKey takeaway: Great value for larger businesses Pros Cons GoTo Connect is the VoIP service from GoTo, with a moderate offering of features and customer support options. Our researchers found that it has great customer support, and the customer score is high enough to tell us that users don’t hate using the system. All in all, it’s one of the stronger Google Voice alternatives. GoTo Connect was also awarded a 4.4/5 for scalability, meaning it’s a better choice than Google Voice (2.9/5) for businesses expecting to grow quickly. It has management features like call recording which is useful for training staff, as well as tools for fielding high volumes of inbound calls, such as call queues. Google Voice doesn’t offer either of these features. GoTo Connect’s complex management tools make it a great pick for a large or fast-growing company. Image: GoTo The biggest downside for GoTo Connect, however, is the number of integrations available for users. For example, there are very few CRM integrations available – the only big names GoTOo syncs up with are Salesforce, Zoho CRM, and Zendesk. There are also very few scheduling and calendar integrations that make organizing yourself a little tougher, whereas Google Voice users will have Google Calendar at their fingertips. Simply put, if you need a value option that can stand on its own, GoTo Connect is a great option, but there are definitely better providers out there if you look hard enough. GoTo Connect recently removed the public pricing from its plans, and now, you’ll have to contact sales to get a Quote. The last time they displayed public pricing, the cheapest plan cost $24 per user per month. There was also a more expensive plan that cost $29 per user per month and offered a vast array of advanced features. Now, you can choose from four plans: Phone System, Customer Engagement, Complete CX, and Contact Center. Plan for plan, they’re all likely to be more expensive than Google Voice, but offer a lot more for your money. Even GoTo’s cheapest plan, the basic phone system, has call recording capabilities that aren’t available on any Google Voice plan. Price: from $18.95 per user, per monthDownside: Average security, not quite as strong value for moneyKey takeaway: Better analytical features than Google Voice Pros Cons Much like Ooma, Nextiva is a well-known and respected VoIP brand with plenty of experience, and they’re a solid choice for most businesses looking for Google Voice alternatives. The provider offers noticeably more features than Google Voice, such as customizable greetings and virtual receptionists, scoring a 3.8 out of 5 in our research, compared to Google Voice’s mere 2.8 out of 5. Its security is average (3/5) compared to Google (5/5), let down by a lack of multi-factor authentication and password rules, but, again like Ooma, it has better customer support (4.5/5 vs 3.1/5). What we like most about Nextiva is its strong suite of analytical tools. This is something that you won’t get with the likes of Google Voice, and something which could well give you valuable insights into your business. Our research also found that the features Nextiva prioritizes in its plans are especially good for those working in service industries such as consultants, accountants, contractors, and designers. Overall, Nextiva is an alternative to Google Voice to consider, but given its cost, the features don’t blow us away, so it’s not quite as good value for money unless you do work in a professional service role. Find the best value for money for your unique business needs by comparing VoIP quotes. Learn more in our Nextiva review Even Nextiva’s cheapest plan (Essentials) includes unlimited voice and video calling. Image: Nextiva Nextiva’s Essential tier starts at $23.95 per user, per month for 1-4 users, but drops as you add users, costing just $18.95 per user for teams with between 20 and 100 users. It offers unlimited voice and video calling, auto attendant, integration with Outlook and Google Contacts, unlimited internet fax and 24/7 customer support. We particularly like the included video calling on this tier, as well as the friendly user interface. Professional is priced at $27.95 per user, per month for 1-4 users or $22.95 per user, per month for 20-100 users, and adds in unlimited conference calls, for up to 40 participants, unlimited text messages, and offers more integrations with Salesforce, HubSpot and Zendesk. At the top end of the scale, there’s Enterprise, priced at $37.95 per user, per month for 1-4 users or $32.95 per user, per month for 20-100 users. This is where the analytical features come to the fore, with voice and customer journey analytics. The integrations are also bolstered with Microsoft Teams, Oracle Sales, and ServiceNow. Price: from $15 per user, per monthDownside: Limited customer supportKey takeaway: Excellent integrations range Pros:   Cons: OpenPhone is another Google Voice alternative worth checking out, not least for the affordable $15 per user, per month price it sets its first paid plan at. While it’s not quite as cheap as Google Voice, the costs are significantly lower than 8×8, which starts from $24 per user, per month. If you’re thinking of switching over to OpenPhone, the good news is that you’ll be able to port your old number over for free, rather than paying for the change. There’s also a wide range of different local and toll-free numbers to choose from, and considerably more than is sometimes on offer from Google Voice. Another big difference between Google Voice and OpenPhone is the latter’s AI-powered text response tools, which is great considering that there’s no messaging limit enforced on any OpenPhone plans, so you can reply quickly and at scale. With OpenPhone, each contact’s calling and text history can be pulled up alongside their contact profile. Image: OpenPhone OpenPhone integrates with over 5,000 other platforms via Zapier, which gives it one of the most expansive integration directories offered by a VoIP provider. However, these don’t function in the same way as native integrations, of which OpenPhone only has seven. Concerningly, there are only two CRM options (Salesforce and HubSpot), while Google Voice has almost 10 native CRM integrations and video calling functionality in the form of Google Meet. It’s also worth noting that if you opt for the cheapest OpenPhone plan, you may struggle to get a quick customer support response. Google Voice doesn’t score too high here too, at only 3.1/5 in our research, but OpenPhone isn’t much better. Those on the $15 tier only get email and SMS support, and there’s no 24/7 support option. Premium and Enterprise customers get priority service. OpenPhone offers three price plans: Standard for $15 per user, per month, Premium for $23 per user, per month, and Enterprise, for a custom quote on request. When it comes to price, OpenPhone’s $15-per-month Standard package is a good swap for Google Voice’s $10-per-month starting plan. On the surface, this seems like great value, as it offers unlimited calls. When you look at the features included for the entry price though, you’ll see that it’s not just a pretty face. Price: from $14 per user, per monthDownside: Worse value overall than other alternatives listed aboveKey takeaway: True Solo tier is good value for an individual Pros: Cons: Grasshopper is a relatively unknown name compared to some of the other providers on this list, but still a respectable option to consider as a Google Voice alternative. It can be a bit expensive compared to others on this list, but its Solo plan is fairly generous. On its most basic “Solo” tier, Grasshopper grants you access to ring groups and advanced reporting, which are reserved for the more expensive Google Voice plans. Higher tiers increase the amount of phone numbers and extensions, and a free seven-day trial comes with one phone number and three extensions, 100 minutes, and 100 texts. Ultimately, Grasshopper doesn’t offer enough features to compete with the other VoIP options listed above, but if you’re just looking for the basics and a business number, its “True Solo” tier could be suitable as an alternative to Google Voice offering slightly better value for an entrepreneur. Here’s what the user interface looks like on desktop and mobile: Grasshopper’s clean interface includes plenty of white space. Image: Grasshopper Grasshopper pricing starts quite competitively, with its True Solo plan starting at only $14 per month, a comparable price to Google Voice. You only get one user, one phone number, and one extension, though, which explains the name. The Grasshopper Solo Plus tier starts at $14 per month and offers one phone number and 3 extensions. The second tier, Partner, includes all of the features in Solo but comes with three phone numbers instead, and six extensions. It’s priced at $46 per month. Lastly, the ‘Small Business’ tier adds five phone numbers and unlimited extensions and is priced at $80 per month. Related: Best Softphone VoIP Apps Price: from $50/monthDownside: Won’t work for higher call volumesKey takeaway: Flat fee based on minutes, not users Pros:   Cons: Telzio’s approach differs slightly from its competitors, in that you don’t pay per user like you do with Google Voice. Rather, businesses pay for a set number of minutes, which can be used by as many employees as needed. This won’t work for everyone and could work out rather expensive if you’re a business that is looking to make a lot of calls. However, if you are a fledgling business with not many calls to make and want the flexibility to allow anyone within your business to make these calls, then Telzio could be a viable solution for you. Telzio offers a comprehensive interface that even beginners can figure out. Image: Telzio In terms of integrations, there are a few big-name software platforms that Telzio connects with, but it’s not exhaustive. Google Analytics, Zapier, Stripe, Vtiger, and Webhooks are all represented. Features-wise, there’s a very good lineup of useful tools for businesses, including hold music, voicemail, call queues, menus, call recording, and live reporting. Honestly, it’s really not a great Google Voice alternative, although it has its pros. Would we recommend Telzio to everyone? No, there are much better, cheaper options, but if you’re a business with low call volumes and lots of users, then this platform could well suit your needs. Starting at $50 per month for 1,000 minutes of call time, Telzio is not the cheapest option, but a good set of features and strong customer support do go some way to make up for it. The service also charges separately for SMS messaging, which again, is unusual — Google Voice simply includes this in their packages. We take our impartial research and analysis seriously, so you can have complete confidence that we're giving you the clearest, most useful recommendations. After conducting an initial exploration to identify the most relevant, popular, and established tools in the market, we put them through their paces with hands-on testing to see their real strengths and weaknesses. In this case, we put ten VoIP systems to the test across 78 areas of investigation. Based on years of market and user needs research, we've established a VoIP system testing methodology that scores each product in seven main categories of investigation and 16 subcategories; this covers everything from the features and security options available to the product's value for money and customer score, as well as much more. Customer Score: the external customer opinion as to their satisfaction with the VoIP product; the feedback and ratings given by customers who have used a particular VoIP system, as well as the market poisiton and reputation a VoIP software holds. Cost: the pricing structure associated with the VoIP service. It includes factors such as monthly subscription fees, call rates (especially for international calls), setup fees, hardware costs (if applicable), and any additional charges for add-on features or services. Features: the functionalities and capabilities offered by the VoIP service. This can include basic features such as call forwarding, voicemail, call waiting, and caller ID, as well as advanced features like auto-attendant, conference calling, and call recording. External Connections: the VoIP service's ability to connect and integrate with external systems or devices. This can include compatibility with existing phone systems, integration with mobile devices, and support for softphones or IP phones. Customer Support: the assistance and resources provided by the VoIP service provider to customers. This can include technical support, documentation, online resources, knowledge bases, and access to customer support representatives. Security Options: Security options refer to the measures and features implemented by the VoIP service to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and protection of voice communications and data. This can include encryption of voice calls, compliance, password ruels and user permissions. Scalability: the ability of the VoIP service to accommodate the growth and changing needs of an organization. This includes factors such as the capacity to handle a growing number of users, support multiple locations or offices, and scale up or down according to the organisation's requirements. When it comes to calculating a product's final score, not all testing areas are weighted evenly, as we know some aspects matter more to our readers than others, which are merely "nice to have." After hundreds of hours, our process is complete, and the results should ensure you can find the best solution for your needs. At Tech.co, we have a number of full time in-house researchers, who re-run this testing process regularly, to ensure our results remain reflective of the present day. Learn more about our research.  Now that we’ve looked at paid providers, it’s only logical to ask: is there a free alternative to Google Voice? Well, the best free alternative to Google Voice is Facebook Messenger, which offers a familiar interface and is incredibly simple to use. Other options include Line, Just Call, and WhatsApp, but their business features are limited.  + Doesn’t cost anything+ Most people already use Facebook and should be familiar with Messenger+ Can use to contract individuals or groups – Not many features– Not secure– Relies on the person you’re trying to contact having Facebook Messenger  + Available on most platforms including iOS, Android and Windows+ Includes in-app payment system+ Widely used in countries such as China and Japan – Very little recognition in the US– Very basic features– No customer support  + Free to use+ WhatsApp for Business option – Not built for business functionality– Mobile app lacks analytics and menus– No hold music– Business-specific plan requires messy integration with dedicated API Free VoIP services may seem a great solution, but in reality, they will only serve your business in the short term, especially if you’re looking to grow. They offer few features, can look unprofessional, and almost never offer the level of support that a paid for VoIP platform does. To find the best deal for your needs from a range of recommended VoIP providers, use our free price comparison tool.  Yes, Google Voice is well worth using. The service offers some key advantages over the Google Voice alternatives we’ve been discussing. For one, Google Voice has excellent security options, including multi-factor authentication and password rules on all plans, to ensure your business is secure at every end-point. This helped Google Voice earn a 5/5 score for security, which was better than Ooma (1/5), Vonage (3/5), and even RingCentral (4/5), all of which couldn’t compete with its extensive security offerings. Google Voice also achieved a 4/5 value for money score, thanks to a starting plan available for just $10 per user, per month – this is cheaper than pretty much every other provider’s starting plan, including 8×8, Nextiva, and GoTo Connect, making Voice ideal for small teams. Another reason to choose Google Voice over a Google Voice alternative like Zoom Phone is the range of integrations. Google Voice has some that Zoom Phone doesn’t offer, including Google Meet, Google Workspace and even more CRM systems than Zoom Phone, such as Pipedrive and HubSpot. Finally, you’ll definitely want to stick with Voice if you’re already a Google Workspace subscriber and you’d like a VoIP system that seamlessly slots in amongst your other Google programs. “I use Google Voice for my VOIP and it is easy to use,” says Tim Connon, Founder of ParamountQuote Insurance Advisors. “I really like the call forwarding and the fact that I can have it tell me it is from my Google Voice number on my mobile phone. I also like the user interface and how basic it can be, which keeps things simple.” However, it’s not all plain sailing with Google Voice. “My biggest dislike of it is the fact that not all inbound calls come through on it in real-time,” Connon explains. “I will receive a missed call on my Google Voice phone and never even hear it ring. That is my biggest frustration with Google voice I would hope it gets fixed soon.” Bonnie Whitfield, Human Resources Director of Family Destinations Guide, said Google voice was “cost-effective” and eliminated her company’s need for “traditional phone lines and equipment,” which she said saved her business “money on phone and communication expenses.” However, Whitfield said that she’s found the voicemail transcription service offered by Google Voice isn’t always useful. “While it is a convenient way to quickly read and respond to voicemails, I have found that the accuracy of the transcription is not always up to my standards,” she remarked. We’ve spent quite a bit of time going through the merits and pitfalls of the best Google Voice alternatives – so it would only be fair if we did the same with Google Voice itself. Here’s a rundown of the key pros and cons of Google Voice:  Communicating with Google services has become quite popular in recent years, particularly with the pandemic spurring the remote work boom that had everyone signing into video chats to stay in touch with their team. As a result, you may be thinking that Google Meet could be a good alternative to Google Voice, as it provides an affordable way to talk to others. However, the reality is that Google Voice and Google Meet serve very different functions. Google Meet is a video conferencing platform at its core, which means you can’t really set it up to replace your business phone system. Yes, it’s a great way to stay in touch with people on your team, but you can’t set it up in a way that could accept outside calls for your business. All that to say, Google Meet is not a suitable Google Voice alternative, which means you’ll have to look at one of the aforementioned competitors above to get your business phone system set up today.  To switch from Google Voice, start by checking what type of account you have. Google Voice has a light version, but only a full account requires you to port or create a telephone number. If switching from a full account, you’ll either need to swap your Google Voice number to a new line or change your telephone number entirely, which a new provider can do for you. You likely want to port your number to your new provider. First you’ll have to unlock the number, which is a simple process that is either free or a $3 charge, depending on how you first set up your number. If your new provider requests an account number to complete the porting process, just give them your Google Voice number. Switch from Google Voice: Find the best provider for free today  So, 8×8 is the best Google Voice alternative – but of course, it certainly isn’t the cheapest. Zoom Phone can be purchased for exactly the same price – $10 per user, per month – but it has significantly more training, team management, and on-call features. All in all, Zoom Phone is the best VoIP provider in terms of value, and the only one with a pricing structure that matches Google Voice’s affordability. Not everyone has the cash to fork out on the RingCentral or Nextiva, and there’s really no better option for smaller businesses looking for a familiar but functional VoIP system that’s right at the lower end of the market when it comes to pricing. If you want a quick way to find the best deal on a Google Voice alternative, just use our free comparison tool – the questions take less than 60 seconds to complete and it’ll help you narrow down the providers already catering to businesses of your size in your industry.  If you click on, sign up to a service through, or make a purchase through the links on our site, or use our quotes tool to receive custom pricing for your business needs, we may earn a referral fee from the supplier(s) of the technology you’re interested in. This helps Tech.co to provide free information and reviews, and carries no additional cost to you. Most importantly, it doesn’t affect our editorial impartiality. Ratings and rankings on Tech.co cannot be bought. Our reviews are based on objective research analysis. Rare exceptions to this will be marked clearly as a ‘sponsored’ table column, or explained by a full advertising disclosure on the page, in place of this one. Click to return to top of page Verifying Get the latest tech news, straight to your inbox Stay informed on the top business tech stories with Tech.co's weekly highlights reel.  By signing up to receive our newsletter, you agree to our Privacy Policy. You can unsubscribe at any time.   We're sorry this article didn't help you today – we welcome feedback, so if there's any way you feel we could improve our content, please email us at contact@tech.co 