If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on March 6, 2023
 
By: Dana George
 Writer  KEY POINTS If you're going to change jobs anyway, why not find somewhere you'll be happy?  The past few years have ushered in a period of soul-searching. Many of us have asked ourselves how happy we are with our current jobs. As adults, we understand that no job is rainbows and unicorns every day. Still, most of us long to care about the work we do and the people we work with. A Fast Company-Harris Poll found that 59% of middle-income workers think about changing jobs. And the big draw? Remote work. Many Americans have decided that working remotely offers the life/work balance they seek. Some want to work from home, a coffee shop, or the deck of a pontoon boat 100% of the time. Many prefer a hybrid schedule that takes them to the office two or three days a week.  This desire for change led us to these questions: Do some corporate cultures provide a more positive work environment than others? Can a job represent more than money in the bank? Is changing jobs even worth the effort? 


 Fortunately, our friends at FlexJobs provided an answer by cross-checking its remote work database with Comparably's Happiest Employees list. They came up with a list of 60 companies that not only hire remote employees but also have a reputation for being great places to work. Here, we share a sample of what FlexJobs researchers came up with. In a nutshell, 6sense is involved with account-based marketing (ABM) powered by artificial intelligence (AI). Companies can work with 6sense to learn more about what drives their customer's buying decisions. Knowing what customers are looking for helps them identify the products and services they should be offering.  6sense embraces a collaborative approach to work, and with team members from over a dozen countries, offers employees a chance to spread their wings a bit. While some of the remote jobs posted by 6sense have specified that employees must live in a specific city, state, or country, many are open to anyone across the U.S. Here are several examples of past listings: A Place for Mom helps people locate the types of services their aging loved ones may need. This includes home care, specialized memory care, residential care homes, skilled nursing, independent living, and assisted living facilities. In short, they're helping families at a difficult time in their lives and trying to ease the burden. The company is known for providing great benefits and creating a positive work environment. Here are some of the jobs that have recently been posted by A Place for Mom: You may recognize ADP as payroll or benefits administrators, but they do much more. For example, the company also handles talent management and helps clients comply with regulatory changes.  With more than 600,000 clients, it's no surprise that ADP utilizes "pipeline listings" in its hiring process. This means that a single job post may represent a large number of openings. Here's a look at jobs ADP has recently posted: Farmers offers jobs for both entry-level candidates and experienced professionals. Remote jobs involve everything from consulting to marketing -- and insurance, of course. As one of the largest insurance brands in the country, Farmers serves more than 10 million households. These are the kinds of jobs most recently posted by Farmers Insurance: GoodRx is in the business of helping to reduce the high cost of prescription drugs in the U.S. Not only do everyday consumers use GoodRx to find the best price on the medications they need, but the company is also used by more than 100,000 physicians. Here are the types of jobs most recently posted: 147 years after the first telephone was patented, OpenPhone takes business phones a few steps forward. Using their internet connection, OpenPhone allows businesses to make unlimited calls and texts. Better yet, it captures phone numbers so employees in every department have access to the contact and a record of conversations via text. That way, no one is left out of the loop The company was founded in 2018, but since that time it has carved a niche for itself. OpenPhone is seen as the builder of a "new kind of business phone," and a generous employer. Here are some of OpenPhone's recently posted job openings: Formerly known as TripActions, Navan offers a corporate travel management application that makes it easier for companies to get people together. The San Francisco Chronicle named Navan one of its top workplaces in 2022, with work-flex arrangements, hybrid schedules, and 100% remote work options. Here's a peek at some of the jobs listing Navan has recently posted: Launched in 2006, Wistia provides video software to businesses. This software makes it possible for businesses to create customized videos while growing their enterprise. To date, Wistia has helped more than 300,000 businesses grow.  Part of Wistia's mission is to provide an "inclusive, diverse workplace that makes team members feel comfortable, happy, fulfilled, respected, and welcome." Past job postings include: A few things to keep in mind before searching for your next career opportunity: There was once a time when a person stayed with one employer until the day they retired, but those days are long gone. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), people born between 1957 and 1964 held, on average, 12.4 jobs between the ages of 18 and 54. That works out to a new job every 2.9 years.  The point is this: When the time is right, don't be afraid to make the leap. 
Dana is a full-time personal finance writer, with more than two decades of experience. Her focus is on helping readers feel less alone as they navigate their personal finances and offering actionable insights.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.