Baicells Technologies North America, a Plano-based provider of LTE and 5G cellular solutions, has partnered with New York-based ALEF Edge and Maryland’s Sky Packets to launch a turnkey private LTE solution package. The companies said it will provide connectivity to support unserved communities. Minchul Ho The solution, CommunityConnect, is a scalable offering that leverages CBRS spectrum and fixed wireless to deliver advanced broadband connectivity under new economics and across multiple environments—supporting both outdoor and indoor use cases. “No longer is cellular the exclusive domain of major enterprises or wireless operators,” Minchul Ho, CEO Americas for Baicells, said in a statement. “Advances in cellular technology have now made the required network elements affordable, compact, and much easier to deploy and operate; while also offering a path to next-generation functionality, like 5G and beyond.” “Amid significant federal investment, it is critical that underserved communities are supported when navigating the technology solutions available to them, and we’re excited to offer this within our bundle for underserved MDU properties and neighborhoods,” Ho added. Baicells said that the digital divide is recognized more and more as a critical barrier that can hold back families and communities. In today’s tech-rich world, lacking internet access hinders economic opportunity, education and job prospects, critical communications, and much more, the companies said. It’s a problem recognized across many governmental agencies and billions of dollars of funding have been made available to states, cities, and communities to close this divide and bring digital inclusion to more communities. “Too many communities across the U.S. are falling behind because they lack affordable broadband connectivity. It is critical that we now consider alternative models to change this, such as private fixed wireless. Investing in forward-thinking programs can help citizens get connected cost-effectively—paying major dividends for both tenants and property owners over the long term.” David Weber, senior policy analyst at the Public Housing Authorities Directors Association, said in a statement. CommunityConnect is a solution program for digital equity, Baicells said, and it helps communities leverage available funding and identify a clear path to closing the digital divide. While the vast number of programs and technology options can be confusing, this program is intended to offer guidance to deliver a successful outcome for the community efficiently, the companies said. According to Baicells, the solution utilizes a private, fixed wireless network, based on LTE/CBRS cellular services, giving users access to a broad range of applications, supporting high-speed data access, quality voice calls, video calls, and device streaming. Using CBRS, the private fixed wireless solution offers economical performance and faster time-to-service when compared to legacy alternatives, such as Wi-Fi or fixed broadband, Baicells said. The turnkey solution bundle includes Customer Premise Equipment (CPE), CBRS radios or wireless Access Points from Baicells, a managed control element from ALEF Edge, and ongoing service operation and support from Sky Packets. It’s a highly tailorable solution to the individual needs of the community, and additional partners can also be brought in to help deliver components of specific use cases, Baicells added. A global tech company, Baicells offers turnkey 4G and 5G Network Solutions under new economics for service providers, enterprises, and communities. It has commercial deployments across more than 50 countries, offices on five continents, and innovative engineering awarded 300 patents. Baicells has more than 700 private LTE deployments in operation, including a significant presence across North America. Alef said it is the only mobile connectivity SaaS platform company that gives enterprises and developers the independence to create, customize, and control their own private network infrastructure. It features simple and enterprise-centric secure integration, fast deployment, and unparalleled performance and economics. Its solution removes long deployment times and the complexity of working with mobile network operators and as such revolutionizes the way enterprises unlock mobility and productivity—from Industry 4.0 smart manufacturing to artificial intelligence. Sky Packets, on the other hand, is a provider of Wi-Fi and last-mile connectivity solutions, specializing in edge computing use cases and private wireless networks using Citizens Broadband Radio Service private LTE/5G spectrum bands.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   Game-changing leaders share insights on ways nonprofits can recover from pandemic-related setbacks and build resilience for long-term success at Capital One’s seventh annual summit. Ericsson said the trial was conducted over a live Citizen's Broadband Radio Service network at its North America HQ in Plano. Now, with the ability to get 5G gigabit speeds indoors along with advanced capabilities, Ericsson says enterprises can feel confident in deploying Private 5G networks. "We're excited to continue pushing the envelope of what is possible with 5G," Ericsson's Paul Challoner said. in a major announcement today, Dallas-Based T.D. Jakes Group and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Company unveiled a strategic partnership aimed at driving "economic vitality and inclusivity in communities across America." The announcement includes a big number: Up to $1 billion. That's the amount in capital and financing Wells Fargo is committing to the partnership over 10 years, as well as grants from the Wells Fargo Foundation. Lendistry is a minority-led, tech-enabled small business and commercial real estate lender based in California. From its new Dallas office, it aims to support underserved small businesses across Texas thanks to $5 million in funding provided by Texas Capital Bank. Lendistry discussed the news today in a session at Dallas Startup Week. "Contractors, startups, and nonprofits in particular have unique needs that call for a non-traditional approach," says Lendistry CEO Everett K. Sands. "Lendistry is glad to bring them a progressive option.” Eisenberg, the doodling Dallas artist behind Drug Receipts NFTs, is pushing the boundaries of creativity. Along with his Dallas Design District creative agency—named simply Eisenberg—he runs the NFT company with two former pro rollerblading buddies. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Venture Dallas 2024 isn’t just another networking event—it’s where multi-million dollar deals get done and North Texas startups secure game-changing investments. Backed by J.P. Morgan and Perot Jain, this year’s summit will shine a spotlight on the region’s defense tech, biotech, and software startups, attracting investors from across the country eager to connect with the next big thing.... North Texas is a big place with plenty of opportunities. Here’s a curated roundup of contests and competitions; accelerator and recognition programs; and resource and grant opportunities for North Texas innovators. ... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Venture Dallas 2024 isn’t just another networking event—it’s where multi-million dollar deals get done and North Texas startups secure game-changing investments. Backed by J.P. Morgan and Perot Jain, this year’s summit will shine a spotlight on the region’s defense tech, biotech, and software startups, attracting investors from across the country eager to connect with the next big thing.... North Texas is a big place with plenty of opportunities. Here’s a curated roundup of contests and competitions; accelerator and recognition programs; and resource and grant opportunities for North Texas innovators. ... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.