With 189 member countries, staff from more than 170 countries, and offices in over 130 locations, the World Bank Group is a unique global partnership: five institutions working for sustainable solutions that reduce poverty and build shared prosperity in developing countries.   The World Bank Group works in every major area of development.  We provide a wide array of financial products and technical assistance, and we help countries share and apply innovative knowledge and solutions to the challenges they face. We face big challenges to help the world’s poorest people and ensure that everyone sees benefits from economic growth. Data and research help us understand these challenges and set priorities, share knowledge of what works, and measure progress. How will artificial intelligence and big data analytics affect economies? How are these technologies diffusing around the world? How are firms using artificial intelligence and big data? Are current policies appropriate for these next-generation technologies? This workshop, organized by Georgetown University, the World Bank and Korea Institute for Industrial Economics & Trade, addressed these questions and more, featuring experts from academia, policy institutions, and industry. 9:00-10:00 AM Welcome and introduction Tim DeStefano, Georgetown University Keynote Speech: The Disruptive Economics of Artificial IntelligenceAvi Goldfarb, University of Toronto Q&A Moderation by Jonathan Timmis, World Bank 10:00-11:25 AM Session A: Trends in AI and Big Data Diffusion 11:40 AM-1:00 PM   Session B: Implementation Within Firms and Organizational Change 2:00-4:00 PM   Session C: Impacts of AI and Big Data on Productivity  Panel Discussion: Policy Implications of Big Data and AI 
Avi Goldfarb is the Rotman Chair in Artificial Intelligence and Healthcare and a professor of marketing at the Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto. Avi is also Chief Data Scientist at the Creative Destruction Lab, a faculty affiliate at the Vector Institute and the Schwartz-Reisman Institute for Technology and Society, and a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Avi’s research focuses on the economic effects of information technology. Along with Ajay Agrawal and Joshua Gans, Avi is the author of the Globe & Mail bestselling book Prediction Machines: The Simple Economics of Artificial Intelligence. His latest book, Power and Prediction, was published in November 2022 by Harvard Business Review Press.  Timothy DeStefano is an Associate Professor of Research at the Georgetown University McDonough School of Business. He is an applied economist with expertise in the areas of digital technology, artificial intelligence (AI), industrial robotics, firm productivity and trade. His research at Georgetown examines the effects of digital technology on firm reorganization and performance using a mixture of field experiments and observational data techniques. 
 Flavio Calvino is an Economist in the Directorate for Science, Technology and Innovation at the OECD. His work mainly focuses on business and employment dynamics, innovation, the role of the digital transformation, and the diffusion of Artificial Intelligence. His research has been published in academic journals including Industrial and Corporate Change, the Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control, and the Journal of Economic Surveys. Flavio holds a dual Ph.D. in Economics from Paris School of Economics – Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne and from Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna (Italy), a M.Sc. and B.Sc. from Bocconi University, and a M.Sc. from Copenhagen Business School.  
 Katherine Stapleton is currently a Country Economist for China and Cambodia in the World Bank's Macroeconomics, Trade and Investment Global Practice, where she works on international trade, emerging technologies, labor economics, development and climate policy.  She joined the World Bank in 2020 on the Young Professionals Program and has since worked in the Development Economics Research Group's Trade and International Integration unit and as Country Economist for Ghana. In September 2020 she completed her PhD in Economics from Oxford University.  She is a Visiting Researcher at Oxford University's Center for the Study of African Economies and an External Research Fellow at the UK's Institute for the Future of Work. 
Iavor Bojinov is an Assistant Professor of Business Administration and the Richard Hodgson Fellow at Harvard Business School. He is the co-PI of the Data Science Operations Lab, and a faculty affiliate in the Department of Statistics at Harvard University and the Harvard Data Science Initiative. His research and writings center on data science operations, aiming to understand how companies should overcome the methodological and operational challenges presented by the novel applications of data science. On the methodological side, he is particularly focused on causal inference from experiments and observational studies in complex settings, such as interference, carry-over effects, and dynamics treatment assignment regimes.  His work has been featured in top Statistics, Economics, and Management journals such as Annals of Applied Statistics, Biometrika, the Journal of the American Statistical Association, Quantitative Economics, and Management Science. 
 Jonathan Timmis is an Economist in the Office of the Chief Economist for East Asia and the Pacific at the World Bank, where he researches the areas of digitalization and technological change, productivity and globalization. Before joining the Bank, Jonathan worked for the IFC, the OECD Productivity and Business Dynamics Division and as an Overseas Development Institute Fellow in Rwanda.
He holds a PhD in Economics from the University of Nottingham and has published in journals including the Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization and Review of International Economics. 
Danbee Song is an Economist at the Center for Industrial Policy Research in the Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade. She is an applied economist with expertise in the areas of productivity, firm dynamics, innovation, artificial intelligence, and environmental economics. Her research has been published in academic journals including the Journal of Environmental Management and Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management. She holds a Ph.D. and an M.S. in Applied Economics from the Ohio State University, and an M.S. and a B.B.A. from Yonsei University.  Frederic Warzynski is Professor in the Department of Economics and Business Economics at the Aarhus School of Business and Social Sciences (Aarhus BSS), University of Aarhus. He has a BA and an MA in Economics from Université Libre de Bruxelles, and a Ph.D. in Economics from KU Leuven. He was previously employed in post-doctoral positions at IDEI, Toulouse and the Aarhus School of Business, and as Assistant Professor at Universidad Carlos III de Madrid. His fields of interest are industrial organization, productivity, organizational economics, labour economics and international trade, and he has been recently focusing on the implications of the diffusion of AI and robots in Denmark. 
Olivia Igbokwe-Curry is an experienced Government Affairs leader with a demonstrated history of working in the information technology and services industry. She's skilled in Government Procurement, State & Local Government Sales, Presenting Proposals, Presenting Solutions, and Trials. She has a JD focused in Law from Howard University School of Law. 
Fabio Luzzi is a Technology Executive at Tapestry based out of NYC. He has extensive experience in building and leading teams to execute end-to-end Digital and Data transformation strategies by leveraging Data, ML & AI. Fabio has proven track record of driving profitable growth for enterprises across different industries such as Technology, Payment Services, Entertainment, Advertising and Retail. He has a Master of Science degree in Statistics and Economics from “La Sapienza” University in Rome, Italy and has global experience working in Italy, UK and the United States.  
Elina Noor is a senior fellow in the Asia Program at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace where she focuses on developments in Southeast Asia, particularly the impact and implications of technology in reshaping power dynamics, governance, and nation-building in the region. She was previously director, political-security affairs and deputy director of the Washington, DC office of the Asia Society Policy Institute. A native of Malaysia, Noor's work focuses on security developments in Southeast Asia, global governance and technology, and preventing/countering violent extremism. Noor read law at Oxford University and obtained an LL.M. from The London School of Economics. She also holds an MA in security studies from Georgetown University where she was a Women in International Security Scholar. 
Mincheol Choi is an associate research fellow at the Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade (KIET). HIs research primarily focuses on the economics of innovation, new technologies, and R&D policy.His work has been published in academic journals such as Technovation, Management Decision, and Scientometrics. He holds a Ph.D. in Management Engineering from the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) and a B.S. in Physics from Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH). 
Scott Wallsten is President and Senior Fellow at the Technology Policy Institute and also a senior fellow at the Georgetown Center for Business and Public Policy. He is an economist with expertise in industrial organization and public policy, and his research focuses on competition, regulation, telecommunications, the economics of digitization, and technology policy. He was the economics director for the FCC’s National Broadband Plan and has been a lecturer in Stanford University’s public policy program, director of communications policy studies and senior fellow at the Progress & Freedom Foundation, a senior fellow at the AEI – Brookings Joint Center for Regulatory Studies and a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, an economist at The World Bank, a scholar at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, and a staff economist at the U.S. President’s Council of Economic Advisers. He holds a PhD in economics from Stanford University. The Disruptive Economics of Artificial Intelligence Download slideshowWatch full keynote speech A portrait of AI adopters across countries: firm characteristics, asset complementarities and productivity Download slides  Global firms and technology diffusion Download slides Watch the full session Flavio Calvino Katherine Stapleton Nailing Prediction: Experimental Evidence on the Value of Tools in Predictive Model Development Download slides Capital Incentives and Cloud, Big Data and AI Diffusion Download slides Watch full session Iavor Bojinov Jonathan Timmis AI and Productivity in South Korea Download slideshow AI Adoption in Denmark and Productivity Download slideshow Watch full session  Danbee Song Frederic Warzynski Mincheol Choi - KIET Olivia Igbokwe-Curry - Amazon Web Services Fabio Luzzi - Tapestry Elina Noor - Asia Program at Carnegie Scott Wallsten - Technology Policy Institute Watch full panel discussion  World Bank East Asia and Pacific Chief Economist Office Website
Georgetown Center for Business & Public Policy Website 
Korea Institute for Industrial Economics & Trade Website
 World Bank East Asia and Pacific Chief Economist Office Website Georgetown Center for Business & Public Policy Website  Korea Institute for Industrial Economics & Trade Website This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies, click here. 