 

 Written by Kashish Sharma |Published : March 6, 2023 11:56 PM IST The Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya hinted at the upcoming three-layered healthcare structure to ensure that the pilgrims embarking on the Char Dham Yatra are provided with medical support on their journey.
 This came after a meeting with the Health Minister of Uttarakhand Dhan Singh Rawat. Reportedly, the state minister requested support from the central government for developing a health and emergency infrastructure for the lakhs of pilgrims who undertake the Char Dham yatra every year.
 There are many health challenges faced by pilgrims along the strenuous route, including health emergencies such as fainting, stroke, cardiac arrest, high blood pressure and others. Reportedly, many casualties occur among pilgrims who have co-morbidities.

Also Read
Stroke Risk: Can Genetic Factors, Ethnicity And Regional Disparities In Comorbidity Act As Contributing Factors?Clogged Arteries: 7 Yoga Asanas To Cleanse Bad LDL Cholesterol From Heart Arteries And Prevent StrokeMorning Stroke: What Are The Tell-Tale Signs Of A Fatal Brain Stroke?
More News
 More News Mandaviya informed that a strong network of advanced ambulances and stroke vans will be made available to ensure that stroke management and treatment can start on the way to the health facility.
  Reportedly, these ambulances will be stationed at different points on the yatra route, the union minister informed. He informed that PG students from medical colleges from across the country are proposed to be deployed as part of the strengthened healthcare infrastructure and will act as first responders.
 "This experience will also act as a skill and capacity-building exercise for the PG students," Mandaviya said.
 
You may like to read 












 The minister also informed that drones will be used to provide emergency medicine in the higher altitudes of the yatra.
 The Char Dham Yatra or pilgrimage is a tour of four holy sites, Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath, nestled high up in the Himalayas.

TRENDING NOW












 Studies published in the journal American Heart Association have shown that visiting high-altitude locations may be dangerous for people with high blood pressure or certain heart conditions. As per experts, many people are familiar with the symptoms of acute mountain sickness such as headaches, dizziness, nausea and weakness. However, experts believe that people might be less aware of the stress placed on the body and particularly the heart and lungs when people with cardiovascular disease travel to mountainous regions where there is a reduction in oxygen availability compared to sea-level conditions. Don’t Miss Out on the Latest Updates.
Subscribe to Our Newsletter Today! Enroll for our free updates Thank You for Subscribing Thanks for Updating Your Information Post Pregnancy Skin Care Tips Deadly Diseases Effective Stress Management Techniques Isolation Camu Camu Healthy Habits Chandipura In Gujarat Makhana Benefits For Pregnancy Monsoon Diet Tips Early Signs Of Heart Ancient Medicine Benefits Of Breastfeeding By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookie Policy. 