The Tigers made it four games unbeaten in pre-season with a dominant victory over League One outfit Barnsley Get the latest Hull City news straight to your inbox with our daily Tigers newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest Hull City news straight to your inbox with our daily Tigers newsletter We have more newsletters Liam Rosenior is confident his Hull City side will develop their cutting edge in front of goal as pre-season continues. The Tigers created numerous openings against Barnsley on Tuesday night but only had Will Jarvis' first-half goal to show for their considerable efforts and dominance.  Oscar Estupinan, Benjamin Tetteh and Liam Delap all passed up good chances with the Tigers notching 13 attempts on Barnsley's goal in their 1-0 friendly success at the MKM Stadium. City's lack of ruthlessness was a real problem last season and Rosenior is keen to improve his side's conversion rate this term, though he feels as his players get fitter and sharper, the goals will start to flow. READ MORE: Liam Rosenior delivers latest transfer update on George Cox after impressive Hull City showing "I'm happy, everyone came through unscathed which is the most important thing," said Rosenior. "I wanted more goals - I've been demanding on the players and they'd probably tell you the same thing. "Overall, some of our play was really, really good, the way we want to play, some of the interplay up to the final third was really good but we need to have a little bit more of a cutting edge. That will come the fitter and sharper we get, so overall I'm delighted with the players. "We trained this morning (Tuesday). We trained really really hard and the players trained really hard yesterday (Monday). We're still working to a pre-season schedule so I'm not expecting miracles, but I am demanding of the players. "We created so many chances and probably should have scored four, five or six but credit to Neill (Collins, Barnsley manager), he's not been in the club long at Barnsley and his players kept plugging away and they were a credit to him. "Overall, it was a really good day. There's a lot to learn that we'll go back to the training ground and work on, but overall, I'm very happy with the group." 