FI Director General Mohsin Butt opens modern facility at Islamabad airport
 As part of the measures to tighten the noose against human trafficking, currency smuggling and other irregularities, the Federal Investigation Agency has opened the Advanced Second-Line of Border Control Office (ASSLBC) at the New Islamabad International Airport. According to sources, the availability of cutting-edge forensic and IT tools will make it impossible to utilise counterfeit passports, visas, and travel documents. There is also a record of 4,000 passports and security features of all categories around the world in the state-of-the-art computerised system. The establishment of the ASSLBC at the New Islamabad International Airport came to fruition with support from the European Union and the International Centre for Migration Policy Development (ICMPD). Also read: No data of child trafficking victims, SC told The ASSLBC has high-tech IT equipment that can be used to check travel documents for forensic purposes. Its modern computerised system has records of almost 4,000 passports of all categories issued worldwide with security features. Foreign experts have trained 20 officers and personnel from FIA Immigration to become mass trainers for the ASSLBC. FIA Additional Director Immigration at Islamabad Airport, Haroon Joya, said the immigration master trainers, who successfully finished the training programme, would instruct other staff members at the New Islamabad International Airport in addition to their shift-based duties. “The modern ASSLBC will help in the prevention of human trafficking, currency smuggling, and other illicit activities at the airport,” he said. Joya added that forged passports, visas, and travel documents may be detected immediately with the help of contemporary technology and forensics. Read more: FIA nabs human trafficking suspect FIA Director General Mohsin Butt Wednesday inaugurated the new office at the FIA Academy, following which the new ASSLBC commenced regular operations at the New Islamabad International Airport. However, the airport’s current immigration checking and clearance counters and system will continue to operate as usual. Published in The Express Tribune, October 13th, 2023. COMMENTS  Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.  For more information, please see our Comments FAQ 

Sargodha roads, markets submerged

 

Man sets fire to dowry of ex-wife seeking alimony

 

Terrorist killed in CTD operation

 

Four killed, five injured in roof collapse incidents

 

SHO suspended for torture

 

500k children to be enrolled in schools

 Currency hits new 3-month high below 281 vs dollar Pakistani rupee set to become top-performing currency globally: report  ‘Illegal currency trading’: Crackdown yields over Rs400 million Military helps stifle currency black market PM assigns economic plan to Dar COAS pays tribute to army veterans UK LGBTQ Pride founder Stephen Ireland arrested for child sex crimes Christians urge female Republicans to stop posting bikini pics amid Anna Paulina Luna controversy Lauren Boebert reveals eye-catching ’90s tattoo in bikini photo shared by Matt Gaetz’s wife ‘Spiritual bond’: Startling new details expose Imran-Faiz-Bushra nexus Limits of Indian power Kursk attack: first on Russia after WWII The national security paradox Fall of the wall: unraveling of Indian narrative in Bangladesh How Tories drove UK into Islamophobia? A policy inconvenience This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.