MENU Business.com aims to help business owners make informed decisions to support and grow their companies. We research and recommend products and services suitable for various business types, investing thousands of hours each year in this process. As a business, we need to generate revenue to sustain our content. We have financial relationships with some companies we cover, earning commissions when readers purchase from our partners or share information about their needs. These relationships do not dictate our advice and recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates and recommends products and services based on their research and expertise. Learn more about our process and partners here. High-quality HR software solutions help you manage recruiting, onboarding, employee benefits, performance reviews and more. At business.com, we strive to provide business owners with unparalleled recommendations for the best HR software and services, along with actionable advice for navigating human resources processes, fostering a healthy company culture and improving employee engagement. We infuse our playbooks and explainers with expertise from real HR advisers, payroll consultants, retirement planners and other human resources professionals. Across our HR reviews and product guides, every solution we recommend — whether it be a payroll platform, PEO/HRO service or employee monitoring software — is thoroughly tested, investigated and vetted independently to ensure vendor claims about products are legitimate and backed by real user experiences. As part of our commitment to fairness and accuracy, each assessment is reviewed by a top business.com editor who was not involved in the analysis process. Learn more about our editorial process. To recommend the best HR software, we conducted comprehensive industry research and tried both well-known and lesser-known solutions ourselves. We looked for platforms that could facilitate recruitment, onboarding and offboarding, performance management, benefits... To recommend the best HR software, we conducted comprehensive industry research and tried both well-known and lesser-known solutions ourselves. We looked for platforms that could facilitate recruitment, onboarding and offboarding, performance management, benefits administration, time tracking and legal compliance. We also considered whether the vendor offered native payroll processing or would require a third-party integration. Evaluations further took into account user-friendliness and employee self-service tools, as well as the ability for employers to scale their plans up or down based on changes in workforce size.  evaluated researched chosen To recommend the best HR software, we conducted comprehensive industry research and tried both well-known and lesser-known solutions ourselves. We looked for platforms that could facilitate recruitment, onboarding and offboarding, performance management, benefits administration, time tracking and legal compliance. We also considered whether the vendor offered native payroll processing or would require a third-party integration. Evaluations further took into account user-friendliness and employee self-service tools, as well as the ability for employers to scale their plans up or down based on changes in workforce size.  evaluated researched chosen Manually managing your human resources (HR) functions can be a tedious and time-consuming process. To alleviate those challenges, HR software is available to help streamline recruitment, employee onboarding, time and attendance tracking, payroll and benefits administration, employee performance management, and legal compliance. It also integrates seamlessly into hiring and operational workflows so that HR management is easy for not only HR leaders but all employees. To help you choose the best HR software for your business, we spent countless hours researching and testing the top HR applications, evaluating each platform on its price, ease of use, valuable features and customer support. Employee Onboarding Risk Mitigation Payroll Ease of Use Analytics SMBs Benefits Administration Based on number of users and selected services $99, plus a setup fee on some plans $40, plus $6 per employee $8 per employee Based on number of users and selected services Rates customized per plan Rates customized per plan 2 (add-ons available) 6 (add-on available) 4 (add-ons available) 1 (add-ons available) 4 (add-ons available) 3 (add-on available) 5 Monthly 6 months, annual or multiyear Month to month Month to month Monthly or annual Annual or multiyear Monthly, annual or multiyear In-house payroll add-on available; third-party integration available In-house payroll add-on available In-house payroll included In-house payroll add-on available In-house payroll included In-house payroll included In-house payroll included 130+ and open API N/A 190+ 500+ and open API 300+ and open API Yes 700+ and open API iOS and Android None iOS and Android iOS and Android iOS and Android iOS and Android iOS and Android Phone, email and webchat – 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. MST (weekdays) Dedicated HR manager, HR coordinator, business manager, phone, email and chat – 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. PST (weekdays) Phone, email and webchat; 6 a.m.– 6 p.m. MST Email and webchat (plus phone support with HR help desk add-on) Phone, email, webchat and 1-on-1 support – 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. EST for payroll, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. EST for other products (weekdays) Phone and email (A client liason, HR specialist, payroll specialist, benefits specialist, HR services manager, performance specialist, safety consultant) Phone, live chat, strategic account manager, team of specialists – 7:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. ET (weekdays) BambooHR is a mobile-friendly platform that is ideal for hiring and onboarding employees. When testing the software, we liked how you are able to send electronic offer letters to be signed digitally, and then utilize BambooHR’s document storage capabilities for secure document retention. To enhance your onboarding process, you can set the software to send welcome emails and new-hire packets, as well as assign onboarding tasks. These help your new hires understand what they have to look forward to when starting at your company. BambooHR offers self-service features and the user interface is intuitive, so your new hires can get up and running in no time. What sets BambooHR apart is its Pro plan: It offers everything you need to source, hire and onboard the best talent. Unlike some competitors, BambooHR includes applicant tracking capabilities so you can find the best employees for your open positions. You can post open jobs, search and filter resumes and cover letters by keywords, and create talent pools full of viable candidates. Once you’ve found the best candidate, you can automatically funnel them into BambooHR’s onboarding process.  BambooHR offers new hire packet templates to help with the onboarding process.  Source: BambooHR BambooHR received a 8.3/10 rating from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Customers praised the platform’s usability, implementation process, onboarding tasks and customer support. However, some users noted that reporting capabilities could be more robust. CHECK OUT OUR FULL BAMBOOHR REVIEW Bambee is a human resources outsourcing solution geared toward supplying small businesses (fewer than 500 employees) with custom HR support in a way that helps to mitigate HR risks. We find it especially helpful how Bambee pairs you with a dedicated HR manager or director to meet your specific HR needs. This manager then conducts an HR audit on your organization to quickly identify areas where your business can improve to meet federal, state and local laws and regulations. Bambee works with you to create custom HR policies and procedures that are both legally compliant and match your company culture.    Bambee’s user-friendly dashboard makes it easy to see and manage upcoming HR tasks.  Source: Bambee Bambee received a 4/5 rating from users who reviewed the platform on Trustpilot. Customers praised the vendor for its dedicated HR managers, notably how helpful and accessible they are. However, some users reported pricing to be an issue. CHECK OUT OUR FULL BAMBEE REVIEW Gusto is our choice for the best HR software for payroll. It offers full-service payroll functions, workers’ compensation administration and the Gusto Wallet app, which your employees can use to access their payroll and account information. Gusto can help employers run payroll for employees and contractors in multiple states or countries. For example, Gusto can take care of state tax registration for you, as well as handle exchange rates and payments in multiple currencies. This type of pay assistance is increasingly important as more employers move toward global and distributed workforces. We like that with Gusto, you have access to unlimited and multistate payroll, tax filing and payments, direct deposit, state and federal unemployment insurance, year-end tax forms, garnishments, multiple pay rates and schedules, PTO policy management, holiday pay and time-off tracking. Gusto offers a variety of comprehensive benefits, so employers can seamlessly integrate those into payroll as well. It also provides reporting, accounting and time tracking integrations; new-hire reporting; and payroll reports.  When testing Gusto, we found the software easy to navigate and simple to understand. Source: Gusto Gusto received a 7.5/10 rating from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Customers praised the platform’s payroll management features like pay calculation, tax forms and filings, pay stubs and benefits administration. However, some users said that Gusto’s customer service left something to be desired. CHECK OUT OUR FULL GUSTO REVIEW Rippling is a one-stop-shop, offering traditional HR features (e.g., recruitment, time and attendance tracking, payroll processing, benefits administration, learning management, PEO, performance management, employee surveys) and less traditional features (e.g., app and device management, headcount planning, global payments, expense management, bill pay). This allows employers to sync and manage all these processes from one centralized platform. We were impressed with how quickly you can get your business up and running with the software — within just four weeks. We also like that you can automate nearly any HR process with the Rippling platform, further streamlining your HR management. To further simplify your HR needs, you can automate other processes, like time and attendance, applicant tracking, and Affordable Care Act (ACA) and COBRA administration. Overall, the Rippling platform is intuitive and easy to use, and it even has a mobile app for iOS and Android devices.  Rippling has built-in report templates as well as customizable reporting.  Source: Rippling Rippling received an 8.5/10 rating from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Customers praised how comprehensive the platform is, consolidating all aspects of HR, benefits and device management into one centralized platform. However, some users noted that costs can add up quickly and they would appreciate a free trial. CHECK OUT OUR FULL RIPPLING REVIEW With Paycor, we like that instead of offering simple standard reports, users can access various charts and graphs that can be easily digested. Users can view current workforce trends, like head count by employment type, as well as projected trends that are predicted based on past workforce data. You can access charts and graphs on benchmarks and demographics and easily compare multiple organizations or locations. We were impressed with how Paycor lists key drivers affecting certain workforce trends to help you quickly discover ways to improve your organization. With Paycor’s performance management metrics, you can easily track and improve employee performance as well.  Paycor breaks down workforce analytics into graphs and charts, which, when we tested the software, we found to be simple to understand. Source: Paycor time off manager, job costing, 401(k) EDI processing, 360° 401(k) integration, e-verify service, recruiting, Paycor Analytics (basic), and an HR support center *Paycor no longer lists pricing online, so actual plan rates may vary. Paycor received a 7.3/10 rating from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Customers praised the platform’s essential HR functions like recruiting, time keeping and payroll. However, some users noted that customer service can be inconsistent. CHECK OUT OUR FULL PAYCOR REVIEW Insperity stands out as the best HR software for small and midsize businesses (SMBs) because of its comprehensive suite of services, including talent acquisition and management, HR administration, payroll processing, risk management and employee benefit plans. All of these are easily accessible through the intuitive platform. One aspect of Insperity we found most notable in our evaluation is its employee training solutions. It offers access to thousands of resources, including over 300 online courses and other learning materials. We also like that Insperity offers these features via professional employer organization (PEO) and non-PEO plans, making it suitable for SMBs that need a flexible HR solution to accommodate their changing needs.  When testing out Insperity, we found the dashboard, which pops up when users access the software, to be especially user-friendly.  Source: Insperity Users who reviewed Insperity on TrustRadius rated it 4.4 out of 10. Customers praised the platform’s onboarding process. However, some users were unimpressed with its pricing. CHECK OUT OUR FULL INSPERITY REVIEW Whether you go with ADP for its HR software, HR outsourcing or PEO model, we like how you can access ADP’s robust benefits administration capabilities. The company has connections with major healthcare companies, allowing you to tap into comprehensive benefits with flexible rate structures. If you’re new to the scene, ADP can help you set up your ADP plan and guide you through the benefits administration process. We were impressed with ADP’s array of services such as employee discount programs, open enrollment administration, election changes, dependent and beneficiary tracking, life event processing, absence management, and benefits invoice reconciliation.  With ADP, you are able to easily navigate employee benefits administration. Source: ADP  ADP received a 7.9/10 rating from users who reviewed the platform on TrustRadius. Customers praised certain features like payroll, benefits administration and time off management. However, some users were not nearly as impressed with their customer support. CHECK OUT OUR FULL ADP REVIEW HR software helps businesses recruit, onboard, manage and pay employees. It integrates time scheduling and management tools to organize a company’s workforce. Its payroll services accurately compensate employees, and performance management and reporting tools facilitate and track employee development. When conducting your research about HR software, you likely came across terms like “human resources information systems,” “human resources management systems” and “human capital management.” All of these terms refer to HR software. Small business owners and HR professionals know how time-consuming managing a business’s HR needs can be. Although employers were previously limited to manually performing HR functions, HR software can now aid in performing these responsibilities. Here are some  of the biggest benefits of using HR software:  HR software with automated workflows not only speeds up your HR processes but also helps you comply with many federal and state regulations. Read our related article on switching to an automated HR system. The cost of HR software varies depending on the size of your business, industry and the features and services you need. Most HR software pricing is based on a per-employee basis, averaging between $5 and $20 per employee per month. Some HR software providers also charge a monthly base fee that ranges from about $40 to $100 per month. Additionally, you may have to pay for extra services, like payroll, employee benefits and performance management. Some HR software solutions are priced on a month-to-month basis with no long-term requirements, while others require you to sign an annual contract. Although free trials and free plans are uncommon with HR software, most companies offer either an online demo or a company rep will walk through all of the software’s features. The average HR software solution costs $5 to $20 per employee per month, plus a monthly base fee of $40 to $100. Other features, like payroll and employee benefits, often cost extra.  There are a few key components to address when you’re choosing the right HR software for your business.  If you are still looking for the right HR software for your business, check out these additional options. Each one has met our standard for excellence. Paychex offers all of the features you need to manage your in-office or remote workforce. The software integrates with numerous third-party services, which is ideal for customizing a solution that can serve your workforce. We like how the software allows you to track employees’ information regardless of where they’re located and maintain legal compliance through data analytics, general ledger reports and automatic tax forms. It also offers a secure document management center that serves as a centralized location for remote and hybrid employee documents. It supports multiple uploads, in-app signing capabilities, real-time reporting and rule-based restrictions. Learn more in our detailed Paychex Flex review. Deel is a global payroll and compliance platform that helps companies hire and pay employees and contractors worldwide. Its best features include automated payroll processing in over 150 countries, seamless integration with popular accounting software, and comprehensive compliance support to navigate international labor laws. Learn more in our detailed review of Deel. GoCo is an easy-to-use software that starts at $5 per employee per month for premium HR features. You can also customize your plan with additional features like benefits administration, payroll, time management, engagement surveys, performance management, recruiting, HR compliance and advanced workflows. It also offers lifetime access to GoCo’s training specialists to help you and your staff get up to speed with the software. Learn more in our detailed GoCo review. TriNet has a comprehensive HR software platform that has all of the services and features a startup needs to manage its HR needs. It offers multiple plans and add-ons with monthly and annual contracts. This allows a new business to customize a plan to its needs and budget. The cheapest plan starts at just $8 per employee per month, which is competitive with other HR solutions. TriNet’s modern and intuitive user interface is ideal for companies that want to get started on the platform quickly and easily. Learn more in our detailed review of TriNet’s HR platform. Papaya Global is a great choice for international businesses. If you have employees in one or more countries, Papaya Global helps manage your global workforce. It currently offers support for workers in more than 160 countries, which is a wider reach than many competitors provide. If you don’t have a physical entity in the country where you are hiring, Papaya Global can act as your employer of record. We like that Papaya Global can run payroll for all worker types and help you automatically pay workers in their local currencies. Learn more in our detailed Papaya Global review. The features you should look for depend on your specific HR needs. However, here are some key HR software features that most businesses benefit from. Most HR software includes tools for recruiting, onboarding and offboarding employees. These features include job posting and syndication, configurable job applications, interview and assessment functionality, background check integration, offer-letter templates, new-hire packets, onboarding checklists, e-signature capabilities, workflow automation, document storage, employee profiles, and training tracking. While some systems include these features internally, most offer a combination of internal features and integrations with third-party platforms, such as applicant tracking systems and top background check services. Most HR software either comes with a built-in payroll option or integrates with top-rated payroll software from a third-party service. Built-in payroll modules typically include the ability to calculate employee paychecks, handle multiple pay rates and schedules, administer garnishments, pay employees via direct deposit and pay cards, and provide online pay stubs. A newer feature offered by some software is on-demand pay, which allows employees to access a portion of their wages the day they earn them. HR software can handle all payroll tax responsibilities, such as calculating and withholding federal, state and local payroll taxes. It can also prepare and deliver electronic 1099s and W-2s. Most HR software integrates with top accounting software.  Many HR software options include time and attendance features so that employers can accurately track when employees are on and off the clock. Most systems are cloud-based, which allows for browser-based clocking in and out, while many also offer iOS and Android mobile apps for punching in and out remotely. Another useful feature for off-site workers is geolocation tracking, which monitors where an employee is located while clocked in. Most HR software allows for automatic and manual time tracking, as well as shift scheduling, swapping and dropping. HR software can help manage PTO requests and accruals, and it can offer certain automation and alert features to help you maintain legal compliance with things like break policies and overtime laws. Employee time-tracking data is automatically synced into payroll solutions to streamline payroll processing and increase pay accuracy. [Read related article: Why Your Small Business Needs an Attendance Policy] HR software can help you administer employee benefits, including medical, dental and vision insurance; employee retirement accounts; life insurance; accident and illness policies; short- and long-term disability insurance; health savings accounts and flexible spending accounts; auto and home policies; commuter benefits; workers’ compensation; pet insurance; and miscellaneous coverages. Most integrate with popular benefit carriers to get you competitive benefits and rates. In addition, most HR software providers will help your employees get the most out of their benefits. Features such as easy plan configuration and ongoing participant education can help simplify the benefits process.  The best HR solutions have features to help you and your staff with benefits enrollment. Source: GoCo Standard HR software allows you to track and manage employee performance. This can include tools for goal setting and monitoring, succession planning and performance evaluations. Some software also includes personalized dashboards and learning management systems with training courses so you can easily provide mandatory training (e.g., sexual harassment) or professional development training. Ongoing employee learning and professional development can help with employee recruitment, skill level, expertise and retention.  HR software helps you maintain audit-ready records and compliance with labor and employment laws such as the ACA and COBRA. Custom workflows and automation features can help you maintain legal compliance, as they reduce the likelihood of human error by ensuring that certain required measures are being followed every time. HR software companies typically offer customer support via phone, email and chat. The best companies also offer a dedicated support representative who can provide HR guidance along the way. Most HR software provides helpful reporting and analytics. Depending on the type of reports you want, you may need to sign up for a more advanced software plan, but basic plans typically provide data on your team, payroll, taxes and more. HR reporting can be a valuable tool for tracking workforce trends and increasing efficiency across your entire workforce.  Standard reports such as payroll reports can be a great value-add for employers who want to manage HR costs. Source: Rippling A self-service dashboard allows employees to manage their benefits, request time off and complete performance evaluations. Most systems are cloud-based and offer mobile apps for iOS and Android devices, so employees can access the software wherever they have an internet connection. To determine the best human resources software on the market, our team of HR experts and software analysts evaluated an initial list of 26 platforms. After whittling our list down to 16, we chose seven HR solutions as our top recommendations. Our experts and analysts studied each solution’s functionality and evaluated the products on more than 100 factors. These factors were broken down into categories and weighted differently in our overall conclusion. The weights were determined based on how much business owners prioritize these criteria when shopping for business software and services and making purchasing decisions. Based on these criteria, we not only determined which HR software our readers could trust but also the ways in which each solution could best serve different business needs. Some platforms were better at certain tasks than others or more suited to a particular type of company. These takeaways informed the “Best for” use cases you see on this page. To learn more about our methodology, see our full editorial process. By automating your HR processes, HR software saves your team time that it would otherwise spend manually performing administrative functions. This gives your HR department more time to execute other important tasks. In addition, most HR software helps you comply with federal, state and local laws, which can reduce the possibility of costly legal issues.  Many HR software solutions provide preset service plans, but some companies let you add customizable services and features. This is a great option for small businesses that need specific HR management functions. For example, you may be able to add components like payroll, benefits administration, time tracking, performance management, learning management systems, and advanced HR support and advisory services. Some providers even offer industry-specific HR software tailored to each business’s unique needs. There are many different types of HR software. Some HR software is all-encompassing, like the top vendors listed on this page. However, other HR software focuses on a core HR function. Here are 10 of the most common types of HR software you will likely come across:  As with most things in business, it depends. If you are a startup with a few employees, you may be fine handling all of your HR responsibilities manually. However, as soon as your HR functions take up too much time or your business expands, it is time to invest in HR software. Regardless of your business’s size, HR software is a great way to streamline common core HR tasks, like recordkeeping, payroll and talent management. It is also a key in helping your business maintain compliance with labor and employment laws. If your business needs help with any of these functions, consider utilizing an HR software solution. If you want someone else to help you manage these functions, you might also consider partnering with a top-rated HR outsourcing service instead. Conducting free demos to test various HR software can be a worthwhile way to explore your options. Rippling and Gusto are both powerful HR solutions, although they are built with different key audiences in mind. Rippling is best for companies that want to automate many HR functions and manage HR, finance, and IT data all from one central platform. Gusto, on the other hand, is geared towards smaller businesses that want essential payroll and HR software features with transparent pricing. Check out our Rippling vs. Gusto comparison to learn more. The best free HR software depends largely on the size of your business and specific HR needs. If you’re looking for a free all-encompassing platform with recruitment, payroll and benefits features, you will be hard-pressed to find one. However, one HR solution, Connecteam, is free for up to 10 users. It has standard HR features like employee scheduling, task management, communication functions, document storage, time off management, employee development courses, and employee recognition. Read our Connecteam review to learn more. B. newsletter is your digest of bite-sized news, thought & brand leadership, and entertainment. All in one email. Our mission is to help you take your team, your business and your career to the next level. Whether you're here for product recommendations, research or career advice, we're happy you're here!