Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Jason R. Rich
 
    Edited By
                        
              Fox Van Allen
 
Updated on:  October 6, 2023 / 1:02 PM EDT
          / Essentials
         
            CBS Essentials is created independently of the CBS News editorial staff. We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
           Even without a sale, a savvy shopper can find a decently powerful Windows-based laptop computer for less than $1,500 or a basic MacBook starting at around $1,000. But when these portable computers go on sale, you're able to score a more powerful, faster and better configured computer for much less. Related: How we select our products If you're currently seeking a great deal on a new laptop computer, you're in luck. While it's still several days before Amazon kicks off its much-anticipated Prime Big Deal Days sale event on Oct. 10-11, we've already discovered some nicely discounted laptops from top brands like Apple, Acer, Lenovo and HP. One of the most popular laptop deals right now: You can get an Apple MacBook Air with 256GB of storage for just $750, a savings of $250. If you're looking for an Apple MacBook, mid-to-high-end Windows laptop computer or a low-cost Chromebook, the time is right to shop. We've found great deals on some of the best laptops of 2023, perfect for your own use or giving as a holiday gift. Although this is not the most current version of the popular and lightweight MacBook Air laptop computer, it does run the latest version of MacOS (although MacOS Big Sur comes preinstalled).  This MacBook is equipped with a beautiful, 13-inch Retina display, 8GB of RAM and a 256GB SSD for storage. It's available in three casing colors – space gray, silver or rose gold and is powered using Apple's M1 processor. Enjoy up to 18 hours of battery life per charge. The computer weighs a mere 2.8 pounds and when shut is just 0.63-inches thick. Why we like the Apple MacBook Air (2020 Version): This 2022 version of the popular and powerful Apple MacBook Pro offers a 13-inch Retina display with a maximum brightness of 500 nits. It's powered using Apple's M2 processor and offers a battery life of up to 20 hours. Thanks to its speed and performance capabilities, this computer can handle higher-end tasks, like photo of video editing and gaming. Of course it can also be used for everyday tasks – from word processing to streaming movies or music.  This configuration includes a Touch Bar above the backlit keyboard, as well as a TouchID fingerprint scanner to unlock the computer or to confirm online purchases. The computer is configured with 8GB of RAM and 256GB of internal storage, but can be upgraded to 256GB at the time of purchase. This upgraded model is also on sale on Amazon for $1,249, which is 17% off. Why we like the Apple MacBook Pro (2022 Version): This configuration of the Acer Aspire 3 laptop runs Windows 11 Home. It features a 15.6-inch full HD (1,920 x 1,080 pixel) display and runs using an AMD Ryzen 3 7320U quad-core processor with AMD Radeon graphics. It's bundled with 8GB of RAM and a 128GB SSD for storage. And for wireless connectivity, it supports Wi-Fi 6.  The computer weighs just 3.92 pounds and when folded is a mere 0.74 inches thick. Battery life is up to 11 hours. For a limited time, Amazon has the 2023 version of the Acer Aspire 3 on sale for $300 ($30 off). Why we like the Acer Aspire 3: This is a 2022 edition of the Lenovo IdeaPad Gaming 3 laptop, which as its name suggests, is designed with PC gamers in mind. However, it's also highly capable of handling a wide range of general computing tasks.  The computer is powered by an AMD Ryzen 5 6600H processor with Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics. It also comes with 8GB of RAM and a 256GB NVMe for storage. The 15.6-inch display offers 1,920 x 1,080 pixel resolution with a 120Hz refresh rate. The computer measures 14.16 x 10.49 x 1.02 inches, but is a bit on the heavier side, weighing in at 7.55 pounds. Why we like the Lenovo IdeaPad Gaming 3: Amazon has slashed the price of this 2023 version of the Acer Aspire 5, with a 15.6-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080 pixel) display, so you can pick one up right now for just $541. It's configured with 8GB of RAM and a 512GB SSD for storage.  This computer uses a Ryzen 5 7530U hexa-core processor with AMD Radeon graphics. It comes with Windows 11 Home preinstalled. Acer made this computer with multitasking and productivity in mind. The internal camera and dual microphone setup allow for clear video calls, utilizing features like automatic framing, advanced background blur and gaze correction. The computer is also equipped with a generous selection of ports. Why we like the Acer Aspire 5: Harness the power of a full-featured laptop computer with the convenience of a tablet when you use the Acer Chromebook Spin 513. This is a Chromebook, so it runs ChromeOS (not Windows). This means it'll run any apps available from the Google Play Store.  This particular model is configured with a 13.3-inch FHD touchscreen display, 4GB of RAM and 64GB of internal storage (eMMC, not an SSD). The keyboard is backlit. For a processor, the Spin 513 utilizes a Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c.  Like all low-cost Chromebooks, this one has minimal internal storage, so it relies heavily on cloud-based applications and comes with 100GB of Google Drive online storage space. So, to get the most out of this 2-in-1 computer, it'll need a continuous Internet connection via Wi-Fi.  Why we like the Acer Chromebook Spin 513: If you're looking for a super portable, 2-in-1 device that runs Windows 11, check out this configuration of the Microsoft Surface Pro 9 that's on sale for just $1,299. This is the 2022 version that offers a 13-inch touchscreen.  The Surface Pro is powered by an Intel Ivo 12th Gen i7-2640M processor, so it can easily handle multi-tasking and all of your everyday computing needs. This particular model is equipped with 16GB of RAM and 256GB of internal storage. It's available in your choice of forest green, sapphire blue, graphite or platinum. Keep in mind, the Surface Pro Signature Keyboard is sold separately ($205).  Why we like the Microsoft Surface 9 (2022): This traditional sized and shaped laptop computer offers a 15.6-inch (1,366 x 768 pixel) touchscreen display with a maximum brightness of 220 nits. It's powered by an Intel Core i3-1115G4 processor and is equipped with 32GB of RAM and an impressive 1TB SSD for storage.  This HP computer runs Windows 11 Home and offers a decent selection of USB Type-C and USB Type-A ports, along with an HDMI port. The computer weighs in at 3.75 pounds and will have no trouble handling everyday computing tasks. Why we like the HP Notebook Laptop:  The Amazon Big Deal Days sale event (also known as Amazon Prime Day) kicks off at midnight PT (3:00 a.m. ET) on Tuesday, Oct. 10 and runs through Wednesday, Oct. 11, 2023. Amazon is offering some really great deals on all forms of consumer electronics, from TVs to robot vacuums. You'll be able to save big on projectors, laptop computers, tablets, headphones and earbuds, smartwatches, cameras and a wide range of smart home products. And that's just in the tech department. During the Amazon Big Deal Days sale event, you'll also find big discounts across all of Amazon's departments, including home, fashion, beauty, kitchen and baby. This is the perfect time to kick off (and potentially even finish) your holiday shopping, without having to deal with Black Friday crowds and having the gifts you want to purchase being sold out. You'll find deals on luggage for your holiday travels, too. While some of the best Amazon Prime Big Deals Day offers are Prime-exclusive or invite-only, there will also be tons of deals that are open to all shoppers. So even if you don't have an Amazon Prime membership, there will be deals available to you. If you want to shop the best deals, though, you'll want to sign up for a 30-day free trial of Amazon Prime. Prime memberships costs $14.99 per month or $139 per year, and include access to Amazon Prime Video (Thursday Night Football) and a number of other great perks. Savvy shoppers know that any of the Amazon Prime Day events offer the perfect time to find tens of thousands of popular products on sale from Amazon, including some at their lowest price of the year. However, many other popular online and retail merchants, like Walmart, Target, Best Buy and even your favorite department stores, like Macy's, all tend to kick off sales either at the same time or around the same dates as Amazon Big Deal Days. You bet they do... and sometimes things sell out within hours. If you see something on sale that you want to get your hands on during Amazon Big Deal Days sale, order it right away. Often, quantities are limited. Once a product is sold out at the sale price, Amazon won't aways restock right away and when it does restock, the sale price likely won't be offered. Unless it specifically states in the product description or near the "add to cart" and "buy now" buttons that the product being offered on sale is a final sale or not returnable, Amazon's regular return policy for that product will be honored.  On the right side of a product description on Amazon, just below the "buy now" button (and where it says "ships from and sold by"), look for the heading that says "returns."  If the text says, "eligible for return, refund or replacement within 30 days of receipt," that's the return policy that will be honored. However, you may be responsible for paying return shipping to Amazon, unless you drop off the product as a Whole Foods or Kohl's, which accepts some Amazon returns. Jason R. Rich (www.JasonRich.com) is an internationally recognized consumer technology expert with more than 30 years' writing experience. He's also an accomplished author and photographer. One of his most recently published books, The Remote Worker's Handbook: How to Effectively Work From Anywhere ($24.99, Entrepreneur Books) is now available from Amazon and wherever books are sold. 
          Black widow spiders are known for their distinct look and painful bites. Learn how to deal with black widows.
         
          Shop expert-recommended and reviewer-loved, affordable running shoes from Asics, Brooks, Reebok and more.
         
          Side sleepers rejoice: We have the best mattresses laid out for you. Here's what our experts have to say.
         
          Your closets could probably use some reorganization and we've curated this list of products to help.
         
          Check out our favorite back-to-school backpacks from iconic brands such as JanSport, Herschel and more.
         
          Get serious money back from the government for installing a battery backup system in your home.
         
          Feel free to swim, bathe or sweat your heart out when wearing one of these trackers – they can take it!
         
          Don't miss these price cuts on older models of the reader-favorite Frame TV as part of Walmart's clearance deals.
         
          Get up to 55% off the best robot mops from brands like iRobot, Bissel, Ecovacs and more.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          Harley-Davidson said it is "saddened by the negativity on social media," but added it is dropping some DEI goals.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          Beginning next year, you won't be able to travel domestically with your state issued driver's license or ID card. Here's what you'll need instead.
         
          Harris also wants to restore the pandemic's expanded Child Tax Credit. That could help millions of families, but cost $1.6 trillion.
         
          Burning Man tickets are still available leading up to the arts festival, which begins Aug. 25. It's hurting businesses that cater to revelers.
         
          Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and first lady Jill Biden are also scheduled to speak.
         
          The U.S. intelligence community said it has "observed increasingly aggressive Iranian activity during this election cycle" that's targeting Americans and presidential campaigns.
         
          GOP nominee Donald Trump told CBS News in an exclusive interview he'll "very gladly" release his medical records.
         
          What appeared to be just shy of 10,000 people were seen on the march route—and the protest remained peaceful as it reached Park 578.
         
          Trump also shared a fabricated image of Taylor Swift that reads, "Taylor wants you to vote for Donald Trump." She has not endorsed him.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          As Democrats convene in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz together are raising the prominence of health care as a 2024 election issue.
         
          Perdue Foods is recalling more than 167,000 pounds of frozen chicken nuggets and tenders after some customers reported finding metal wire embedded in the products.
         
          Amid extreme heat at the Pikes Peak Air Show in Colorado Springs Saturday afternoon, around 100 people were treated for heat-related illness, 10 of whom were hospitalized, officials said.
         
          The National Association of EMS Officials recommends "Cool First, Transport Second" for patients whose body temperature is over 104 degrees.
         
          To be visited during the summer of overtourism in 2024 means traffic jams, water problems and high housing prices.
         
          U.S. soldier Gordon Black was sentenced​ to prison in Russia for allegedly threatening and robbing a Russian woman he'd met and dated in South Korea.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          Antony Blinken returns to Israel at a "decisive moment" amid negotiations to secure a cease-fire with Hamas and avert a wider war.
         
          10 days after a young female medic was killed in a brutal rape attack in India, her fellow doctors are refusing to work until changes are made.
         
          The 43-year-old actress, who shared the news in the latest episode of her "Pod Meets World" podcast, said "learning from the experiences of others" motivated her to share the diagnosis.
         
          Guitar sensation Grace Bowers, who gained fame streaming her jams on Reddit, has released her debut album "Wine on Venus" with her band "The Hodge Podge." After performing on legendary stages like the Grand Ole Opry, 18-year-old Bowers is making her mark with original music.
         
          Phil Donahue, a celebrated daytime talk show host who pioneered the television staple, died after a long illness, his publicist said in a statement.
         
          John Aprea landed his first break in the 1967 Steve McQueen classic "Bullitt" before landing the role of young Salvatore "Sal" Tessio in "The Godfather Part II."
         
          His comic novels set in Florida target the darkness which can cloud the Sunshine State. Now, Hiaasen's 2013 bestseller about a failed detective, murder, and a misbehaving monkey is an Apple TV+ series starring Vince Vaughn.
         
          Should I freeze my credit? Here's what experts say, and how to stop bad actors from accessing your file.
         
          Artificial intelligence and misinformation remain a threat this election year. So how can you spot what's real and what's not? Darren Linvill, co-director of the Media Forensics Hub at Clemson University, joins CBS News with tips.
         
          From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
         
          Iran has launched a sweeping, months-long cyberattack targeting both the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns, according to a new report by Google. Nicole Sganga has details.
         
          Staring at an iPad screen too much may keep little kids from learning to control their emotions, a new study finds.
         
          Before Ernesto was a hurricane, it was a tropical storm. But that's all it took to wipe out electricity for nearly all of the U.S. Virgin Islands and half of Puerto Rico. And it's not just an island problem. Extreme weather across the entire U.S. is taking a toll on infrastructure that is being used long past its life expectancy. As we get closer to Election Day, CBS Los Angeles' Marina Jurica tells us what to know about the intersection of climate and energy.
         
          There are hundreds of data centers across the U.S., most of which are run by big tech firms, and their seemingly endless rows of servers are consuming huge amounts of electricity. Ben Tracy takes a look at how one of those companies, Google, is turning to renewable energy sources to power them.
         
          Hurricane Ernesto is gaining strength in the Caribbean after drenching Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Now the storm is moving north into the Atlantic, where it's expected to continue strengthening as it heads toward Bermuda. CBS News national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez and WCBS chief weathercaster Lonnie Quinn have more.
         
          On July 24, a burning car was pushed over an embankment in Chico, California. Within three days, it became one of the 10 largest wildfires in state history. Within nine days, it was among the top four. Still burning at over 429,000 acres, firefighters continue to tackle the historic blaze. Using data from Cal Fire, CBS News put together an animation to show just how quickly and far the flames have spread.
         
          There are plenty of considerations for those interested in making the investment, according to industry experts.
         
          Former congressman George Santos, who was expelled from Congress in December and indicted on 23 federal charges, reached a plea agreement with prosecutors.
         
          Federal prosecutors say Trayon White allegedly agreed to accept over $150,000 in exchange for steering millions of dollars in government contracts.
         
          California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Friday signed a series of bills into law aimed at cracking down on smash and grab robberies. Elise Preston reports.
         
          Major Ashley Henson of the Paulding County Sherriff's Office said the deputies were "ambushed."
         
          When Bart and Krista Halderson suddenly disappeared in July 2021, their son, Chandler, alerted police. A search of a popular social media app helped lead investigators to a gruesome discovery.
         
          The first of 2024's four consecutive supermoons, the blue moon will reach peak illumination on Monday and will shine brightly through Wednesday.
         
          August's full moon, a rare blue moon and supermoon, is lighting up the night sky this week. Here's what time it peaks and where you should look.
         
          CBS News spoke with the astrophotographer behind the viral photo about his mission to drive people to look at the night sky before it changes "within the period of our lifetime."
         
          Seventy-one days after launch, NASA finally nears a decision on whether Boeing's Starliner will return to Earth with, or without, a crew.
         
          NASA held a press briefing Wednesday and announced a decision will be coming on how the Boeing Starlink capsule crew stuck at the International Space Station will proceed with their mission in space. CBS News' Lindsey Reiser has more.
         
          A look back at the esteemed personalities who've left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
         
          Live performances are in full swing this summer. Scroll through our concert gallery, featuring pictures by CBS News photojournalist Jake Barlow and photographers Ed Spinelli and Kirstine Walton.
         
          A look at the evidence in "The Dexter Killer" case; plus, newly revealed letters from the man police say wanted to be like fictional serial killer Dexter Morgan.
         
          A teenager's murder in Lowell, Massachusetts, goes unsolved for more than 40 years -- were the clues there all along?
         
          The actor, recipient of a lifetime achievement Academy Award, was renowned for such films as "MASH," "Klute," "Don't Look Now," "Ordinary People," and "The Hunger Games."
         
          The 2024 Democratic National Convention in Chicago will be the first time the Windy City has hosted the convention since 1996. Adriana Diaz breaks down why Chicago was picked to host this year's DNC.
         
          At least two people have died as a result of flash flooding that hit Connecticut and other parts of the Northeast. Parts of New Jersey and New York's Long Island were also hit hard. Nikki Battiste reports.
         
          Democratic Rep. Katherine Clark, the House minority whip, joined CBS News to discuss the Democratic National Convention, President Biden's decision to step aside and former President Donald Trump's continued attacks against Vice President Kamala Harris.
         
          Six people, including two Americans, are missing after a yacht sank off the southern tip of Italy. At least one person has died.
         
          Former President Trump is campaigning in several battleground states as the Democratic National Convention is happening in Chicago. Caitlin Huey-Burns spoke with the former president, who defended his use of personal attacks against Vice President Kamala Harris. Then, Robert Costa helps dissect Trump's strategy.s
         Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.