e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Devising the perfect Daily Fantasy Sports strategy for the NFL can be a challenge, which is why I’m here to assist.On DraftKings, it’s important to remember you’re playing full-point PPR with bonuses if a player surpasses 300 passing yards, 100 rushing yards or 100 receiving yards.Here is my optimal lineup for Sunday’s $3 million Fantasy Football Millionaire contest, but can be utilized as a foundation in other games and platforms.All prices listed are courtesy of DraftKings with a $50,000 budget.These lineups have netted $260, so I’m in the black $40 through 12 weeks.QB: Joe Burrow, Bengals ($6,900)The two Kansas City-Cincinnati games from a year ago featured an average of 58 total points. The $1,400 you save by going with Burrow over Patrick Mahomes this week will be invaluable if you’re planning to stack this matchup. Burrow has completed 71.1 percent of his passes, thrown 14 touchdowns against only three interceptions and averaged 307.3 passing yards per game in his last six outings.RB: Nick Chubb, Browns ($8,000)

Sometimes life is simple. Chubb is one of the best running backs in the NFL — if not the best this year — and the Texans are allowing the most fantasy points to the position.RB: D’Andre Swift, Lions ($5,600)Head coach Dan Campbell has limited Swift’s usage since he returned from ankle and shoulder injuries in Week 8. After watching him on Thanksgiving, I’m thinking he’s nearing full strength, which means an eruption could be around the corner and Jacksonville-Detroit features a game total that rivals KC-Cincy.WR: Ja’Marr Chase, Bengals ($7,900)The training wheels will likely be off if Chase is active (pivot to Tee Higgins if he isn’t). In two games against the Chiefs last season, Chase had 17 receptions (21 targets) for 320 yards and four TDs.WR: Nico Collins, Texans ($4,200)Collins has received more targets than Brandin Cooks in three straight games, and now Cooks has been ruled out Sunday with a negative game script favoring even more opportunity. His production hasn’t quite matched his target share, but he is due.WR: DJ Chark, Lions ($3,800)Chark received five targets and scored while playing 73 percent of the offensive snaps on Thanksgiving in his first start since returning from injury. This week, the big-play receiver gets a matchup with the team that drafted him and decided to let him walk in free agency despite having all the cap space in the world.TE: Travis Kelce, Chiefs ($7,900)Kelce has at least five receptions, 51 yards or a TD in every game this season.FLEX: Skyy Moore, Chiefs ($3,100)Moore has displayed elite efficiency the last two games receiving six targets in each. The dynamic rookie was targeted on almost 40 percent (!) of his routes and tied Kelce for a team-high 10 receptions since Week 11. Plus, Kadarius Toney (hamstring) and Mecole Hardman (abdomen) remain sidelined.DST: New York Jets ($2,600)The Jets are the third-highest scoring defense in fantasy since Week 6 and the Vikings ruled out left tackle Christian Darrisaw (concussion) this week. On DraftKings, it’s important to remember you’re playing full-point PPR with bonuses if a player surpasses 300 passing yards, 100 rushing yards or 100 receiving yards. Here is my optimal lineup for Sunday’s $3 million Fantasy Football Millionaire contest, but can be utilized as a foundation in other games and platforms. All prices listed are courtesy of DraftKings with a $50,000 budget. These lineups have netted $260, so I’m in the black $40 through 12 weeks. QB: Joe Burrow, Bengals ($6,900) The two Kansas City-Cincinnati games from a year ago featured an average of 58 total points. The $1,400 you save by going with Burrow over Patrick Mahomes this week will be invaluable if you’re planning to stack this matchup. Burrow has completed 71.1 percent of his passes, thrown 14 touchdowns against only three interceptions and averaged 307.3 passing yards per game in his last six outings. RB: Nick Chubb, Browns ($8,000) Sometimes life is simple. Chubb is one of the best running backs in the NFL — if not the best this year — and the Texans are allowing the most fantasy points to the position. RB: D’Andre Swift, Lions ($5,600) Head coach Dan Campbell has limited Swift’s usage since he returned from ankle and shoulder injuries in Week 8. After watching him on Thanksgiving, I’m thinking he’s nearing full strength, which means an eruption could be around the corner and Jacksonville-Detroit features a game total that rivals KC-Cincy. WR: Ja’Marr Chase, Bengals ($7,900) The training wheels will likely be off if Chase is active (pivot to Tee Higgins if he isn’t). In two games against the Chiefs last season, Chase had 17 receptions (21 targets) for 320 yards and four TDs. WR: Nico Collins, Texans ($4,200) Collins has received more targets than Brandin Cooks in three straight games, and now Cooks has been ruled out Sunday with a negative game script favoring even more opportunity. His production hasn’t quite matched his target share, but he is due. WR: DJ Chark, Lions ($3,800) Chark received five targets and scored while playing 73 percent of the offensive snaps on Thanksgiving in his first start since returning from injury. This week, the big-play receiver gets a matchup with the team that drafted him and decided to let him walk in free agency despite having all the cap space in the world. TE: Travis Kelce, Chiefs ($7,900) Kelce has at least five receptions, 51 yards or a TD in every game this season. FLEX: Skyy Moore, Chiefs ($3,100) Moore has displayed elite efficiency the last two games receiving six targets in each. The dynamic rookie was targeted on almost 40 percent (!) of his routes and tied Kelce for a team-high 10 receptions since Week 11. Plus, Kadarius Toney (hamstring) and Mecole Hardman (abdomen) remain sidelined. DST: New York Jets ($2,600) The Jets are the third-highest scoring defense in fantasy since Week 6 and the Vikings ruled out left tackle Christian Darrisaw (concussion) this week. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group