Clear to partly cloudy. Low 66F. Winds NNW at 10 to 15 mph..
                                 Clear to partly cloudy. Low 66F. Winds NNW at 10 to 15 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 6:23 pm Clear to partly cloudy. Low 66F. Winds NNW at 10 to 15 mph..
                                 Clear to partly cloudy. Low 66F. Winds NNW at 10 to 15 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 6:23 pm I recently spoke with some investors who were living within their means, saving every bit they could for retirement — to the point of living frugally because of a well-founded fear of outliving their assets. Conservative by nature, they looked at some online calculators and committed to saving everything for some distant future. The reason I was talking with them was because one spouse felt that they weren’t really living. As a society, we have been trained to focus on achieving our retirement goals because so much emphasis is placed on the golden years of retirement. Many times, that is how financial plans start. We look at what you’re able to save to fund the retirement lifestyle you desire. However, the financial plan created at 39 is not the same plan that you’ll have at 49 or even 59. While I recommend your financial plan look at least 10 years out, it’s not the same plan you will have 10 years from now. Goals change as life happens. When developing a plan, I look at an investor’s current lifestyle, spending, and saving patterns and begin basing a financial plan off that, generally allowing the investor to maintain their current lifestyle. Sometimes I must have the difficult conversation of, “If you keep spending like this, you won’t be able to retire.” But more often, I have the conversation of, “What does your dream life look like? What steps can we take to get there?” The future is not guaranteed. You may have plans for travel, hobbies, or a fantasy home in retirement but are unable to do the things you anticipated because you lack the physical ability, health, or a partner may not be around to share the dreams. Instead of delaying life’s most enjoyable experiences, you can develop your financial plan to allow you to lead enriching, enjoyable lives. Making memories now shouldn’t be to the detriment of your retirement plan; however, there is a certain amount of living you’re allowed to do. Most financial advisers look at investors’ situations from a retirement perspective; however, it is also important to invest in memories when you are younger with family and friends, doing what you want to do, such as hobbies, travel, etc. A financial adviser’s goal is to help you make your money support how you want to live. Ultimately the financial plan needs to match the person. A financial adviser can provide the best advice based on what they know, but if it makes the client uncomfortable, the relationship will break down and the plan won’t be successful. As an investor, your relationship with your financial adviser is often a close, intimate friendship where you communicate goals, dreams, interests, and wants. A retirement plan focuses on managing your expenses after the paycheck stops whereas a financial plan focuses on creating memories and living comfortably while ensuring that you’re saving and investing enough to support your lifestyle once you do retire. William G. Lako, Jr., CFP®, is a principal at Henssler Financial and a co-host on “Money Talks”—your trusted resource for your money, your future, your life—airing Saturdays at 10 a.m. on AM 920 The Answer. Mr. Lako is a CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER™ professional.  They say that time exists so that everything doesn’t happen all at once; however, anyone who has been through a tight financial time when cash… Couples often spend years listening to their financial planner advising them what to do with their money. However, when clients get divorced, … If you watch the stock market, you’ve likely seen it do some crazy things. The market reacts to news within minutes of it coming out. But how … Life events are usually money events — something has happened that not only affects the trajectory of your life but also comes with financial …     
Log In
 Remember the human. Show other commenters the
respect they deserve as human beings. If you wouldn't say it in
a crowded room full of people you don't know, don't say it
here. Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar,
lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
 Please purchase a subscription to read our premium content. If you have a subscription, please log in or sign up for an account on our website to continue.
 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
                                     
Error! There was an error processing your request.
                                     Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:        Account processing issue - the email address may already exist   Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  Thank you. Your purchase was successful. A receipt was sent to your email.