High blood level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is a major causative factor of coronary heart disease. Medicine- and/or diet-mediated reduction of LDL level is known to reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases. The effectiveness of low LDL level in reducing the risk of atherosclerotic vascular events has been discussed in a recently published article in the journal Endocrinology and Metabolism Clinics of North America.  Hypercholesterolemia is a medical condition characterized by a very high level of LDL in the blood. LDL is considered as “bad” cholesterol as it accumulates in the walls of arteries, leading to narrowing and hardening of arteries and obstruction in blood flow. Initially, a blood cholesterol level of 300 mg/dL was considered the upper normal limit based on population statistics. Almost all mammalian nucleated cells can synthesize cholesterol and LDL is required only to recycle it. Human newborn babies have very low levels of LDL compared to young children and adults. The large quantities of cholesterol needed for fetal brain development are synthesized within the brain. Diseases caused by mutations in LDL receptors, such as familial hypercholesterolemia, can significantly increase the blood LDL level, leading to the development of myocardial infarction and other atherosclerotic events.     The effectiveness of lowering blood LDL level in reducing the risk of coronary heart disease was first discussed in a National Institutes of Health (NIH) Consensus Conference held in 1984. In 1987, lovastatin, the first statin medication, was introduced to the market, which showed significant efficacy in controlling blood LDL levels. Afterward, many cholesterol-lowering medicines with high efficacy have been developed, including atorvastatin, and rosuvastatin, ezetimibe.       The majority of cholesterol-lowering medicines have shown significant efficacy in reducing blood LDL levels, which subsequently reduces the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, and other atherosclerotic events. Treatment with PCSK9 (a hepatic protease)-targeting monoclonal antibodies (alirocumab and evolocumab) in combination with statin medicines has been found to reduce the LDL level by 50%. According to current European guidelines, a blood LDL level of 40 mg/dL is regarded as a target threshold for treating patients who have suffered two or more major atherosclerotic events. Statins, which are the backbone of cholesterol-lowering therapy, are associated with some adverse side-effects, including muscle injury and new-onset diabetes. However, there is ample evidence indicating that statin treatment-related muscle symptoms are developed due to the nocebo effect (negative treatment outcome resulting from patient’s disbelief about the treatment). Treatments with alirocumab for more than 6 months have been shown to reduce LDL levels below 15 mg/dL without causing any severe adversities, including cognitive disorders, new-onset diabetes, and hemorrhagic stroke. Similar outcomes have been observed in evolocumab treatment.   Inclisiran (siRNA)-mediated reduction of PCSK9 blood level by 80% - 90% has been shown to cause a 50% reduction in LDL level without causing any serious side effects. Taken together, these observations indicate that ultralow levels of LDL achieved through cholesterol-lowering treatments are not associated with any major health hazards. Many clinical trials have been conducted to investigate the impact of lowering LDL levels in cardiovascular risk reduction. According to these trials, the risk of cardiovascular events can be reduced by 22% per 1 mmol/L reduction in LDL level. A blood LDL level of 25 – 50 mg/dL has been regarded as optimal in patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease. However, it has been observed that lowering LDL levels below 25 mg/dL does not provide any additional treatment benefit in these patients. Based on available evidence collected from large-scale cardiovascular outcome clinical trials, an LDL level of 40 mg/dL or lower is considered beneficial in terms of significantly reducing the risk of cardiovascular events. Two major points have been highlighted in the current article based on large-scale clinical trial findings. A blood LDL level of 40 mg/dL or lower has been set as a target threshold for cholesterol-lowering medications in patients who have suffered two or more atherosclerotic events.   Although no adverse side-effect has been documented in response to an LDL level of 25 mg/dL, further lowering of the LDL level might not provide any extra benefit in patients with cardiovascular diseases. Posted in: Medical Science News | Medical Research News | Disease/Infection News Tags: Antibodies, Atorvastatin, Blood, Brain, Children, Cholesterol, Clinical Trial, Coronary Heart Disease, Diabetes, Diet, Efficacy, Endocrinology, Familial Hypercholesterolemia, Heart, Heart Disease, Hypercholesterolemia, Lipoprotein, Medicine, Metabolism, Muscle, Myocardial Infarction, Newborn, Receptor, Rosuvastatin, siRNA, Statin, Stroke, Vascular Written by Dr. Sanchari Sinha Dutta is a science communicator who believes in spreading the power of science in every corner of the world. She has a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree and a Master's of Science (M.Sc.) in biology and human physiology. Following her Master's degree, Sanchari went on to study a Ph.D. in human physiology. She has authored more than 10 original research articles, all of which have been published in world renowned international journals. Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: APA Dutta, Sanchari Sinha Dutta. (2022, July 06). What is the optimal LDL cholesterol level for patients with cardiovascular diseases?. News-Medical. Retrieved on August 19, 2024 from https://www.news-medical.net/news/20220706/What-is-the-optimal-LDL-cholesterol-level-for-patients-with-cardiovascular-diseases.aspx. MLA Dutta, Sanchari Sinha Dutta. "What is the optimal LDL cholesterol level for patients with cardiovascular diseases?". News-Medical. 19 August 2024. <https://www.news-medical.net/news/20220706/What-is-the-optimal-LDL-cholesterol-level-for-patients-with-cardiovascular-diseases.aspx>. Chicago Dutta, Sanchari Sinha Dutta. "What is the optimal LDL cholesterol level for patients with cardiovascular diseases?". News-Medical. https://www.news-medical.net/news/20220706/What-is-the-optimal-LDL-cholesterol-level-for-patients-with-cardiovascular-diseases.aspx. (accessed August 19, 2024). Harvard Dutta, Sanchari Sinha Dutta. 2022. What is the optimal LDL cholesterol level for patients with cardiovascular diseases?. News-Medical, viewed 19 August 2024, https://www.news-medical.net/news/20220706/What-is-the-optimal-LDL-cholesterol-level-for-patients-with-cardiovascular-diseases.aspx. No mention of HDL, triglyceride. Or the inpact of high carbohydrates and sugar diet. Insulin and type 2 diabetes being the new world disease. Very poorly written article which does not discuss the whole cholesterol lipid debate. Statin started heart fibrillation and stopped when I stopped taking them. Tests revealed my heart is healthy.  5.1cholestral  at 84 years You did not explain what causes the body to deposit LDL on the walls of the arteries, in the first place. Most medical professionals are more focused on treating the symptoms that triggers the immune system to deposit LDL on the walls of the arteries, rather then eliminating the inflammation on the arterial walls, thus eliminating the body's immune systems need to lay down cholesterol to protect itself. Probably not much money in that(sic). Cancel reply to comment John Yates In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024, we spoke to Professor John Yates about capturing cardiomyocyte cell-to-cell heterogeneity via shotgun top-down proteomics. Tim Simpson Hologic’s Tim Simpson Discusses the Future of Cervical Cancer Screening. Maria Marco In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024 in San Diego, Maria Marco discusses her research on the health benefits, safety, and waste reduction potential of fermented foods, and the microbial processes involved in their production. 

                                                  
                                                        News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                                        with these terms and conditions.
                                                        Please note that medical information found
                                                        on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                                        between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
                                                  
                                                  

                                             Last Updated: Monday 19 Aug 2024  News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site Owned and operated by AZoNetwork, © 2000-2024 
                Your AI Powered Scientific Assistant
             Hi, I'm Azthena, you can trust me to find commercial scientific answers from News-Medical.net. A few things you need to know before we start. Please read and accept to continue. Great. Ask your question. 
                Azthena may occasionally provide inaccurate responses.
Read the full terms.
             Terms 
            While we only use edited and approved content for Azthena
            answers, it may on occasions provide incorrect responses.
            Please confirm any data provided with the related suppliers or
            authors. We do not provide medical advice, if you search for
            medical information you must always consult a medical
            professional before acting on any information provided.
         
            Your questions, but not your email details will be shared with
            OpenAI and retained for 30 days in accordance with their
            privacy principles.
         
            Please do not ask questions that use sensitive or confidential
            information.
         Read the full Terms & Conditions. Provide Feedback