Hubbard Radio Washington DC, LLC. All rights reserved. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. The National Security Agency is continuing its cloud journey across multiple fronts, including the Hybrid Compute Initiative, which aims to align compute soluti...  The National Security Agency is moving out on its information technology modernization goals and adopting cloud services across multiple fronts, with the agency’s Hybrid Compute Initiative in full swing. Jennifer Kron, NSA’s deputy chief information officer, said the initiative has two chief elements. “There is a commercial cloud, and then there’s some hardware as a service,” Kron said during Federal News Network’s DoD Cloud Exchange 2023. “The commercial cloud part is a classified NSA top-secret instance of a commercial cloud ecosystem for our core products. But we also have as part of HCI hardware as a service where for certain things that we can’t move yet at least to a commercial cloud, we’re renting the bare bones hardware that we can build upon.” NSA also recently awarded Oracle a contract for a cloud-based human capital management system. The system is “an example where we’re choosing a purpose-built cloud solution, where we determined that the industry solution really was the best one,” she said. “Our human capital management systems don’t tend to be where we make the greatest investment and making sure that things are user-friendly, up-to-date and easy to operate,” Kron continued. “This is one of those things that’s going to really improve experience across the entire enterprise in a way that everybody can see and appreciate. And it’s part of where we’re looking across the board at all of our business and management systems, not only mission systems, but also the things that keep the agency running and making sure that those are kept up to date and are of course secure.” Meanwhile, in 2020, the Central Intelligence Agency awarded the Commercial Cloud Enterprise contract to five major cloud providers. The C2E contract is available to the entire intelligence community for ordering classified cloud services. NSA is the sponsor for Microsoft’s Azure Cloud under the C2E contract. Microsoft received an authority to operate for Azure under C2E last year. The services will include infrastructure as a service, platform as a service and Microsoft 365 to replace Office 2019 products. As agencies adopt multiple cloud solutions, NSA is balancing the need for different IT solutions with the need for integration across those environments, Kron said. “We’re really focusing on the right cloud or the right compute solution for each mission,” she said. “But there is that added degree of difficulty of having to integrate and interoperate across the various clouds.” In some cases, “things have to run in two places before you can shut down the first and build up the second,” she said. The Defense Department and the intelligence community also continue to be challenged to ensure government processes, like accreditation, keep pace with vendor innovation, Kron said. “And then you always come down to the people and the culture — and just the knowledge and skill gaps — that we may have as developers and systems administrators and security,” she continued. “In some ways, cloud is the natural evolution of where we’ve been going for years. But there are some things that are different. And we need to make sure that our workforce and our people understand where things might be a little more challenging, or a slightly different way of approaching it.” To read or watch other sessions on demand, go to our 2023 DoD Cloud Exchange event page. Copyright
                            © 2024 Federal News Network. All rights reserved. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area.
 Follow @jdoubledayWFED Deputy Chief Information Officer, NSA Reporter, Federal News Network Each week, Defense Reporter Jared Serbu speaks with the managers of the federal government's largest department. Subscribe on PodcastOne or Apple Podcasts. Need help accessing the FCC Public File due to a disability? Please contact Susan Rushkowski at publicfiledc@hubbardradio.com or (202) 895-5027. Copyright 2024 Hubbard Radio Washington DC, LLC. All rights reserved. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. Deputy Chief Information Officer, NSA Ms. Jennifer Kron was named the Deputy Chief Information Officer (CIO) of the National Security Agency (NSA) in April 2022. As Deputy CIO, she is responsible for optimizing NSA’s IT strategy to ensure the mission is secure, stable, flexible, cost-efficient, and legally compliant. Ms. Kron also serves as Senior Champion for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing IC Affinity Network. Prior to joining NSA, Ms. Kron served for 16 years at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). From 2021-2022, Ms. Kron was the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the Intelligence Community and Deputy Assistant DNI. In that role, she co-led the office that enables the DNI to execute her statutory authority to formulate and justify the National Intelligence Program budget, oversee budget execution, and facilitate IC fiscal accountability and financial management improvement. Ms. Kron served on a Joint Duty Assignment in Australia from 2017-2020. In the Australian Office of National Intelligence, she oversaw the development and implementation of intelligence integration initiatives. Concurrently, Ms. Kron led efforts to improve information-sharing and interoperability of geospatial intelligence among the Five Eyes partners as the CIO of the Allied System for Geospatial- Intelligence. From 2015 to 2017, Ms. Kron was the Deputy CIO of the Intelligence Community and Deputy Assistant DNI; she was also Acting IC CIO and Assistant DNI from May to September 2017. In these positions, she directed and managed activities related to information technology for the IC and led groundbreaking initiatives to advance integration, information-sharing, security, and efficiency across agencies. Before joining IC CIO, Ms. Kron served as Director of the Mission Integration Division at ODNI from 2014-2015 and as the National Intelligence Manager (NIM) for South Asia from 2012 to 2014. As NIM, she was responsible for integrating the IC on analytic and collection issues pertaining to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India and was the senior advisor to the DNI on South Asia issues. She had earlier served as Deputy NIM for South Asia and Director of Community Affairs for the office. From 2007 to 2009, Ms. Kron was a Group Chief for the IC Chief Financial Officer, leading teams of program and budget analysts conducting studies of cross-agency intelligence issues to shape major resource decisions. Ms. Kron’s experience also includes eight years as a Program Examiner in the Office of Management and Budget, overseeing the policies and programs of the FBI, US Coast Guard, and Department of Education in a series of positions of increasing responsibility. She began her career as a Presidential Management Intern in the Department of Education and completed a Senate fellowship. Ms. Kron graduated Phi Beta Kappa and cum laude from Princeton University and holds a Master’s in Public Policy from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government. She has completed executive education programs at Harvard Kennedy School and at Harvard Business School, as well as the CAPSTONE General and Flag Officer Course and the CSIS Women’s Global Leadership Program. Ms. Kron was promoted to the Senior National Intelligence Service in March 2007. She is a recipient of the Presidential Rank Award (Meritorious) and the National Intelligence Superior Service Medal. Reporter, Federal News Network Justin Doubleday is a defense and cybersecurity reporter for Federal News Network. He previously covered the Pentagon for Inside Defense, where he reported on emerging technologies, cyber and supply chain security. Justin is a 2013 graduate of the University of New Hampshire, where he received his B.A. in English/Journalism. 