Pixellot and AWS are working together on infrastructure for AI-automated sports production and data solutions offered to federations and leagues 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 ATLANTA—Pixellot has announced that it has become an Amazon Web Services (AWS) Technology Partner on the Independent Software Vendor (ISV) Partner Path and that it is working with AWS  on infrastructure for AI-automated sports production and data solutions for federations and leagues. Pixellot said that it has become a Technology Partner following the successful completion of the AWS Foundational Technical Review (FTR).  "We are excited to become an AWS Technology Partner," said Pixellot CTO and co-founder Gal Oz. "In a world where consumer preferences are shifting constantly, the significance of working with a scalable and flexible global cloud network allows Pixellot to offer its customers advanced video technology and data solutions.  Using AWS's powerful infrastructure, we can now offer content creators more cost-effective, high-quality video services than ever before. We are honored to join the other sports tech leaders spearheading the transformation powered by AWS Sports." As a partner Pixellot gains access to a wide array of AWS resources, receiving prescriptive guidance on building, marketing and selling solutions with AWS.  Pixellot said that this collaboration will enable Pixellot to leverage the power of AWS's cloud ecosystem to enhance its services and ensure the best possible customer experience. Using AWS’s industry-leading services Pixellot will further scale its operations and services, using localized cloud services across the AWS global network, providing low-latency and a higher level of service, the company said.  Pixellot works with federations, leagues, governing bodies and media companies, offering an end-to-end solution for streaming, analyzing and monetizing sports events globally, the company said.  It offers an AI-automated sports production and streaming solution that enables live and on-demand broadcasting without requiring a camera operator or producer on site, providing an affordable and unique TV-like experience for all athletes. The partnership with AWS will further enhance Pixellot's ability to deliver dynamic video content in engaging, cost-efficient and user-friendly formats, the company said. The professional video industry's #1 source for news, trends and product and tech information. Sign up below. George Winslow is the senior content producer for TV Tech. He has written about the television, media and technology industries for nearly 30 years for such publications as Broadcasting & Cable, Multichannel News and TV Tech. Over the years, he has edited a number of magazines, including Multichannel News International and World Screen, and moderated panels at such major industry events as NAB and MIP TV. He has published two books and dozens of encyclopedia articles on such subjects as the media, New York City history and economics. Fubo Wins Preliminary Injunction Blocking the Launch of Venu Sports TelevisaUnivision Inks New Deal with MLB Tegna Names Jim Kizer President & GM at WOI and KCWI TV Tech is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 