Chad Haxton of Primoris [Courtesy: Primoris] Dallas-based Primoris Services Corp. has appointed Chad Haxton as chief information officer, a role in which he will continue to drive the company’s digital transformation via innovation and tech implementations. “As the specialty services and construction industries break new ground through the adoption of emerging technologies, Chad’s clear vision and leadership enable us to best serve our clients, employees, and partners,” Primoris President and CEO Tom McCormick said in a statement. “We remain committed to investing in solutions that align with our growth objectives, and Chad’s strategic direction, depth of knowledge, and forward-looking lens add integral value to our operations and enhance our project delivery capabilities.” Haxton joined Primoris in 2019 as senior vice president of information technology to lead its digital strategy of data analytics, business intelligence, system development, cybersecurity, and technical services. Primoris Services Corp. is a specialty contractor providing critical infrastructure services to the utility, energy/renewables, and pipeline services markets across the nation and Canada. In this role, Haxton will partner with stakeholders companywide to define and deliver advanced information technology solutions and integration throughout Primoris’ offices and jobsites. That includes deploying hardware, software, and cybersecurity technologies while leveraging cloud-based and mobile strategies to streamline field operations and enable successful and safe project delivery, the company said. “I’m thrilled to take on this expanded role and guide our strategic investment in technologies that drive business value and profitability across our organization,” Haxton said in a statement. “I’ve been extremely honored to lead our team delivering cutting-edge, impactful, and pioneering solutions that allow us to advance, innovate, and thrive. As chief information officer, I look forward to continuing to champion this work into the future.” Haxton has more than 30 years of experience delivering meaningful results across various industries, the company said. Before coming to Primoris, he was chief information officer of Schwarz Partners. The company said it supports a diversified base of customers with engineering, procurement, construction, and maintenance services.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   Pathlock's recent mergers, acquisitions, and capital raises have enabled the company to address the increasing risk in application security while establishing its leadership position as the industry's most complete 360-degree platform for application security and controls automation. Supreme Lending announced it has appointed Baiju Thakkar chief information officer of the Dallas-based full-service mortgage lender. Thakkar brings nearly 25 years of IT leadership, knowledge, and experience to the role, in which he will be instrumental in developing, engineering, and implementing innovative, efficient technology initiatives to support the company's growth. Supreme Lending said that Thakkar is passionate about delivering meaningful change through effective partnerships and will provide impactful leadership the company’s IT team to ensure security, quality, and stability. "I've inherited an excellent IT Team, and I am excited to get to know all of them individually and grow… David McKeever has been named chief executive officer of Refugee Services of Texas, the state's leading refugee resettlement agency and a key provider of services for survivors of human trafficking. In 2021, McKeever became chief financial officer of Refugee Services of Texas and took on additional duties last fall as interim CEO, the agency said. "The Board of Directors has been thoroughly impressed by David's tenure as CFO and as Interim CEO," Omar Khan, president of the board of directors of Refugee Services of Texas, said in a statement. "After an exhaustive search for a new CEO, we believe David's… StateScoop has included city of Dallas Chief Information Officer William Zielinski among the winners of City Executive of the Year awards in the LocalSmart program by the online news publication that focuses on technology in local government. "As we close out 2022, StateScoop is honored to recognize these dynamic leaders in city, county and municipal government,” the publication said in announcing the honorees. Across the country, "technology is playing an increasingly important role in residents’ lives. These leaders are the ones making that happen in an efficient, secure and prominent way.” StateScoop is a media brand that covers the intersection… Dallas-based Jacobs announced that Claudia Jaramillo will become executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective Aug. 14. Jacobs is one of the largest professional companies in the world. She currently is executive vice president, strategy and corporate development, and she will succeed Kevin Berryman, who will then serve as special advisor to Jacobs Chief Executive Officer Bob Pragada, who assumed that role earlier this month succeeding Steve Demetriou. Helping advance Jacobs' 'Boldly Moving Forward' strategy "Claudia's record of leadership and operational execution ideally positions her to serve as Jacobs' next CFO and further advance our 'Boldly Moving Forward' strategy.… North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.