CEO and founder of SolveIt—a mobile development company, entrepreneur and product owner of HBT.   One-third of my company's projects are rescues, which is when a company has had a bad experience with a technology service provider and have found their project at a dead end. These experiences are not only unpleasant, but also a waste of time and money. With this article, I’d like to share some red flags of a deeper disjoint when working with a contractor. By recognizing these challenges as early as possible, you stand a better chance of taking timely action and resolving issues before your project needs to be rescued. Communication issues are the earliest sign of an unreliable contractor. Here are some common communication problems to keep an eye out for: • Slow responses. • Not providing regular and timely project updates. • Not explaining various options of development approaches and technologies. • Infrequent or vague answers. • Ignoring client’s concerns. • Secretive or silent behavior. • Rude or dismissive responses. Communication problems can make you feel frustrated and nervous, and they can disrupt your project plans and final results. In many cases, ineffective communication is a sign that a provider lacks commitment or dedication to your project. In other cases, it indicates a lack of professionalism. If any of these issues arise, communicate your concerns with your service provider immediately. Another indicator that your project may be at risk is the lack of proactivity from the contractor. Proactivity is one of the most important and valuable soft skills of any specialist. It means that a person can take responsibility when issues arise and solve them. This often requires a high level of creativity. If your service provider lacks this trait, project issues may be left unaddressed or solved slower than necessary. To find a proactive team, prioritize this soft skill during the hiring process. By ensuring that the team will be proactive from the get-go, you are more likely to feel safe and comfortable throughout the entire development process. Be wary if a service provider can’t deliver tasks on agreed-upon dates without prior notification or a plausible reason. This can be a sign that the provider has insufficient experience or inability to estimate the time necessary to complete a task. Monitoring the timely delivery of each milestone is critical to make sure your project goes smoothly. Prior to the project starting, your development team should provide you with a detailed project plan including a timeline and milestones. Many trusted software development companies also show intermediate product demos. This can help to keep the client updated and to allow for changes on the go. In some cases, the cause of delays may be on the client’s side. These problems include continuously changing requirements, unclear instructions and delays in feedback or approvals. That's why it's crucial to have a clear vision of your product from the very beginning and to provide timely updates to your development team. If the delivered software is low quality, this might mean the service provider lacks technical skills or attention to detail. This issue must be addressed as soon as possible, as it directly impacts the overall success of your business. If a provider fails to respond to your complaints to improve the code quality and resolve bugs, there is the only way you can solve this situation: finding another provider. No one wants to be left to deal with unforeseen hitches. Make sure your software development contractor provides support services after the product development is over. It's even better if the contract includes a warranty period. This can demonstrate that a company takes every project seriously and cares about quality. For example, my company provides a free warranty period of one month after the product release and flexible support plans. The process of hiring a trusted provider shouldn’t be fast and easy, as you’ll be investing a lot of effort and funds into the product. Maintaining a healthy level of skepticism is crucial before trusting external entities with your business. I highly recommend checking reviews and case studies prior to entering a long-term agreement with a potential service provider. Previous feedback and a portfolio of live products are the most important indicators of the trustworthiness of a company. You must also vet the provider for communication and soft skills. Your future partner should be on the same page as you, provide you with fast and effective responses and be interested in your project's success. Finally, remember: Even if you feel that you are working with a reliable partner, you are responsible for monitoring the project vigilantly throughout the entire process. When necessary, you'll need to take timely actions to improve the situation or, in extreme cases, change providers. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 