On Saturday, traditionalists in Oyo State endorsed Bola Tinubu, the All Progressives Congress’s presidential candidate, in his bid to become the country’s next leader in 2023. At a ceremony conducted at the Ilaji Hotel and Sports Resort in Ibadan, they declared their intentions. According to the News Agency of Nigeria, Muslims and Christians in the state expressed their support for Tinubu, which prompted the traditionalists, who came from every zone in the state, to provide their support. According to NAN, Chief Dotun Sanusi, the CEO of the Ilaji Hotel and Sports Resort in Ibadan, sponsored the program, which also featured a number of other sociocultural organizations. In his remarks, the Aare Oniseese of Oyo State, Mr Olukunmi Egbelade, said the event was not politically motivated, noting that they were after peace, unity, progress and development of Yorubaland. Egbelade said that Yorubas would benefit a lot, if their kinsman could become the president, pointing out that it was the turn of Yorubas to be at the helm of affairs in Nigeria. He said that the endorsement of Tinubu was necessary for the victory of the APC candidate, who according to him, is a leading candidate in the election. Egbelade urged Tinubu to declare a nationwide holiday for the traditional worshippers across the nation after his emergence. Also, a traditionalist, Chief Kazeem Omotosho, said there should be no setback for Yorubas in the forthcoming elections, adding that Yorubas hold strategic positions in Nigerian politics. Some people believe we are not educated, they say we don’t know God, but we believe in God more than them. Most of the pastors and Muslim clerics pass through us,” Omotosho said. Earlier, Sanusi said that the motive behind the event was to show love and support to the APC candidate, who according to him, is a leading candidate in the forthcoming general elections. Represented by Mogaji Nurudeen Akinade, he said the congregation was aimed at ensuring that people choose the next president wisely. He said, “Tinubu stands tall among the presidential candidates after researching their credentials. “I am not a politician nor vying for any political post. I am a philanthropist, using my resources to cater for needs of the society. “I am not a member of PDP or APC. I am passionate about whatever will lead to the progress and development of Yorubaland. “We have the problem of insecurity. We have the problem of unemployment. We have leadership problems and many more,” Sanusi said. NAN reports that the event was attended by the Araba Awo of Ibadanland, Chief Odegbami Ifalere; Head of Eleegun in Ibadanland, Chief Oyeniyi Okugbaja and representative of Oluawo of Oyo, Adejare Ifadare among others. NEWS, MULTI MEDIA WITHIN NIGERIA is an online news media that focuses on authoritative reports, investigations and major headlines that springs from National issues, Politics, Metro, Entertainment; and Articles. 
Follow us on social media:   © 2022 WITHIN NIGERIA MEDIA LTD. designed by WebAndName  Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 



 © 2022 WITHIN NIGERIA MEDIA LTD. designed by WebAndName 