 Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All
Progressives Congress (APC), has advised Nigerians to remain calm over the
hardship caused by the scarcity of the naira notes.   The scarcity of the naira notes amid the implementation of
the naira redesign policy has led to frustration, protests, and attacks on
banks and Automated Teller Machine (ATM) points.   On Wednesday, some persons were feared dead following a
clash following the response of security agencies to protests in parts of Edo
state.   In a statement on Thursday, Tinubu expressed his sympathy to
Nigerians, adding that the federal and state governments are working to address
the issue.     “I am saddened by
reports of violent protests in parts of our country today, especially in Delta,
Oyo, Kwara and Edo states. In Delta, there were reports of arson and
destruction of bank branches,” the statement reads.   “I sympathise with all Nigerians who are going through the
pains of not being able to get money from banks and ATM points to meet their
basic daily needs. I also sympathise with the banks for being victims of the
CBN currency redesign policy.   “Be rest assured that this phase will soon pass away as our
governments at both the federal and state levels are working to surmount the
current challenges.    “With the Supreme
Court reaffirming its order of 8 February on monetary authorities to allow the
old and new Naira notes to circulate together, I believe a solution is right on
the way and the scarcity of Naira notes will soon be over.   “I am happy to note the various measures being put in place
by many of our Governors to cushion the effect of the scarcity of Naira on
households.   “I want to appeal to our young people not to take law into
their hands through destructive protests. We feel your pains and frustration
but destroying lives and properties will not solve any problem. Rather, it will
only complicate the crisis we have on our hands.   “We must keep the peace and remain calm. Let us not be
provoked. Instead, let us cooperate with the government in seeking immediate
and lasting solution.     “This difficult time
shall soon be over. We must keep hope alive as we move forward to a better,
stronger and more prosperous Nigeria of our dream. God bless you all.”  



Post a Comment


Kindly drop a comment below.(Comments are moderated. Clean comments will be approved immediately) Advert Enquires - Reach out to us at NigerianEye@gmail.com







 
Kindly drop a comment below.(Comments are moderated. Clean comments will be approved immediately) Advert Enquires - Reach out to us at NigerianEye@gmail.com
 COPYRIGHT © 
Nigerian News, Latest Nigeria In News. Nigeria News. Your online Nigerian Newspaper.