           An hour before the 2023 New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival opened to the public on Thursday, the Lagniappe Stage was already jumping. For the first time since the pandemic, Jazz Fest restored its Youth Day programming. Several hundred Orleans Parish students rode school buses onto the Fair Grounds and were treated to an exclusive Thursday morning show in the grandstand’s paddock, after which they were free to roam the grounds. Dating to the late 1990s, Youth Day is meant to both introduce students to New Orleans music, culture and Jazz Fest and to give young performers the opportunity to make their Jazz Fest debut. Abramson Sci Academy, Holy Cross, Hynes, St. Mary’s Academy, Christian Brothers, Einstein Charter and other schools were represented in the audience and/or onstage. Stephanie and Aarron Ory of Ancient Bones Dance Theater perform with flaming torches at the Lagniappe Stage during the 2023 New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival's Youth Day program on Thursday, May 4, 2023. Several hundred Orleans Parish students were treated to a special program at the Lagniappe Stage on Thursday morning before the Fair Grounds gates opened to the public.  Tamika Jett choreographed New Orleans bounce star Big Freedia’s eye-popping show at the main Festival Stage on Jazz Fest’s opening Friday. On Thursday, she was back at the Fair Grounds with the Golden Hearts, a quartet of teen dancers from her Passion Dance Center. At Passion, “we teach dancers how to turn their passion into a career,” Jett said. The Youth Day performance “is right up our alley. This is what I’ve been preaching to them.” Jett has worked with Freedia for almost a decade, first as a dancer, now as dance coordinator and choreographer. Her students “see me do it. Now they get a taste of it, of what they’ve been dreaming about. They get an opportunity to express their talent and get a taste of professionalism. I love that Jazz Fest does this.” Students fill the Lagniappe Stage seating area during the 2023 New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival's Youth Day program on Thursday, May 4, 2023. Several hundred Orleans Parish students were treated to a special program at the Lagniappe Stage on Thursday morning before the Fair Grounds gates opened to the public.  Standup comic DJ “Rude” Jude Davis emceed Youth Day. He has opened shows for the likes of Nicki Minaj, Lil Wayne, Katt Williams and Kevin Hart, whose material skews more toward adults. Davis was more than happy to host a kid-friendly show at Jazz Fest, in part because he has a 12-year-old daughter. But also, he grew up in New Orleans as “the kid who was the class clown. It’s amazing watching these kids enjoy themselves.” As DJ Arie cued up music, Davis coordinated a rapid-fire student dance contest. Excitement rippled through the audience as students selected classmates to represent their school. Stage manager Lawrence Wheeler was impressed with both the young audience and young performers. “All these kids have been wonderful,” Wheeler said. “They were well-behaved. They came out to have some fun, to be entertained and to entertain.” The Youth Day show was literally on fire at one point: a trio of silver-clad dancers from the Ancient Bones Dance Theater used flaming torches as part of their act. “We were a little worried about the fire in a tent,” said Stephanie Ory, who engaged her husband, Aarron Ory, in a sort of flaming sword battle. “We took all precautions.” Those precautions included fire blankets at the ready and fellow dancer Madison Belliard stationed onstage with a fire extinguisher. The Ancient Bones Dance Theater normally supplies fire, hula and belly dancers, aerialists, mermaids and circus artists to birthday parties and other private events. Performing for several hundred students at Jazz Fest “was intimidating,” Stephanie Ory said. “What do we do for 15-year-olds that they don’t laugh at us?” The answer: fire. “They seemed to get a little more excited about the fire,” Belliard said. “It added a spark to the performance.” DJ 'Rude' Jude Davis emcees a student dance contest during Youth Day at the Lagniappe Stage at the 2023 New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival on Thursday, May 4, 2023. The Youth Day program was staged for several hundred Orleans Parish students Thursday morning before the Fair Grounds gates opened to the public.  Tonya Boyd-Cannon, a 2015 alumnus of the NBC TV competition “The Voice” who now teaches music at Bricolage Academy, presided over her own show at the Congo Square Stage last weekend. On Thursday, she returned to mentor five of her vocal students at Youth Day. “They work hard to earn the opportunity to be here,” she said. Her arts-centric nonprofit, the Rise My Child Foundation, surprised each of her students with a small payment for performing. “The compensation raises the bar” of the experience, she said. Her student performers included Rhiya Reed and Madison Rogers, both 9, who teamed up for a duet on Cynthia Erivo’s “Stand Up.” Singing on Jazz Fest’s Lagniappe Stage boosted her confidence, Rhiya said. “I’m sometimes in my shell. Miss Cannon taught me, ‘Don’t worry about it. Just come out of your shell.’” Performing for the first time at the festival was both “good” and “exciting,” Rhiya reported. Would she do it again? “Yeah.” Email Keith Spera at kspera@theadvocate.com. It’s Locals Thursday at Jazz Fest, also known as Shouldn’t You Be at Work Day, and Fifty Dollar Day.    News Tips:nolanewstips@theadvocate.com Other questions:subscriberservices@theadvocate.com Need help?  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: