
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga’ on HBO Max, a Visionary, Action-Rich 'Fury Road' Prequel				 
					'Furiosa's Tom Burke is Low Key the Hottest Guy of the Summer				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘The Union’ on Netflix, a Terminally Bland Mark Wahlberg-Halle Berry Action-Comedy				 
					Mike Colter Talks ‘The Union,’ Kicking Halle Berry, and Mark Wahlberg’s Infamous Work-Out Schedule: “He Is Dedicated”				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘I Can’t Live Without You’ on Netflix, a Toothless Spanish Comedy About Cell Phone Addiction				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘La Chimera’ on Hulu, the Josh O'Connor-Alice Rohrwacher Collab You Didn't Know Would Blow You Away				 
					Is 'My Penguin Friend Streaming on Netflix or Disney+?				 
					Kim Kardashian Confesses "Getting Booed" Is Her "Biggest Fear In Life" — Just Months After Audience Iced Her Out At Tom Brady Roast				 
					Is 'Ryan's World The Movie' Streaming on Netflix or YouTube?				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Despicable Me 4’ on VOD, Another Entry In This Franchise That Cares More About Jokes Than Coherence				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: 'Saving Bikini Bottom: The Sandy Cheeks Movie,' a SpongeBob Spinoff on Netflix				 
					'Despicable Me 4' Comes to Digital, But When Will 'Despicable Me 4' Be Streaming on Peacock?				 
					When Does 'Yellowstone' Return? 'Yellowstone's Season 5, Part 2 Premiere Date, 'The Madison' Spin-off Updates, And Streaming Info				 
					Natalie Portman's Steamy 'Lady in the Lake' Mirror Sex Scene Takes Us Through the Looking Glass				 
					'The Serpent Queen' Stars Samantha Morton and Minnie Driver Spill on Sex, Scheming and How Catherine de Medici and Elizabeth I Are Like…Spider-Man?				 
					R.I.P. Gena Rowlands: 'The Notebook,' 'A Woman Under The Influence' Actress Dead At 94				 
					Julianne Hough Reveals Why Cher Made Her Cry While Filming 'Burlesque'				 
					R.I.P. Peter Marshall: Longtime 'Hollywood Squares' Host Dead At 98				 
					Fyre Festival Survivor Andy King Is Excited For Audiences To Get To Know The "Real Andy King" On New Reality TV Show 'The Anonymous'				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Daughters’ on Netflix, a Tearjerking Portrait of Daughters and Their Incarcerated Fathers				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Girl You Know It’s True’ on VOD, A Biopic Treatment Of The Rise And Fall Of Milli Vanilli, With A Sensitive Side 				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Are You Sure?!’ on Disney+, A Hangout Reality Show Featuring Jimin And Jung Kook of BTS				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Dirty Pop: The Boy Band Scam’ on Netflix, A Docuseries Delving Into The Financial Scheming of The Backstreet Boys and NSYNC’s “Big Poppa”				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: ‘Bob Marley: One Love’ on Prime Video, A Biopic of a Music Legend and International Inspiration				 
					What Time Is 'The Bachelorette' On Tonight? How To Watch Season 21, Episode 7 (Hometown Week) Live On ABC And Hulu				 
					Rachel Lindsay Warns 'Bachelor' Grant Ellis To Lawyer Up Before He Finds His New Wife Amidst Her Own Messy Divorce 				 
					'The Bachelorette's Sam McKinney Addresses His Episode 6 Elimination: "I'm Not Perfect"				 
					'The Bachelorette' Says Goodbye (And Good Riddance) To Sam McKinney				 
					'Industry' Star Harry Lawtey Jokes His “Pathetic” Playpen Brawl With Kit Harington Was "Not 'Game of Thrones' Standard”				 
					'Industry' Star Marisa Abela Breaks Down Yasmin’s Strangely Sexy Pee Scene with Kit Harington’s Henry Muck				 
					Kit Harington Reveals Why He "Backed Out" Of 'Game Of Thrones' Jon Snow Spinoff After It Was Stuck In Development For "Years"				 
					'Industry' Season 3 Premiere Recap: Sex & Drugs & IPOs				 
					‘Bad Monkey’ Episode 1 Recap: Of Severed Limbs And Curses				 
					New Shows & Movies To Watch This Weekend: Prime Video's 'Jackpot!' + More				 
					'Bad Monkey' Gives Vince Vaughn's World Weariness A Touch Of Warmth — And It's His Best Role in Years				 
					Stream It Or Skip It: 'Bad Monkey' On Apple TV+, Where Vince Vaughn Is An Ex-Police Detective Who Investigates A Murder In The Florida Keys				 
					Natalie Portman's Steamy 'Lady in the Lake' Mirror Sex Scene Takes Us Through the Looking Glass				 
					'Lady in the Lake' Episode 6 Recap: Dream a Little Dream				 
					'Lady in the Lake' Episode 5 Recap: 13 Conversations with Maddie Morgenstern				 
					'Lady in the Lake' Episode 4 Recap: Tonight There's Gonna Be a Jailbreak				 
					Whoopi Goldberg Defends Billy Baldwin Amid Feud With Sharon Stone On 'The View': "Maybe He's Just Tired Of People Taking Potshots At Him"				 
					Whoopi Goldberg Has To Repeat A Hot Topic On 'The View' Because The Audience Is So Confused: "You Want To Hear It One More Time?"				 
					Rachel Maddow Mocks Donald Trump Trial On 'The View': "He's Just A Man And There's Nobody Here To Support Him, Including His Wife" 				 
					Alyssa Farah Griffin Shades Joy Behar On 'The View' When She Says She Was "Never Told To Shut Up" As A Kid: "It Shows"				 After that dark twist at the end of last episode, the gloomy tone remains as the Grateau staff walk through a park dressed in black, obviously talking about Pierre Cadault in a way that sure sounds like the designer is dead. But, in another twist, he’s actually very much alive, and they’re not leaving his grave, but paying him a visit at a very high-end hospital. While meeting with Cadault — who does not know yet that he’s being fired from his own brand and replaced with Gregory — Sylvie tries not to talk about work with him, and back at the Grateau office, she takes a meeting with Gregory himself, who honestly seems a little annoyed that Cadault is alive. And after he spills about his past, can we really blame him? Gregory reveals that he was previously photographed while “enjoying fellatio al fresco” and was nicknamed “Gag-ory” by Cadault, who coined the iconic and unfortunate term while speaking with the press. Emily, after seeing Cadault in recovery, calls Nicolas, asking him to hold off on announcing Gregory as the new head of the brand while Cadault remains in the hospital. He says no, and Emily tells Sylvie, who takes matters into her own hands when she arranges a meeting with Louis de Leon, Nicolas’ father and the JVMA boss. Over lunch, she asks him to delay the announcement to let Cadault leave his brand gracefully, but he’s not swayed and says it’s ultimately Nicolas’ decision. He’s also just gross, and deflect Sylvie’s questions by talking about her being just as “feisty and beautiful” as she was when she was an assistant. But Sylvie knows how to play the game too, and says she “remembers everything” about working with him, implying Louis was a creep to her. After she lightly blackmails him, they make a deal and he says he’ll pause the announcement for now. That night, Mindy, Emily and Nicolas are chatting after Mindy’s performance at the jazz club, where Nicolas confronts Emily about Sylvie going over his head by talking to his father about delaying the Cadault news, which isn’t fair because she didn’t know anything about it, anyway. Nicolas is angry, telling Emily it’s his choice when to announce, and Emily leaves him and Mindy to have dinner on their own. She gets a text from Gabriel asking to get a drink just as she’s walking back, and she finds him sitting on the riverbank slugging a bottle of Japanese whiskey, and he is druuuunk. He tells her he suspects Camille is cheating on him after he saw a photo of her in Greece with Sofia and some guys at a club, but he continues to spill secrets, confessing to Emily that he suspects Camille never forgave him for when he and Emily hooked up, and telling Emily he fell in love with her right when he first saw her. Emily’s response? Let’s just call a cab. In the back of the car, Gabriel is still chugging whisky and says he loves both Emily and Camille, but Emily gets him safely back into his apartment before he can drunkenly confess anything more. The next day at work, Emily tells Sylvie that Nicolas was angry about her meeting with his father, and he’s still going forward with the Gregory announcement that night. Sylvie knows she now has to break the news to Cadault, and she and Emily visit him in the hospital, where he’s expectedly upset, especially when he finds out that “Gag-ory” got the job. Still, they proceed with the Cadault store opening, with Gregory set to claim the Cadault crown that night. While there, Nicolas tries to make amends with Emily, toasting to the two of them after bringing Gregory on and promising plenty of success to come. But Emily has something up her sleeve. She and Sylvie arrive at the event pretending Cadault is dead to build buzz around him, not just his brand. The plan works, and rumors begin to swirl about Cadault at the party that he died in the hospital that morning. Just as the news of his “death” is hitting peak interest with the crowd, Cadault emerges, walking through a hologram of himself to correct rumors of his demise. Nicolas quickly puts it together that Sylvie had the idea of killing off Cadault and asks her to leave, severing connection with him and his company, but Sylvie couldn’t care less. As he and his father officially cut her agency out of JVMA, she says she’s losing something she never even wanted: a relationship with Louis de Leon. United, she and Emily leave the party, spelling trouble for her friendship with Mindy, but ultimately success for her relationship with Sylvie. The next day, Emily is returning to the apartment when she runs into Gabriel, who says Camille came back yesterday. And he’s in a way better mood — and better shape — than when we saw him last. Gabriel tells Emily that Camille assured him she was seeing “no one,” so he’s happy, and they just “missed each other.” Oh, and he doesn’t remember any of the crazy stuff he said either, which is probably for the best. 
This story has been shared 987 times.
987
 
This story has been shared 933 times.
933
 
This story has been shared 520 times.
520
 
This story has been shared 374 times.
374
 
This story has been shared 368 times.
368
 
This story has been shared 235 times.
235
 
This story has been shared 224 times.
224
 
This story has been shared 220 times.
220
 
This story has been shared 181 times.
181
 
This story has been shared 177 times.
177
 
This story has been shared 163 times.
163
 
This story has been shared 163 times.
163
 
This story has been shared 150 times.
150
 
This story has been shared 141 times.
141
 
This story has been shared 129 times.
129
