Sport | Golf Rory McIlroy has cancelled his scheduled press conference ahead of this week's Open at Royal Liverpool. The world No2 and winner of the Genesis Scottish Open on Sunday, had been due to speak to media to preview the final major of the year on Tuesday. No reason was given as organisers announced on Monday this would now not be happening. There were no fitness issues as the Northern Irishman practised as normal after arriving at Hoylake. "We have been advised that Rory McIlroy will no longer be taking part in a preview press conference tomorrow morning," a statement read. The move is not without precedent as the 34-year-old similarly cut back on his media commitments ahead of the US Open in Los Angeles last month. McIlroy won the last of his four majors at Hoylake in 2014, the last time the Open was held on the Wirral links. He is one of the favourites for the tournament that begins on Thursday. Joe Dean interview: Morrisons driver on £170k win and golf struggles Morrisons delivery driver earns £170k after second-place Kenya Open finish Tiger Woods confirms TaylorMade deal after ending 27-year Nike partnership What you need to know when buying a pre-loved electric car Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT Have your say... 1 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 2 Football Transfer news LIVE! Merino to Arsenal update, Joan Garcia; Felix to Chelsea done; Man Utd make Ugarte progress 3 Music Katy Perry's 143 album launch failures: The full timeline as Lifetimes single is panned 4 Football Chelsea to accelerate fire sale with 14 players facing exits before transfer window closes 5 Football Champions League Draw: Date, start time, teams, fixtures and new format for 2024/25 season