E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
For information on submitting an obituary, please contact Reading Eagle by phone at 610-371-5018, or email at obituaries@readingeagle.com or fax at 610-371-5193.
 
Most obituaries published in the Reading Eagle are submitted through funeral homes and cremation services, but we will accept submissions from families. Obituaries can be emailed to obituaries@readingeagle.com.
 
In addition to the text of the obituary, any photographs that you wish to include can be attached to this email. Please put the text of the obituary in a Word document, a Google document or in the body of the email. The Reading Eagle also requires a way to verify the death, so please include either the phone number of the funeral home or cremation service that is in charge of the deceased's care or a photo of his/her death certificate. We also request that your full name, phone number and address are all included in this email.
 
All payments by families must be made with a credit card. We will send a proof of the completed obituary before we require payment. The obituary cannot run, however, until we receive payment in full.
 
Obituaries can be submitted for any future date, but they must be received no later than 3:00 p.m. the day prior to its running for it to be published.
 
Please call the obituary desk, at 610-371-5018, for information on pricing.
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 Clover Farms Dairy announced last week that the company plans to sell its assets to Cream-O-Land Dairy, a dairy company based in Florence, N.J.In a press release, Clover Farms said an asset purchase agreement has been executed, in which a subsidiary of Cream-O-Land will acquire the assets and operations of Clover Farms.The sale has yet to be finalized, but the transaction is expected to close within two months, according to the release.“The completion of the transaction will secure Clover Farms’ operation into the future as a strong regional dairy processor, which provides hundreds of jobs in eastern Pennsylvania and a stable market for its independent farmer network,” the release said.Berks County-based Clover Farms Dairy is being sold to a New Jersey dairy. In this file photo, a box with cartons of Clover Farms 1% Milk in the refrigerator in the warehouse at Helping Harvest Fresh Food Bank. (MEDIANEWS GROUP FILE PHOTO)Clover Farms — creator of Clover Farms milk, Icy Tea and other locally popular brands of refreshments — operates a plant in Muhlenberg Township: The largest independent milk processing plant in Pennsylvania, according to the company’s Facebook page.Clover Farms was founded in 1937 and is supplied by more than 170 local farms.It delivers products to eastern Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Delaware, and Maryland, according to the company’s Facebook page.Clover Farms CFO Kevin Howard did not respond to questions on whether a closing date for the sale has set, or whether the sale will affect employees or suppliers.

Howard said the company currently employs 300.State Sen. Judy Schwank (D-Berks), who represents Clover Farms’ district, said in a previous statement that her understanding is that Cream-O-Land is committed to maintaining the plant and working with the company’s independent suppliers.In comments to MediaNews Group, Schwank said neither company has provided many details on the new partnership at this point.“It’s a local brand, it impacts our local producers,” Schwank said, “certainly we’re all waiting to hear more.”The Clover Farms Dairy, 3300 Pottsville Pike, Muhlenberg Township, has been sold to Cream-O-Land Dairy. (BILL UHRICH – MEDIANEWS GROUP)Schwank said Pennsylvania needs the dairy processing industry.“We want to be sure that we preserve what we have, plants like Clover Farms, in addition to seeking new processors for dairy products,” Schwank said.She said a best-case scenario could see the acquisition resulting in new production lines.“There is a great interest in lactose-free milk,” Schwank said, “That may be something that could be on the horizon. I think a lot of people who buy those products would love to have a local source.”Clover Farms and Cream-O-Land will provide additional information once the sale is closed, the press release said. In a press release, Clover Farms said an asset purchase agreement has been executed, in which a subsidiary of Cream-O-Land will acquire the assets and operations of Clover Farms. The sale has yet to be finalized, but the transaction is expected to close within two months, according to the release. “The completion of the transaction will secure Clover Farms’ operation into the future as a strong regional dairy processor, which provides hundreds of jobs in eastern Pennsylvania and a stable market for its independent farmer network,” the release said. Clover Farms — creator of Clover Farms milk, Icy Tea and other locally popular brands of refreshments — operates a plant in Muhlenberg Township: The largest independent milk processing plant in Pennsylvania, according to the company’s Facebook page. Clover Farms was founded in 1937 and is supplied by more than 170 local farms. It delivers products to eastern Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Delaware, and Maryland, according to the company’s Facebook page. Clover Farms CFO Kevin Howard did not respond to questions on whether a closing date for the sale has set, or whether the sale will affect employees or suppliers. Howard said the company currently employs 300. State Sen. Judy Schwank (D-Berks), who represents Clover Farms’ district, said in a previous statement that her understanding is that Cream-O-Land is committed to maintaining the plant and working with the company’s independent suppliers. In comments to MediaNews Group, Schwank said neither company has provided many details on the new partnership at this point. “It’s a local brand, it impacts our local producers,” Schwank said, “certainly we’re all waiting to hear more.” Schwank said Pennsylvania needs the dairy processing industry. “We want to be sure that we preserve what we have, plants like Clover Farms, in addition to seeking new processors for dairy products,” Schwank said. She said a best-case scenario could see the acquisition resulting in new production lines. “There is a great interest in lactose-free milk,” Schwank said, “That may be something that could be on the horizon. I think a lot of people who buy those products would love to have a local source.” Clover Farms and Cream-O-Land will provide additional information once the sale is closed, the press release said. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group