We've consulted with our team of licensed nutritionists              and dietitians to bring you informed recommendations for food products, health aids and nutritional goods to                safely and successfully guide you toward making better diet and nutrition choices. We strive to only recommend                  products that adhere to our philosophy of eating better while still enjoying what you eat. Non-dairy creamers have been sweetening up coffee since before the dawn of Starbucks. For over 60 years, shelf-stable and refrigerated dairy-free creamers have been a staple on grocery shelves, and some non-dairy coffee creamers are healthier than others. But to replicate the creamy texture of dairy without milk, coffee creamer manufacturers have historically gone to extreme—and rather unpleasant—lengths. A look at the labels of some popular non-dairy products reveals that their top ingredients are often water, sugar, and oils, plus questionable additives. Though these creamers may be suitable for vegans or people with milk allergies, that doesn't make them healthy. Fortunately, we've come a long way since the days when "non-dairy creamer" was merely synonymous with an icky powder or additive-laden liquid. Plenty of brands now feature plant-based options without funky preservatives, hefty sugars, and harmful fats. We've rounded up 10 of the best creamers that ditch dairy but keep flavor and nutrition. Read on to find out what they are and how we selected them, and for more, don't miss 9 Unhealthiest Coffee Creamers on Grocery Shelves. DIY your chai (without forking over coffee shop prices) with Elmhurst's Chai Spice Oat Creamer. In each serving, you'll get just 15 calories, one gram of added sugar, and 0.5 grams of fat. No added gums or emulsifiers here, either! Is Coffee Good for You? Here's What the Science Says With an unsweetened almond milk creamer like this one from Califia Farms, monitoring your portion size isn't an issue. "At only 10 calories per serving, I'm not overly worried about adding more than a tablespoon to make my coffee on the lighter side," says Michelle Rauch, MS, RDN. "I can make my coffee taste indulgent and creamy without splurging on calories." Aside from its low calorie count, this vegan and gluten-free creamer has no carbohydrates or sugars, either. For a basic, unflavored oat creamer, look no further than Sown's unsweetened variety. Though it's rich and creamy, it's low in fat and carbohydrates and contains zero sugars. The fact that it's made with organic oat milk means it's also easier on the planet than some competitors. The 7 Best 'Healthy' Juice Brands, According to Dietitians Ever wished you could savor that classic PSL flavor without all the sugar? You're in luck! Califia Farms' Pumpkin Spice Almond Milk Creamer recreates the coffeeshop favorite for a fraction of the calories and sugars. "I love the Califia Farms Pumpkin Spice Almond Milk Creamer since it's made with simple, quality ingredients: pumpkin puree, cinnamon, and ginger," says Amy Gorin, MS, RDN, a plant-based dietitian and Califia Farms nutrition partner. According to Gorin, this creamer is one of the only options on the market made with real pumpkin. Mooala's Bananamilk isn't just banana flavored—it's literally made from fresh, organic bananas. Who knew banana milk was a thing? Calories per tablespoon are negligible and its ingredient list of water, bananas, and sunflower seeds is as clean as they come.6254a4d1642c605c54bf1cab17d50f1e How Much Caffeine Is Too Much? "I absolutely love Silk's Dairy-Free Vanilla Soy Creamer," says Julie Pace, RDN, a plant-based functional dietitian. "It's rich and creamy, contains no artificial sweeteners or flavors and is non-GMO verified." Stir some into your morning brew for sweet vanilla sipping. For people with food allergies, finding a healthy non-dairy creamer can be challenging at best (and a series of gross taste tests at worst). "Some folks have a true milk allergy but miss the creaminess, taste, and texture in their morning coffee," points out Kimberly Hagenbuch, RD, LDN, MS, CDCES of Healthy Kitchen Dietitian. Oatly's Barista Edition Oat Milk, she says, is a smart, allergy-friendly choice. Plus, it has just 10 calories per tablespoon. Keep some on hand to use as a creamer or a milk substitute in everyday dishes. What Coffee Does to Your Brain Zero added sugar makes Nutpods Unsweetened French Vanilla Creamer a no-brainer if you're looking to sweeten up your coffee without dairy. "Nutpods is my daily java buddy," says Kasey Lobb, MS, RDN, of Appetite to Travel. Their nutty creamer comes in five different flavors, but we like French vanilla for its all-purpose possibilities in coffee, tea, smoothies, and more. Can't do dairy or nuts? There's still a way to lighten your daily brew. "For a sweetened, non-dairy option, I love Trader Joe's Brown Sugar Oat Creamer," says Alyssa Pacheco, RD, of The PCOS Nutritionist Alyssa. "This creamer is a great option for someone who has both a dairy and nut allergy or intolerance." And even though it has brown sugar in the name, this non-dairy coffee creamer still meets our requirements for no more than four grams of sugar per serving. 
					Sign up for our newsletter!					 
						Now, you'll have the best and latest food and healthy eating news right in your inbox—every
						single
						day
					 Copyright 2024 Galvanized Media. All Rights Reserved. Eat This Not That is part of the Dotdash Meredith Publishing Family.