Some are bare-bones kits. Others are ready to go out of the box, complete with operating system, RAM, and memory installed. Whatever the form, these Windows micro desktops all deliver surprising features, value, and pep for their size. I have been a technology journalist for 30-plus years and have covered just about every kind of computer gear—from the 386SX to 64-core processors—in my long tenure as an editor, a writer, and an advice columnist. For almost a quarter-century, I worked on the seminal, gigantic Computer Shopper magazine (and later, its digital counterpart), aka the phone book for PC buyers, and the nemesis of every postal delivery person. I was Computer Shopper's editor in chief for its final nine years, after which much of its digital content was folded into PCMag.com. I also served, briefly, as the editor in chief of the well-known hard-core tech site Tom's Hardware. I’m one of the consumer PC experts at PCMag, with a particular love for PC gaming. I've played games on my computer for as long as I can remember, which eventually (as it does for many) led me to building and upgrading my own desktop. Through my years here, I've tested and reviewed many, many dozens of laptops and desktops, and I am always happy to recommend a PC for your needs and budget. 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 Shopping for a Windows desktop? A speedy business box or hulking power tower is easy to get if you're ready to shell out. Sometimes, though, what you need is the smallest possible computer that'll do the job. At PCMag, we've been testing desktops—big and small—since the dawn of the PC, and our expert analysts and editors have centuries of collective experience. We review dozens of desktops annually, applying rigorous, repeatable tests using industry-standard software to assess the nuances of CPU and graphics performance. Just as important, we evaluate key attributes such as design, usability, connectivity, bundled software, and (of course!) value. Our current best mini PC for most users is Lenovo's IdeaCentre Mini, for its impresssive speed and connectivity for the money. Read on for more tested, vetted picks, followed by detailed buying advice and a spec comparison that will help you pinpoint the best mini desktop PC for how you compute. 
*Deals are selected by our commerce team
 This is a mini PC fit for a home office, secondary workspace, or small business, and the configuration we reviewed ensures any of those users can get real work done. This compact box starts in the $600 range, but we tested a more capable $909 configuration, which packs an impressive Intel Core i7-13700H processor, 16GB of memory, and a 1TB SSD. Buyers with truly serious workloads to push will want to seek out a larger PC with a workstation-grade or Core i9 chip, and you'll find no discrete graphics in the Mini, but the performance is substantial for a compact PC, especially one under $1,000. While it's not perfect, and limited in what you can upgrade, the IdeaCentre Mini supports multiple monitors, includes a useful selection of ports, and features a nicer-looking design than most.  Those looking to simplify a home-office setup or put together a desk for their small business, but who still need legitimate processing power, will be pleased with the IdeaCentre Mini. A Core i7 H series chip represents near-desktop-level processing muscle (it's the class of chip that goes into power-user laptops), so this PC sits well above the class of mini PC suited merely for digital-signage or kiosk duty. You could set up a similarly quick traditional tower PC for less money, so don't opt for a mini PC unless space constraints are paramount, but this Lenovo effort is an attractive all-purpose solution. Sure, it's possible to spend plenty on a small-form-factor desktop. But mini PCs can be a haven for budget-strapped buyers. Our latest leader in this subcategory is the ECS Liva Z5 Plus, thanks primarily to a tiny build that's VESA mount-ready and has lots of ports despite its size. The Liva Z5 Plus can support up to four attached monitors and comes with a three-year warranty. It's tough to find this level of versatility from a mini PC at this price, which gains the Liva Z5 Plus a spot on this list. The ECS Liva Z5 Plus is effectively a merger of the speedier but more expensive Lenovo IdeaCentre Mini and the more affordable but bigger MSI Pro DP21. The end result is an effective mini PC for less than most in its class. If you need a super-compact PC but aren't able to spend too much, consider this one first in your search. Asus has picked up the NUC story where Intel left off, with the NUC 14 Pro coming in as the next best mini PC for offices and small businesses. This mighty little puck is ready for the cubicle, with certain models packing an Intel Core Ultra chip featuring vPro security technology. With broad connectivity options, user upgradability, and a VESA mount for fitting it to the back of a monitor, this NUC revival is the best business mini PC we've reviewed in some time. This next NUC is ideal for anyone looking to fill an office, a call center, or a retail establishment with compact-but-punchy PCs that can power through basic productivity tasks. If you need a PC that can mount to the back of a monitor and is easily upgradable to maximize its useful life, definitely consider the Asus NUC 14 Pro. Most desktop workstation buyers want tons of expandability and upgradability. HP's Z2 Mini G9 doesn't have those, but it has awesome performance, impressive connectivity, and surprising serviceability for a PC only 2.7 by 8.3 by 8.6 inches big. Though it can hide under a desk or behind a monitor with an optional VESA mount, the Z2 Mini accommodates the 125-watt processors you'll find in full-size towers, such as our test unit's flagship Intel Core i9-12900K, and an industry-standard graphics card. The latter must be a half-length, half-height GPU powered by the PCI Express slot, but the 12GB Nvidia RTX A2000 in our review system is certainly no slouch. The Z2 Mini G9 carries the independent software vendor (ISV) certifications of its bigger desktop brothers and HP's ZBook mobile workstations, making it a great choice for 2D and light 3D design and CGI rendering as well as video editing, dataset analysis, and scientific and engineering apps. Up to 64GB of memory and 8TB of storage give you plenty of headroom, while two "flex banks" can be configured with a dizzying array of ports. Apparently nobody told it it wasn't a tower. It's bulkier than an Intel NUC Pro (2.2 by 8 by 8.2 inches), but only one-tenth the size of the midtowers that dominate the budget desktop market. Yet MSI's Pro DP21 delivers surprisingly perky performance in a petite package that can rest on your desk horizontally, perch on edge in the included stand, or hide behind a monitor or cling to the underside of your desk thanks to a VESA mount. It also starts at just $329, with our review unit ringing up at $471 with a quad-core Intel Core i3 processor, 8GB of memory, a 256GB solid-state drive, Windows 11 Home, and a basic USB keyboard and mouse. If you're on a budget and not into the hobbyist aspect of bare-bones kits, the DP21 is a great way to get into mini PCs. The four antique USB 2.0 ports on the front panel aren't too useful, but you get four USB 3.2 ports (three Type-A, one Type-C), 4K HDMI and DisplayPort monitor connectors, Gigabit Ethernet, and audio jacks around back. Inside, Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth share the space for up to 64GB of RAM, two 2.5-inch drives plus an M.2 SSD, and even an Intel 12th Gen CPU upgrade instead of the usual fixed mobile processor. What's not to like? The Cubi 5 12M loads up on the latest supporting hardware, such as Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.2, and Thunderbolt 4. For all that, the Cubi 5 12M costs just $100 more than the previous holder of this position. If you don't necessarily need the full-desktop-grade power of the MSI Pro DP21 but rather need more current supporting features, this is a smart place to start your search. If you're short on desk space but want a PC with the latest in connectivity and enough power to drive your basic computing needs, the MSI Cubi 5 12M is an excellent alternative to the more powerful MSI Pro DP21. For some of you, laptop-grade processing is enough to get through basic computing tasks, and it's the supporting features that are more important. For that, we recommend the MSI Cubi 5 12M. This fleet-oriented Veriton business model is a well-built and especially slim PC with snappy performance for its size, and a load of ports. That alone makes it worthwhile in this category, with seven USB ports (though only one USB-C) and VESA mounting support adding versatility. Plus, it comes with a keyboard and mouse, making it and its 12th Gen Intel processor ready to plug and play. If you and your business need a lot of ports in a small desktop, plus steady performance, this is a nice little package. It's not the best value, a bit expensive for the components, but it is a quick and efficient space-saving PC. If you're not one to tinker and have the budget, you could do much worse than deploying this box in one small office or a hundred cubicles. We're seeing some clear stratification in the market for tiny desktop PCs. The very smallest PCs might be termed the "stick class," pioneered by the Atom CPU-powered Intel Compute Stick we first reviewed in early 2015 (and again in its refreshed Cherry Trail Atom and Core m3 forms), followed by similar sticks from Asus, Azulle, Lenovo, and others.  You can still find stick PCs on the market, but these are suitable only for display/signage use or extremely basic applications. After a promising debut those years back, they have not seen all that much evolution or momentum. They have failed to have a major impact; the form factor is just too small to grow beyond those use cases. The models next up in size were much more dynamic, a bunch we traditionally termed the "NUC class." NUC stands for "Next Unit of Computing," a longtime initiative started by Intel to spur the development of very small Windows-based desktop PCs using its mobile-centric processors. Over the last decade or so, the chip giant released successive series of NUC-branded mini PC kits, and several of the traditional PC component makers have followed suit with similar models. Most of the "classic" NUC mini PCs were around 5 or 6 inches square, though later NUCs expanded the footprint to wider and taller designs, with commensurate increases in the performance level. Intel shuttered its NUC program in 2023 (stocks of some of its latest NUC models remain on the market for now), but Asus has picked up the NUC-brand torch (Asus now supports the 10th to 13th Gen NUCs from Intel) and is keeping the NUC name alive. They and a few other PC makers (notably, MSI and ASRock) are continuing to deliver NUC-branded mini PCs with Intel bowing out. They and other companies also offer NUC-lookalikes (without using the NUC name) that feature decent power, plus some that push the boundaries of the platform. Separate from those is a host of PCs that are undeniably small but follow their own shape and size rules. Zotac, a major player in small PCs (and one of the category's unsung innovators), offers a huge range of Zbox PCs that range in size from "classic NUC" size on upward. Shuttle, too, is another small-PC pioneer, offering machines in a host of shapes mostly nowadays for business and industrial audiences. And on the macOS side of things, the venerable Apple Mac mini is a sleek, square silver box with rounded edges that saw a big update in 2023. Like the MacBook Air and MacBook Pro, it received Apple's homegrown M1 and M2 processors in recent years, greatly increasing its performance. Not all mini PCs ship as complete systems. With some models, you get what amounts to a PC kit: a tiny chassis with a motherboard pre-installed. (In some cases, a soldered-on processor is in place, as opposed to a socketed one.) Plus, in most cases, wireless connectivity is built in. To complete the kit, you have to shop for and install a storage drive (a hard drive and/or a solid-state drive, depending on the model) and RAM modules, and install your operating system. This arrangement is what's called in reseller lingo a "bare-bones PC." You'll want to make sure you know what you are getting. In some cases, a given mini system is sold in bare-bones form, as well as in pre-configured versions with storage, RAM, and Windows present. You need to factor those parts and a Windows license (unless you plan to use Linux) into the total cost. The parts you will need, mind you, will be small: the kind that you'd typically find in a laptop, not a desktop. Many small PCs like these make use of DDR4 or DDR5 SO-DIMMs—laptop-style RAM modules—for their main memory instead of full-size desktop DIMMs. The form factor of the storage varies more. Depending on the mini PC you are looking at, you may need a 2.5-inch drive (a solid-state or hard drive, the size that goes into most full-size laptops), or a slimmer variety of SSD that's known as an M.2 SSD. Such drives are the size and shape of a stick of chewing gum. Check out our guide to these somewhat complicated drives at the link; if you need to install an M.2 SSD on a bare-bones desktop, you need to know about some interface/bus and sizing subtleties before you shop. (It's all too easy to buy an incompatible drive.) If a given system is a bare-bones kit, you'll need to get more than a little hands-on with it to get it up and running. But a kit gives you maximum flexibility in terms of component selection. That said, one advantage of a pre-configured system, apart from the easier setup, is the fact that Windows or macOS comes installed; you won't need to install and update the OS and its drivers. Most mini PCs are as "mini" as they are because they rely on the basic-grade graphics acceleration built into the CPU to power their video outputs—no separate graphics card is involved. This integrated graphics silicon will suffice for productivity work and video playback. A few outlying models, though, do incorporate the same kind of separate, dedicated mobile graphics chips that appear in gaming laptops. A few compact workstation desktops even make use of Nvidia's professional-grade graphics and up to Intel Xeon processors for high-power, ISV-certified tasks. Some of the larger Intel NUC models included discrete mobile and desktop GPUs. That means well-above-average graphics performance in a system this size. These "Extreme" Intel NUCs made room for a dual-slot graphics card up to 12 inches long. That opens up some serious productivity and gaming power, but the NUC Extremes take you out of the true "mini" size category, and they're only available as end-of-life models at this point. It's all relative. We'll have to watch for some newer models, such as the forthcoming Asus ROG NUC, to carry on the trend. The thing is, if you're sticking with a truly small PC, a dedicated graphics chip is seldom an option, simply because of space and thermal design reasons. We'll see what this year brings in this department, but a traditional gaming PC will always be your best bet to maximize power for serious gaming. Some mini PCs include mounting kits that let you attach them to the back of an LCD monitor. Check for that feature if space savings of that kind is important to you. And check the back of your monitor for mounting holes, which, if present, normally comply with the VESA mounting standard. Also, check for 802.11 Wi-Fi (wireless networking) of some flavor. Most micro PCs include at least that as a standard feature (and most also incorporate Bluetooth), but double-check that the system or kit doesn't require the purchase of a separate Wi-Fi card in the Mini-PCI Express or M.2 form factor. Some do. USB and video outputs may seem like obvious things to look for, but with smaller PCs like these, the number provided can be less than you may be used to. Check for enough of each for the peripherals you need to connect.  Also check for multi-monitor support if that is a factor for you. Some small PCs are designed explicitly for digital signage and may support more concurrent displays than you might expect from a little system. Note, though, that these models may emphasize video outputs in place of other connections, or indeed, even much in the way of CPU power.  You'll see a variety of mobile-grade CPUs in the small PCs out there, ranging from Intel Celeron and Pentium chips (very basic, and good at best for simple productivity work, e-mailing, and web browsing) up to Core i5 and i7 (and in a few cases, i9) processors that can do some modest media-crunching and rendering work. You must know, however, if you are looking at a mobile-grade CPU (the kind used in laptops) or a desktop-strength chip. The size of the PC isn't always a good predictor of that. (That said, the very smallest PCs will always use mobile chips.) How to tell? Most of the mini PCs on the market make use of Intel silicon, and the dead giveaway whether you're looking at a mobile CPU or a desktop one is usually the letter at the end of the processor's number. Look for a "T" or a "K," or no letter at all, as a dead giveaway for a desktop chip (for example, Core i5-13400T), or a "U" or "Y" (or possibly a "G3," "G5," or "G7") for a mobile one.  With the chip family and generation being equal, you can generally expect more muscle (usually a consequence of more cores and higher base clocks) from the desktop version of, say, a Core i5 than from a mobile Core i5. In addition, Intel chips ending in "H" are a higher-powered grade of mobile processor, occupying the middle ground between the mainstream mobile chips and all-out socketed desktop chips. They are uncommon in mini desktops, but not unheard of; one of our favorite selections, the Lenovo IdeaCentre Mini, packs a 13th Gen Core i7 H-series CPU.  You'll also find some occasional AMD flavors as well, such as the embedded-class AMD Ryzen V1605B in the ECS Liva Q3 Plus and even the Ryzen 9 6900HX in the potent Geekom AS6. Intel also recently launched a new Core Ultra mobile platform; these are starting to show up in mini desktops. These chips are dubbed "Core Ultra," and their onboard AI-ready neural processing units (NPUs) may prove useful to desktop users. What to glean from that mobile-versus-desktop insight? Our benchmark testing will quantify the trends, but none of the mobile-grade chips in these small PCs is a proper substitute for a desktop chip if you're a heavy multitasker, or a media pro who needs real processing muscle (say, to convert lots of video or photo files from one format to another). In most cases, the CPU is the single biggest factor in the cost of a mini PC, so keep an eye on the performance numbers in our reviews for a relative idea of what you are getting. Rule of thumb? For light office work, you can get by with a mobile or desktop Core i3-based mini PC, but you'll want to err on the side of a higher-end, desktop-strength Core chip if you'll need extra pep for serious multitasking, file conversions, heavy calculations, or multimedia content manipulation. Check out the spec breakout below for our latest mini PC recommendations, which parallel the models we outlined above. If you're shopping for a small desktop to save money, you'll also want to check out our picks for the top cheap desktops. If you'd like to go a bit bigger, head on over to our top choices for standard-size desktops, which include some small-form-factor PCs, or see our guide to the top all-in-one desktops, which save space in their own way by featuring built-in displays. Advertisement Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I have been a technology journalist for 30-plus years and have covered just about every kind of computer gear—from the 386SX to 64-core processors—in my long tenure as an editor, a writer, and an advice columnist. For almost a quarter-century, I worked on the seminal, gigantic Computer Shopper magazine (and later, its digital counterpart), aka the phone book for PC buyers, and the nemesis of every postal delivery person. I was Computer Shopper's editor in chief for its final nine years, after which much of its digital content was folded into PCMag.com. I also served, briefly, as the editor in chief of the well-known hard-core tech site Tom's Hardware. During that time, I've built and torn down enough desktop PCs to equip a city block's worth of internet cafes. Under race conditions, I've built PCs from bare-board to bootup in under 5 minutes. In my early career, I worked as an editor of scholarly science books, and as an editor of "Dummies"-style computer guidebooks for Brady Books (now, BradyGames). I'm a lifetime New Yorker, a graduate of New York University's journalism program, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa. Read John's full bio I’m one of the consumer PC experts at PCMag, with a particular love for PC gaming. I've played games on my computer for as long as I can remember, which eventually (as it does for many) led me to building and upgrading my own desktop. Through my years here, I've tested and reviewed many, many dozens of laptops and desktops, and I am always happy to recommend a PC for your needs and budget. Read Matthew's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.