Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  In this article If there's one company that has popularized artificial intelligence in the past year, it's the small but richly funded startup OpenAI, the entity behind viral chatbot ChatGPT. This week at its Build conference for software developers, Microsoft made extensive use of its collaboration with the startup, in which it's invested billions. Front and center on Tuesday, the first day of the show, was a onstage conversation between Greg Brockman, OpenAI's co-founder and president, and Kevin Scott, Microsoft's technology chief and the person credited with building the unusually close relationship between the two companies. "You heard it from Greg," Scott told the crowd assembled at the Seattle Convention Center near the end of the talk. "You all are the ones who are going to make AI great." Toward that end, Microsoft announced a slew of products for developers that draw on OpenAI's technology: OpenAI released ChatGPT to the broad world in November, sparking lots of interest from consumers. Shortly thereafter, companies such as Atlassian, Morgan Stanley and Salesforce rushed to show off integrations of OpenAI's GPT-4 large language model, which powers the chatbot. GPT-4 and alternatives from the likes of Amazon and Google have been trained on extensive internet data sets and have become capable of spitting out chunks of natural-sounding text. The technology is a popular form of what has come to be called generative AI, which can take human input and respond with a computer-generated output. "Every layer of the software stack is going to be changed forever and no better place to start than the actual developer stack," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said during his Build keynote address on Tuesday. "We as developers, how do we build is fundamentally changing." It's crucial for third-party developers to enrich Microsoft's own software properties, such as the Microsoft 365 productivity software bundle. Such work might help Microsoft's Teams communication app, for example, to become a more obvious hub for an increasingly wide selection of processes and tasks that companies need to carry out. That can make companies less likely to switch to alternatives such as Google Workspace. Microsoft highlighted dozens of plug-in developers on Tuesday, including Adobe, Asana, Canva, Cloudflare, Redfin, Spotify and TripAdvisor. A demonstration showed the Windows chatbot turning on a Spotify playlist, creating a company logo with Adobe Express and sending the logo to a person's colleagues over Teams in response to a series of typed messages. At the same time, Nadella has pushed for Microsoft to incorporate GPT-4 directly into Teams and older Microsoft products, such as the Bing search engine, often resulting in bots branded with the name Copilot. The Copilot term emphasizes collaboration with people, in contrast with (for example) the Autopilot advanced driver-assistance system for Tesla vehicles. "We are adding Copilot into everything," Scott Guthrie, executive vice president of Microsoft's cloud and AI group, told CNBC in an interview last week. "It's less of a top-down mandate, although we're certainly pushing top-down. I think it's something where we've actually evangelized internally and really got every team excited about. And we are building a common stack across Microsoft that the entire company is building on top of." Analysts responded favorably to the developer onslaught. "The pace of MSFT's GenAI innovation remains stunning to us," Mizuho analysts with a buy rating on Microsoft stock wrote in a Wednesday note to clients. Brockman hinted to developers that the cost of GPT-4, which runs in Azure, could come down. "I think we did a 70% price reduction two years ago," he told Scott. "Basically, this past year, we did a 90% cost reduction. A 10 times cost drop — like, that's crazy, right? And I think we're going to be able to do the same thing repeatedly with new models. And so GPT-4 right now, it's expensive, it's not fully available. But that's one of the things that I think will change." WATCH: Microsoft Build 2023 unveils plugins and products that incorporate A.I. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by