Now Reading   Published 09-13-23 Submitted by Owens Corning David Rabuano, chief sustainability Officer, Owens Corning will be part of the upcoming SDG Summit USA 2023, the highly anticipated flagship event of the UN Global Compact Network USA. Rabuano will be a featured speaker on the panel discussion: "Partnerships for Impact - How Businesses are Driving Impact through Collaboration in the United States."  This event is all about harnessing the collective power of collaboration to make a real difference in sustainability. “I'm excited to connect with other passionate professionals, exchange valuable insights, and explore how businesses can join forces to create meaningful and lasting impact for a better future,” said Rabuano. www.sdgsummit.org. Owens Corning is a global building and construction materials leader committed to building a sustainable future through material innovation. Our three integrated businesses – Roofing, Insulation, and Composites – provide durable, sustainable, energy-efficient solutions that leverage our unique material science, manufacturing, and market knowledge to help our customers win and grow. We are global in scope, human in scale with approximately 18,000 employees in 30 countries dedicated to generating value for our customers and shareholders and making a difference in the communities where we work and live. Founded in 1938 and based in Toledo, Ohio, USA, Owens Corning posted 2023 sales of $9.7 billion. For more information, visit www.owenscorning.com. Owens Corning is a global building and construction materials leader committed to building a sustainable future through material innovation. Our three integrated businesses – Roofing, Insulation, and Composites – provide durable, sustainable, energy-efficient solutions that leverage our unique material science, manufacturing, and market knowledge to help our customers win and grow. We are global in scope, human in scale with approximately 18,000 employees in 30 countries dedicated to generating value for our customers and shareholders and making a difference in the communities where we work and live. Founded in 1938 and based in Toledo, Ohio, USA, Owens Corning posted 2023 sales of $9.7 billion. For more information, visit www.owenscorning.com. More from Owens Corning