The crash occurred around 3:40 p.m. on West Owens Avenue, east of B Street. Two people were struck, one fatally, by a vehicle in West Las Vegas on Thursday afternoon. The crash occurred around 3:40 p.m. on West Owens Avenue, east of B Street. A 1998 Lexus sedan was heading east on Owens in the far right travel lane. Two pedestrians were on the south curb of Owens when the Lexus failed to maintain its lane and started to spin, according to the Metropolitan Police Department. It struck the curb and struck both pedestrians on the sidewalk. Damon Andrews, 45, of Las Vegas, suffered serious injuries, and an unidentified man suffered life-threatening injuries, according to police. Both were taken to University Medical Center where the unidentified man died. Police said Andrews remained hospitalized as of Thursday night. At around 9:35 p.m., the Regional Transportation Commission said eastbound Owens at B Street had reopened. No further information was available. Contact David Wilson at dwilson@reviewjournal.com. Follow @davidwilson_RJ on Twitter. 

 Luis Lopez, one of the suspects in the fatal shooting of Marketon security guard Alexander Maceo-Sanabria, is now charged with murder with a deadly weapon. The murder trial for former Clark County Public Administrator Robert Telles, accused of killing Las Vegas Review-Journal reporter Jeff German, resumed on Monday with more witness testimony. Nevada and California transportation officials met to discuss how to better handle situations similar to July’s hazardous materials crash on I-15. A 65-year-old man died following a suspected DUI crash early Saturday in southeast Las Vegas. Police believe someone confronted a man outside an apartment complex and shot him after the man was “acting erratic and was breaking out windows” while carrying a large pole. Jurors heard testimony from 24 witnesses during the first week of the murder trial for Robert Telles, the former elected official accused of killing RJ reporter Jeff German. A Las Vegas man pleaded not guilty in federal court Friday after prosecutors said in an indictment that he sent messages threatening to kill two Californians and their families. The murder trial for a former elected official accused of killing Review-Journal reporter Jeff German resumed on Friday with more testimony, including from an employee in Telles’ office. Boulder City’s Tyler Nash finished the Death Valley run known as Badwater 135 in 39 hours, missing his goal by nine hours. Storms could find parts of the valley this weekend while fall-like temperatures will be felt at Mount Charleston. 
Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
 Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP