A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible early. A few passing clouds. Low 74F. Winds light and variable..
                                 A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible early. A few passing clouds. Low 74F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 9:52 pm    Brad Howlett Stoney Thomas Special to the News Messenger Stoney Thomas and Brad Howlett, Edward Jones financial advisors in Marshall, recently qualified for the firm’s Financial Advisor Leaders Conference, which celebrates the contributions and achievements of 400 of the firm’s most successful financial advisors. The conference will be held Sept. 7-8 in St. Louis, Missouri. During the two-day conference, attendees will hear from internal and external speakers about relevant topics, confer on timely topics and share best practices for serving clients. “These 400 financial advisors have demonstrated their finesse at helping clients build long-lasting financial strength to help them achieve what is most important to them. We applaud the difference they are making for their clients and in their communities,” said Chuck Orban, an Edward Jones principal responsible for the firm’s recognition events. “As a firm, we remain committed to creating value for those we serve, with our purpose as our foundation: to partner for positive impact to improve the lives of our clients and colleagues, and together, better our communities and society.” Edward Jones is a leading financial services firm in the U.S. and through its affiliate in Canada. The firm’s nearly 19,000 financial advisors serve more than 8 million clients with a total of $1.6 trillion in client assets under care at the end of 2022. Edward Jones’ purpose is to partner for positive impact to improve the lives of its clients and colleagues, and together, better our communities and society. Brad Howlett Stoney Thomas Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: