
  A NURSERY where "laughter and happiness fill the rooms" was rated ‘outstanding’ in its first Ofsted.
 
  Little Hearts Shipley, Owlet Road, Shipley was visited by the education watchdog on January 6 this year. 
 
  It was given the top rating in every inspection category. 
 
  The report said: "Laughter and happiness fill the rooms in this exceptionally caring nursery.
 
  "Building very secure attachments between children, staff and parents is given a high priority to ensure that children, and their parents, feel safe and secure."
 
  It added: "Children's behaviour is exemplary. Staff have high expectations of all children.
 
  "Planned activities support the development of toddlers extremely well. 'Laughing Yoga', for example, is a highlight of the daily toddler routine."
 
  The report also highlighted how managers and staff at the nursery are "highly aware of the impact that the Covid-19 pandemic has had on their pre-school children, such as delayed speech, language, personal and social skills".
 
  The report said: "Excellent planning has ensured that staff have focused on these areas and enabled children to make the rapid progress needed to catch up."
 
  It added: "Together, managers show a determination and passion to ensure that every child gets the best possible start in life. Staff, parents and children are viewed as a `family', with the well-being of everyone in it given high priority. Staff say they feel highly valued and appreciated for their hard work.
 
  "Partnerships with parents are excellent. Staff go above and beyond to support families, such as delivering hampers to families they know struggle at Christmas."
 
  Natalie Stringer, manager at Little Hearts Shipley, said: “We are delighted with the outcome of our first Ofsted inspection.
 
  “The children and families are at the heart of everything we do here at Little Hearts and we are so pleased that the inspector could clearly see this on the day of the inspection.
 
  “Our staff are truly dedicated to their work and go above and beyond to give children the best early years experiences every day. The report is a testament to this.”
 
  Maynaz Bi and Mohammed Dilpazir, owners of the nursery, said: “We are really happy with the Outstanding Ofsted judgement.
 
  “From opening our first setting in 2015 it has always been our passion to provide the very best childcare and education for children.
 
  “Although this is the first inspection at our Shipley site, we have managed to achieve three consecutive Outstanding judgements across our three settings.
 
  “This shows the level of dedication we have to provide a high-quality service for children and families.
 
  “We know that we could not realise this ambition without our staff team and appreciate them all so much! It is nice that our hard work and dedication have been recognised.”
 
Have you got a story for us? Email newsdesk@telegraphandargus.co.uk or contact us here.
 
Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram to keep up with all the latest news.
 
Sign up to our newsletter to get updates sent straight to your inbox.
 
You can also call us on 01274 705292.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.