   Estranged wife of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Taiwo,
has angrily reacted to a disclaimer issued by the former leader, subtly
questioning her mental health and declaring that though she gave birth to two
children for him, she was not his wife.   Controversy started on Sunday when Taiwo waded into the
controversy trailing the statement of the former Army general at Iseyin, Oyo
state during last week’s commissioning of projects executed by the state
Governor, Seyi Makinde.   Obasanjo who was special guest of honour had chastised some
Yoruba traditional rulers at the event for not standing up to accord him
respect as a former president. He consequently ordered them to stand up and
recognize his presence.   However, in a statement on Sunday, titled “Oyo Kings: A plea
for forgiveness”, Mrs Obasanjo who has two children – Olujonwo and Olubunmi –
for the former president begged “for permanent and eternal forgiveness and
pardon from all Yoruba sons and daughters worldwide, fathers and mothers,
youths, teenagers and children, Christians, Muslims, traditional worshippers,
all leaders in Yoruba land and the Council of Kings in Yoruba land”.    In a swift reaction, Obasanjo through his Special Assistant
on Media, Kehinde Akinyemi said the “acclaimed Mrs. Obasanjo is an impostor”.   “For the records, Ms. Martins has two children, Jonwo and
Bunmi, for Chief Obasanjo but to say emphatically that she is not his wife nor
a member of the Obasanjo family.   “Her posturing as Chief Obasanjo’s wife is false and that of
an impostor. Nobody makes statement on behalf of the Obasanjo family except
Chief Obasanjo or people delegated by him to do so.   “It must be noted that the state of health of Ms. Martins is
known to all and sundry and whatever she says or does has nothing to do with
Chief Obasanjo as an individual or the Obasanjo family as a whole”, Obasanjo
had stated.   You’re the impostor Taiwo in her response titled, ‘Obasanjo, the Greatest
Impostor – The roar and ranting’s of an old dying lion – laying claim to
infallibility’, said the former president is responsible for most of the
challenges facing Nigeria because he failed to utilize the golden opportunities
he had to turn the country around.   According to her, since Obasanjo left office, he has
constituted himself into an infallible critic, never seeing any good in any of
his successors.   She said; “My attention has been drawn to a statement
credited to President Olusegun Obasanjo in which he called me an impostor and
raised a lot of issues beneath his status, including telling the world that my
mental health is questionable.   “For the records; I want the world to know that Chief Olusegun Obasanjo is the greatest impostor of all time, the liar, the deceiver who now equates himself to the Almighty God and who now arrogantly believes that he has the unchallengeable power of life and death and to render totally useless whoever tries to point out any error of his or doesn’t agree to any of his rigid almighty posture of methodology in handling issues.  “Once Daddy Obasanjo sees you as his perceived enemy who
will not dance to his tune 100% he would go all out to destroy you. He would do
all within his highly toxic evil network to destroy whoever offers a word of
respectful caution to him.   “From a very poor humble beginning, God gave Daddy Obasanjo
all that anyone could ever want in life, took him to the pinnacle in the Army
and in the government of Nigeria.   “Since you left Dodan Barracks, you have been fighting all
Presidents who came after you, seeing, talking, addressing them as no good. You
have rubbished, abused, insulted, criticized, humiliated, fought, ridiculed
every President who came to power. Are you the only ex – President we have in
Nigeria? All our former Presidents, General Babangida, General Abdulsalami,
General Yakubu Gowon, Dr Goodluck Jonathan etc they do not fight their children
or wives nor ridicule people here and there in our nation. All our former
Presidents in Nigeria comport themselves with dignity, they don’t fight nor rubbish
every successive President we have like you do”, she stated.   I’m stable “In his ignoble statement, Daddy Obasanjo said, ‘it must be
noted that the state of health of Ms. Martins is known to all and sundry…’   “Well, it must be noted that any leader like you who
justifies indecency, humiliation of leaders, talks and acts like a tout or an
area boy with uncouth mannerisms, shows us his mental state that he is mentally
deranged and there are more than enough evidences from your behaviour and
public utterances.   “For the records, my mental state is in perfect condition. I
salute you sir, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, the Great Legend of Hell tormenting
Nigeria and Africa. It is because l voluntarily left you which no wife of yours
has ever done, that you want me insane or bedridden. Many times you have done
the unimaginable to me, crippled all my business ventures, tried to label me
insane, but God made me to triumph over all your schemings. That l am still
alive is a great sorrow to you.That l am still breathing without one naira from
you is still a great pain and sorrow to you.   “Have you not begged me many times in the past to come back
to you? Yet, you query the state of my mental health? You loved me very much in
the past, to the extent of even beating your first wife in the house because
she insulted me. It is still very painful to you that l left you and l am still
alive. God has kept me. When l couldn’t cope, I ran out and left your home
because you were to pushing me mad. Didn’t you take me round several houses you
own that l should pick one and live there instead of departing from your life
completely? Didn’t you also bring a car to me which l returned to you? All
these l did when l told you l didn’t want to have anything to do with you
again. Didn’t you make me to sit down publicly on your lap at the commissioning
of your farm for the press to take photos of us and the photo was all over
Nigeria in all the newspapers.   “It is said hell hath no fury like a woman scorned but it is
appropriate to say hell hath no fury like an ex – President scorned and now
your ego is brutally scorned and deeply hurt because l left you and you are now
humiliating yourself not me.   “By the way can you provide the world the evidence that the
one you put in your house now as your ‘mrs’, that you paid any bride price or
took her to court to marry? She is simply answering your name because it is
convenient for you. How many wives of yours did you marry officially with all
marriage ceremonies performed? Please tell the world.   “I repeat again with all respect to you sir that you are the
impostor, who like Satan is masquerading as a solution to problems which you
have created for us in Nigeria and Africa.   “You are the real problem, troubling the land of Nigeria,
the people of Nigeria, troubling families and homes and the society at large.
God gave you long life, good health, made you famous, gave you wealth, made you
three times President of Nigeria, yet you couldn’t give us beautiful roads and
18 or 24 hours electricity which others could build on. All you do is fight,
fight, fight every President who comes to power after you instead of embracing
them as your loving children to be mentored, supported and guided by you to
give us excellent service that will bring comfort to us all in the whole
nation.   “The only leaders you couldn’t cage or render impotent in
Africa are the current Presidents of Nigeria, Tinubu and that of Rwanda, Paul
Kagame.   I am using this medium also to plead with Nigerians to help
President Tinubu to succeed so that Nigeria can be turned into another
beautiful Kigali in Rwanda   “Can you stand before God Almighty to say you did not rig
PDP into power in the South West and other states, fraudulently removing Ex –
Governor Osoba and others out of power with power of incumbency because you
were then the President? It was only the current President Tinubu – then
governor of Lagos State you couldn’t bring down and God is still making Tinubu
to triumph over you publicly. Power belongs to God not you. Why now are you
claiming 2023 election was flawed? Why do you want to create 3rd world war in
Nigeria because Peter Obi didn’t win?   “Please Charly Boy, Donald Duke, Sahara Reporters, the
youths of Nigeria and others – l appeal to you humbly – don’t join forces with
Daddy Olusegun Obasanjo again to bring war and chaos into Nigeria in order to
remove President Tinubu. God gave the Presidency to Tinubu not man. Daddy
Olusegun Obasanjo was made President in 1999 by the North. Generals Babangida,
Abdulsalami my twin brother, Chief Kenny Martins and many others provided you
the money, the people, the support nationally and internationally and all
needed resources and platforms to become President and you betrayed them all.
You rewarded them with evil. Ex – President Obasanjo treated them all very,
very badly. He didn’t win the election. When he now wanted 3rd term, God shoved
the evil, ungrateful Obasanjo out. Today he will not allow us to breathe. I
also prayed and fasted for you not to die.   “Daddy Olusegun Obasanjo, stop your rantings, you are an old
wounded, dying roaring Lion. Stop barking. Let me and my children live, stop
afflicting me and my children because you now hate me. Let us breathe in
Nigeria. God will judge you soon. My family and I have supported you
powerfully.   “At Close to 90, you are fighting President Tinubu. You
fought Yar’adua, you fought Jonathan, you have fought every President in
Nigeria since you left Dodan Barracks. Are you the only ex – President we have
in Nigeria? You should be a uniting, loving figure, tolerant, respecting,
caring, loving us all, uniting all in Nigeria and Africa, uniting families.   “He wants to be the only great man standing in Nigeria and
Africa.The road to Ota and Abeokuta was the worst during his reign as President
and his house is in Ota. He saved money that should have been deployed to
turning Nigeria into Dubai for inflation to catch up with us. He is the longest
serving President in Nigeria who should have given us massive, beautiful
infrastructure, which successive leaders could have built on with ease.   “He spent 8 years, wanted third term, but was chased out by
God and till today, he is still lying that he never wanted a third term. He
lies about my health and so he is a pathological liar and a deceiver. He didn’t
give us good roads, or constant electricity, best healthcare or reduced taxes
for manufacturing and production.   “You are the one driving away great, beautiful developments
from Nigeria and Africa from your secret covenant with Satan.   “At close to 90 years of age you are heaping great insults,
contemptuously correcting highly revered Kings in our Yoruba land as if they
were worthless.   “It was because l left you and to spite me that you went to
bring the woman you are now parading as your Missus. Absolute rubbish! When she
is sinking in sorrow because she dares not complain? When l advised you to
bring all your wives together for a meeting, so that we can know one another
and you listened and you brought us together with your first wife in
attendance, you didn’t bring your current Mrs to the family meeting even though
she has had her one child for you then.Which wife can truly say she has not
seen hell in your hands? They cannot talk because you will strike them and the
child they have for you off from your will.   “Before l round off, l want to beg again for forgiveness
from all the Oyo kings, Council of Kings, Yoruba Council World wide and entire
Yoruba race world wide.   “Please, l am humbly appealing again, don’t take out
vengeance on any of us, my children, myself or my lineage all because of the
neurotic humiliating, deeply hurtful behaviour of Baba Obasanjo.   “All the families of Baba Obasanjo are afraid of him. Please
l humbly and genuinely plead with the Yoruba race world wide – forgive us.   “Everyone can see how he came out to prove to the world his
true self by his ill-thought reaction to my humble appeal to the kings for
forgiveness”. 



Post a Comment


Kindly drop a comment below.(Comments are moderated. Clean comments will be approved immediately) Advert Enquires - Reach out to us at NigerianEye@gmail.com







 
Kindly drop a comment below.(Comments are moderated. Clean comments will be approved immediately) Advert Enquires - Reach out to us at NigerianEye@gmail.com
 COPYRIGHT © 
Nigerian News, Latest Nigeria In News. Nigeria News. Your online Nigerian Newspaper.