JV will manufacture battery cells for electric commercial vehicles and industrial use Accelera, the zero emissions business unit of Cummins, Daimler Trucks & Buses US and PACCAR are collaborating to make battery cells in the United States. A planned joint venture will manufacture battery cells for electric commercial vehicles and industrial applications. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 Total investment is expected to be in the range of US$2bn-$3bn for the 21-gigawatt hour (GWh) factory. The three companies will each own 30% of, and jointly control, the joint venture, which will initially focus on lithium-iron-phosphate (LFP) batteries for commercial battery electric trucks. LFP battery cells are claimed to offer lower cost, longer life, and enhanced safety, without the need for nickel and cobalt raw materials. EVE Energy will be the JV technology company with 10% ownership and will contribute battery cell design and manufacturing ability. It is a global LFP battery cell maker. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Just Auto : Just Auto Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		Automotive Industry News & Analysis | Market Research - Just Auto 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024 By clicking here, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and consent to us collection your details for the purposes of your enquiry