A new round of campaign finance reports shows links between prominent Tampa political donors, including Mayor Jane Castor and a committee that launched a deluge of negative campaign mailers against City Council member Lynn Hurtak during the recent council campaign. The committee, Comite Politico, run by Fort Lauderdale lawyer and Democratic political financier Jason Blank, sent out around 10 anti-Hurtak mailers while she was facing a challenge from Janet Cruz, the mother of Castor’s domestic partner. The mailers, among other things, called Hurtak a “radical” and “socialist” and accused her of changing a vote after being “paid off.” The new reports show that Comite Politico sent out the mailers after receiving large contributions in late April and May from three other committees run by Blank. Those committees, in turn, had received large contributions from Castor’s own political committee, Tampa Strong, and other local interests — mainly corporations tied to real estate developers, including the Related Group, Jeff Vinik and Blake Casper. But because of Florida’s lax campaign finance laws, whose money actually paid for which ads can’t be proved conclusively. Those laws allow political “committees” —– often simply checking accounts maintained by political operatives and registered as political committees — to transfer money among themselves, hiding the original sources. Candidates can also funnel money for various purposes through the same committee. The committees can receive unlimited donations while campaigns face contribution limits, and candidates often use them to avoid having their names associated with negative campaigning against their opponents. In late April and May, Comite Politico received $105,300 from the three other Blank committees — Making Florida Better, Development Trust of Florida and Citizens for a United Florida. Those three, in turn, had previously received at least $125,000 among them from the Tampa sources, including $36,000 from Castor’s Tampa Strong to Making Florida Better. At least two of those three appeared to have no money in their accounts before receiving the Tampa-linked donations and had reported no other significant spending or contributions since last fall, according to campaign expense reports. Comite Politico likewise appeared to be out of money before receiving its contributions from the three other Blank committees. On May 5, after receiving them, it paid a St. Petersburg company $96,250 for “mail media consulting.” Hurtak defeated Cruz in the April 25 council runoff election. As the Tampa Bay Times previously reported, Castor’s Tampa Strong also fed $60,000 into a chain of committees linked to Tampa Republican operative Anthony Pedicini, one of which sent out mailers attacking Carlson. The Related Group has worked or is working on several major development projects in Tampa. At one point in 2021, it was represented by Ballard Partners, the lobbying firm where Ana Cruz, Janet Cruz’s daughter and Castor’s domestic partner, is employed. Subscribe to our free DayStarter newsletter Want more of our free, weekly newsletters in your inbox? Let’s get started. Spokesmen for Castor, the Related Group and Vinik all declined to comment. Blank and Casper didn’t respond to messages for comment. Times Correspondent The Tampa Bay Times e-Newspaper is a digital replica of the printed paper seven days a week that is available to read on desktop, mobile, and our app for subscribers only. To enjoy the e-Newspaper every day, please subscribe.