There’s a public restroom in Puyallup that’s closing for renovations. The city will close the restroom building at Pioneer Park starting Monday, April 10, for about six to eight months. It is expected to reopen sometime in the fall. Portable toilets will be available in the meantime. The Puyallup Public Library also has restrooms open during normal business hours. The project has a $1.7 million price tag. It will be paid for by a $1.5 million state grant as well as the city’s parks capital improvement projects budget and utility budgets. Previously, the city told The News Tribune that the project would cost about $1.59 million. City spokesperson Eric Johnson said the price increased because of inflation. “We have gotten some feedback from the community about the cost of the project,” Johnson said. “It’s all the stuff underneath those toilets — that is the main reason for the cost. We have to upgrade our utilities and those are very costly.” The city also told The News Tribune in February 2022 that construction would begin in October of that year. Johnson said they rescheduled the start date because additional paperwork needed to be done before expanding the restroom building’s size. There’s a sidewalk behind the current restroom building. Before the city can expand the building, the sidewalk and a few parking spaces need to be removed to accommodate the expansion. The city needed time to go through a public hearing and apply for permits before before doing that, Johnson said. The new restroom building will have five toilet stalls for the women’s side. It will have two toilet stalls and four urinals for the men’s side. There will also be two new family restrooms with diaper-changing stations. The building will invite more natural light in and have ADA-accessible features, according to a news release. The electrical, mechanical and plumbing systems will also be updated. The restroom building was built in 1990. It handled the demand at the time. Plumbing and sewer issues emerged over the years as more people used the restrooms, especially when the city installed the spray park nearby in 2014. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.