With the recent explosion of direct-to-consumer sunglasses brands — the majority of them focused on padding margins rather than quality — there are more choices than at any time previously if you’re in the market for new sunglasses. Never have the best sunglasses for men been more plentiful, yet hard to find. Thankfully, if you want to narrow your focus to the best sunglasses for men; then this revamped Buyer’s Guide is certainly the place. From capital-L luxury brands like Tom Ford to the artisanal frames of Nackymade, there’s a lot to parse through in the search for sunglasses that best suit you. Taking into account construction, materials, size, shape and degree of UV protection; ultimately any decision to settle on a pair of sunnies will hinge upon your personal taste. To get you started, we’ve gone ahead and rounded up what we like to think of as the best sunglasses for men in 2024 – a great baseline from which to fine-tune what you’re looking for. Paris-born LA designer Ahlem Manai-Platt launched her eponymous label in 2014 — specialising in sunglasses made with sustainable manufacturing and innovative materials. Now, with almost a decade under her belt, the young American designer is still keeping things fresh: a rare achievement in a market where every brand and their dog is focused on such ubiquitous fodder as the ‘classic wayfarer shape’. Unusually, AHLEM handcrafts all of its eyewear in France — albeit still from high-quality Mazzucchelli acetate — outside the historic Italian manufacturing centre of Belluno. The brand’s flagship model is the ‘Champ de Mars’: round retro frames joined by an angular bridge; available in a range of sizes to suit different faces. Though not specifically a style of men’s sunglasses, the Rivoli is another popular model that evokes Manai-Platt’s love of mid-20th-century aesthetics and unusual shapes. From Pierce Brosnan in Die Another Day to Jack Nicholson in Something’s Gotta Give, luxury sunglasses brand Persol has long been a fixture among jet-setting, Hollywood types. Even today, its star power has remained ironclad; with Formula One drivers like Lewis Hamilton counting among the brand’s habitual fans. Founded by Guiseppe Ratti in 1917, Persol pioneered the ‘Meflecto’ flexible stem system in the 1930s: a groundbreaking leap forward in eyewear design, enabling the arms of Persol sunglasses to relieve pressure on the temples. Associated with glam old-school European types, one of Persol’s most enduring styles (even today) is the Persol 714 — famously worn by Steve McQueen in The Thomas Crown Affair. Essentially classic aviators marked by a distinctive teardrop shape, they remain one of the best aviator sunglasses one can buy for under $500. Keen to channel your inner Rake of the Riviera? Then we’d recommend trying the ‘Terra Di Siena’ colourway. RELATED: The Workout You’ll Need To Get Brad Pitt’s Fight Club Rig Based in LA, Oliver Peoples (much like Persols) has been a firm favourite on the Hollywood red carpet for many many decades. A good number of BH readers will recognise it from its many namedrops on Entourage; with the brand also making appearances in Fight Club (Brad Pitt wears a pair of brushed titanium OP-523s) and American Psycho (Christian Bale wears the Gregory Peck-inspired OV5186s). The brand became such a smash hit amongst American celebs that it caught the attention of Luxottica, who promptly purchased the company back in 2006. Now with Ray-Ban and Persol as stablemates, the label is firmly entrenched as a symbol of Sunset Boulevard and the splashy, close-up-ready swagger of West Hollywood.  That’s not to say that Oliver Peoples is obnoxious — far from it. One of the best sunglasses makers on the market, it has a knack for working cutting-edge metal and acetate into classic styles with a consistently sophisticated aesthetic. Whether you’re talking vintage-inspired square frames or upswept cat eye sunglasses, each pair of Oliver Peoples comes with a 100% UVA/UVB protection rating; in addition to a solid construction making use of either 5 or 7-barrel hinges. They’re not quite on the level of sports sunglasses made by an outdoor specialist such as Oakley, but stand up to a range of activities just short of that — perfect for Sunday sessions on the harbour or a long walk along North Sydney’s scenic foreshore. With a median price that punches well above what you’ll pay for the majority of Luxottica-backed brands, it’s fair to say that Matsuda isn’t in the business of making an affordable pair of sunglasses. Still, for eyewear aficionados who are feeling rather gipped by lists of the ‘best designer sunglasses’, Matsuda packs an extra-devastating punch: owing to its quality lenses; scratch-resistant frames; and an array of thoughtful, somewhat steampunk-ish designs — made start-to-finish in Japan. Founded by the acclaimed Japanese fashion designer Mitsuhiro Matsuda in 1967, it wasn’t until the mid-80s that the brand released its first full-scale eyewear collection. In all that time, Matsuda has been known as a maker of some of the most stylish sunglasses in East Asia; with its iconic ‘2809’ and ‘2859’ heritage designs finding popular appeal thanks to cinema cameos in both the Terminator and Succession universes. For something (only marginally) more accessible, we recommend jumping into a pair of the M3058s. Combining a lightweight titanium construction with retro details like lacquered temple arms and a filigree lens frame, these can easily be turned into a pair of prescription sunglasses with a visit to your local optometrist. Consider a pair with blue-tinted lenses for the ultimate Roman Roy aesthetic. A princely number of consumer design awards have turned the spotlight on German eyewear manufacturer Mykita, which is now synonymous with design-forward quality and innovation. Founded in Berlin, the company first started making luxury sunglasses in 2003; eventually, building up such a following that they were invited to design capsules alongside Moncler and Maison Martin Margiela (to name but a few). Not that Mykita really needs any external input on the art of designing. With a number of idiosyncratic designs that reiterate the company’s progressive ideas about form; Mykita is at its best when it’s keeping things simple and symmetrical. The clean lines of the ‘Ian’ are popular for good reason, as are the ‘Joshua’ and ‘Perry’ styles. Personally, we don’t have enough good things to say about the Caleb: a classic aviator shape machined out of lightweight steel, it comes in three variations — all with their own differently coloured, polarized lenses. If you’re scratching your head wondering why Rimowa (makers of the iconic ‘Topas’ suitcase) is now in the business of stylish sunglasses, you’re certainly not alone. The esteemed luggage manufacturer revealed their first collection last year, and it’s clear they’ve been paying attention to what’s been happening in the luxury eyewear game on a granular level: leaning heavily into the quality construction and function-led designing for which they’re known in travel goods. Clever tweaks to familiar styles are the name of the game; with signatures like the ‘Square’ collection (polarized sunglasses featuring a number of production techniques lifted from Rimowa luggage) exhibiting a thoughtful perspective. Looking for frames that will last as long as your aluminium carry-on? Then pay close attention to these fashionable shapes. In any list of the best sunglasses for men, the name “Larry Leight” is bound to crop up more than a few times. Leight founded the seminal cult eyewear label Oliver Peoples back in 1987, eventually selling it to the Luxottica conglomerate in 2006. Just a few years ago, he and his son Garrett launched Mr Leight with the almost singular goal of modernising the luxury eyewear industry. To that end, all of Mr Leight’s products are handmade in Japan with very specific design briefs that separate them from the rest of the noise: ideal for men looking to craft their own signature style. Frames are variously made with hex hinges; removable top bars; brushed titanium; adjustable nose pads; and exposed adjustable coil temples — all progressive refinements to comfort while still maintaining an undeniably luxurious look. It’s tough to pick standouts from their well-curated collection, made up mostly of classic shapes named after local boulevards and California landmarks (wellsprings of inspiration that both Leights have previously plumbed with great success). Still, if you press us for a recommendation, the ‘Hanalei’ S Series wouldn’t be the worst place to start. Inspired by the modish shapes worn by 60s style icons such as Andy Warhol, these three variations are all fitted with CR-39 polarized lenses: lightweight, impact resistant, and keyed to filter out the excessive bright light that accompanies outdoor activities. You knew we were going to get to this one eventually. Luxottica-owned Ray-Ban is probably the most famous manufacturer of men’s sunglasses on the planet — and for good reason. The consistency is unparalleled, crafting classic frames from the highest quality materials and offering up definitive styles like the Wayfarer, Clubmaster, and Aviator. Originally set up in the 1930s in order to manufacture anti-glare eyewear for American combat aviators, Ray-Ban quickly hit it off with civilians; and in so doing, has established itself as the go-to brand for polarized sunglasses in almost every corner of the globe. Hollywood star power has factored in massively to that commercial success. Denzel Washington wore them in Malcolm X; Tim Roth rocked a pair in Reservoir Dogs; Johnny Depp basically kept them glued to his face for the duration of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas…the list goes on. Compared to the other sunglasses brands on our list, Ray-Ban has benefited the most from free press: an opportunity they’ve seized on with consistency, quality and an imperviousness to trend. Thus, the question turns to what pair of Ray-Bans you should get. For men, the classic Wayfarer and Aviator styles are more or less bulletproof, especially if you’re going for the more ebullient colourways like gold and green.  For something that’s a smidge outside of the box, consider the Ray-Ban Marshal II. This masculine style is a new player in Ray-Ban’s repertoire of classic frames, presented in a metallic hexagonal shape that’ll make a statement on all but the most uncanny of faces. Maison Bonnet makes the world’s most exclusive glasses. That much is true. For ‘money no object’ types, this family-owned French company produces stunning made-to-measure and bespoke eyewear that has made it a favourite of jet setters over the decades. Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and Yves Saint Laurent were both fans: and they’re just a handful of the high-profile customers who’ve given the Bonnet brand a lot of star power over the last 8 decades. The intricate design process behind each pair of Maison Bonnet frames is a closely guarded secret; but what we do know is that the customisation process is so meticulous that its designers will go so far as to consider a client’s personal style, facial features, and even their occupation: before any measurements are ever taken. Basic frames like the ‘Reza’ or ‘Lowel’ start at €1300, but be forewarned: that price tag will inevitably start spiking, once you begin piling on the customisation options. For those who dare. A brand that has more or less been defined by scarcity, Jacques Marie Mage takes the road less travelled: opting to manufacture small runs of characterful sun and optical frames on a one-off basis. Jerome Mage founded his LA-based eyewear outfit in 2015: with the clear intention of shifting away from Now here’s a brand that understands the value of scarcity. Eschewing the usual route of trying to get your sunglasses on to as many faces as possible, Jacques Marie Mage relishes in rarefied frames. Jerome Mage founded the luxury brand in 2015, with the clear intention of crafting “bold geometric shapes that recall the idealism and decadence of the 1960s and 1970s”. Yearly production quotas are intentionally kept low, and they’re usually lapped up by moody thespians like Jeremy Strong and Jeff Goldblum (the latter even has a collab with the brand) before the general public even gets a chance to get a pair in hand. Expensive, esoteric and most definitely for those who aren’t averse to a little chintz, it’s telling that multiple members of the BH team have happily been wearing Mage frames for over a year. In terms of immediate visual impact, the slick smokey Yves or the Zephirin 47 would be our top picks, but it’s the Quentin (part of the brand’s permanent Johnny Cash-inspired collection) that will prove to be the most versatile for a range of face shapes — available in four variations, each limited to 500 pieces. RELATED: ‘Succession’ Is Over…And So Is The Quiet Luxury Trend Unsurprisingly, Tom Ford eyewear carries with it a fairly strong premium that almost everybody is happy to stomach given the preeminence of the brand. Launched around the same time that Tom Ford left Gucci to get into the menswear game (his first women’s collection debuted in 2011), the American designer’s distinctive ‘T’ signed eyewear has been a huge presence over the past decade on and off the big screen. The ‘Snowden’, ‘Marko’ and ‘Henry’ models have all been spotted across various James Bond films, and that only covers the smallest fraction of the brand’s presence in Hollywood. Not that you need the magic of the cinema to be taken in by a pair of Tom Ford’s best-polarized sunglasses. We like the ‘Jude’ for its big bold, double-bridge construction and smoky gradient lens. Maui Jim sunglasses have a supreme reputation for excellent clarity and contrast, producing some of the best high-performance polarised sunglasses for men who can’t help but mistreat their accessories. The Hawaiian brand started out as a lowly fisherman selling sunnies on the beaches of Maui in 1980, slowly growing into one of the archipelago’s best-known exports. Being a brand predominantly born outdoors in the sun, Maui Jim places emphasis on a high degree of protection and visibility in brighter conditions. Colour matters a great deal here, and industry-leading technology defines every piece in the eyewear giant’s collection. Specifically, that’s the patented PolrizedPlus2 technology which Maui Jim has formulated over the years, included in the non-prescription lenses to block 100% of UV rays and eliminate glare, while also enhancing colour, definition, and depth perception. While most sunglasses brands on this list are picked up for their aesthetic, consider Maui Jim more in the same league as those sturdy Oakley shades you’ve put through the wringer each and every ski season. Except there’s an admirable balance of style, eschewing the thickness and chunk that’s usually associated with sports-oriented sunnies and offering enough range to quality as designer sunglasses. Carrera sunglasses clearly have a more athletic pedigree than most of the other brands on this list. The pioneering company was founded in the ’50s by Wilhelm Anger, an Austrian man who made the leap from working for a small plastics company to producing sports-oriented sunglasses initially inspired by the legendary Carrera Pan-American sports car race. Highly regarded for using plastic frames, Carrera patented a new form of resin that was 20 per cent lighter than all other forms of plastic used in the sunglasses industry. Going by the name of Optyl, it acts in a similar way to memory foam, in that the resin adapts to the wearer’s face with permanent elasticity and dimensional stability. Nowadays that’s less unique – most high-end sunglasses use Optyl – but since Carrera discovered it, the company became known for manufacturing frames for other big fashion brands, like Christian Dior. Moody black is the aesthetic of choice if you’re going for a pair of DITA frames. It’s another Hollywood go-to brand that’s constantly spotted on the red carpet, with just about every level of celebrity frequently spotted draped in the minimalistic cool that defines the brand. It was founded in 1995 by Jeff Solorio and John Juniper, who gave DITA the goal of becoming the “it” brand for innovative, high-quality crafted eyewear that’s both unique and exceptionally comfortable. And yeah, that’s just about every other brand on this list, but DITA has managed to stand out thanks to a strong sense of identity and a refusal to chase the more colourful trends that have been popping up lately. That’s not to say a bit of colour doesn’t go a long way. That charming yellow-gold streak that slaps across the excellent DITA LXN-EVO is irresistible. And while you are looking at around $1,300 for a pair of these thick frames, the attention-grabbing accessory will look boss on just about any bloke. E.B. Meyrowitz has had a tumultuous history since the company was first founded in 1875 by Prussian-born Emil Bruno Meyrowitz. Things were looking dim towards the end of the century until Sheel Davison-Lungley purchased the company in the early 90s, restoring it to glory through high-quality materials such as buffalo horn, used for the frames, with acetate and natural tortoiseshell. Expect to pay a high price as a result of superior craftsmanship. E.B. Meyrowitz frames will easily run you over $1,000, but the price is understandable considering just how much has gone into each pair. The Bloomsbury No. 6 would be one of the better-known expressions, defined by the pair’s perfect rounded rims and elegant aesthetic worked up by either brown British walnut or blue maple wood that’s been fused with black buffalo horn. Do note that these are particularly rare though, so you’ll be lucky to find yourself a pair online. Easier to come across is The Argyll, a swift showstopper of a piece that really doubles down on the company’s reputation for bold contours and lilting curves. Along with Mr Leight along with his father, Garrett Leight stamped his own name on a millennial-focused luxury eyewear brand, typically referred to as GLCO, with the aim of marketing timeless design to a younger crowd. Like many of the best sunglasses brands, recognition came mostly in the form of celebrity endorsement at first. Everyone from Lady Gaga and Brad Pitt to Jeff Bezos has been spotted donning a pair of GLCO spectacles, which aren’t too distinctive from Mr Leight but clearly skew towards modern-day standards. You’ll spot just as many social media influencers running around with a pair of these as you could actual celebrities, but it’s hard to look past styles like the ridiculously sexy Kinney, which you can grab in Australia for just over $600. L.G.R., named for the initials of founder Luca Gnecchi Ruscone, may be handmade in Italy, but the key inspiration behind these sunglasses is the great range of spectacular landscapes in Africa. In particular, Ruscone looks to the Italian colonial period in Africa to try and capture a hybrid sense of dolce vita. The range varies greatly as a result but always seems to pinpoint the design brief with a fusion of vintage aesthetics set against a decidedly modern perspective. That idea, of marrying the old with the new, is nothing unique of course, but the adventurous way L.G.R. does it owes its cult following to how rare a blend of African and Western European fashion can be. The brand counts F1 champ Lewis Hamilton as a loyal fan, amongst plenty of other high-profile figures who are frequently spotted rocking the label. The more elegant and conservative styles, like the Asmara, are the most popular hand-polished acetate frames, but if you want something a bit younger and more unique go for the Lawrence Flap with its ballsy metal alloy netting and cotton cloth flaps. This fifth-generation, family-owned American brand has 100 years of history sitting behind it, and Moscot doesn’t take the tradition lightly with their vintage frames that take most of their cues from the 30s through to the 80s. Legacy is obviously paramount for this company based out of New York City, so the highest quality materials are employed to ensure nothing but the best is offered to customers. Each pair is designed and handmade in New York City and put through a rigorous inspection process mostly focused on ensuring authentic hardware and sturdy hinges. Durability comes at a premium here, but Moscot’s design know-how is just as storied. If you want really tap into the brand’s history, get yourself a pair of the LEMTOSH. The style has graced the face of everyone from Buddy Holly and Johnny Depp, to the legendary Truman Capote, curved with a familiar rounded shape but adventurous enough to stand apart from the other styles on this list of the best sunglasses brands for men. Based out of Kobe, Japan, Nackymade is a small, bespoke brand focusing on made-to-order eyewear designed by Naoki Nakagawa and his wife Mocky. It’s a Japanese brand, so a strict sense of craftmanship is expected (and delivered), but there’s a great deal of quirk thrown in there too. Specifically, that’d be the styles with signature dinosaur-shaped temples, biting at the end of the elongated arms with a wavy triple-hump and teeth. Some may find it a bit too much of a novelty – Nackymade has plenty of more conservative styles – but it’s hard to overlook something like the Michael Dino sunglasses in a black-red which, like all the other Nackymade pieces, uses 3D measurements to customise pairs to the shape of the nose bridge individual to each wearer. Although not as historic as Moscot, Thom Browne is another defining eyewear brand for New York from its namesake designer who has done extensive work with Ralph Lauren and Moncler in the past. The standards, like 100% UV protection and anti-glare protection, are all there with a pair of these distinct frames, which are recognised instantly by their signature tri-coloured tips. While most of the collection favours aviators and retro round sunglasses, it’s the more adventurous styles that you should be looking like the Thom Browne TBS 112, a more idiosyncratic and sculptural take on aviators. Like a lot of seemingly simple clothing & accessory purchases these days, the maxim “you get what you pay for” carries a certain weight. That holds true (more or less) for sunglasses. Unless you’re buying with a high-risk event like alpine skiing or [insert popular music festival name here] in mind, it doesn’t pay to sacrifice longevity in favour of a short-term savings. To that end, assuming you plan on wearing sunglasses with some degree of regularity, it’s best to set a floor on your budget of around $500. Remember: the principle of “cost per wear” will offset what sounds, at least initially, like a hefty chunk of change. That ballpark figure gets you into the realm of durable materials; Italian manufacturing; the best possible range of decorative finishes; and, arguably most importantly for Aussie buyers, polarized lenses. Going above and beyond the 500-dollar price tag, there are even more serious options available. That’s why the 20 brands we’ve curated have to tick off multiple boxes with respect to craftsmanship, quality components, a distinctive aesthetic vision and meticulous attention to detail. Of course, you’ll know household names like Ray-Ban, Matsuda, and Le Specs – but there are a few surprises along the way which really emphasise the unparalleled amount of choice buyers now have in the market. Been paying particular attention to the face lately? Check out the top men’s skincare brands to build an age-defying routine.  © 2024 BOSS HUNTING PTY LTD | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
A LUXITY MEDIA COMPANY