This as-told-to essay is based on a conversation with Lorrah Minton, 53, about her experience buying low-priced properties in Mussomeli, Italy, a 10,000-person town in Sicily, as an American citizen. Minton chronicles her experiences abroad on her Tik Tok account. The following has been edited for length and clarity. I travel a lot. I've gone to China, Amsterdam, Paris, and Germany, among other places, but Italy just felt like home. My nephew and I traveled to Italy together a year before the pandemic started, and we were walking around like, "We need to figure out a way to live here." We brainstormed how we could do that, throwing out ideas like: "OK, they don't have kettle corn here, let's make a kettle-corn shop for all the tourists and we can live here." A couple of years ago, I started reading about the 1 euro program, where some cities were selling houses that needed major renovations for 1 euro. I read a lot about Mussomeli. They do have 1 euro homes, but they have a lot of premium homes that aren't 1 euro. My house in Mussomeli was listed for 60,000 euros, or about $65,481. We went back and forth on the price and I got it for 57,000 euros. I put in the offer in October last year, and it closed in March. The house I bought is almost 3,000 square feet. The kitchens are being put in, but I'll have a full kitchen, a kitchenette, two living rooms, and a laundry area. My primary house is in Mussomeli, and my brother and I bought a second house. 
                                Related stories
                               Since I've been here and met more expats, I've found that many people want to move here and get residency. My brother and I thought, "Let's buy a couple of houses and then rent those." My sister and I are looking at a third house right now. It's primarily for what they call short-term rentals, but it's not an Airbnb. It's more like an 18-month rental. We bought it for 25,000 euros, but it ended up being 31,000 euros after the fees and other additional costs. It's a three-bedroom and has a yard, which is amazing. I get asked a lot about how much I'm spending on renovations, but it's hard for me to say because there are wants and then there are needs.  I need a kitchen. I need my walls not to have crappy wallpaper falling off. Do I need a second kitchen? No. But the kitchens here are way more affordable — building my two kitchens cost 5,500 euros. At the closing of my primary house, I paid a 10% deposit and the agency fee, which is generally 4% of the purchase price. One thing that surprised me was you deposit it into their bank account, not an escrow account, which was strange to me but it's very common here. Another surprising part was that I bought my house for 57,000 euros, but some guy at an office decided my house is worth 80,000 euros, so the taxes were 9% of that. If you have residency, then you pay 2% of the assessed value of your primary home. I assumed the taxes I paid involved property taxes, but that was only the tax on the sale. Generally, the property taxes are between 300 and 600 euros annually, but because my house is ginormous, it's 946 euros. After all the fees, the total cost was 69,182 euros. But if someone said you can get a 3,000-square-foot, six-bedroom, two-kitchen, beautiful house for 70,000 euros, I'd say, "Done." It was all the little steps that threw me off. I try to take one big international trip a year. I've always had a dream of spending every summer in a different country because I don't like to just travel, I like to immerse myself in a place. There's only so much you can do in a couple of weeks. I'm 53, but I have a lot of things I want to do. I've probably got 20 good years of traveling with my good hips and good knees and all that. At some point, you can't visit everywhere you want. You really have to start scratching things off the list because they're not going to make the next 20 summers.  If I had my way, I would spend all my time here, but because of visa requirements, I can't. I have to go back and forth.  My house in California is a 1,500-square-foot three-bedroom and it's valued at $504,000.  I probably have two more years before I can retire, but I'll be in Italy the majority of the time then eventually go back to the States. I'll rent out my house in California for the next 15 to 20 years. And when I want to come back, then I'll still have my house there, which is now paid off because I've been renting it out. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to