A few days away at an exotic location can be just the thing to add to give you a break from a busy life. A few days in the sun with nothing but your tan and a good book to focus on can be just the thing to recharge your batteries, but it doesn’t mean you can relax 100%. There are still some day-to-day cares you shouldn’t neglect—including taking care of your eyesight, especially if you wear glasses for vision correction. At home, habits for maintaining healthy eyes should revolve around things like eating a healthy diet rich in antioxidants and getting regular eye exams. On vacation, you may have to switch your focus on eye health and concentrate on our eyewear. Don’t worry—following these strategies is simple and will ensure your eye health is taken care of even whilst you’re relaxing.
Here are five tips to make traveling more enjoyable if you wear eyeglasses. While the sun encourages the natural production of Vitamin D, it also emits harmful radiation you need to protect yourself from. Overexposure to UV rays can damage your eyes and increase your risk of developing more serious conditions like macular degeneration. On the other hand, taking off your glasses to wear shades and consequently having blurry vision on your trip’s sunny days isn’t pleasant. To avoid this, consider purchasing a pair of prescription sunglasses instead. If you already know your prescription, you can easily order them online before your trip. Clearly.ca is a great place to start browsing: you can choose from reliable brands like Oakley and Persol and customize your pair’s material, frame shape, fit, and lens type. You can even try them on virtually beforehand so you know you’re choosing the right sunnies to correct your vision and protect your eyes on your next adventure.    Another preparatory measure you’ll want to consider: tuning up your glasses. Over the years, your glasses will have experienced wear and tear because of frequent use and may be on the brink of damage on your trip. This isn’t something you’ll want to deal with on vacation. Before you leave, it’s best to go to your local optometrist and request a tune-up, allowing the resident eye expert to tighten the screws and check your frames. It’s also best to check if you need a new prescription to ensure crystal-clear vision while you’re away. If you end up needing new lenses, now might be a great time to investigate eyeglass coatings. Scratch-resistant coating, for example, will strengthen the surface of your lenses and keep your vision intact throughout your journey, while anti-fog coating can save you the annoyance of cloudy lenses if you’re on a trip to somewhere humid.    If you’re catching a flight to your destination, you’ll likely want to get in a quick snooze to save some energy for the excitement ahead. Your glasses, however, might be a problem. It’s not comfortable to sleep with them on. Yet placing them on your eating tray risks them sliding off, and attaching them to your shirt puts them in danger of getting crushed by a wrong move on your part. You might wish to take them off in your hotel room, and again they’re susceptible to damage from carelessness, especially if your evenings involve a few glasses of wine. To ensure your glasses’ security, use a case—preferably a hard-shell one—that can protect them from all kinds of impact when not in use.    Whether you smudge a bit of sunblock on your glasses or gather dust on them while exploring some ruins, it’s almost inevitable that you’ll need to clean your spectacles. Make sure you have the right supplies to do it. Microfiber cloth is great in a pinch and is specifically designed to clean your lenses. For very stubborn dirt, you can spritz eyeglasses cleaning solution on your lenses before wiping them down. Having just these two supplies on your next trip can immensely improve how much you enjoy it.    If your vacation is the adventurous kind that involves things like climbing and zip lining, you may be worried about how your specs will fare. Having them fall off at the wrong moment could be disastrous. To guard against this, attach a neckstrap to your glasses. That way, they’re guaranteed to remain on your person—even if they do fly off your face.    Take care of your glasses to nurture your eyesight. Follow these tips for a more enjoyable vacation as a bespectacled traveler. About Us Contact Us Advertise With Us Advertising Terms & Conditions Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sitemap Newsletter Facebook Twitter Pinterest Save.ca Toronto.com   THANK YOU FOR SUBSCRIBING! 
Sign me up to receive handpicked travel deals, special offers, promotions, notices, communications and other information that may be of interest to me from TravelAlerts.ca. We will use your postal code and name to better tailor the offers, promotions, communications, and other information that we send to you. You can unsubscribe at any time. See TravelAlerts.ca’s privacy policy for details. Travelalerts.ca, a division of Metroland Media Group Ltd. 211 Pritchard Rd. Unit 4, Hamilton ON L8J 0G5.www.travelalerts.ca, feedback@travelalerts.ca.
