A new JAMA Network Open study determines the impact of wearing glasses on the risk of infection with the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and other respiratory viruses.  Study: Effect of Wearing Glasses on Risk of Infection With SARS-CoV-2 in the Community A Randomized Clinical Trial. Image Credit: dissx  The importance of eye protective gear for protection against infection was initially proposed over 100 years ago. However, it received little attention during the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, except as an additional form of personal protective equipment (PPE) for healthcare workers. Wearing glasses can be a simple form of eye protection. Many people can easily access sunglasses, and it takes little effort to use them daily. In addition, repurposing sunglasses for infection control purposes can be a safe, simple, and environmentally friendly measure. Previous observational studies have reported an association between wearing sunglasses and a lower risk of respiratory viruses. However, no clinical trials have investigated the role of eye protection on respiratory virus infection. The current study was conducted between February 2, 2022, to April 24, 2022, in Norway and recruited participants through online, print, media advertisements, and emails to people who belonged to the survey panel of two data collection companies. Participants were included in the study if they were at least 18 years of age, owned or borrowed glasses that they could use, did not wear glasses regularly, did not contract COVID-19 six months before the start of the study, did not experience COVID-19 symptoms during recruitment, were willing to be randomly assigned to wear or not wear sunglasses for two weeks when close to others, and provided informed consent. The study participants were randomized and blinded into two groups, one of which was asked to wear sunglasses or other types of glasses when close to people outside their home, whereas the other was asked not to wear sunglasses for 14 days. The primary outcome included a positive COVID-19 test result that was reported within three to 17 days of the study period. Secondary outcomes included a positive COVID-19 test result, an episode of respiratory infection, one respiratory symptom or fever along with at least two or more COVID-19-related symptoms, or the use of healthcare for respiratory symptoms, injuries, or any other reason. Furthermore, the study participants were asked about their adherence to the use of face masks and testing behaviors and any negative experiences during the study period. The screening and collection of all data were carried out using the web-based survey platform Nettskjema. A total of 3,717 participants were included in the study, 1,852 of whom were assigned to the intervention group and 1,865 to the control group. Sixty-eight and 65 participants in the intervention and control groups, respectively, reported a history of COVID-19. About one-third of the participants reported respiratory infection symptoms, with a higher proportion in the control group as compared to the intervention group. Moreover, 70.5% of participants reported using glasses, and 39.5% reported using face masks at least 50% of the time in the intervention group. Additionally, the proportion of participants traveling by public transport to work or school was lower in the intervention group than in the control group. A total of 76 participants reported negative experiences of participating in the study due to the fogging of glasses when worn with a mask. Other experiences included discomfort, reduced vision, tiredness, and headaches. The study findings indicated that wearing glasses did not confer any protection against COVID-19. However, wearing glasses is simple, low cost, and low burden and, as a result, might be worth considering as a component of infection control. The results of the study are inconclusive. Furthermore, the study might comprise a risk of bias for survey-based outcomes. A third limitation was the small size of the study population. Posted in: Child Health News | Men's Health News | Medical Research News | Medical Condition News | Women's Health News | Disease/Infection News Tags: Clinical Trial, Coronavirus, Coronavirus Disease COVID-19, covid-19, Eye, Fever, Healthcare, Infection Control, Pandemic, Personal Protective Equipment, PPE, Respiratory, Respiratory Virus, SARS, SARS-CoV-2, Severe Acute Respiratory, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, Syndrome, Virus Written by Suchandrima has a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree in Microbiology and a Master of Science (M.Sc.) degree in Microbiology from the University of Calcutta, India. The study of health and diseases was always very important to her. In addition to Microbiology, she also gained extensive knowledge in Biochemistry, Immunology, Medical Microbiology, Metabolism, and Biotechnology as part of her master's degree. Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: APA Bhowmik, Suchandrima. (2022, December 05). Wearing glasses does not reduce risk of COVID-19. News-Medical. Retrieved on August 20, 2024 from https://www.news-medical.net/news/20221205/Wearing-glasses-does-not-reduce-risk-of-COVID-19.aspx. MLA Bhowmik, Suchandrima. "Wearing glasses does not reduce risk of COVID-19". News-Medical. 20 August 2024. <https://www.news-medical.net/news/20221205/Wearing-glasses-does-not-reduce-risk-of-COVID-19.aspx>. Chicago Bhowmik, Suchandrima. "Wearing glasses does not reduce risk of COVID-19". News-Medical. https://www.news-medical.net/news/20221205/Wearing-glasses-does-not-reduce-risk-of-COVID-19.aspx. (accessed August 20, 2024). Harvard Bhowmik, Suchandrima. 2022. Wearing glasses does not reduce risk of COVID-19. News-Medical, viewed 20 August 2024, https://www.news-medical.net/news/20221205/Wearing-glasses-does-not-reduce-risk-of-COVID-19.aspx. Cancel reply to comment John Yates In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024, we spoke to Professor John Yates about capturing cardiomyocyte cell-to-cell heterogeneity via shotgun top-down proteomics. Tim Simpson Hologic’s Tim Simpson Discusses the Future of Cervical Cancer Screening. Maria Marco In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024 in San Diego, Maria Marco discusses her research on the health benefits, safety, and waste reduction potential of fermented foods, and the microbial processes involved in their production. 

                                                  
                                                        News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                                        with these terms and conditions.
                                                        Please note that medical information found
                                                        on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                                        between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
                                                  
                                                  

                                             Last Updated: Tuesday 20 Aug 2024  News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site Owned and operated by AZoNetwork, © 2000-2024 
                Your AI Powered Scientific Assistant
             Hi, I'm Azthena, you can trust me to find commercial scientific answers from News-Medical.net. A few things you need to know before we start. Please read and accept to continue. Great. Ask your question. 
                Azthena may occasionally provide inaccurate responses.
Read the full terms.
             Terms 
            While we only use edited and approved content for Azthena
            answers, it may on occasions provide incorrect responses.
            Please confirm any data provided with the related suppliers or
            authors. We do not provide medical advice, if you search for
            medical information you must always consult a medical
            professional before acting on any information provided.
         
            Your questions, but not your email details will be shared with
            OpenAI and retained for 30 days in accordance with their
            privacy principles.
         
            Please do not ask questions that use sensitive or confidential
            information.
         Read the full Terms & Conditions. Provide Feedback