 If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, Rolling Stone may receive an affiliate commission.  The best sunglasses for sports don’t just shield your peepers from the sun — they might even help you perform better. Whether you’re running or biking, the right pair of shades should stay put no matter how much you’re moving and sweating. More from Rolling Stone This New Audible Deal Gets You a Free Subscription With No Strings Attached Sweet Relief: These Gummy Bears Are An Easy Way to Try CBD in Your Wellness Routine The 10 Pet Tech Products You Should Be Adding to Your Home Thanks to advancements in lens technology and light-as-a-feather frame materials, there’s no shortage of eyewear options that provide top-notch optics for active lifestyles. The best sports sunglasses keep harmful ultraviolet rays out of your eyes as well as wind, dirt, and anything else that might disrupt your race, ride, or run. They’re also designed to be aerodynamic and perspiration-friendly, so you can focus on your performance without worrying about your sweaty frames slipping down your face. What Are the Best Sunglasses for Sports? Sports Sunglasses Buying Guide How We Chose the Top Sunglasses On Our List Tired of squinting during your outdoor workouts? We’ve rounded up some of the best sunglasses for sports, ranging from snow-ready frames to shades designed for road runners and more. Check out our top picks below. BEST OVERALL: Oakley OO9454 Evzero Blades MOST COMFORTABLE: Nike Show X3 Sunglasses MOST STYLISH: ROKA Oslo 2.0 Sunglasses BEST VALUE: Goodr OG Sunglasses BEST FOR CYCLING: 100% Speedcraft Sports Sunglasses Form meets fashion with these color-enhancing glasses, which feature a rimless, streetwear-inspired design that makes them incredibly lightweight. That’s why they’re great for everyday walking, hiking, running, golfing, and tennis, and Oakley’s Unobtainium nose pads and temples ensure that the frames stay secure and comfortable. They’re also available in a variety of lens tints. The wrap-around style provides an optimal viewing area, while offering protection from the sun — and dust — from all angles.   Buy Oakley EVZero Blade Shield Sunglasses $184  Designed with runners in mind, Nike’s stylish sunglasses offer protection from the sun while staying lightweight and secure on your face. Translation: They’re aerodynamic in shape, and thanks to temple vents and rubber channels that encourage airflow, won’t fog up during runs. These shades also block light reflections on running tracks and roads, and they’ve also got self-adjusting, anti-slip nose pads for maximum comfort. Price: $199 Buy Now Don’t let the stylish silhouette fool you: these ROKA sunglasses are built for the outdoors, with sweat-resistant materials and a durable frame that holds up to hikes, runs, sports and more. Made from a lightweight nylon, these frames come with interchangeable lenses (which are fingerprint-resistant and scratch-resistant) so you can swap them out as you switch activities, making this a versatile option if you’ve got a multi-sport lifestyle. These glasses also include a shock-absorbent hinge and grippy pads that help the frames stay on your nose — and flat against your temples. Choose from multiple colors.   Buy ROKA Oslo 2.0 Sunglasses $195  We’re partial to these Goodr running sunglasses for everyday jogging and neighborhood runs. The frames boast a comfortable yet snug design to keep them from bouncing or slipping while you’re in action. They also feature polarized, glare-reducing lenses that block 100 percent of UVA and UVB rays. If you’re not into the all-black look, these sports sunglasses come in a variety of colorways. Buy: Goodr OG Sunglasses (no slip, no bounce, all polarized) (Mick & Keith’s Midnight Ramble, Blue) $25.00 We like the adaptability and affordability of these light and flexible sunglasses, which come with a standard polarized black lens and four interchangeable lenses. Each is designed to withstand wind, sand, and fog, and there are options for bright days on land and sea, nighttime, cloudy or foggy weather, driving, and other environments where you need to be mindful of natural elements. All of the lenses are also shatter-resistant and scratch-resistant, and the frames are made of a durable and flexible material that allows them to stand tough if they’re dropped or damaged. Buy: JOGVELO Polarized Sports Sunglasses,Cycling Glasses Men with 5 Interchangeable Lenes, Gray $18.99 Mountain and road cyclists alike will find that these sports sunglasses by 100% can help them take on the day with clarity. The wrapped, single-lens design allows for obstruction-free vision, and this pair includes two anti-fog lenses so you can switch between low-light or sunny environments. The frames feature hydrophilic nose pads that keep your glasses firmly in place when you’re sweating. Price: $165 Buy Now Weight just one ounce, these high-performance sunglasses by Julbo feature panoramic lenses that are suited for cyclists, runners, triathletes, and endurance athletes. The aerodynamic frames allow for durability in the wind, and the 3D-fit nose allows these to adjust to a range of face sizes. The polarized, polycarbonate lenses offer 100% UV protection while eliminating glare, resulting in crystal-clear optics. Buy Now Beloved by cyclists and runners, these Flight Jacket sunglasses are outfitted with Oakley’s Prizm anti-glare lenses that enhance vision from dusk to dawn. The brow-less silhouette allows for a better upper field of view, and these frames are also designed to prevent overheating and fogging while still allowing for plenty of air flow. The lightweight frame and comfortable, no-slip fit make these glasses comfortable and durable enough for all-day wear, though it’s worth noting that they’re best for medium to large faces. They’re also available in a range of tints and a photochromatic option, so you’ve got options depending on your sport of choice. A bonus: we’ve seen people rocking these futuristic frames at music festivals too, to keep the dust and wind out of their eyes. Price: $246.00 $109.99 Buy Now These goggle-like sunglasses offer full protection for your eyes in shaded to sunny settings while still welcoming good airflow. You’ll get two interchangeable lenses (one clear lens and a bright light lens), Smith Optics’ ChromaPop technology give wearers the benefit of clarity, natural colors, and sharp definition no matter the sunlight level. The hydroleophobic lenses repels dirt, moisture, and grease, and the moisture-absorbing megol temple and nose pads ensure a secure and proper fit for medium to XL-sized heads. Price: $208.99 Buy Now UV rays can be harsh all year long — even in the winter — and if you’re looking to hit some fresh powder, Oakley’s Canopy goggles are the best sports sunglasses for skiing and snowboarding. They’re designed for high altitudes and the extreme cold, and the flexible frame features notches so you can insert prescription eyewear. The low-profile design means compatibility with most helmets and better visibility. These goggles are outfitted with triple-layer face foam with moisture-wicking fleece lining that will keep you cool and comfortable on the slopes. They also have injection-molded Plutonite lenses that protect your eyes from 100% of UVA, UVB, and UVC rays and blue light up to 400nm. A wide 400-millimeter strap with a silicone lining offers a snug fit. Buy: Oakley Canopy Rail Work Jasmine Black w/Prizm Sapphire Iridium $113.85 Sports eyewear is designed to be durable — after all, you’re counting on them to take a few knocks and withstand the elements. And depending on your activity, there are other features that you should consider as you’re shopping for sports sunglasses. Here are a few things you’ll want to think about. Lenses: Unlike your go-to pair of summer shades, the best sports sunglasses feature lenses designed for optimal depth perception, sharpness, and contrast for a range of outdoor settings. Consider the following: Coating: Polarized lenses might be great for water sports (when you want to minimize glare from lakes and the sea), but they’re not always the best option for activities like running, skiing, or cycling that require good depth perception. Many companies have developed proprietary lens coatings that don’t flatten your view and are anti-reflective, prevent fogging, and can block UVA, UVB, and UVC rays. Hydrophobic vs. hydrophilic: Both of these types of coatings keep your lenses fog-free, but they work in different ways. Hydrophobic coatings repel water and fog because they’re a soap-based material, but the down-side is that it will eventually wash off. Hydrophilic coatings absorb moisture and release it at the lens’ edge to eliminate fogging, and they also don’t wash off. Base tint: Those gradient colors do more than just look cool — the lens’ base tint gives contrast that can help you see better details during high-velocity activities. Neutral tints like greens and grays are great for everyday runs and rides, while colors like amber, copper, orange, and yellow work best for more rugged outdoor activities. Darkness: The lens darkness is usually indicated as visible light transmission (VLT), or percentage of light that can pass through the lenses. Lower ranges under 20 percent are best for bright sunlight, while higher percentages are ideal for cloudy morning weather. Shape: Sports sunglasses usually have wrapped lenses, which prevent eye strain while providing a wider field of vision. Versatility: If you need a pair of shades that can go from the afternoon to sundown, you’ll want materials that can keep up. That being said, some sunglasses come with interchangeable lenses so you only need a single pair frames that suit different settings. Activity: Consider things like the climate, terrain, and altitude that you expect to face, and whether your frames need to withstand grime, water, heat, and other elements. If you’re a cyclist, don’t forget to factor whether your glasses will play well with your helmet. Snowboarders and skiers will want to make sure that the lenses have good UV protection in high altitudes. Air flow: A good pair of sports sunglasses will feature an aerodynamic design so that they don’t fog up or overheat. Our list of the best sunglasses for sports is based on personal, hands-on (or face-on) testing, with our editors taking many of these frames out on a run, on a hike, to the courts and to the beach. We reviewed these sunglasses based on comfort, durability and style, giving top marks for lightweight materials and non-slip construction. All of these popular sports sunglasses also boast solid ratings and reviews from hundreds of other reviewers online. Form meets fashion with these color-enhancing glasses, which feature a rimless, streetwear-inspired design that makes them incredibly lightweight. That's why they're great for everyday walking, hiking, running, golfing, and tennis, and Oakley's Unobtainium nose pads and temples ensure that the frames stay secure and comfortable. They're also available in a variety of lens tints. Buy Now We're partial to these Goodr running sunglasses for everyday jogging and neighborhood runs. They feature polarized, glare-reducing lenses that block 100 percent of UVA and UVB rays. If you're not into the all-black look, these sports sunglasses come in a variety of colorways, such as orange/blue, purple/teal, and flamingo/blue, to name a few options. Buy Now These goggle-like sunglasses offer full protection for your eyes in shaded to sunny settings while still welcoming good airflow. You'll get two interchangeable lenses (one clear lens and a bright light lens), Smith Optics' ChromaPop technology give wearers the benefit of clarity, natural colors, and sharp definition no matter the sunlight level. The hydroleophobic lenses repels dirt, moisture, and grease, and the moisture-absorbing megol temple and nose pads ensure a secure and proper fit for medium to XL-sized heads. Buy Now Best of Rolling Stone RS Recommends: 5 Devices You Need to Set Up Your Smart Home The Best Audiophile Turntables for Your Home Audio System Click here to see more up-to-date holiday deals! Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.