
          
            January 26, 2023 at 11:25 a.m.
          

           
            | Updated January 26, 2023 at 6:44 p.m.
          
         by 


    
        
            
                
                    Ben Benton
 Authorities have released the names of the two people found dead early Tuesday in what is being described as a murder-suicide in South Pittsburg, Tennessee, where police also found a toddler and infant unharmed. Austin Seabolt, 23, is believed to have shot Jennah Curtis, 20, dead at a home in the 400 block of Dixie Avenue, according to South Pittsburg Police Chief Wayne Jordan. "They're from the Tennessee-Alabama area," Jordan said Thursday by phone. "They'd moved up to Michigan, and then they moved back." Jordan said he's awaiting test results from the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation's crime lab in Nashville, where autopsies are being performed on Seabolt and Curtis. The investigation is ongoing, and Jordan said he hopes the forensic analysis offers answers. (READ MORE: New information sought in Whitwell, Tennessee, woman's disappearance) Meanwhile, the two children are being cared for by a relative and are in good physical condition, Jordan said. He said he's concerned about the tragedy's impact on the young children when they become old enough to ask questions. Authorities launched the investigation after the bodies of Seabolt and Curtis were found by a family member who called 911 around 6 a.m. CST Tuesday, according to Jordan and Marion County dispatchers. The TBI is assisting in the investigation, agency spokeswoman Susan Niland said via email. The crime scene on Dixie Avenue is in South Pittsburg's Richard City community on the south end of town, less than a mile from the Alabama state line. (READ MORE: Grundy County Sheriff's Office investigating possible murder-suicide in Tracy City) The family member who found the bodies has been cooperative with investigators, authorities said. Jordan believes the pair had been arguing through the night before the deadly shots were fired, he said. The weapon used was a pistol. Contact Ben Benton at bbenton@timesfreepress.com or 423-757-6569. Copyright © 2024, Chattanooga Times Free Press, Inc. All rights reserved. This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Chattanooga Times Free Press, Inc. Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2024, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.