New Delhi, Delhi, India – Business Wire India Panasonic Life Solutions India (PLSIND) - one of the largest manufacturers of electrical construction materials (ECM) in the country, is set to expand its retail presence in India with the launch their new franchise store of the Panasonic Living Store in the capital city of New Delhi. The new SACMEH International store is situated in the luxurious Sultanpur neighborhood and would feature brand's entire gamut of homes and living essentials such as the modular kitchens, wardrobes, seated showers, electric toilet seats, wooden flooring, and KMEW external cladding. Spread across an area of 1200 ft, the outlet embodies essence of the Panasonic brand and offers a huge display. The housing segment's diverse and unique products will be highlighted in the store to provide customers with a memorable experience. The store will feature the latest kitchen designs and other innovative offerings from Panasonic. Yoshiyuki Kato - Managing Director, Panasonic Life Solutions India said, "We wish to grow closer to our clients and reach as many as possible through these brand outlets, which provide them with best-in-class items for luxury home upgrades. This initiative will set sail with the goal of making luxury living accessible to everybody." Mr. Rahul Thakker, BU Head – Homes & Living, Panasonic Life Solutions India added, ''We are thrilled to announce the opening of our franchise store in New Delhi, with the goal of elevating our customer-centric strides and strengthening our connection with our customers, while the presence of other premium brands will assist us in reaching the right target audience. These franchises will function as consumer experience center." Store Address - SACMEH International, Plot no 432/4, 1st floor, Mehrauli Gurgaon Rd, Sultanpur, New Delhi, Delhi, 110030 About Panasonic Life Solutions Pvt Ltd India Panasonic Life Solutions India Pvt Ltd. (formerly known as Anchor Electricals Pvt Ltd) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Panasonic Holding Corporation, Japan and is the leading Electrical Construction Material company with a presence across India. It is a trusted brand for consumer electrical products and solutions, offering an extensive range of products that include: Wiring Devices (Switch, Socket and Accessories), Wires & Cables, Switchgear, Conduit Pipes and boxes, Solar Modules, Inverters & Solar EPC Solutions, Residential and Commercial Lighting, IoT & Home Automation, IAQ (Indoor Air Quality / Fans), Water Heaters, EV Infrastructure/Chargers, Housing Solutions like Modular Kitchen, Wardrobe, Electronic Toilet Seat (ETS) and Clothes Drying System, KMEW Boards, to name a few. In India, the company has 29 offices in 27 cities, along with a Research and Development centre in Bangalore; and employs over 10,000 professionals. It has seven state-of-the-art manufacturing units in India and is manufacturing cutting-edge electrical products, synonymous with quality. Recognised as one of the Best Brands in the Electrical Construction Material segments, Panasonic Life Solutions India has established itself as a market leader as a one-stop solution provider of commercial, industrial, and home solutions in the electrical, renewable, and housing solutions. Panasonic Housing Solutions Co., Ltd. Panasonic Housing Solutions Co., Ltd. is an independent corporation established as one of the eight operating companies of Panasonic Holdings Corporation. Our company is engaged in the manufacturing, sales, and engineering of housing equipment and construction materials and has successfully introduced products such as Kitchen, Wardrobes, Flooring, Exterior Cladding, Seated Shower and Electric Toilet Seat. Since we started the manufacturing of plastic rain gutters in 1958, we have expanded our product line by leveraging our technological edge. Under our business slogan ''Green Housing,'' we are committed to creating lifestyles that benefit individuals as well as the environment. Through collaboration with business partners, we will expand the scope of our contributions from homes to public and commercial facilities worldwide, and thereby contribute to the creation of a sustainable and enriched society. Learn more about Panasonic Housing Solutions, please visit: https://lsin.panasonic.com/modular-kitchen To View the Image Click on the Link Below: Modular Kitchen by Panasonic Life Solutions India (This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)  Email: info@devdiscourse.com Phone: +91-720-6444012, +91-7027739813, 14, 15  © Copyright 2024