UPDATE Aug. 2, 2023:  Alvin Pate, the man accused of two separate robberies last month was in court Wednesday for his bond hearing. According to the Mobile County District Attorney’s Office, the bonds were set at what the state requested: $50,000 for the first-degree robbery charge, $30,000 for the third-degree robbery charge, $3,000 for his criminal mischief charge, and $15,000 for his second-degree assault charge. In addition, he must not possess a gun or knife of any type and he cannot return to any Waffle House or Papa John’s Pizza. His case is set for review this Friday. --- ORIGINAL STORY: MOBILE, Ala. (WALA) - UPDATE: The suspect , Alvin Pate, is also charged with first degree robbery and second degree assault in a Waffle House case from July 2. According to police, officers responded to 5011 Cottage Hill Road, Waffle House in reference to a robbery complaint. Upon arrival, officers discovered a man had approached the 17-year-old male victim, stating the victim’s vehicle lights were malfunctioning. Once the victim walked outside, the man demanded the victim’s keys and assaulted him with a knife, causing minor cuts. The victim went back inside the restaurant and the suspect ran away without taking the victim’s vehicle. There was a violent carjacking at a Mobile Papa John’s caught on camera. It happened Sunday night near Cottage Hill Road and University Boulevard. A delivery driver was confronted by a man in the parking lot and fists start flying. Less than 24 hours after the attack, police arrested 19-year-old Alvin Pate. He’s charged with third degree robbery and first degree criminal mischief. Investigators said he’s the guy in surveillance video waiting on the victim in the parking lot. Police said he wanted pizza and the victim’s SUV. Video showed the suspect in a red shirt standing outside. He turned and saw the delivery driver walk outside with pizza in hand, and he confronted him. The driver tried getting in his SUV, but the suspect ripped him out and a fight broke out. Both threw punches. The suspect hopped in the SUV but gets out. It looked like the victim helped him pick something up from the ground with arms raised above his head. The thief got back in the car and barreled out of the parking lot. The victim is okay. It’s unclear if police have been able to track down his SUV. Pate has a bond hearing Wednesday morning. Copyright 2023 WALA. All rights reserved.