For more than 40 years, beachgoers have flocked to the Sea Shell Shop just off the boardwalk in Rehoboth Beach for Delaware-themed souvenirs, fudge and other beach trinkets. The second-generation family business, which once had five Delaware locations, has decided to close the bright turquoise shop at 119 Rehoboth Ave. and consolidate with its last remaining Delaware store on Route 1. Tideline Galleries, another longtime Rehoboth small business, will take over the Rehoboth Avenue location, aiming for a mid-February move-in date. Patty Derrick has carried on her family's legacy of the Sea Shell Shop since she was a young girl in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Her parents, referred to as "Mama and Papa Seashell," opened the original store in Florida in 1956 before expanding to Ocean City, Maryland. At one point, the Sea Shell Shop business operated three Delaware stores — in Rehoboth, Dewey and Bethany. Derrick split her time among the beach towns before getting her degree from Florida State University, meeting her husband, Thomas Derrick, and settling down. The two opened their Sea Shell Shop in Delaware in 1979 when the business landscape was much different than it is today, as Derrick recalls virtually no business after Labor Day. More:As The Starboard eyes bigger bathrooms, the Dewey bar also buys Mama Celeste's Pizzeria Motivated by a lack of consistent business, in the late 1980s Derrick and three other small-business owners started the Downtown Business Association, which is now the nonprofit Rehoboth Beach Main Street organization, to help promote the year-round economic vitality of the Rehoboth area. After that, Derrick helped start several beach town events including the Rehoboth Beach Jazz Festival, Sea Witch Festival and the Halloween Parade. "As events grew, business grew," Derrick said. "We got the outlets and that brought more and more people. But people discovered Rehoboth is a beautiful place to live, it's only gotten better now." Tourism and a general appreciation for the community seemed to change things for the Derrick family. Her son, John Derrick, has been general manager of the shop since the late 1990s, when the Derricks acquired their 10,000-plus square foot Route 1 location. Life changed for the Derricks 12 years ago when Patty's husband became sick and died suddenly at the age of 56. Following the death of her husband, Derrick threw herself into her watercolor paintings, which feature Rehoboth and Delaware beach scenes. Later, she began to sell prints of her watercolors in the shop, items that sold out in just a few days. "That was the beginning," Derrick said. "Then I turned it into mugs, magnets, dish towels and anything else you could imagine. We sold 4,000 coasters in one year!" The decision to move out of the Rehoboth Avenue shop happened on a total whim. A few weeks ago, after her son and one of her managers were unable to make a shift at the store on the same day, Patty was forced to close. That's when she noticed that Tideline Galleries, owned by Bill and Barb Hammond, had a sign on their window stating that they were planning on shutting down. Derrick was familiar with the other family business, as they had worked across the street from each other for over three decades and would frequent each other’s storefronts. More:Pastry chef's bold flavors cook up a sweet Food Network win for him and Delaware diners "This is a really good opportunity to rent," Derrick said to her sons that evening. "The Hammonds are honest; I've known them forever." A deal was struck to offer Derrick's artwork in the Tideline Gallery and to advertise the consolidation of the Sea Shell Shop in the new gallery window, and the rest seemed to fall into place. The Rehoboth store is set to close about Feb. 10. Leading up to that date, the shop will hold a 50% off sale on all merchandise. Derrick has seen a lot of Rehoboth businesses come and go, and she maintains that in order to be successful you have to adapt to your surroundings. She's hopeful the family business will continue. "My 11-year-old grandson can sell our fudge better than anybody in the store!" Derrick said. "I don't know what they'll be. They could be doctors, engineers or Seashell Shop owners. Either way, they're very good at selling fudge." While her son takes over day-to-day operations at the Route 1 location, Derrick will continue working on her watercolor paintings and volunteering with her local church and community. "I really believe in Rehoboth," Patty said. "I believe if you have had a blessed and wonderful life like we've had, you should give back." Like knowing what stores, restaurants and developments are coming and going in Delaware? Join our Facebook group What's Going There in Delaware and subscribe to our What's Going There in Delaware newsletter. Contact Molly McVety at mmcvety@delawareonline.com. This article originally appeared on Delaware News Journal: The Sea Shell Shop in Rehoboth Beach to close shop near boardwalk New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.