From a reusable water bottle to a wireless audio transmitter, these gadgets will make your travel experience easier. Fans are giving the new dessert top (ooey, gooey) marks. Getty Images/Allrecipes When you think of Papa John’s, candy is probably not the first thing to spring to the front of your mind. (Personally, the pizza chain always makes me think of post-soccer team celebrations as a kid.) But in the month of October, even as an adult, thoughts of candy are never very far, making me feel like Papa John’s newest collaboration is coming at the right moment. The chain just announced a partnership with Twix and introduced a brand-new dessert to the Papa John’s menu: Twix Papa Bites. Papa John's The newest item joins three other variations of Papa Bites on the Papa John's menu. There are two savory bites (Chicken Parmesan Papa Bites and Jalapeño Papa Bites) as well as a sweet one (Oreo Papa Bites). The Twix Papa Bites feature a cheesecake filling with Twix cookie bar pieces wrapped in Papa John’s fresh dough and baked. The bites come with a caramel sauce that you can drizzle over top or use for dunking to add an ooey, gooey element to the dessert. The Papa Bites are a part of Papa John’s shareable menu, and they truly are the perfect size for sharing. An order of the bites includes eight pieces so you and your friends or family can each have a bite or two post-pizza to satisfy your sweet tooth. And if you’re skeptical, fans on social media may convince you to give the bites a try. On a Reddit thread, users said that they prefer the new Twix bites to the Oreo version, noting that the candy stays crunchy in the bite and that the caramel sauce adds plenty of flavor. The original poster even rated the bites a 9 out of 10. Another commenter who also happens to be a Papa John’s employee said, “This is by far the best thing they have come out with.” If you’re wondering why you haven’t seen the bites on menus, that’s because the item just officially dropped on Oct. 16. As of the 16th, the bites are available exclusively for Papa Rewards members. To get them, you’ll have to sign up for the chain’s reward program online. Luckily, the bites aren’t staying exclusive for long. Beginning Oct. 23, the bites will be available for all customers to purchase (no signing up for a rewards program required). For eight bites, it’ll run you $4.99. Read the original article on All Recipes. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Jake Loy, now 19, lost control of the Honda Civic in March 2022, killing passengers Tyler Johnston, Ian Cannon and Finlay Johns, all 16. The Scandinavian sleep method is a simple strategy that some say can improve your rest and your relationship. We spoke with experts to find out the truth. Donald Trump returned to his beauty pageant roots Saturday to rate his opponent Kamala Harris’ physical attributes—but compared the Democratic candidate not to other women, but to himself.It was the first time he had put himself head-to-head with Harris in the beauty stakes, and not surprisingly, he came out on top. The reason for turning the presidential race into a beauty contest was her appearance on the cover of Time magazine, something which has obsessed the Republican candidate since it ha Former President Trump attacked CNN commentator Van Jones on Sunday as a “lowlife” who never thanked him for helping pass a bipartisan bill in 2018 that reformed parts of the criminal justice system. “Lightweight Political commentator Van Jones begged me, while in the Oval Office and with tears flowing from his eyes, to help get… Kristin Little was confirmed as the victim in the tragic incident on Friday, Aug. 16 BROSSARD, Que. — The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris. Five people were arrested in connection with Matthew Perry's October 2023 death "There is no one-size-fits-all solution for everyone. I know many married people who are miserable, having affairs, or using their partner just for money, but we're told somehow these awful people are better just because they're married."