Recently, Swedish spook superstars Ghost performed two special, historic shows at the Forum in Inglewood, California, featuring a beefed up version of their famously extravagant stage show and even a debut for fan favourite Impera cut, Twenties. The second show was also notable in that it enforced a ban on mobile phones during the performance, leading many to speculate that the traditional, end-of-cycle despatching of Ghost frontman Papa Emeritus may come into play (it didn't: Papa IV is still alive and kicking). In a brand new, exclusive interview with Metal Hammer, available to read in full from this Thursday, Ghost leader and band mastermind Tobias Forge reveals that not only were the shows the best of his career, but they were also used as part of an exciting future film project. “When I first started putting it together, I was like, ‘Oh my god, I’m going to faint because there’s so much to think about,’" Forge says of the shows' impressive production. "Then it was, like, ‘No, no, just don’t think about it at all.’” “I have never seen a crowd interact the way that they did since I was in a club band,” he adds. “They were the best shows I’ve ever done with Ghost, just because I didn’t have to see those fucking mobile phones.” Forge goes on to confirm that the video cameras present as part of the shows' production were being used to film segments for an upcoming Ghost film, which is something he has hinted at wanting to make happen in the past, “We were essentially shooting a film," he states. "And we used two nights of crowds as extras...It’s going to be a film with a concert element. So a lot of what you experienced [at the two LA shows] is going to be part of this project." When asked if the Ghost film will be similar to Metallica's Through The Never, which combined dazzling concert footage with a fictional plot played out in between live segments, Forge replies rather cryptically:  "In the sense that it’s a concert with something else combined." While Forge wouldn't be pressed for further details, it seems clear that his ambitions for Ghost are showing no signs of slowing down. Read the rest of Metal Hammer's exclusive interview with Tobias Forge in the brand new issue of Metal Hammer magazine, out this Thursday, October 12. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.