You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: May 1, 2024, 12:16pm Have a question for Jennifer Simonson or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to Jennifer Simonson, Kelly Main and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Papaya Global is a professional employer organization (PEO) that helps international companies simplify global payroll, hiring and workforce management. With the ability to provide support in more than 160 countries, Papaya Global was designed for international companies. In this article, we will review Papaya Global’s strengths and weaknesses, key features and pricing, as well as compare it to its top competitors. If it is related to HR, Papaya Global does it. The professional employer organization software offers complete payroll solutions, workforce management from onboarding to benefits, end-to-end employer of record (EOR) and global payroll services, contract worker management, benefits and immigration. It recently made Forbes Advisor’s Best PEO Services of 2024 as the best PEO for international companies. Papaya Global offers payroll, benefits, EOR, contractor management and IC compliance in 160 countries, making it ideal for companies that manage a global workforce. Papaya Global is one of the best payroll services for international businesses. Not only does it work with a network of in-country partners to help companies hire, onboard and pay international staff, it also helps acquire the proper work and residence permits for companies sending their employees overseas to work. The software platform can manage the benefits of local employees in more than 160 countries, provide pay stubs in the employee’s local language and can process multicurrency and cross-border payments. Papaya Global is generally more expensive than its competitors. That price just increases depending on the number of services required and number of employees a company has. Featured Partners 1 OnPay Yes Yes $40 per month + $6 per user 1 OnPay On OnPay's Website 2 SurePayroll Yes Yes $29.99/mo plus $5 per employee 2 SurePayroll On SurePayroll's Website 3 Gusto Yes Yes $40 per month plus $6 per user 3 Gusto On Gusto's Website 4 Rippling Yes Yes $35/month plus $8 PEPM 4 Rippling On Rippling's Website 5 Justworks Yes Yes $50/month + $8/user 5 Justworks On Justworks' Website Papaya Global’s payroll platform provides an end-to-end payroll consolidation for your entire workforce whether they are on the payroll or contractors. Papaya Global is a great solution for international companies as it can process payroll to employees in over 160 countries and make payments in their local currencies. Papaya Global helps businesses hire and onboard employees in more than 160 countries without entity establishment. It provides companies with country-specific onboarding workflows, compliance with local labor laws, intelligent onboarding status tracker, helps facilitate worker transition between global locations and provides immigration service to support work permit generation. Employees have access to an Employee Portal where they can view their pay slips, wage and tax statements and employment documents. The portal is available in multiple languages and can be accessed on a desktop or mobile device. Papaya Global helps companies offer competitive benefits packages to international employees regardless of the number of employees in the company. The company can set up health insurance, short-term and long-term disability, vision, dental and maternity leave while eliminating the need to source local benefits providers in every country, create local accounts and have a minimum number of employees. Papaya Global’s HR functionalities include PTO tracking, compliance, onboarding/offboarding tools, online storage for workers’ documents and immigration services if your employees need work permit assistance. Papaya Global’s payroll and HR analytics suite gives you insights into workforce spending, workforce diversity, total employment costs distributed per location, total employment costs per cycle and much more. 
 As with all Papaya Global plans, the Global Payroll and Payments plan includes payroll processing, local tax filing assistance, full benefits management and administration and HR support. This plan allows employers to onboard employees seamlessly at scale, “Go Live” in as little as 30 days and pay a global workforce in 72 hours with Papaya Global’s in-house payments. This plan is the perfect plan for companies that are most focused on payroll support. The Employer of Record plan allows businesses to recruit, hire and maintain a local workforce while keeping compliant with that country’s employment laws. Its features are designed to help international companies hire top talent anywhere in the world, quickly build local teams and test new markets without payroll liability. This is the plan for companies that have staff all over the world. The Contractor Management plan was designed to help companies onboard and pay international contractors quickly and compliantly. Top features were designed to manage contractors globally through one platform, ensure classification compliance and eliminate invoice errors. This is the plan for companies that use contractors for a significant portion of their workforce. Papaya Global’s platform is incredibly user-friendly. Several online reviews mention Papaya Global’s ease of use as being a top positive feature. Papaya Global uses a private network of services protected by a WAF, segregates each component in a different subnet with carefully controlled component access and continuously monitors its network via AWS tower. Papaya Global meets all of the requirements set by the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for data security and is listed in the CSA’s STAR (Security, Trust, Assurance and Risk) registry. Each of Papaya Global’s plans includes a dedicated customer success manager or global payroll expert available to provide support, speaking the local language. In addition, customers receive access to Papaya Global’s in-house experts on global employment, taxes, benefits and labor laws, and a knowledge base on hiring in 160 countries—at no additional charge.  
 While both Papaya Global and Amplify PEO provide outsourcing services for employee-related tasks such as payroll and benefits administration, Papaya Global is the only one out of the two that is designed to provide HR services for companies with international employees. Papaya Global is the obvious choice for businesses that want to scale internationally as the company provides payroll, benefits, employer of record, contractor management and IC compliance in 160 countries. Amplify PEO, on the other hand, is ideal for smaller businesses that want to offer employee assistance programs as one of its essential benefits for employees. While Papaya Global’s strong suit is for international businesses as stated, Engage PEO is best for small businesses that need compliance assistance and employee training. Engage PEO has an arsenal of labor attorneys that help keep the company up to date on employment law. The Society for Human Resource Management recognizes Engage PEO to offer Professional Development Credit such as training on ADA, the FCRA or FMLA. Unlike Papaya Global, Engage PEO does not provide global payroll. Both Papaya Global and Justworks allow users to maintain employee payroll, staffing, benefits and other HR-related information all in one place. One of the biggest differences between the two software platforms is the price. While Papaya Global starts at just $20 per employee per month, Justworks starts at $59 per employee per month. That is a drastic difference in price, especially when you start adding employees to the plan. While Justworks does offer a robust basic plan, you can find a significantly more affordable PEO option in Papaya Global or elsewhere. Learn more about Justworks with our Justworks review. Featured Partners 1 OnPay Yes Yes $40 per month + $6 per user 1 OnPay On OnPay's Website 2 SurePayroll Yes Yes $29.99/mo plus $5 per employee 2 SurePayroll On SurePayroll's Website 3 Gusto Yes Yes $40 per month plus $6 per user 3 Gusto On Gusto's Website 4 Rippling Yes Yes $35/month plus $8 PEPM 4 Rippling On Rippling's Website 5 Justworks Yes Yes $50/month + $8/user 5 Justworks On Justworks' Website Papaya Global helps business owners who need assistance navigating international payroll, immigration processes for employees and local benefits packages. If your business has a large international workforce and you are looking for a PEO software to help recruit, hire and pay employees in different counties, Papaya Global could be a good fit for your company. Papaya Global, however, is probably not the correct fit for smaller companies that do not have a large budget to spend on payroll software. Papaya Global is a great PEO solution for companies that want to expand their business in other countries and need help recruiting, hiring, training, paying and sustaining an international workforce. PEO stands for professional employer organization. A PEO is a company that provides a variety of services including payroll, employee benefits, compliance assistance and employee training. Papaya Global is a PEO software platform used to provide payroll, employee benefits, compliance assistance and employee training for small to medium-sized businesses. It also supports payment processing and benefits administration for employees in more than 160 countries. Yes, Papaya Global is a PEO software platform designed for companies that have an international workforce. It provides businesses with HR and payroll compliance support in more than 160 countries. Papaya Global uses a private network that’s protected by a web application firewall (WAF), and continuously monitors the network. Data is stored on encrypted S3 storage. Papaya Global meets the requirements set by the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for data security and is listed in the CSA’s STAR (Security, Trust, Assurance and Risk) registry.