From a reusable water bottle to a wireless audio transmitter, these gadgets will make your travel experience easier. Sarah Nicole Landry is having a "full circle moment." On Wednesday, the body positivity advocate — better known as The Birds Papaya — shared a series of cheeky snaps and clips from her recent trip to Iceland, swimming in a lagoon. The footage featured Landry posing in an icy blue, backless one-piece swimsuit from the Canadian brand Londre Bodywear. "Iceland," she captioned the post alongside two Icelandic flag emojis.      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Sarah Nicole Landry (@thebirdspapaya) The influencer also took to her Instagram story with a five-year-old photo of former Canadian "Bachelor" star Kaitlyn Bristowe, wearing a similar swimsuit during her own Iceland trip. The photo inspired Landry to visit Iceland herself, and led her to discover the sustainable fashion brand, she said. "For real, I've been wanting to go to Iceland since I saw this photo from Kaitlyn Bristowe five years ago," she penned alongside the photo. "I think it's also how I discovered Londre Bodywear, which is exactly why I wore Londre to the lagoon. Full circle moment." In the comments of Landry's grid post, fans praised her look and applauded her for checking off a five-year goal. "The way your bathing suit matches the aesthetic," one fan shared. "So exciting! it’s been on my bucket list for years," someone else wrote. Another commenter penned: "I can't believe you literally manifested this moment from five years ago! So amazing — and the suit looks beautiful on you!" "That is the most gorgeous colour of water I’ve ever seen! Your swimsuit is the perfect match," added another. Last week, Landry showed love to another colour on Instagram: pink.      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Sarah Nicole Landry (@thebirdspapaya) The mom-of-four shared a vibrant series of photos of herself wearing pink outfits, inspired by the success of the "Barbie" movie. The film, released July 21, has been praised for its empowering themes that challenge traditional gender norms and celebrate womanhood — including its stereotypes. "So many of us have been mocked and criticized for the love of this colour, or maybe some are finding joy in it for the first time," Landry penned. "So in a moment, it's having its moment #ThanksBarbie," she concluded. "We celebrate you: pink." Let us know what you think by commenting below and tweeting @YahooStyleCA! Follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Fred Trump III said dementia "runs in the family" and assessed his uncle's recent behavior. One man is confirmed dead and a British tech billionaire among others remain missing after a superyacht sunk while sailing in severe weather off the coast of Sicily in Italy on Monday morning before dawn. The former president tried to criticize Harris over a “crisis” at the southern border in the ad. Taylor Swift is backing Donald Trump’s latest bid for the White House, at least according to the former president. Openly obsessed with the superstar performer, Trump took to his Truth Social on Sunday to claim the endorsement of Swift. In response to getting Swift’s supposed unexpected seal of approval, Trump declared “I Accept.” Trump may … JD Vance’s attacks on Kamala Harris reached a bizarre new nadir on Sunday, comparing her to Jeffrey Epstein.In a Fox News Sunday interview, Vance assailed Harris’ campaign and claimed that internal Donald Trump campaign polling showed Harris leveling off with voters. Those voters, Vance said to host Shannon Bream, didn’t believe Harris could tackle inflation issues for the U.S., prompting him to make the inflammatory comparison.“Giving Kamala Harris control over inflation policy, Shannon, it’s l The Fox News host got a quick reminder of what happened at last month’s RNC. Amid Donald Trump’s continuing efforts to beat the “weird” allegations that Democrats have been levying, the former president on Monday claimed that he and running mate JD Vance are quite the opposite: “extremely normal.”In York, Pennsylvania, Trump referenced the attack that has gained steam in large part thanks to President Kamala Harris’s running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz."He said we’re weird, that JD and I are weird. I think we’re extremely normal people, exactly like you” Trump said wit Tuareg rebels in Mali said that they killed 84 mercenaries from the Russian private military company Wagner Group between July 25 and 27 during clashes with the Malian Armed Forces, who work with these mercenaries. The Tuaregs claimed that they obtained videos from cellphones and GoPro cameras left on the Wagner men’s bodies, which they then posted on social media. Fighting broke out between Tuareg rebels and their enemies, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMA), on July 25, 2024 in Tinzawaten, a region "My brother and I used to play a game we made up called 'bus stop.' I thought it was a totally normal and fun thing until I was much older, and my friend pointed out that this 'game' was literally just the two of us wandering around aimlessly while eating popsicles." The coach of the Golden State Warriors took a page from star player Steph Curry's book. One day before the start of the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, presidential hopeful Kamala Harris has embarked on a bus tour in Pennsylvania with her running mate Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota. Gas stations are routine stops for most people, but they also present opportunities for criminals to take advantage of those who are unaware. Before you fill up your tank next time, it's important to... Yellowstone National Park on Sunday issued its annual reminder that the bison rut is underway, advising tourists to “use extra caution and give bison extra space during this time.” If anyone wonders why they should be more careful Amid reports of a feud between “It Ends With Us” co-stars Blake Lively and Justin Baldoni, recent footage making the rounds has the internet comparing the actress to “Mean Girls” villain Regina George. After receiving a friendship bracelet from a reporter while walking the red carpet at the film’s London premiere on Aug. 8, the “Gossip Girl” alum has been called out for responding with what ... Republicans hope the conservative U.S. Supreme Court will intervene in an Arizona state election dispute. The Foreign Ministry will be offering three-month visas as early as next month, Russian state media said. Melania Trump has largely been absent from Donald Trump's campaign, appearing only sporadically in public. The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said