
					By Bruce Haring  pmc-editorial-manager 
Nicholas Gray, whose Gray’s Papaya hot dog shop has been a Manhattan fixture for 50 years, has died at 86. 
	Gray died May 19 at a New York hospital from Alzheimer’s complications, the Wall St. Journal reported.   
	Located near the corner of Broadway and 72nd Street in Manhattan, the shop was known as a quick and cheap slice of hot dog heaven. A sign over the door said it all: “When You’re Hungry, or Broke, or Just in a Hurry!”  
	In 1982, Gray instituted his special: hot dogs and a tropical drink for $1.95. He kept his prices low on hot dogs at 50 cents until 1999, when he was forced to raise the bite to 75 cents. He put up signs at the time profusely apologizing. A hot dog now costs $2.95, and the Recession Special is $6.45.

	










			Watch on Deadline		




 
	The store not only was a hit with the hungry, but soon became an attraction in its own right. The shop appeared in movies including “Fools Rush In” and “You’ve Got Mail,” and was featued on the TV shows “Sex and the City” and “Seinfeld.” 

 
	Gray is survived by his wife, four children, a granddaughter and a sister. The shop is still open for business.  Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	