Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	March 31, 2023   	
				         Social media platforms can offer insights helping FinTech and digital payments companies analyse consumer behaviour and preferences, the most critical factor in present times, as well as trends in the industry.
With the ever-evolving digital landscape, it has become imperative for financial institutions to offer services that cater to the changing need of consumers, and channels of interaction like social media can bridge that gap.
Here are 7 tweets from this week that FinTech enthusiasts should see:
@NdcTechTweet
@SambaBankPK has recently modernized its Core Banking System, with NdcTech as the strategic partner.
@Papaya_Global


Say hello to Papaya Personal, our new employee app! By providing instant, global access to #payslips, alerts, and Papaya support, our new #app aims to improve employee engagement, productivity, and retention.
@FinastraFS
With #Fintechs stealing market share, it’s time to modernize your cross-border #payments strategy. Achieve greater speed, transparency, and cost savings through technology. Download our new eBook to get started.
@swiftcommunity
Alongside our community, we’ve been investing in services that improve the efficiency of the global #payments system so we can realise an #instant and #frictionless future.
@ThetaRayTeam
We proudly announce a new #AI-driven #AML collaboration with Zone, Africa’s first regulated layer-1 #blockchain network for payments.
@ingenico
Empowering Malaysia’s SMEs for economic growth! Ingenico and Payex partner to provide electronic payment solutions, overcoming challenges for micro-enterprises. Join us in celebrating this exciting partnership!
@Temenos
We are happy to announce that @SaudiEXIM has implemented Temenos’ #corebanking platform, going live in just six months. Learn how Temenos’ leading functionality and technology enable Saudi EXIM Bank to drive financial efficiency in trade finance here.


Also read: Robotic Process Automation in Financial Services Report Q3 2023
 Social media platforms can offer insights helping FinTech and digital payments companies analyse consumer behaviour and preferences, the most critical factor in present times, as well as trends in the industry. With the ever-evolving digital landscape, it has become imperative for financial institutions to offer services that cater to the changing need of consumers, and channels of interaction like social media can bridge that gap. Here are 7 tweets from this week that FinTech enthusiasts should see: @NdcTechTweet @SambaBankPK has recently modernized its Core Banking System, with NdcTech as the strategic partner. @Papaya_Global Say hello to Papaya Personal, our new employee app! By providing instant, global access to #payslips, alerts, and Papaya support, our new #app aims to improve employee engagement, productivity, and retention. @FinastraFS With #Fintechs stealing market share, it’s time to modernize your cross-border #payments strategy. Achieve greater speed, transparency, and cost savings through technology. Download our new eBook to get started. @swiftcommunity Alongside our community, we’ve been investing in services that improve the efficiency of the global #payments system so we can realise an #instant and #frictionless future. @ThetaRayTeam We proudly announce a new #AI-driven #AML collaboration with Zone, Africa’s first regulated layer-1 #blockchain network for payments. @ingenico Empowering Malaysia’s SMEs for economic growth! Ingenico and Payex partner to provide electronic payment solutions, overcoming challenges for micro-enterprises. Join us in celebrating this exciting partnership! @Temenos We are happy to announce that @SaudiEXIM has implemented Temenos’ #corebanking platform, going live in just six months. Learn how Temenos’ leading functionality and technology enable Saudi EXIM Bank to drive financial efficiency in trade finance here. March 31, 2023 April 03, 2023 July 19, 2024 Africa Today  Today  Today  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
