Plastic Chutney Recipe | Raw Papaya Transparent Chutney – Wedding Style with detailed photo and video recipe. Perhaps one of the interesting and unique chutney recipes is prepared with sliced raw papaya grate. It is basically known for its transparent or translucent texture with sweet and savoury texture and hence named plastic chatni. It is typically served on big occasions like weddings or receptions as a side dish to rice or any choice of bread, but can also be prepared for any day-to-day meals.




 I am a huge fan of chutney recipes, but my choice is generally for morning breakfast and simple coconut-based chatni for lunch and dinner. Basically, the taste is derived from my native South Indian cuisine. However, chutney or taste enhancer condiments are very generic and every region and state of India has their own little variations and types. This raw papaya chutney or popularly known as plastic chutney is from Bengali cuisine. Typically it is prepared for big occasions feast of its unique taste and appearance. Basically, raw papaya slices are cooked in sugar syrup which gives a premium texture. Additionally, with sugar syrup, it is later tossed with chillies which makes it a perfectly sweet, spicy and savoury chutney recipe. 







Furthermore, some more related and additional tips, suggestions and variations to the classic plastic chutney. Firstly, the papaya has to be young and tender without any additional sweetness from the papaya fruit. If it is not raw or slightly ripe, it may literally dissolve and may turn into a halwa instead of chatni. Secondly, if you do not wish to slice the papaya thinly, you may grate it thinly which should also help in preparing the chutney. However, you need to be more careful as it may form a lump and may again dissolve. Lastly, if you wish to have it spicy and then less sweetness, you may reduce the sugar quantity. Also, you may use jaggery as an alternative to sugar to make it a healthy alternative. Finally, I would like to highlight my other related Chutney Recipe Collections with this post on plastic chutney recipes. It mainly includes my other related recipes like Onion Chutney Recipe, Coconut Chutney Recipe, Tomato Chutney Recipe, Bhindi Chutney Recipe, Green Chilli Chutney Recipe, garlic chutney, Chutney Ready Mix Travel Recipe – 2 Ways, roasted capsicum chutney, burnt onion chutney, vada pav chutney. Further to these do visit my other related recipe categories like,  Please subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news in your domain of interest. Don't forget to follow us on social networks! © Hebbars Kitchen Indian Veg Recipes | All Rights Reserved