NEW YORK, March 28, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Argus Research, an independent investment research firm, has launched Equity Research Report coverage on Largo Inc. (NasdaqGS: LGO, TSX: LGO). 



 Click Here to view full Argus Equity Research Report. COMPANY HIGHLIGHTS: Excerpts (as conveyed by Argus Analyst Steve Silver) include: LGO: Serving Global Vanadium and Renewable Energy Markets INVESTMENT THESIS: Click Here to view full Argus Equity Research Report and Investment Thesis. About Largo Inc. (NasdaqGS: LGO, TSX: LGO)                                     www.largoinc.com Based in Toronto, Ontario, Largo is a dual-listed mining and battery energy storage system company that we view as among the world's leading high-quality and low-cost vanadium suppliers, sourced from its Maracás Menchen Mine in Brazil. Recently, the Company established a U.S.-based clean energy unit that develops and sells vanadium-based electrical energy storage battery systems to support the global deployment of long duration, renewable energy solutions. Largo has also established a separate public entity, Largo Physical Vanadium, that is designed to lower the costs of Largo's battery customers, while also giving investors direct exposure to vanadium, which never existed before. For more information please contact: Alex Guthrie Senior Manager, External Results [email protected]+1.416.861.9778 About Argus Research Corp.  Headquartered in NYC, Argus Research (www.argusresearch.com) is a leading independent equity research firm (est. 1934)  ?  providing fundamental and quantitative research coverage on more than 1,600 companies across all 11 sectors of the S&P 500, as well as macroeconomic and equity market forecasts, thematic research, model portfolios and IPO research.  In addition, Argus has recently committed to providing a sponsored research solution for small & mid-cap companies seeking coverage.  Argus's Equity Research & earnings estimates are available on major research / earnings estimate aggregator platforms, including Bloomberg, Thomson Reuters, Factset and S&P Global. For more Information please contact: Darrell Stone646-747-5438 [email protected]    Argus Research Co. has received a flat fee from the company discussed in this report as part of a Sponsored Research agreement between Argus and the company. No part of Argus Research's compensation is directly or indirectly related to the content of this assessment or to other opinions expressed in this report. Please refer to the full Argus report and the disclaimer for complete disclosures. SOURCE  Argus Research