    Parker Hannifin, a leader in motion and control technologies, will showcase its latest upstream and downstream engineering solutions at SPE Offshore Europe, taking place in Aberdeen, Scotland from 5-8 September  Parker Hannifin will exhibit on Stand 3C53 at the event. Zone 1 of the company’s stand will feature products for today’s ‘here and now’ including blowout preventer (BOP) hoses, Black Eagle hoses, bent-axis motors and contamination control solutions. Parker’s Black Eagle range of large-bore, flexible, high-pressure, thermoplastic, wire-reinforced hoses, designed for use in upstream oil and gas applications, feature a nylon core tube with high-tensile steel wire reinforcement, and a dual-layer polyurethane outer jacket incorporating ColorGard technology. ColorGard acts as an ‘early warning’ indicator to alert end users to any excessive external abrasion that has potentially compromised the operational integrity of a hose assembly. Zone 2 will focus on tomorrow’s ‘tech for a cleaner future’, including high-pressure hydrogen hoses and fittings, process filtration, Phastite tube connectors and F37 non-weld piping solutions. Parker’s 2440P-04V32 hydrogen hoses were developed to meet the high demands of hydrogen refuelling at 875 bar with pre-cooled hydrogen of -40°C. These reinforced hoses have a robust, kink-resistant design that offers excellent reliability and an extended life cycle. The ability to create tight-radius bends without kinking enables more convenient usage and installation in tight or limited spaces. This hose is ideal for fast refuelling operations and has a H70 pressure class. Also part of the ‘tech for a cleaner future’ products in Zone 2, Parker will exhibit its Phastite tube connectors that are a type of ferrule-less, push-fit tube connection system. Their unique design eliminates costly welding and combines quick installation with a single assembly process to achieve a tube connector that can be used in applications up to 1,550 bar and temperatures ranging from -45°C to 93°C.   