Reservation and payment services are now available for 5,000 locations Parkopedia’s parking reservation and payment services are now available in Mercedes-Benz models across 5,000 locations in North America. Thank you. Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. The automaker’s latest ‘MBUX’ infotainment system uses Parkopedia data and in car payment technology to simplify the process of finding, reserving and paying for parking and to provide desirable software features to North American customer. This builds upon the companies’ relationship which dates back to 2018. Drivers can access Parkopedia parking information directly through their infotainment system, covering everything from opening times and restrictions, to costs and height restrictions. The new head unit provides improved parking search functionality and makes it easy to locate suitable parking close to points of interest or a vehicle’s current location. In Europe, Mercedes-Benz drivers can also now pay for parking in 14 countries, following the successful initial launch with Parkopedia. Included countries for on demand payments are Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Portugal, Austria, Switzerland, Denmark, Finland, Norway and Slovenia. Meanwhile, parking reservations can be made in Germany, France, Italy and Belgium. The automaker’s latest infotainment system seamlessly integrates Parkopedia parking data, dynamic availability predictions and in car transactions, enabling drivers to easily find, reserve and navigate to suitable parking locations and pay from the vehicle. Motorists can search for specific parking locations or browse through nearby car parks to their end destination with recent searches and relevant parking details displayed on screen. Drivers can also pre book parking before a trip by selecting applicable parking locations and reserving a space via the infotainment system. The system enables motorists to select check in and check out times, view the total cost and confirm their booking, at which point drivers will be sent a QR code to scan when arriving at the car park to gain entry in the absence of Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR). Thank you. Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Just Auto : Just Auto Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		Automotive Industry News & Analysis | Market Research - Just Auto 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024 By clicking here, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and consent to us collection your details for the purposes of your enquiry