Connected car services business Parkopedia has joined forces with charging network Plugsurfing on a new ‘Park and Charge’ solution for drivers and automakers. The partnership combines Plugsurfing’s charging network with Parkopedia’s expertise in connected car services and in-car payments The partnership makes it easy for drivers to locate, start and pay for charging at over 500,000 charge points across Europe including the UK. By integrating Plugsurfing’s Drive API into its in-car Payment Platform, Parkopedia has now combined Plugsurfing’s network and EV charging services with broader in-car payment services such as parking through its Single Sign-on Payment Platform. Charging sessions can be started and paid for directly from the car’s dashboard or remotely, providing drivers with a seamless parking and charging experience. Duncan Licence, chief product officer at Parkopedia, explained: “Parkopedia and Plugsurfing offer complementary services to EV drivers, and this partnership enables automakers to benefit from the valuable combination of a substantial charging network, extensive parking and charging data and end-to-end in-car payment services.” Will Gill, chief product and technology officer at Plugsurfing, added: “We built Drive API so that our partners can create tailored charging solutions for their customers. Drivers don’t have to leave the car interface they know and love and can enjoy all the benefits of Plugsurfing’s network and service. Our new partnership with Parkopedia will bring even more convenience to drivers with this integrated solution since EV drivers charge where they park.”  ParkopediaPlugsurfing 
Natalie has worked as a fleet journalist for over 20 years, previously as assistant editor on the former Company Car magazine before joining Fleet World in 2006. Prior to this, she worked on a range of B2B titles, including Insurance Age and Insurance Day.
Natalie edits all the Fleet World websites and newsletters, and loves to hear about any latest industry news - or gossip.  
Copyright ©  all rights reserved.
EV Fleet World Subscribe to our magazine