A Georgia attorney has learned his fate after admitting to being one of the first to storm the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021. McCall Calhoun, who has practiced law in Americus for 30 years, describes himself as an “anti-communist counter-revolutionary.” “The Deep State cannot stop us,” McCall wrote on Parler, a now-inactive social media network popular with former President Trump’s supporters, “They learned that today when we stormed the Capitol and took it. The word is we’re all coming back armed for war.” [DOWNLOAD: Free WSB-TV News app for alerts as news breaks] Calhoun, 60, posted a video of himself on social media in the middle of the mob swarming the Capitol on Jan. 6. The attorney was ordered to serve 18 months in prison for obstruction of an official proceeding, entering and remaining in a restricted building or grounds, disorderly and disruptive conduct in a restricted building or grounds, disorderly conduct in a Capitol building, and parading, demonstrating or picketing in a Capitol building. He was also ordered to serve 2 years of supervised release and pay $2,000 in restitution. After his 2021 arrest, Channel 2 Action News learned that Calhoun is suffering from prostate cancer, and his family wanted him to be released so he could be seen by his own doctors. His current health condition is unclear. RELATED STORIES: ‘You crossed a sacred line:’ Georgia lawyer who stormed Capitol denied bond Georgia attorney admits to being among first through doors when mob stormed Capitol 2 Georgia men charged in DC Capitol riot after posting pics, videos on social media According to the Department of Justice, Calhoun entered the Capitol through the broken Senate Wing Door and walked around inside. At one point, evidence shows him outside of then-House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. After leaving the Capitol, prosecutors say Calhoun posted on Facebook, saying “Today the American People proved we have the power. We physically took control of the Capitol building in a hand to hand hostile takeover. We occupied the Capitol and shut down the Government – we shut down their stolen election shenanigans . . .” He was arrested just days later and found guilty in March 2023. [SIGN UP: WSB-TV Daily Headlines Newsletter] New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.