 Search the news, stories & people Personalise the news and stay in the know Emergency Backstory Newsletters 中文新闻 BERITA BAHASA INDONESIA TOK PISIN Topic:Social Media Elon Musk bought social media company Twitter in October for about $65.6 billion. (Reuters: Dado Ruvic/Illustration) Twitter users will no longer be able to link to certain rival social media websites, including what the company describes as "prohibited platforms" Facebook, Instagram and Mastodon. It's the latest move by Twitter's new owner, Elon Musk, to crack down on certain speech after he shut down a Twitter account last week that was tracking the flights of his private jet. "We know that many of our users may be active on other social media platforms; however, going forward, Twitter will no longer allow free promotion of specific social media platforms on Twitter," the company said in a statement. Minutes before posting a poll asking whether he should step down as the company's chief executive, Mr Musk apologised and tweeted: "Going forward, there will be a vote for major policy changes." A few hours later, Twitter started a poll asking users if the platform should have a policy preventing accounts that advertise other social media platforms on Twitter. The banned platforms include mainstream websites such as Facebook and Instagram, and upstart rivals Mastodon, Tribel, Nostr, Post and former US president Donald Trump's Truth Social. Twitter gave no explanation for why the blacklist included those seven websites but not others such as Parler, TikTok or LinkedIn. Twitter is also banning promotions of third-party social media link aggregators such as Linktree, which some people use to show where they can be found on different websites. However, some have pointed out the new rule could violate the European Union's Digital Markets Act (DMA), effective from May 2023, which labels some social media platforms as "gatekeepers".  The DMA means gatekeeper platforms are not allowed to "treat services and products offered by the gatekeeper itself more favourably in ranking than similar services or products offered by third parties on the gatekeeper's platform".  They are also not allowed to prevent consumers from linking to businesses outside the platform.  If they breach the rules, they could be fined 10-20 per cent of the company's total worldwide annual turnover, or face "periodic penalty payments" of up to 5 per cent of their average daily turnover.  Former Twitter chief executive Jack Dorsey, who recently invested in Nostr, replied to the Twitter support post with one word: "Why?" In a reply to another user posting about the Nostr promotion ban, Mr Dorsey said it "doesn't make sense". Twitter previously took action against one of its rivals, Mastodon, after that company's main Twitter account tweeted about the @ElonJet controversy last week. Mastodon has grown rapidly in recent weeks as an alternative for Twitter users who are unhappy with Mr Musk's overhaul of the company since he bought it for $US44 billion ($65.6 billion) in late October and began restoring accounts that ran afoul of the previous rules against hateful conduct and other harms. Some Twitter users have included links to their new Mastodon profile and encouraged followers to find them there. That's now banned on Twitter, as are attempts to bypass restrictions such as by spelling out "Instagram dot com" and a username instead of a direct website link. Twitter owner and CEO Elon Musk leaves the 29th Annual Baron Investment Conference in Manhattan on November 4. (Reuters: David Dee Delgado) Instagram and Facebook parent company Meta didn't immediately return a request for comment. Mr Musk permanently banned the @ElonJet account on Wednesday, then changed Twitter's rules to prohibit the sharing of another person's current location without their consent. He then took aim at journalists who were writing about the jet-tracking account, which can still be found on other sites including Mastodon, Facebook, Instagram and Truth Social, alleging that they were broadcasting "basically assassination coordinates". Twitter last week suspended the accounts of numerous journalists who cover the social media platform and Mr Musk, among them reporters working for The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN, Voice of America and other publications. Many of those accounts were restored following an online poll by Musk. Then, over the weekend, The Washington Post's Taylor Lorenz became the latest journalist to be temporarily banned from Twitter. Ms Lorenz said she and another of the newspaper's technology reporters were researching an article concerning Mr Musk. Tumultuous times continue for Twitter as the new verification subscription is relaunched and Elon Musk disbands the Trust and Safety Council. She had tried to communicate with the billionaire but her attempts went unanswered, she said, so she tried to contact him Saturday by posting a message on Twitter tagging Mr Musk and requesting an interview. The specific topic was not disclosed in the tweet, although it was in response to Mr Musk tweeting about an alleged incident earlier in the week involving a "violent stalker" in southern California and Mr Musk's complaints about journalists allegedly revealing his family's location by referencing the jet-tracker account. When she went back later on Saturday to check whether there was a response on Twitter, she was met with a notification that her account was "permanently suspended". "I won't say I didn't anticipate it," Ms Lorenz said, adding that she wasn't given a specific reason for the ban. Sally Buzbee, The Washington Post's executive editor, said in a written statement that the "arbitrary suspension of another Post journalist further undermines Elon Musk's claim that he intends to run Twitter as a platform dedicated to free speech". "Again, the suspension occurred with no warning, process or explanation — this time as our reporter merely sought comment from Musk for a story," Ms Buzbee said. "Post journalists should be reinstated immediately, without arbitrary conditions." By midday Sunday, Ms Lorenz's account had been restored, as was the tweet she believed had triggered her suspension. Twitter last week also disbanded its Trust and Safety Council, a volunteer group formed in 2016 to advise the social media platform on site decisions. AP/Reuters Topic:Aged Care Topic:Social Media Topic:Government and Politics Analysis by Juliet Rieden Topic:Law, Crime and Justice Topic:Internet Culture Topic:Social Media Topic:Business, Economics and Finance Business, Economics and Finance Information and Communication Internet Culture Social Media United States Topic:Aged Care Topic:Social Media Topic:Government and Politics Analysis by Juliet Rieden Topic:Law, Crime and Justice Topic:Government and Politics Topic:Social Media Topic:Maritime Accidents and Incidents Topic:World Politics We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)