Sign up to the MySalford newsletter to keep up with what's happening in and around the city We have more newsletters Sign up to the MySalford newsletter to keep up with what's happening in and around the city We have more newsletters Four boys and four men have been charged with drug offences following dawn raids across Greater Manchester. Specialist officers carried out a number of early-morning warrants yesterday (Thursday). The properties were busted as part of a day of action involving Salford's Challenger organised crime team and Display Enforcement team, GMP’s Tactical Aid Unit and officers from other districts. Eight males have since been charged. Dorrell Golden, 20, of Windsor Avenue, Chadderton, has been charged with conspiracy to supply class A drugs. Join our WhatsApp Top Stories and Breaking News group by clicking this link. Liam Harmon, 19, of Littleton Road, Salford, has been charged with conspiracy to supply class A drugs. Grant Ball, 41, of Partington Lane, Swinton, has been charged with conspiracy to supply class A drugs. Daniel Odunayo, 22, of Petunia Walk, Little Hulton, has been charged with conspiracy to supply class A drugs and money laundering. Three 17-year-old boys and a 16-year-old boy - who cannot be named for legal reasons - were charged with conspiracy to supply class A drugs. All eight males have been remanded into custody. Police said they were due to appear at Manchester and Salford Magistrates' Court today. No further action was taken against a ninth person who was arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to supply class A drugs, police added. Detective Inspector Rebecca McGuigan, of GMP's Salford Challenger organised crime team, said: "These results are testament to the hard-work of our dedicated officers.  "Their efforts have resulted in us taking a significant amount of class A drugs off the streets. Let this be a warning to any criminals operating across Greater Manchester – we are coming for you and will continue to rid our streets of drugs." Try MEN Premium for FREE by clicking here for no ads, fun puzzles and brilliant new features. Read more of today's top stories here 