
  SAINTS are only too aware what can happy on a visit to the Salford City Stadium if a team is not fully tuned in.
 
  The 44 points Salford plastered past Saints on their last visit was a little over 12 months ago and equalled the highest score they have conceded against the Red Devils in Super League history.
 
  And the Red V men were also defeated there in 2021 so they know, therefore, they need to be on their game tomorrow.
 
  “We’re coming up against a very dangerous Salford side who we have to show a lot of respect to,” said Saints head coach Paul Wellens.
 
  “In terms of their attacking qualities, they really challenge you. We saw that in our last trip to Salford 12 months ago that they can really hurt you if you turn up and you’re off your game, which we were on that day.
 
  “We know that the challenge ahead is a tough one. Salford, like most teams in Super League this year, have had their inconsistencies but there’s no doubting that when they’re playing the way they like to play they are a very dangerous team.”
 
  With a stack of front-line players watching from the sidelines with injuries or suspension, last Friday’s home win against Leeds has been good for confidence after bowing out of the Challenge Cup semi-finals at the hands of Leigh Leopards.
 
  “Off the back of a result that we were really pleased with at the weekend, there’s been a significant shift in the mood in the camp,” said Wellens.
 
  “We’ve trained well, the camp’s in good spirits and at the same time we’re extremely focused on building on last week’s result because it’s another important game – they come thick and fast.”
 
  Although Saints have lost the services of Konrad Hurrell from their last outing with a torn calf, they could welcome back Mark Percival and Curtis Sironen at Salford, kick-off 3pm.
 
  Jake Burns, Saints Reserves Player of the Year in 2022, is in the 21-man squad for the first time.
 
  The 23-year-old has 20 Saints Reserves appearances to his name and has also played for North Wales Crusaders this season on four occasions.
 
  Saints 21: Welsby, Makinson, Hopoate, Percival, Lomax, Dodd, Roby, Lees, Knowles, Sironen, Bell, Norman, Davies, Royle, Baxter, Ritson, Foster, Delaney, Bruines, Mbye, Burns.
 
  Salford are looking to stop a losing run which was extended to six defeats away at Catalans last Saturday.
 
  Kallum Watkins, Tim Lafai, Marc Sneyd and Danny Addy all return to the mix, with Brad Singleton named for the first time after signing from Wigan Warriors last week.
 
  Salford 21: Ryan Brierley, Ken Sio, Kallum Watkins, Tim Lafai, Jodie Burgess, Brodie Croft, Marc Sneyd, Jack Ormondroyd, Andy Ackers, King Vuniyayawa, Andrew Dixon, Sam Stone, Oliver Partington, Chris Atkin, Danny Addy, Amir Bourouh, Rhys Williams, Ben Hellewell, James Greenwood, Deon Cross, Brad Singleton.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.