Tuesday, 20 August 2024  Delivering the news from Henley on Thames and South Oxfordshire for over 100 years 12 December 2022 SEB Reynolds paid tribute to the amazing effort his Rams players have put in so far this season as their perfect National Division 1 record was ended with a 27-24 home defeat to second-placed Sale, writes Richard Ashton. In a top-of-the-table clash which lived up to its billing, it was the away side who took the lead through wing Tom Walsh, only for Rams to reply with Will Partington converting an Ant Marris effort. Man-of-the-match Tom Curtis added the extras to his own try to put Sale back in front, but it was the home side who led at the break after Partington was on target following a second for Marris. Another change in the lead came as Ollie Longmore went over at the back of a rolling maul for the Dogs, but Jak Rossiter then collected a beautiful Partington kick-pass for 19-17. Curtis immediately landed a penalty to nudge Sale back in front, but Ben Henderson’s 50th Rams try saw the lead swap hands for the eighth time with eight minutes remaining. However, Longmore grabbed a second from the maul and with Curtis converting, Sale regained the initiative before Partington’s long-range penalty attempt with the last play drifted just wide to end the hosts’ 11-match winning streak. Despite the defeat, director of rugby Reynolds was philosophical as he said: “It was a brilliant game of National 1 rugby and I can’t fault our guys’ effort — it was a great advert for the sport at this level. “The things we wanted to do in the game we did and we started to grind them down and get some dominance, but there were just a couple of moments where we lost our discipline in the middle of the park which allowed them entry into our 22 and that got them the win. “I really like Sale as a club although they’re tough to play against. “They hang in there as a group and then we gave them opportunities which is the only disappointing thing from the game, but these are the moments you have to look at things, wipe yourself down and go again. The guys have been amazing so far this season and it’s just one of those things. “You could see how happy they were to win the game which is a compliment to the players and what we’re doing as a club. “The most important thing is you don’t get overly excited when you win a game — you always look to improve — and you don’t get too down when you lose. It’s part of the game and it’s the reason why we love it.” Meanwhile Sale director of rugby Jonathan Keep was delighted to lead his side to a win which ended the streak, and also saw them close to within five points at the top of the table. He said: “We’re extremely pleased especially with the run Rams have been on — it was always going to be a tough game and to come down and get four points we’d have been happy with, so to get five is even better. “Both sides when they entered the 22 made the most of it and got points, and that was always going to be the way with Rams and the maul. But we were pleased with our outcomes. “A lot of the game was played in the middle of the pitch, so when you’re in the 22 you’ve got to take your chances.” With Curtis pulling the strings and then likes of Walsh and Reiketi Ma’asi-White looking lively in the three-quarters throughout, he added: “When they’re in space they’re a dangerous back line and we work hard to make sure we’ve got all options covered across the field — today was a day where it came together so that was nice.” And before heading back up north, he reflected on what is becoming a nice battle between two sides who have mutual respect for one another, ending: “There’s been four points splitting the teams in the past two games so there’s a good rivalry brewing and all the best to Rams for the rest of the season — we’ll look forward to them coming up to Heywood Road in April.” Rams head to Cinderford tomorrow (Saturday), kick-off 3pm.  12 December 2022 More News:
						 standard ENTRIES for the Wargrave Sprint Triathlon are ... [more]
 A SECTION of Gallowstree Road, Peppard Common, ... [more]
 A FORMER pupil at Peppard Primary School will ... [more]
 Gentlemen’s double sculling skiff — Rhylva ... [more]
 standard standard standard POLL: Have your say standard vote! HIGGS GROUP Tel: 01491 419400 www.higgsgroup.co.uk HENLEY PAGES Tel: 01491 419419 www.henleypages.com HIGGS PRINTING & DESIGN Tel: 01491 419429 www.higgsprinting.co.uk HIGGS OFFICE SUPPLIES Tel: 01491 419499 www.higgsofficesupplies.co.uk HENLEY LIFE MAGAZINE Tel: 01491 419449 www.henleylife.co.uk © Higgs & Co (Printers) Limited 2016 | Registered in England number 1418717 Powered by Miles 33