Paul Rowley has named his 21 Red Devils to take on the Robins. Sign up to the Hull Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news We have more newsletters Sign up to the Hull Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news We have more newsletters Salford Red Devils have included some familiar faces in their 21-man squad to face Hull KR. Three ex-Robins are involved in Paul Rowley's preliminary team ahead of Thursday's televised contest at the AJ Bell Stadium, Ken Sio, Chris Atkin and Ryan Brierley. Sio was a key part of the 2015 side that reached the Challenge Cup final and was a prolific try-scorer at Craven Park. 36 tries in 67 games.  Current Man of Steel Brodie Croft and former Hull FC star Marc Sneyd are included, with Jack Ormondroyd and Andy Ackers, who both recently signed new deals with the Red Devils. Ellis Longstaff, who spent time on loan in West Hull last season, could also feature against the Robins.  Read More: Hull KR dealt big blow with four changes for Salford game after star names injured Winger Joe Burgess missed out last week for Salford, but he is back in the fold and in contention to play. New recruits Sam Stone and Oliver Partington could make their home competitive debuts against the Robins.  Both teams got off to a winning start in round one and could go top of the Super League with a victory tomorrow night. Salford Red Devils 21-man squad Ryan Brierley, Ken Sio, Kallum Watkins, Tim Lafai, Joe Burgess, Brodie Croft, Marc Sneyd, Jack Ormondroyd, Andy Ackers, King Vuniyayawa, Sam Stone, Oliver Partington, Chris Atkin, Tyler Dupree, Shane Wright, Alex Gerrard, Ellis Longstaff, Amir Bourouh, Rhys Williams, Matt Costello, Deon Cross House of League is the newest rugby league podcast which will feature some of the biggest names and tackle some of the biggest topics. You can listen to the full show below or alternatively subscribe on Spotify, Amazon Music or Apple Music. Read next Paul Rowley ready for "dangerous" Hull KR test and lays down Salford challenge  Willie Peters wants Hull KR to shed imposter syndrome after making Grand Final call   Super League Stat Attack - the star performers from opening round as Hull KR duo lead charts   Willie Peters has big Hull KR call to make with left edge shake up required before Salford clash   Super League attendance watch as City of Hull rally round winning duo 