UK Edition The trouble with being a self-consciously fin de siècle, apocalyptic writer is what you do after the new century has begun and the world is still there. Martin Amis, whose transition from enfant terrible of the literary world to — depending on one’s point of view — a controversial man of letters or terrible old bore, took more than 30 angst-filled years to complete, never quite came to terms with the ordinary. He may have been rich and famous, with homes in the most favoured districts of London and New York, but his mental address remained Desolation Row. Amid success and literary achievement, he seemed to invite disquietude. Thus, both the rape and murder of his cousin Lucy Partington by the serial killer Fred West, and the discovery, when he was 47, that he had a lost daughter, Delilah, aged 19, seemed of a piece with his dislocated history. Until the turn of the century, after which he began to fade, as a novelist at least, Amis was rarely out of the spotlight. His writing career, beginning with the publication of The Rachel Papers in 1973, was marked by a distinct authorial hauteur. Critics and the reading public loved him or hated him. They did not ignore him. Even as his idiosyncratic output grew increasingly predictable, he remained respected for the high intelligence he brought to his work and for the fierce energy with which he defended his point of view. “This is what you tell yourself when you’re being beaten up — that you arouse passions in readers,” he said. “But I think I do. Mine aren’t the sort of books that produce a consensus. It’s why I don’t win prizes.” His was the most distinctive, some would say, arrogant, novelistic voice to come out of England in the 1980s, a view that was reinforced by his haughty, supercilious expression in photographs that friends of Amis claimed was not a true picture of the actual man.   Money, published in 1984, was a bleak, yet magisterial landmark in the Thatcher years — a rebuke to everything the Iron Lady had, as Amis saw it, helped to release into the world. London Fields (1989) portrayed a city in which the worst, as well as the best, had lost all conviction — and murder could be embraced as a means of escape from the turpitude of contemporary values.  Few of his generation of writers in England attempted so comprehensive an analysis of social decay in the postmodern world. Even fewer enjoyed the degree of global acclaim that he achieved, most obviously in America. Amis’s subject matter was unforgiving: the degradation of individual values and the incorporation of greed, indifference and cruelty into public morality. But so intense was his focus, and so forensic the methodology he brought to his task, that each novel revealed some new facet of his ever-darkening Weltanschauung. Some thought him misanthropic, but it would probably be truer to say that he was disappointed and depressed by traits in society that, in his opinion, more and more held sway. He could see beauty and virtue lurking jointly in the shadows. He could also appreciate the rich comedy of life and the poignancy of its pretences. Yet, in the end, his was a pessimistic outlook, holding that personal progress was necessarily finite and insignificant while the universe itself, unmoved by any guiding hand, moved ineluctably towards chaos and destruction. His life from his earliest years was frequently punctuated by emotional intrusions, a fact of which he was acutely aware. As the son of Kingsley Amis, he grew up in the long shadow of a writer whose intemperance, intermittent hostility and monumental ego tested him well into his maturity. His later childhood was deeply insecure. His parents separated when he was 14. His education was rescued from ruin only at the last moment. Later, having achieved celebrity, he found himself the object of endless media speculation, centring on his love life, his children, his wealth, even his teeth. By the time he abandoned London for America at the end of the 1990s, his need for a quiet, more reflective life, based around family and friends, was palpable.  Martin Louis Amis was born in Oxford in 1949. His father was working his way through a research grant at the university and had rented a cottage in the nearby village of Eynsham. His mother, Hilly (née Bardwell), a former student at the Ruskin School of Art, had given birth to his brother, Philip, a year before and would later produce a sister, Sally. The family had little money and his father accepted a teaching post at University College, Swansea, where he would derive the experiences that inspired his early masterpiece, Lucky Jim.  Martin was at once a moody and an outgoing child. He was obviously intelligent, but wayward, taking up smoking before he was ten. Kingsley, in his own way, was a loving father, certainly no brute. His problem was that he was preoccupied with his writing and his various adult relationships and devoted little attention to his children each day. In Experience, Martin’s acclaimed memoir, he maintained that his childhood in Wales was idyllic, even at times “Arcadian”. There was, he implied, an almost pastoral, Cider With Rosie quality to his early life that was to contrast sharply with his teenage years. He attended the local school, played with his brother and their cousins and listened with growing fascination to the conversation of his father with such luminaries as the poet Philip Larkin, the novelist Anthony Powell, the critic Terence Kilmartin and the journalist Henry Fairlie — all giants in their field. The idyll did not last. During a year in New Jersey, where Kingsley was a visiting fellow at Princeton, Martin, aged nine, was “interfered with” by an unknown stranger at a party. Then, in 1962, his world collapsed. Kingsley became infatuated with the fellow novelist Elizabeth Jane Howard, beginning an intense relationship that was to last well beyond their divorce years after. Martin was shocked. His mother took the children to a villa in Majorca that their father had already rented for an experimental year abroad, hoping that her husband would follow. He did not. Martin, along with Philip and Sally, was now passed around. Jane Howard would later write that Kingsley was almost Victorian in his absence from the lives of his children. All matters of education and discipline were left up to her, she said, while the great man retired to his study “with a clinking glass”. • Martin Amis in 2014 speaking about the death of his friend Christopher Hitchens Martin’s education suffered. He moved from school to school — taking time off in one case to play a role in the film A High Wind in Jamaica — and being expelled from Sir Walter St John’s School in Battersea for serial truancy. It was only after he had attended no fewer than 14 establishments that he finally made it through to A-levels, and entrance to Oxford, winning an exhibition to Exeter College via a “crammer” in Brighton. Oxford, as is so often the case, proved a revelation. Reading English, he discovered not only that he possessed a genuine academic bent but that, in spite of his short stature (he was only 5ft 6in) — he had a near-mesmeric impact on women. Deploying his obvious intelligence and wit, delivered in an improbable baritone drawl, he cut an early swathe through Oxford, notably enjoying a passionate affair with Tina Brown, already a celebrity journalist. Tutored by the critic Jonathan Wordsworth, he gained a congratulatory first, an unusual honour in which the examiners applaud the student, in 1971 and was immediately hired by The Observer to write reviews. Other writing jobs quickly followed, as poetry editor at the Times Literary Supplement and as literary editor of The New Statesman, where he worked alongside the future novelist Julian Barnes, the poet James Fenton and his lifelong friend, Christopher Hitchens. It was at the Statesman that he began work on fiction. “I started writing out of a sense of wanting to join the dance,” he told Sue Lawley on Desert Island Discs in 1996. “What is being redeemed is the formlessness of life. It would be intolerable to me to just be a passive liver of my life. It’s only when you write that you can impose form and pattern and humour, comedy. Otherwise the stuff itself would strike me as unendurably thin.” His first novel The Rachel Papers was a comic work of picaresque, teenage sexuality, which won the Somerset Maugham prize. Media interest in the event was inevitably considerable; reviewers, however, were agreed that a real, if raw, talent had been uncovered, quite distinct from that of his father, who would later say of Martin’s writing, “I admire his intelligence and discipline, but there’s a terrible compulsive vividness about his style . . . that constant demonstrating of his command of English.” Dead Babies, which followed in 1975, was a much darker work, telling of a weekend in the country endured by a sexually eclectic group of young people drawn from Britain and the US. In keeping with Amis’s recurring failure to break through into the movies, it was filmed 25 years later, to near-universal indifference. The Guardian’s take was particularly cutting. Dead Babies — billed in the US as Mood Swingers — was, wrote the reviewer, “boring, embarrassing, nasty and stupid — and not in a good way”. Of the books that followed, the best were Money and London Fields. The character of John Self, the protagonist of Money, is one of which Dickens might have been proud. And the story of an advertising executive trying to make a film with American financing was partly inspired by Amis’s bruising experience of trying to become screenwriter in America. Arrogant, self-centred, greedy, impulsive, cowardly, but above all confused, Self is our guide to New York as the New Jerusalem of the kingdom of Mammon in an era-defining work that was included in Time magazine’s 100 best English language novels between 1923 and 2005.  In London Fields (1989) the character of Nicola Six as the “murderee”, living a futile life in the wake of learning about her impending death, is too thin a personality for the weight of symbolism imposed on her. But the vivid portrait of London as a kind of city of the dead survives the black burlesque that makes up much of the narrative. Yet the novel reportedly failed to make the Booker shortlist because of criticisms from jury members of his portrayal of female characters as shallow. The influence of Saul Bellow — a friend and mentor — and Vladimir Nabokov has often been alluded to by critics, and admitted by the author. Yet Amis’s was a unique voice, in which fear of nuclear obliteration and the remorseless ticking of the clock, more than the uncertainties of human relations, were preoccupations. Of his other works, Success (1978), dealing with sibling rivalry and careers, was perhaps his least controversial and most accessible. Time’s Arrow (1991) was a macabre tour de force, in which the progress of the Holocaust is told, literally, in reverse, from Auschwitz to Kristallnacht, as it were, so that the heart of darkness to which everything is headed is there right from the start, casting its shadow over earlier acts of innocence. It was the only one of his novels to be shortlisted for the Booker prize and was not a commercial success. As the 21st century dawned, Amis’s creativity continued to decline, leaving him full of ideas, and dread, but straining to find the means to express either in ways that attracted a new generation of readers. Koba the Dread (2002) was written as an attack on the crimes of Lenin and Stalin but very nearly caused a rift with “Hitch”, his bosom pal, whom he accused of having sympathies with the monsters of Soviet communism. He was fortunate in that Hitchens, while resentful of the charge, was not prepared to let it jeopardise their friendship, which continued, according to Amis, as “a love whose month is ever May”, until the essayist’s death from throat cancer in 2011. Yellow Dog (2003), mired in violence and pornography, was considered by Amis to be one of his best but was generally regarded as a disappointment, prompting a response notable for its sense of injured pride: “No one,” he rasped, “wants to read a difficult literary novel or deal with a prose style which reminds them how thick they are.” Seemingly undeterred by the reception afforded to Koba the Dread — or Koba the Barbarian as one wag called it — Amis returned to the evils of Stalinism in House of Meetings (2006), a novel that, while set in the gulags, arguably prefigured the era of Vladimir Putin. This was better received by the critics. Inside Story (2020) was his quasi-autobiographical, semi-fictional follow-up to Experience. Filled with regret for lost loves and an awareness of his own mortality, it can be seen today as “A Farewell to Amis”, the final full stop in a writing career that lasted for nearly half a century. While Amis’s popularity waned, his wealth grew. In 1995, during a period marked almost as much by playing tennis and snooker as by literary achievement, he dismissed Pat Kavanagh, his longstanding agent, in favour of an American, Andrew Wylie (the “Jackal”), who secured him an advance of £500,000 for The Information and a book of short stories. His break with Kavanagh proved traumatic, for she was married to Barnes, and Barnes at once declared war on his old friend, opening a rift between them that, unlike with Hitchens, would never truly heal.  Amis’s first marriage to Antonia Phillips in 1984 ended in divorce in 1996. He then married the New York-born Uruguayan writer Isabel Fonseca. After he garnered more headlines for spending a small fortune on reconstructing his dilapidated teeth, it came as no surprise when Amis announced he had fallen out of love with England and was setting off for a new life in Uruguay. Fonseca, the scion of a family of successful artists, who became a novelist in her own right, proved to be the perfect partner for Amis, who found in her the stability entirely lacking in his own background. If she brought him peace, he gave her intrigue. “Martin is not a hard person to be married to,” she said in 2010. “He’s very calm, even-tempered. I think he’s a mystery. Maybe that’s good, though.” In the midst of new-found tranquillity, the past never quite stopped intruding. More controversy came with the discovery in 1997 that Amis had a long-lost daughter, Delilah, by an old flame, Lamorna Heath, at the time (the 1970s) estranged from her husband, the writer Patrick Seale. Delilah’s mother committed suicide some time after her affair with Amis, and Delilah was raised by Seale. Father and daughter were introduced, over dinner, when she was already a student at Oxford. Amis declared that he felt an immediate sense of intimacy. It was, he wrote, “wonderful”. But, balancing the “find” of his daughter came confirmation of the loss of his cousin and childhood confidante, Lucy Partington, missing since December 1973. It had been suspected for some time that Lucy was a victim of West, but for Amis, West’s trial and the memorial service were extremely painful. However, some accused him of capitalising on her murder by exaggerating her role in his childhood in his memoir, Experience. The reception accorded to Experience on both sides of the Atlantic was gratifying to its author after several years of critical indifference. Kaleidoscopic and thematic by turn, it revealed a more mellow side to the artist — someone, perhaps, who was settling contentedly into his new life in exile as a husband and father, and who drew great pleasure from the simple pleasures of listening to jazz and watching tennis and football on television.  With the death, in 1995, of Kingsley, to whom he had for some time been warmly reconciled, Martin felt himself propelled into the “temporal front line”. It was a position from which he did not recoil. Amis’s final years, divided between London and, latterly, New York, were not without incident. He had been much moved by the events of 9/11, and subsequently, like Hitchens, displayed a contempt for militant Islam and jihadism that did not endear him to certain strands of liberal opinion. The threat of nuclear war and the annihilation of humankind was another recurring theme. By now he was happily married, with two young daughters, and regarded the prospect of Armageddon as a personal as well as an existential affront. As a born-again husband and father, he was further shaken in 2017 by a fire that nearly destroyed the family home in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, valued at the time at a little under $5 million. Earlier, in November 2000, he was heartbroken when his younger sister, Sally, drank herself to death in a council bedsit in north London, aged 46. They had been close in their childhood, but Sally — the inspiration (if that is the word) for his 2010 novel The Pregnant Widow — was wayward, with no clear acceptance of limits and lived a reckless life, “as though on the stage,” before descending into alcoholism. Amis had two sons by his first wife. Both are writers. Louis is a journalist and sometime novelist, based in Las Vegas; Jacob is a political commentator, with links to the Hudson Institute. In addition to Delilah Seale, Amis had two daughters by his second wife — Fernanda, a lawyer and academic, and her younger sister, Clio, born in 1999. They survive him. • Martin Amis interviewed by Camilla Long in 2010 After the extremely adverse reception of Yellow Dog, Amis commented: “As you get older you realise that all these things — prizes, reviews, advances, readers — it’s all showbiz, and the real action starts with your obituary. “Writers don’t realise how good they are because they are dead when the action begins: with the obituaries. And then the truth is revealed 50 years later by how many of your books are read. You feel the honour of being judged by something that is never wrong: time.”Martin Amis, novelist, was born on August 25, 1949. He died of oesophageal cancer on May 19, 2023, aged 73 © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.