Lawmakers in South Korea settled a long political battle on Thursday and headed off moves by the ruling party to delay the implementation of the controversial crypto tax... One of France’s leading banks has turned to decentralized finance pioneer MakerDAO to propose the submission of bond tokens as collateral for a loan of the DAI...  Unisocks are unique dynamically priced NFT socks backed by actual socks These socks were issued by Uniswap in May 2019 at an initial listing price of $12 The token, SOCKS,... Dogecoin (DOGE) co-founder Billy Markus has set his sights on nonfungible tokens (NFT) and an Ethereum-to-Dogecoin bridge to help bring about mass adoption of the meme coin. In a... This weekly roundup of news from Mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong attempts to curate the industrys most important news, including influential projects, changes in the... Airdrops have become the cryptocurrency ecosystem’s equivalent of stimulus checks over the past couple of years and further proof of this can be evidenced from popular... In September the frenzy that propelled the nonfungible token (NFT) sector quieted down but a burst of fresh energy emerged as the layer-two sector heated after the successful... The month of September stayed true to its billing as a historically weak period for cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin (BTC) closed the month with a loss of about 7%. However, October may... The Biden administration is reportedly considering a new legal framework for stablecoin issuers that would put them in the same category as banks, raising questions about the...  By Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss and Tom Wilson NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) -Bitcoin rose on Friday to its highest level since around mid-September, bolstered in part by seasonal factors... Bullish sentiment returned to the cryptocurrency ecosystem on Oct. 1 after a 10% spike in the price of Bitcoin (BTC) lifted it above the $47,500 level and resulted in the... Investing.com - Litecoin was trading at $166.907 by 15:53 (19:53 GMT) on the Investing.com Index on Friday, up 10.01% on the day. It was the largest one-day percentage gain since...  Life is absurd and we are all Sisyphi here. The main question of absurdist philosophy lies in the disharmony between the human inner strive to find an inherently valuable... Ethereum’s native token, Ether (ETH), has the potential to double its market valuation in the coming months, thanks to a confluence of supportive technical and fundamental... Cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase (NASDAQ:COIN) has reportedly suffered another security breach after attackers were able to bypass the company’s multi-factor authentication,... Decentralized oracle service Umbrella Network officially launched on Ethereum Friday, setting the stage for cross-chain transactions between the dominant smart contract platform... Welcome to the latest edition of Cointelegraph’s decentralized finance (DeFi) newsletter. DYdX surpassed Coinbase (NASDAQ:COIN) in daily trading volume for the first time... Investors who survived the 2008 financial crisis understand the importance of liquidity. When an economic recession starts, deflationary pressure hits the market, and buyers...  Bitcoin mass adoption is granted only through the reconstruction of our social, financial, and economic systems. Financial institutions that have backed cryptocurrencies...  Raiinmaker and Cosmic Wire support climate charities. Raiinmaker is launching its token next month. Raiinmaker, the blockchain fan engagement platform, has partnered with... Brazil Stock Exchange (B3), one of the world’s few exchanges trading Bitcoin (BTC) exchange-traded funds, is exploring ways to provide data inputs for the country’s... In a series of recent interviews and speeches, United States Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Gary Gensler has called the cryptocurrencies market the Wild West due to... Orlando Bravo, co-founder and managing partner of private equity firm Thoma Bravo, expressed his unwavering endorsement of the cryptocurrency market in an interview at CNBC’s... The United States Securities and Exchange Commission has extended the deadline of four Bitcoin exchange-traded funds (ETF) on Friday for 45 days, citing the requirement for... Investing.com - XRP was trading at $1.04786 by 09:29 (13:29 GMT) on the Investing.com Index on Friday, up 11.38% on the day. It was the largest one-day percentage gain since... This Crypto City guide looks at Tokyos crypto culture, the citys most notable projects and people, its financial infrastructure at which retailers accept crypto and where you can...  Read in the Digest Breaking news: The U.S. won’t ban crypto. Visa (NYSE:V) unveils unified payments, Robinhood’s popularity wanes, Binance pushes for...  We are proud to announce that Cyber City’s initial NFT offering, Genesis Wave, will drop in October 2021. The Genesis Wave will have a total of 10,000 NFTs that will be... French stock market regulator, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF), continues monitoring the cryptocurrency market to warn investors about unauthorized crypto... Bitcoin (BTC) shot to nearly $48,000 during Oct. 1 as a classic “short squeeze” liquidated over $270 million of crypto positions in under an hour.BTC/USD 1-hour candle...  TikTok announced its first-ever NFT collection called TikTok Top Moments. The TikTok NFT collection was inspired by the TikTokers videos. TikTok has announced the launch of its... Investing.com - Ethereum was trading at $3,268.80 by 08:04 (12:04 GMT) on the Investing.com Index on Friday, up 10.35% on the day. It was the largest one-day percentage gain since... Bitcoin (BTC) looks to reclaim $45,000 on Oct. 1 as the United States dollar retreated lower after hitting its one-year high. Bitcoin’s tight inverse correlation with the...  COTI is proud to announce its VISA debit cards and bank account are now accessible to the broad public. With the help of Simplex, both of these financial tools will help...  Scams are not the only imperatives that generate distrust in cryptocurrencies. Crypto interactions involve human interplay in order to facilitate such decentralized...