Experienced leadership team seeking growing asset in the increasingly technology driven Entertainment, Sports, and Hospitality sectors NEW YORK, NEW YORK, June  28, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- ESH Acquisition Corp. ESHAU, a newly organized blank check company formed for the purpose of effecting a business combination, has announced the closing of its initial public offering resulting in gross proceeds of $115 million, including the full exercise of the over-allotment option. The company's strategic focus is on Entertainment, Sports, and Hospitality (ESH) opportunities, including gaming, with an emphasis on the strategic deployment of innovative technologies in these industries. "Our team has unique and deep entertainment, sports and hospitality sector experience and expertise.  Collectively, the knowledge base and operational excellence we possess as a group provides us unique strategic insights into brand and product positioning, as well as financing and growth strategies to enhance shareholder value of the acquired target," said Jim Francis, CEO of ESH Acquisition Corp. Adds Francis: "Because of our strong network of industry relationships around the globe – from leadership roles in global companies – we expect to quickly generate a pipeline of potential merger targets." ESH Acquisition Corp. has partnered with investment firm Ackerley Partners, LLC, as a key advisor. Following the sale of The Ackerley Group to Clear Channel Worldwide in 2002, Christopher and Ted Ackerley founded Ackerley Partners, LLC, a privately held investment firm with a primary focus on the media, entertainment and professional sports sectors.  Over several decades, Ackerley Partners and the Ackerley Family have owned all or a part of several professional sports franchises. Their professional sports ownership tenure includes franchises in the NBA (Seattle Sonics), WNBA (Seattle Storm), CISL (Seattle Seadogs), Major League Rugby (Seattle Seawolves), AHL (Coachella Valley Firebirds) and NHL (Seattle Kraken). With their strong operational history, the firm has utilized numerous strategic industry partnerships and alliances to source and co-invest in both early stage and growth stage companies including cable, gaming, software and sports franchises. The ESH Acquisition Corp. team includes: Al Weiss – Chairman James Francis – CEO Jonathan Morris – Chief Financial Officer Christopher Ackerley – Director Thomas Wolber – Director Jonathan Gordon – Director Christina Francis – Director Ted Ackerley – Advisor  "Our team and Board of Directors have in-depth transaction experience across sectors and across different transaction structures, both domestically and internationally. Our experience in capital markets and SPAC transactions adds trust and credibility for potential merger candidates considering a transaction with us," said Francis.  About ESH Acquisition Corp. ESH Acquisition Corp. is a newly organized blank check company formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. The company's strategic focus is on Entertainment, Sports, and Hospitality opportunities, including gaming. For more information, please visit: https://www.eshacquisition.com Forward-Looking Statements This press release includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements, including with respect to the initial public offering and the anticipated use of the proceeds thereof and search for an initial business combination, are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking statements, including those set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of the preliminary prospectus used in connection with the Company's offering filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Copies are available on the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. No assurance can be given the net proceeds of the offering will be used as indicated. The Company expressly disclaims any obligations or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with respect thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any statement is based, except as required by law. For more information: inquiries@eshacquisition.com © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.