Angela Dreiske MedCore Partners, a Dallas-based healthcare and senior living commercial real estate company, has hired Angela Dreiske as chief financial officer. In her new role, Dreiske will design and manage all aspects of MedCore’s accounting division and help enhance and refine the company’s financial strategy and operations. “Angela brings an abundance of pertinent experience and leadership to our organization,” MedCore Partner Nick Farris said in a statement. “We are very excited to have her insight and skillsets to bolster the MedCore vision and team.” Before MedCore, Dreiske was senior vice president of accounting for the investment management team at Stream Realty Partners in Dallas where she managed five discretionary funds and separate account mandates totaling over $1.7 billion in equity and three of Stream’s co-investment vehicles. Before Stream, she was a senior manager at Standish Management, with $450 billion in assets under management. At Standish, Angela worked exclusively on the Crow Holdings funds. “I am thrilled to join the MedCore team as the company continues its work in healthcare and senior living services,” Dreiske said in a statement. “MedCore has a promising future, and I am excited about the opportunity to help build on its strengths.” MedCore Partners is a full-service real estate company dedicated exclusively to the healthcare and senior living industry.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.  
View previous emails. Pathlock's recent mergers, acquisitions, and capital raises have enabled the company to address the increasing risk in application security while establishing its leadership position as the industry's most complete 360-degree platform for application security and controls automation. Yuvo Health, a New York-based technology-enabled administrative and managed-care solution provider for community health centers, announced Coppell executive Selase Dow as its new chief operating officer. Dow, who will remain based in the Dallas-Fort Worth city, brings more than two decades of managed care experience to the New York startup. Dow has worked closely with large physician organizations in North Texas to implement financial and care models and has a deep background in operations, ACO management, contracting, and more. Yuvo Health is a New York-based startup founded in 2021 by a BIPOC founding team. The company aims to provide administrative… Plano ISD partners with Capital One for the Savings Success program to take some of the myths out of money and turn them into financial facts. Dallas-Fort Worth-based Angela Floyd has been appointed as chief financial officer of California-headquartered DPR Construction, one of the nation's top technical builders. The company said that Floyd has nearly two decades of experience as a seasoned strategist, providing oversight of financial services, financial reporting and analysis, tax, treasury, and internal audit functions. In this role, the company said Floyd will work to capitalize on the wide range of opportunities that come with being a forward-thinking, global organization in concert with the development and implementation of best-in-class enterprise processes, metrics, and financial controls that continuously help to improve service, quality, and… RumbleOn Inc., the nation's first technology-based omnichannel powersports platform, has promoted Blake Lawson to be the Irving-based company's chief financial officer, a role in which he will serve as a member of the executive leadership team and report directly to RumbleOn's Chief Executive Officer Marshall Chesrown. Previously, Lawson, 51, was chief financial officer for the RideNow group of powersports retailers, and the Coulter Automotive Group, since 2020. "Blake brings knowledge and experience in the financial management of powersports that is unparalleled in the industry, and I am very excited to leverage his extensive powersports background, as we execute on our… North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.