The Pathlock Innovation Series is a free, virtual event that will address today's most critical challenges related to application governance, risk and compliance DALLAS, June 20, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Pathlock, the leading provider of cross-app internal controls automation, risk management and application security, announces the latest installment of the Pathlock Innovation Series. The free, virtual event, dedicated to helping address today's most critical challenges related to business application governance, risk and compliance (GRC), will take place Monday, June 26 through Wednesday, June 28.  



 While risk management for specific applications is a topic addressed in the ERP market, there is no other event that is designed to take an application-agnostic approach to GRC and security. Traditionally, identifying, managing, and preventing business risks were addressed in siloed application user groups. Pathlock is looking to break down the silos, knowing that organizations are not just using one application for their core business processes – but multiple. The Pathlock Innovation Series will incorporate 17 separate sessions, primarily led by industry thought leaders, end-users and Pathlock executives. Examples of partners and customers presenting during the series include Microsoft, SAP, Protiviti, GRC 20/20, Siemens Healthineers, Deloitte and more. "Traditionally, organizations have audited the controls for their applications and data with a patchwork of manual processes, disparate software tools, and consulting and services organizations," said Piyush Pandey, CEO, Pathlock. "Our intention behind the Pathlock Innovation Series is to help organizations learn how they can optimize their GRC strategies across all of their core business applications, get a more holistic view of business risk, and uncover process efficiencies to help save time and money." Business application landscapes are becoming increasingly complex (on-premise, cloud and hybrid applications) and organizations are struggling to effectively and efficiently identify, manage and remediate risk – whether it's in a single app or cross-application. Attendees of the Pathlock Innovation Series can help alleviate the pain and complexity of GRC processes that are manual, error-prone and siloed to individual applications. All of which results in added time and unnecessary expense, along with inflated fees for external audit firms. "There are no other events that feature content of this nature," continued Pandey. "We're looking to help communicate that there is a simplified approach to managing enterprise risk, and we hope to provide much-needed value to the ERP and business app community. By making the event virtual and free, we hope that we can eliminate any friction or barriers that might keep someone from engaging with the content." For more information on the Pathlock Innovation Series, the confirmed agenda and speakers, and how to participate, please visit www.pathlock.com/innovation-series/  About PathlockPathlock is the leader in application security and controls automation. With Pathlock, enterprises can manage all aspects of access governance via a single platform, across applications, including user provisioning, ongoing User Access Reviews, segregation of duties, control testing, and audit preparation. Today, many of the world's most respected global 2000 companies rely on Pathlock to protect their critical digital assets from financial, operational, regulatory and security threats, ensure corporate compliance and improve performance. As a result, our customers have saved millions in employee productivity, labor costs, audit fees, and data loss prevention.   For media inquiries:Caroline Dobyns 410-353-5340  caroline@luminapr.com    View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pathlock-releases-agenda-for-their-virtual-grc-conference-301853545.html SOURCE  Pathlock © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.