The Home of the Security Bloggers Network Home » Security Bloggers Network » Bridging the Risk Gap: How Cross-Application Access Certifications Bolster Security Most organizations today operate in a hybrid, multi-application environment. This also means that sensitive information and users who access this information are spread across applications. When this is the case, a crucial aspect of cybersecurity is managing access to those various applications. To tackle this challenge effectively, many organizations have turned to implementing cross-application access certifications. In this blog post, we will delve into what cross-application certifications are and why they are an essential part of any organization’s security and compliance efforts. It’s a fact that most organizations use tens or even hundreds of applications to complete their business processes. The challenge is that every application vendor has developed their own security schema to meet the needs of their applications, limiting the visibility of potential risks across applications.  This is why cross-application access certifications serve several critical purposes that contribute to an organization’s security, compliance, and operational efficiency. Having cross-app visibility enables security and compliance teams to gain a complete view of every single access a user possesses across applications down to the entitlement level.  This shifts the perspective from being application-centric to more user-centric. The result is greater insight into user roles, role usage, role conflicts, and cross-app access risks that might otherwise have gone unnoticed. Cross-application access certifications are fundamental to application Governance, Risk, and Compliance (GRC) systems. They provide a structured and systematic approach to ensuring that employees, contractors, and other users have the appropriate levels of access to the various applications and systems they need to perform their job roles effectively.  Security is paramount in today’s interconnected world. Access certifications play a pivotal role in bolstering an organization’s security posture by: Numerous regulatory frameworks, such as GDPR, HIPAA, and SOX, require organizations to maintain strict control over user access to sensitive data. Access certifications provide an audit trail and documentation that demonstrates compliance with these regulations.  Traditionally, organizations have to collect evidence and audit access on an application-by-application basis, dramatically increasing workloads and the potential for human error. Failing to meet compliance requirements can result in hefty fines and legal consequences. Cross-application certifications, while providing a comprehensive view of risk, also simplify audits by enabling multi-application certifications and deeper insights into user access. Access certifications not only enhance security and compliance but also contribute to operational efficiency. Here’s how: Data breaches and security incidents can be expensive, both in terms of financial losses and damage to an organization’s reputation. Access certifications help mitigate these risks, potentially saving significant costs associated with security incidents, legal battles, and compliance fines. Cross-application Certifications, a module that is a part of Pathlock’s Application Access Governance product, offers a comprehensive solution to the complex challenge of access management. The module automates the process of reviewing application access, which is often a long, labor-intensive process prone to human error. It manages the entire review process, enables reviewers to make informed decisions on whether to confirm or revoke access, and provides the audit trail to prove recertifications have taken place.  With customizable, automated workflows, you can eliminate spreadsheets, buried emails, and chasing down absent-minded reviewers, significantly reducing the time, effort, and cost of running recertification campaigns. Additionally, its cross-application capability makes it easy for reviewers to get a full view of access usage while allowing campaign managers to run multi-application campaigns simultaneously. Get in touch with us for a demo today! The post Bridging the Risk Gap: How Cross-Application Access Certifications Bolster Security appeared first on Pathlock. *** This is a Security Bloggers Network syndicated blog from Pathlock authored by Kyle Benson. Read the original post at: https://pathlock.com/how-cross-application-access-certifications-bolster-security/    Application Security Check Up





Step 1 of 8


12%


Do you develop your own software in your organization?(Required)


Yes



No



Not sure








What portion of your cyber risk is Application Security (AppSec)? (Select one)(Required)


We over-focus on AppSec



We focus on AppSec to match the risk



We under-focus on AppSec



 




What are the biggest challenges you face implementing a robust AppSec strategy? (Select all that apply)


Lack of budget



Insufficient skilled personnel



Complexity of integrating security into the development lifecycle



Resistance from development teams



Keeping up with evolving security threats



Lack of executive buy-in



Other (please specify)



Other



 




Which DevSecOps practices are widely used for actively developed projects (not legacy) (Select all that apply):(Required)

Automated unit and functional tests for quality run in the pipeline with merge blocking


Automated application security testing (AST) in development and (SAST/IAST) runs in the pipeline


Automated AST tools to find vulnerabilities in the code you import (SCA) run in the pipeline


Merge blocking at current policy level for AST checks


Secrets management so no secrets stored in source code repositories



 




How do you assess and mitigate risk of For NON actively developed products (legacy) (Select all that apply):

In-production scans using DAST products like Qualys, Nessus, etc.


Periodic penetration testing


Periodic running of AST tools


Manual code reviews by security specialists


Use of third-party security assessment services


No assessment or mitigation effort is happening



 




How do you resolve the security issues found? (Select all that apply):(Required)

In-production scans using DAST products like Qualys, Nessus, etc.


Periodic penetration testing


Periodic running of AST tools


Manual code reviews by security specialists


Use of third-party security assessment services


No assessment or mitigation effort is happening



 




Which best describes security training for your developers? (Select all that apply)(Required)

Monthly


Quarterly


Annually


As part of onboarding


Just-in-time via integration with AST tools when a vulnerability is found


No formal training provided



 




How do you determine your level of investment in AppSec? (Select all that apply)(Required)

Perceived risk and threat landscape


Industry benchmarks and standards


Historical spending patterns / budget constraints


Recommendations from third-parties


We do not have a formal process

  









Δ



  Step 1 of 8
 Δ