A Canadian accountant has been ordered to pay her employer $2,756 after they installed a time-tracking software on her laptop, showing she had misrepresented over 50 hours of work. Karlee Besse was fired from her remote job at the British Columbia-based accounting firm Reach CPA last year without “just cause” she claimed, according to a civil tribunal filed on 11 January, 2023. Beese sought $5,000 in compensation, both in unpaid wages and one month’s severance pay. However, Reach CPA argued it rightfully terminated Besse because she engaged in “time theft” – a term for when an employee paid for work they have not actually done, or for time they were not actually at work. In February 2022, Besse initiated meetings with her manager because she felt unproductive, which prompted Reach CPA to install a time-tracking program on her work laptop called TimeCamp. Although Besse claimed that she found TimeCamp difficult to use and could not get the program to differentiate between time spent working and time spent on the laptop for personal use, videos submitted to the small claims court showed TimeCamp was able to differentiate between work and non-work activities using electronic pathways. As a result, TimeCamp identified irregularities between Besse’s recorded timesheets and the work activity logged by the software. In total, Besse had a discrepancy of 50.76 hours which she reported as time worked on her timesheet, compared to the work activity that TimeCamp had logged. When Reach CPA met with Besse in late March 2022 to discuss some of the discrepancies recorded by TimeCamp, Besse claimed that she felt “backed into a corner” and argued that she spent a number of hours working with paper documents, but didn’t tell her company because “they wouldn’t want to hear that.” However, Reach CPA said that TimeCamp also tracks printing activity, and found no evidence that she “printed the large volume of documents she would have needed to work on in hard copy.” “Clearly, I’ve plugged time to files that I didn’t touch and that wasn’t right or appropriate in any way or fashion, and I recognise that and so for that I’m really sorry,” Besse said in a meeting with her manager, according to court documents. Reach CPA then decided to terminate Besse’s employment in late March 2022. The Civil Resolution Tribunal ultimately dismissed Karlee Besse’s “just cause” claim, and ordered Besse to repay Reach CPA a total of $2,756.89 – including damages for time theft and additional costs – within 30 days. In a post-pandemic era of remote working, more companies have installed tracking software on workers’ computers to ensure employees stay focused on work-related tasks while working from home. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.