 We use cookies to help our site work, to understand how it is used, and to tailor ads that are more relevant to you and your interests. By accepting, you agree to cookies being stored on your device. You can view details and manage settings at any time on our cookies policy page. We are an active centre, proud of our reputation as a friendly and supportive environment. We specialise in security and artificial intelligence research. We are ranked 7th in the country for our research outputs in computer science and informatics* We have been awarded Cyber University of the Year at the National Cyber Awards 2023 *In the latest UK Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021). We have a strong research culture and a growing research profile, with a broad range of research areas and projects.  The exponential growth of computer technology has revolutionised the way we live, but has also brought new and ever-growing challenges in terms of security.  Developing computational models and algorithms inspired from natural intelligence found in biological, physical and social systems to solve real-world problems. We offer specialist software labs for all levels of study and specialist facilities for machine learning experiments and networking, security and distributed systems work including Raspberry Pi's, NAO robots and Parrot drones. We want to continue building strong links with businesses at all levels so please get in touch with us if any of these opportunities interest you.  Work with one of our postgraduate researchers on a collaborative PhD project to provide your business with early access to academic research as it develops and to transfer knowledge in a cost-effective way.  A Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) helps support your business in developing and growing by connecting you with our university and graduates knowledge, skills, and expertise.  Draw on a wide range of expertise from our academics by offering our undergraduate and masters students an industrial partnership during their major project.  Professional Training placements give businesses the opportunity to attract excellent students to work with them for a year during their studies, many of whom return once they have graduated. Director of Computer Science Research Centre Our courses are stimulating and challenging with a high level of practical content, bringing together the best of computer science, business and cutting-edge research.  09 MAY 2024  23 NOV 2023  15 NOV 2023 @ComputingSurrey Accessibility | Data protection | Cookies | Disclaimer | Freedom of information | Modern Slavery Statement (PDF) © University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey GU2 7XH, United Kingdom. +44 (0)1483 300800