Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     The Quest Pro is more than just a standalone VR headset, it can also be tethered to a PC for more usability and flexibility.
                         Using the connections in this guide you can set up your Quest Pro to play PCVR games or to be more productive by using the headset as a desktop replacement.
                         So stick with us as we guide you through the options and how to set them up.
                         The most effective (low latency) way to connect your Meta Quest Pro to your desktop machine is with a cable.
                         You can do this using the cable that comes with the headset or with a fast USB-C cable. We'd recommend the official Quest Link cable as it's nice and long and guaranteed to work easily.
                         Connect the USB-C cable to your PC and the other end directly to the headset and you can then go about establishing the connection so you can see your desktop with ease.
                         The first step to connecting your Meta Quest Pro to your PC is to download and install the Oculus App on your Windows machine. This is the same app that you'd use to connect the Quest 2 or Rift S to your PC but it's essential to connect the Quest Pro in the same way. You will need to check that your PC meets the Quest Link compatibility requirements though.
                         Follow these steps to get started:
                         When this is done you'll still need to launch the headset into Quest Link mode. To do this follow these steps:
                         Doing this puts you in a different view with slightly different options. You'll need to use the Meta Quest Pro controllers to access the options. But you'll see a new menu bar that includes options to show desktop apps from your PC or to view an entire desktop.
                         Click on the desktop options in the menu and you can then see a virtual view of what's on your PC desktop. If you have more than one monitor in the real world then you'll see options to switch between multiple desktops. Click on whichever is the most relevant and start using your PC. You can then navigate around using your keyboard and mouse as you would on your PC.
                         When you need to, you can disable Oculus Link from within the settings. Disabling it will put you back into the usual view you'd see when running the headset.
      NOTE - when in Quest Link mode, you can adjust the size of your desktop view and the distance from you by pressing the grip button on the right hand controller and pushing the thumbstick in the relevant direction (you'll see a pop-up). 
                     Connecting your Meta Quest Pro to your PC using a high-speed cable is the way to get the best results possible. This ensures a low-latency connection and a smooth experience.
                         As with the Quest 2 though, it's possible to connect your Quest Pro wirelessly.
                         You do need a few things for the best results though:
                         As long as you tick all those boxes you'll be able to use the Quest Pro wirelessly. The process to do so is much the same as setting up the wired connection. So if you've already done that then it's fairly straightforward.
                         You'll then need to put the headset on to change a few settings in there:
                         You then have a different view in virtual reality which allows you to access your desktops and use your PC as you would normally. You can use your keyboard and mouse and just go about your business but on a much bigger screen.
                         If you have exhausted the Quest store and want more games to play then there's good news as you can use your PC to access more games.
                         If you've already used Quest Link either wired or wirelessly then it's easy to run Steam VR to play more.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. The Samsung S95D is the top of the line OLED model from Samsung for 2024. It offers a dazzling image with unbeatable contrast and rich color depth. The answer may depend on the type of disc and how you preserve it. There are plenty of worthy budget TVs out there, but some deals are too good to be true. Here's what you should know. The sales for the PS5 have slowed faster than anticipated, and I know a few key reasons why. You need to think strategically when picking iPad specs. The Pencilera app brings a long-requested feature to iPad, allowing users to snap a photo with their Apple Pencil.