MENU For more options, check out the rest of Business News Daily's picks for The Remote PC Access Software: Our Top Picks for Small Businesses. Business News Daily provides resources, advice and product reviews to drive business growth. Our mission is to equip business owners with the knowledge and confidence to make informed decisions. As part of that, we recommend products and services for their success. We collaborate with business-to-business vendors, connecting them with potential buyers. In some cases, we earn commissions when sales are made through our referrals. These financial relationships support our content but do not dictate our recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates products based on thousands of hours of research. We are committed to providing trustworthy advice for businesses. Learn more about our full process and see who our partners are here. For more options, check out the rest of Business News Daily's picks for The Remote PC Access Software: Our Top Picks for Small Businesses. Zoho Assist is a simple and effective enterprise-grade remote support and unattended remote access software solution. It offers a variety of service plans and payment options for businesses of all sizes. This cross-platform software stands out from competitors thanks to its ability to establish web-based, on-demand connections with remote computers, mobile devices, IoT devices and servers running on Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android, Chrome OS and Raspberry Pi. Zoho Assist also integrates seamlessly with the vendor’s suite of Workplace business tools and third-party applications to potentially serve as a unified, all-in-one platform for all of your customer data and communications. 9.5 / 10 Zoho Assist combines essential features with an easy-to-use dashboard, support for every major operating system, seamless integrations with Zoho Workplace and third-party applications, valuable diagnostic service tools, web-based connections and the ability to combine remote access with support through the same platform. When integrated with the rest of Zoho’s business software solutions, like the Zoho CRM, we love how well Zoho Assist fits in as part of a centralized source of customer communications and data. The system also includes effective communications features with options for chat, audio and video to reduce your reliance on third-party or off-application tools. Zoho Assist additionally boasts effective tools for mobile remote support, and in some plans, the ability to connect with IoT and Raspberry Pi devices. Its extensive compatibility outshines competitors. These characteristics are why we found Zoho Assist to be the best remote access software for businesses seeking an all-in-one system. Drag and drop to transfer small files quickly and securely between remotely connected computers and devices. Source: Zoho Assist While none of the major remote access software platforms we reviewed are difficult to use, Zoho Assist sets itself apart with a large list of supported operating systems, including Raspberry Pi and IoT devices. Once you’ve moved past the initial setup process and adjusted the appropriate permissions, you’ll be able to see your list of configured unattended remote devices and organize them into groups with customizable permissions. Accessing a device from your Unattended Access tab is as easy as clicking Connect and beginning a remote session. As a stand-alone unattended access solution available via two paid plan options, Zoho Assist’s competitive collection of essential and advanced features make it very user-friendly. You can remotely turn on your office computer whether it’s hibernating, sleeping or powered down. Once connected with a secure key, you’ll be able to quickly access and share important files, print documents, and use the multimonitor navigation functions to enjoy the same efficient work setup from anywhere. Bulk deployment for large companies is easy to complete, and all data is protected during remote sessions with two-factor authentication, end-to-end SSL, AES 256-bit encryption and inactive session timeout. Invite customers to join a secure web-based remote support session over email or text message. Source: Zoho Assist As a stand-alone remote support solution sold across three paid plan options, Zoho Assist provides customer support technicians with all the tools they need to troubleshoot customers’ computers and mobile devices. Communication during web-based sessions includes text, audio and video chat options, as well as screen swapping and sharing. A scheduling function lets technicians provide support at the customer’s preferred time, with reminders to ensure nobody misses the appointment. Other features like drag-and-drop file transfer and multimonitor navigation make it easy for technicians to assist customers and boost productivity. Zoho’s remote support and unattended access products provide a range of communication tools to resolve customer issues and collaborate with colleagues effectively. Support technicians can communicate with customers through chat, audio and video to quickly grasp the problem and provide exceptional customer service during sessions. You may also record sessions for internal training purposes or to share with customers if the resolved issue returns. These same communication features make it easy to collaborate with co-workers through the same machine. With annotations and the use of a virtual whiteboard, you can draw, erase, highlight and use text during demonstrations and meetings to illustrate your ideas without confusion. As great as these features are, you may want to consider our review of rival ConnectWise Control if communication is your top priority. We found that system to be the best for communication.  Reach your customers over the phone using add-on VoIP credits. International rates may apply. Source: Zoho Assist Zoho Assist makes it easier for technicians to diagnose and resolve issues by providing access to a wide range of machine data, such as installed software and hardware as well as the details of the CPU. Even if a remote machine is powered off, you can use Wake on Lan and begin performing system diagnostic activities using the command prompt, task manager, device manager, software, registry editor, groups, users, printer and other installed hardware. When your support technicians have instant access to the right information, they can identify the root cause behind poorly performing applications, processes and drivers in less time.  Diagnostic tools provide you with the necessary information to diagnose and resolve hardware and software issues quickly. Source: Zoho Assist We appreciate that Zoho provides a number of customization options to streamline operations, optimize reporting and present a professional branded experience for your customers in support settings. For example, you can customize email templates to ensure consistent brand communication when sending session invitations, or add the lightweight widget with a simple HTML snippet to turn any landing page or blog entry into an entry point for joining a remote session. Zoho also lets you manage your technicians with detailed user-defined permissions and groups to ensure everyone has the access they need to work securely. With custom reporting options, you can maintain comprehensive records for each remote support and unattended access session to analyze your company, individual or group performance and make the necessary adjustments to ensure you’re using resources efficiently.  You can request to record mobile sessions for training purposes and quality assurance. Source: Zoho Assist The Zoho Assist mobile app, available for iOS and Android, allows you to access customers’ screens from the convenience of your mobile device. You can also support customers’ mobile devices with the ability to remotely control iOS and Android devices. With the mobile app installed, customers can connect with a secure session key and share their screens with technicians who can better understand, diagnose and troubleshoot issues with all of the necessary information at their fingertips. During mobile sessions, you can communicate with your customers through instant chat to gain further clarity about the issue they’re experiencing. Zoho Assist has a limited free plan, three paid remote support plans, and two paid unattended access plans. With annual subscriptions, you can save more than 15%. Keep reading to find out the prices of and differences between the packages. Optional add-ons include cloud storage starting at $4 per month for every additional 5GB, VoIP phone call credits priced at $1 per credit and premium customer support that costs 20% of your total license fee. Volume discounts are available as well. Like some of its peers, Zoho Assist offers free trials, giving you no-fee access to its services for 15 days. Installing Zoho Assist is relatively fast and easy for unattended computer setup. The installation client provides you with simple and clear instructions, while pop-ups walk you through the required settings and permissions to get started with a remote access session within a few minutes. Once the software is installed, you can connect with a single click and begin working with the software and data on your remote machine. In mass deployment settings, you can configure a large group of computers and devices through a deployment link, configure group policy, set startup script for Active Directory networks or Microsoft Intune for Windows environments, and set up distributor and domain. It’s all relatively straightforward, even for those without IT certifications. Zoho Assist provides free basic support and charges for its more robust Enterprise Support Plan. Basic customer service is available during set hours on weekdays through email, chat and phone. Enterprise support, priced at 20% of your total license fee, gets you around-the-clock customer service Monday through Friday with a three-hour response time. You can even receive quarterly reporting of your feature usage with recommendations for getting the most out of the platform. Enterprise support customers also receive help with onboarding and one-on-one sessions with Zoho Assist product specialists. This level of support is only available for customers with more than 100 unattended computers or five enterprise technicians. Fortunately, Zoho Assist also provides a robust digital resource center with regular training webinars, product roadmaps, user guides, self-help articles, blogs and community forums to learn about best practices or troubleshoot minor issues. However, if you prefer dedicated assistance, competitors GoTo Resolve and ConnectWise Control both provide 24/7 customer service. Zoho Assist’s customer support services are limited in their availability whether you opt for the free basic support or the Enterprise Support, the latter of which is relatively expensive. The basic support included with all plans is limited to weekdays with no advertised response times. Even with the Enterprise Support plan that costs 20% of your total license fee, you won’t be provided with a dedicated support specialist, and response times can be as long as three hours during weekdays, with no support provided over the weekend. For media- and technology-focused companies that regularly make large file transfers between remotely connected machines and devices, Zoho Assist’s 2GB cap may prove troublesome. However, the system doesn’t require you to use any intermediate storage such as USB, FTP or cloud-based storage solutions. It increases the level of security through what’s effectively an encrypted tunnel for file transfers. When looking for the best remote PC access and support tools available, we closely researched and examined a range of products. These evaluations included participating in live demos, using trial accounts, testing the software on various operating systems and devices, and reaching out to customer service representatives as if we were customers. We investigated each vendor’s pricing and their platforms’ features, ease of use, setup process, security and limitations. We took integrations and customer support into account. Overall, we found Zoho Assist to be the best all-in-one remote support and access solution because it is capable of both services while integrating with the rest of Zoho’s software suite for a streamlined experience. We recommend Zoho Assist for … We don’t recommend Zoho Assist for … For more options, check out the rest of Business News Daily's picks for The Remote PC Access Software: Our Top Picks for Small Businesses. Insights on business strategy and culture, right to your inbox.Part of the business.com network.