Interswitch, Africa’s leading integrated payments and digital commerce company, has unveiled plans for its upcoming Developer Connect Series tagged The Coded Meetup.  The event is aimed at fostering live interactions amongst existing and prospective members of the Interswitch Developer Community, educating participants on Interswitch APIs and relevant use-cases for building tech products, sharing notable insights on industry advancements within and outside Interswitch and much more. The event scheduled to take place on Saturday, June 10, 2023, at GoMyCode Lagos, 230 Herbert Macaulay way, Alagomeji Yaba, Lagos, will promote  collaboration, innovation, and growth within the Interswitch Developer Community. Another key highlight of event will be the re-introduction of the Interswitch Developer Referral Program, an initiative to incentivize developers who refer potential partners, tech builders or businesses to Quickteller Business. This initiative offers referrers a code-free way to earn extra passive income. Muyiwa Asagba, Managing Director, Digital Commerce and Merchant Acquiring (Interswitch Paymate), said the company is at the forefront of driving growth within the developer community in Nigeria and plans to extend this to other African countries in the near future. He said “The Developer Connect Series is an expression of our commitment towards fostering innovation and enabling developers thrive. Through this initiative, we are providing a platform for collaboration and knowledge-sharing among developers and professionals in the technology ecosystem, equipping them with the necessary tools and insights to harness the full potential of Interswitch’s APIs, gain valuable insights, and leverage our technology to create transformative solutions. “At Interswitch, we strongly recognize the importance of nurturing technological talents, and we believe in the power of collaboration and knowledge-sharing to drive advancements in the industry,” Asagba added. These APIs will enable developers to seamlessly integrate payment solutions, value added services, identity verification systems, and other financial services into their applications. By understanding the potential of Interswitch APIs, developers can unlock endless possibilities and create unique experiences for their customers. The Developer Connect Series will also feature engaging discussions on the latest industry advancements and emerging trends. Experts and thought leaders will share their experiences and provide valuable insights into the future of digital payments, e-commerce, and technology-driven solutions. Interswitch invites Developers, Product Manages, Product Designers, and technology enthusiasts to join the Developer Connect Series and be a part of this immersive learning experience. Whether you are a seasoned developer or just starting your journey, this event promises to provide valuable insights, networking opportunities, and the chance to become part of a vibrant community of innovators. To register to attend, click here . We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings. This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.