Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	September 26, 2023   	
				         Nium, the real-time global payments provider, has opened a new European headquarters in London to accelerate its business expansion across the continent. The new office is located at 18 St. Swithin’s Lane, London, EC4N 8AD.
Founded in Singapore in 2014, Nium is disrupting the way businesses move money around the world and is powering some of the largest corporations across the globe, including Rippling, Payoneer, Currencycloud, and eDreams.
Over the last three years, the company has been sustainably investing in the growth of its business in Europe through M&A, talent acquisition, and product innovation. In 2021, Nium acquired travel payments company Ixaris and recently hired ex-Payoneer SVP Manuel Sandhofer as General Manager to run and expand regional operations.
Now, the payments specialist has opened its new European headquarters in London to reflect its market position and to meet the demand for its real-time payment services. The office will also provide a strategic base for Nium to continue to serve its customers and coordinate its presence across Europe.
Presently, Nium has European offices in London, Amsterdam, and Malta with local operations in Germany, France, and Israel. In 2022, its European business contributed to more than 40% of the firm’s global revenue.
“London is our home away from home,” said Prajit Nanu, Founder and CEO at Nium. “Establishing our European headquarters within the Square Mile gives Nium invaluable access to a thriving financial services ecosystem that we want to help support and scale. After experiencing growth across APAC and the US, Europe is now our fastest-growing market. This means we are well positioned to help businesses here unlock opportunities beyond borders, especially those with a focus on emerging markets.”
Manuel Sandhofer, SVP & General Manager in Europe added, “Nium has been present in the UK for several years now. With the support of local regulators, industry bodies, and our talented team members, we have built a strong foundation of products, customers, and licenses. Our new regional headquarters represents our commitment to the UK as the cornerstone of Nium’s long-term growth plans in Europe.”
Nium hopes the move will encourage further international investment into the UK.
 Nium, the real-time global payments provider, has opened a new European headquarters in London to accelerate its business expansion across the continent. The new office is located at 18 St. Swithin’s Lane, London, EC4N 8AD. Founded in Singapore in 2014, Nium is disrupting the way businesses move money around the world and is powering some of the largest corporations across the globe, including Rippling, Payoneer, Currencycloud, and eDreams. Over the last three years, the company has been sustainably investing in the growth of its business in Europe through M&A, talent acquisition, and product innovation. In 2021, Nium acquired travel payments company Ixaris and recently hired ex-Payoneer SVP Manuel Sandhofer as General Manager to run and expand regional operations. Now, the payments specialist has opened its new European headquarters in London to reflect its market position and to meet the demand for its real-time payment services. The office will also provide a strategic base for Nium to continue to serve its customers and coordinate its presence across Europe. Presently, Nium has European offices in London, Amsterdam, and Malta with local operations in Germany, France, and Israel. In 2022, its European business contributed to more than 40% of the firm’s global revenue. “London is our home away from home,” said Prajit Nanu, Founder and CEO at Nium. “Establishing our European headquarters within the Square Mile gives Nium invaluable access to a thriving financial services ecosystem that we want to help support and scale. After experiencing growth across APAC and the US, Europe is now our fastest-growing market. This means we are well positioned to help businesses here unlock opportunities beyond borders, especially those with a focus on emerging markets.” Manuel Sandhofer, SVP & General Manager in Europe added, “Nium has been present in the UK for several years now. With the support of local regulators, industry bodies, and our talented team members, we have built a strong foundation of products, customers, and licenses. Our new regional headquarters represents our commitment to the UK as the cornerstone of Nium’s long-term growth plans in Europe.” Nium hopes the move will encourage further international investment into the UK. September 26, 2023 September 26, 2023 July 19, 2024 Banking-as-a-Service (BaaS) Today  Today  Today  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
