Three imperatives to manage the cost of compliance IT outsourcing and shared services trends 10 steps for an effective core banking system selection FIDA Unleashed | Beyond Open Banking & Data Privacy Webinar | Mission Possible: Unlocking the Future of Banking with NextGen Core Webinar | Unlocking the Potential of Open Banking in the Middle East Navigating The FinTech Landscape: Powering Corporate Banking Through Interoperability Acquiring & Retaining Gen Z in Banking via a Mobile App Industry 4.0 and the Digital Transformation of Supply Chain Finance 
			          	August 04, 2023   	
				         Payoneer, a FinTech company helping small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs), has announced the asset acquisition of Israel-based Spott, a real-time data platform.
Harnessing Spott’s capabilities, Payoneer will analyse large data sets to apply advanced AI models and make predictions and decisions about its service offerings for a global SMB customer base. The technology’s first application will be on the company’s working capital products to enhance underwriting capabilities.
“Today’s announcement is part of Payoneer’s commitment to investing in AI and data to provide unique and seamless experiences for our customers,” said Assaf Ronen, Chief Platform Officer at Payoneer. “We look forward to seeing these capabilities’ impact on Payoneer customers. Spott has built a strong solution, and as part of Payoneer, this innovative technology will be available to SMBs in nearly 200 countries and territories.”
Spott’s technology will enable Payoneer to understand better and enable SMBs to operate and grow their business worldwide. As part of the transaction, Spott’s co-founders, CEO Amit Batzir and CTO Roma Bronstein will join Payoneer’s Technology team, also based in Israel.
“This is another exciting step on the journey for us. We believe in the impact our technology can have on Payoneer’s global customers. Today’s announcement means the solution can help more businesses worldwide,” said Amit Batzir, Co-founder and CEO at Spott. “Payoneer was a natural fit for the vision we have for our technology, and we look forward to working with the team and building for the future.”
 Payoneer, a FinTech company helping small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs), has announced the asset acquisition of Israel-based Spott, a real-time data platform. Harnessing Spott’s capabilities, Payoneer will analyse large data sets to apply advanced AI models and make predictions and decisions about its service offerings for a global SMB customer base. The technology’s first application will be on the company’s working capital products to enhance underwriting capabilities. “Today’s announcement is part of Payoneer’s commitment to investing in AI and data to provide unique and seamless experiences for our customers,” said Assaf Ronen, Chief Platform Officer at Payoneer. “We look forward to seeing these capabilities’ impact on Payoneer customers. Spott has built a strong solution, and as part of Payoneer, this innovative technology will be available to SMBs in nearly 200 countries and territories.” Spott’s technology will enable Payoneer to understand better and enable SMBs to operate and grow their business worldwide. As part of the transaction, Spott’s co-founders, CEO Amit Batzir and CTO Roma Bronstein will join Payoneer’s Technology team, also based in Israel. “This is another exciting step on the journey for us. We believe in the impact our technology can have on Payoneer’s global customers. Today’s announcement means the solution can help more businesses worldwide,” said Amit Batzir, Co-founder and CEO at Spott. “Payoneer was a natural fit for the vision we have for our technology, and we look forward to working with the team and building for the future.” August 04, 2023 August 04, 2023 July 19, 2024 AI August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  August 19, 2024  Stay updated with the latest Financial Technology news, trending topics, and insights. © IBS Intelligence and Cedar Management Consulting International, LLC 
 
 

 

 

 
