There’s a lot to be optimistic about in the Services sector as 3 analysts just weighed in on V2X (VVX – Research Report), Endeavor Group Holdings Inc (EDR – Research Report) and Payoneer (PAYO – Research Report) with bullish sentiments. V2X (VVX) In a report released today, Kenneth Herbert  from RBC Capital reiterated a Buy rating on V2X, with a price target of $60.00. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $44.76. According to TipRanks.com, Herbert is a top 100 analyst with an average return of 19.1% and a 64.4% success rate. Herbert covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Raytheon Technologies, L3Harris Technologies, and Maxar Technologies. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for V2X with a $58.50 average price target.
		  See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  Endeavor Group Holdings Inc (EDR) In a report released today, Douglas Mitchelson  from Credit Suisse reiterated a Buy rating on Endeavor Group Holdings Inc, with a price target of $33.00. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $24.23. According to TipRanks.com, Mitchelson is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 10.4% and a 55.2% success rate. Mitchelson covers the Services sector, focusing on stocks such as Liberty Media Liberty SiriusXM, Paramount Global Class B, and Charter Communications. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for Endeavor Group Holdings Inc with a $32.00 average price target, implying a 28.0% upside from current levels. In a report issued on May 1, Guggenheim also initiated coverage with a Buy rating on the stock with a $33.00 price target.
		  Payoneer (PAYO) In a report released today, Sanjay Sakhrani  from KBW maintained a Buy rating on Payoneer, with a price target of $8.00. The company’s shares closed last Wednesday at $4.79. According to TipRanks.com, Sakhrani is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 12.4% and a 68.6% success rate. Sakhrani covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Bread Financial Holdings, Synchrony Financial, and Regional Management. Currently, the analyst consensus on Payoneer is a Strong Buy with an average price target of $8.67, representing a 70.7% upside. In a report released today, Needham also reiterated a Buy rating on the stock with a $10.00 price target. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on VVX:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks