Companies in the  Technology sector have received a lot of coverage today as analysts  weigh in on Paypal Holdings (PYPL – Research Report), Roblox (RBLX – Research Report) and Upwork (UPWK – Research Report). Paypal Holdings (PYPL) Bank of America Securities analyst Jason Kupferberg  maintained a Buy rating on Paypal Holdings yesterday and set a price target of $90.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $64.24, close to its 52-week low of $58.95. According to TipRanks.com, Kupferberg is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 7.0% and a 58.7% success rate. Kupferberg covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Thoughtworks Holding, Coinbase Global, and DXC Technology. Currently, the analyst consensus on Paypal Holdings is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $96.39, representing a 50.1% upside. In a report released yesterday, Barclays also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $92.00 price target.
		  See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  Roblox (RBLX) In a report released today, Omar Dessouky  from Bank of America Securities maintained a Buy rating on Roblox, with a price target of $54.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $38.87. According to TipRanks.com, Dessouky is a 1-star analyst with an average return of -5.0% and a 48.0% success rate. Dessouky covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Playtika Holding, Electronic Arts, and Digital Turbine. Currently, the analyst consensus on Roblox is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $43.43.
		  Upwork (UPWK) In a report released today, Nat Schindler  from Bank of America Securities maintained a Hold rating on Upwork, with a price target of $9.00. The company’s shares closed last Thursday at $8.62, close to its 52-week low of $6.56. According to TipRanks.com, Schindler is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 7.3% and a 48.5% success rate. Schindler covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as NerdWallet, Inc. Class A, Fiverr International, and AdTheorent Holding. Upwork has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $12.00. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on PYPL:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks