 
        Wednesday 20th September 2023               PaySauce Limited (NZX: PYS ) announces that Jim Sybertsma has been appointed as an independent Director of the board with effect from 1 October 2023.   Jim has over 25 years of experience in financial leadership positions including CFO roles for DB Group, NZ Dairy Foods, Fliway Group, and Hawkesby Management. During this time, Jim has been involved in audit, compliance and corporate finance activities across a range of industries and sizes from start-up to scale-up.   Jim is currently a Director for Provident Insurance Corporation Limited, Auto Drive Holdings and First Glass. He is also CFO of Hawkesby Management, a family office investment role managing multiple investments in early stage tech companies and listed equity portfolios.   Commenting on the appointment, Jim said, “I’m incredibly excited to join PaySauce at such an important time of its growth journey, and I look forward to bringing my skills and experience to the table to help the team deliver success”.   Board Chair Shelley Ruha said, “We’re thrilled to have Jim step in as Chair of our Audit and Risk Committee. His expertise will serve us incredibly well as we execute on our growth strategy”.   An image of Jim Sybertsma is included in the attached pdf.   ABOUT PAYSAUCE   PaySauce is a SaaS fintech platform providing solutions for people at work in 14 jurisdictions across the Asia-Pacific region. The technology enables small employers to digitally onboard, pay and manage employees from any device. The platform includes rosters, mobile timesheets, payroll calculations, banking integration, automated payments, PAYE ﬁling, labour costing, automated general ledger entries and digital employment contracts. The PayNow feature enables customers’ employees to access the pay they’ve earned before payday, providing a free alternative to payday lenders. No comments yet Anti-spam verification: Type the text you see in the image into the field below. You are asked to do this in order to verify that this enquiry is not being performed by an automated process. 
CRP ADVISES CLOSURE OF SHARE OFFER TO EXISTING INVESTORDevon Funds Morning Note - 14 August 2024OCR 5.25% - Monetary restraint tempered as inflation converges on targetConsumers still need due diligence as new deposit takers emerge.Woolworths strike: staff asked to dress up in Disney costumes for a week on their own dollarTurners Invests in Quashed Online Insurance PlatformPGW Reports on Challenging YearArvida Announces Executive Team ChangesVHP - Managed Investment Scheme 2024 Annual ReportFSF - Nominations open for Fonterra Board of Directors' Election  Woolworths strike: staff asked to dress up in Disney costumes for a week on their own dollar Turners Invests in Quashed Online Insurance Platform PGW Reports on Challenging Year Arvida Announces Executive Team Changes VHP - Managed Investment Scheme 2024 Annual Report FSF - Nominations open for Fonterra Board of Directors' Election TGG - Half Year Results 2024 2CC - Annual Meeting and Director Nominations ERD - New EROAD AI dashcam to drive safety and productivity SCL - 2024 Interim Results - announcement date RAD - Update on 1QFY25 and Annual Meeting Materials 
    Please select which newsletter(s) you wish to subscribe to:
   Unsubscribe/Update » 
  All our newsletters are FREE to subscribe to and you can unsubscribe at any time. 
 
          © Copyright 1997-2024 MoneyOnline Ltd - 
          
          All Rights Reserved
