MEDIANAMA Technology and policy in India Update (June 21, 10:40 am):  MediaNama obtained a copy of the dissent note sent by startups to the Committee on Digital Competition Law (CDCL) and we have included the full text of the same at the end of this article. Original Story (June 20, 4:30 pm): Paytm, Bharat Matrimony, Shaadi.com, Tinder-owner Match Group, ShareChat, and Spotify are among the startups that have written to the Committee on Digital Competition Law (CDCL) disagreeing with the submission made by the industry body Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) on the digital competition bill, Economic Times reported on June 20. CDCL was set up by the Indian government in February 2023 to explore a separate law on competition in digital markets. In its submission to CDCL, IAMAI had objected to ex-ante regulations for digital markets. This view had irked some Indian startup founders who accused the industry body of furthering the interests of foreign tech companies to the detriment of Indian companies. MapmyIndia CEO Rohan Varma, Matrimony.com CEO Murugavel Janakiraman, and Shaadi.com Founder and Shark Tank investor Anupam Mittal were among those who voiced their concerns about IAMAI publicly. The heat faced by the industry body for its stance also shaped the body’s governing council election, which was held last month. “Regrettably, IAMAI’s recent submission ignores the fundamental reality of why these discussions about ex-ante regulation are taking place both here and around the world: the status quo has failed, and is failing, to adequately constrain the power and conduct of the dominant digital gatekeepers that now control so many aspects of commerce and our lives. We understand that ex-ante regulation is needed in the digital sector and India would benefit from a new regulatory framework to improve the competition in the digital economy. Currently, the protracted nature of traditional antitrust litigation is expensive and extensive.” — Dissent note sent to CDCL by startups, EconomicTimes reported. MediaNama has reached out to IAMAI, Match Group, Spotify, Sharechat, Paytm, Bharat Matrimony, and Shaadi.com for a statement. We will update this post when we get a response. What was IAMAI’s stance: We’ve covered IAMAI’s draft submission in detail here but the final version, which is not publicly available, has undergone certain changes. In a press statement on its final submission, IAMAI noted: “Size or scale-based applicability of regulations under an ex-ante digital competition policy will impact larger players in the market in their growth trajectory, while also limiting the growth potential of start-ups. Regulations that kick in as soon as certain financial/size-based thresholds are met, will disincentivise Indian tech companies from scaling so as to avoid additional regulations. It is pertinent to note that ex-ante regulations may affect Indian companies even before they can achieve scale to compete globally or achieve profitability. This in turn will reduce value creation and valuations.” The industry body also noted that India has already experimented with ex-ante regulations under the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices (MRTP) Act, 1969, and this limited the growth of Indian companies, because of which India moved away from an ex-ante regime. The startup body also noted that the Competition Commission of India (CCI) has been “promptly looking into various digital competition issues and has passed orders imposing penalties and requiring changes in the conduct of digital markets.” FULL TEXT OF DISSENT NOTE:  The below signatories, all members of the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI), write to express our dissent from IAMAI’s recent submission to the Committee on Digital Competition Law.  The submission does not reflect the views of many IAMAI member companies. We believe the submission does not represent a policy that will advance investment, innovation, diversity, or consumer welfare in India. Our experience in operating innovative companies at various stages of growth tells us that a “status quo” approach to dominant digital gatekeeper platforms is not the best path to foster innovation. Regrettably, IAMAI’s recent submission ignores the fundamental reality of why these discussions about ex ante regulation are taking place both here and around the world:  the status quo has failed, and is failing, to adequately constrain the power and conduct of the dominant digital gatekeepers that now control so many aspects of commerce and our lives. We understand that ex ante regulation is needed in the digital sector and India would benefit from a new regulatory framework to improve the competition in the digital economy. Currently, the protracted nature of traditional antitrust litigation is expensive and extensive. Case-by-case adjudication of violations by a limited number of gatekeepers in the digital markets has created a system that encourages uncertainty, privileges incumbents, and deprives individuals/ digital companies from participating in the digital markets fairly. Considering the financial prowess of the digital companies involved, antitrust enforcement and fines, in many cases, have become a cost of doing business. This is abundantly visible in India, across international geographies and was also noted by this esteemed Committee. Therefore, to limit the power and constrain the behavior of this generation of dominant digital platforms there is a building consensus that a different, certain, and faster solution is needed. As the power of digital gatekeeper platforms has increased so rapidly, we say without hyperbole, that many of the digital companies filing these comments would not have been able to get off the ground in today’s environment. A new framework will particularly open mobile application distribution to competition. The app distribution economy is currently cloistered between two major players which leads to severely one-sided agreements, unfair policies, and anti-competitive practices. Further, mobile devices and operating systems are the predominant (and increasingly exclusive) gateway to the Internet for consumers and businesses alike. In the past 15 years, mobile operating systems have also become increasingly dominated by the afore-stated parallel monopolies. These companies now act as gatekeepers to mobile internet services and have control over the relationship between most digital businesses and their customers. The time is ripe, therefore, for antitrust enforcement to be complemented by ex-ante regulation as applicable to other parts of the economy (e.g., energy, telecommunications). An ex-ante approach, like that being implemented in the European Union, and currently being considered with broad support in the United Kingdom, the United States, and other countries around the world, promises to bring certainty to market participants, deliver well understood benefits to consumers and innovators and overcome the recognized limitations of traditional competition law enforcement against unilateral conduct by dominant firms. The Digital Market Act in Europe provides a good framework to approach ex-ante regulation that addresses recognized abuses of true gatekeeping platforms while allowing innovation and business from all developers to flourish. To take the example of gatekeeper app stores, an appropriate regulation could entail the following: Finally, we have three recommendations for the Committee’s consideration: The status quo was good for dominant digital gatekeeper platforms all these years and has led to severe harm to the market, its players, and consumers at large.  We believe the approach contemplated by the Committee on Digital Competition Law rightfully prioritizes the interests of Indian consumers and independent innovators and entrepreneurs. India should not stand aside as the rest of the world moves towards addressing the market failures in areas like App Stores and mobile devices. Update (June 21, 10:40 am): Text of dissent noted added, headline changed. Also Read The company’s CEO had agreed that AI systems should be put through independent testing and should not have safe harbour protections. He has also worked as the Additional Secretary and Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Finance. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ MediaNama is the premier source of information and analysis on Technology Policy in India. More about MediaNama, and contact information, here. © 2024 Mixed Bag Media Pvt. Ltd. 