Valentine's Day week has begun. Valentine's Day, which is observed on February 14 every year, marks the end of the week, which began on February 7 with Rose Day. Couples show their love for one another by giving special presents, going on dates, taking vacations, and doing a variety of other activities during Valentine's Week. The majority of couples want to give their lovers something unique. Something portable and commemorative of their relationship In this week, rings, bracelets, and necklaces are among the top-selling gifts, but over the past few years, Apple goods have emerged as the finest presents owing to their usability. SEE ALSO: The Upcoming iPhone Ultra Might Look Exactly Like This Apple Watch Model If you're looking to buy a Valentine's Day present for your loved one, Flipkart is now having a special sale where you can obtain items for incredibly low prices. Here are a few Apple devices you might want to look into purchasing during the Flipkart sale. ● The most popular TWS earbuds worldwide are Apple AirPods. The Apple AirPods Pro is now available on Flipkart for Rs 19,990, but the online retailer is also giving Paytm wallet users an immediate Rs 100 rebate. Additionally, Flipkart is slashing the cost of an outdated smartphone by up to Rs 19,000, making Apple AirPods Pro available for Rs 890. ● Despite Apple discontinuing the Apple Watch Series 3, it continues to be one of the best-selling smartwatches to this day. Due to Flipkart's current offer of a Rs 17,500 discount in return for your old smartphone, the Apple Watch Series is presently available for just Rs 4,682. On the Flipkart Axis Bank card, customers may additionally receive 5% cashback. Flipkart is selling the Apple Watch Series 3 for Rs 4,682, which has a retail estimate of Rs 23,349. ● The most recent non-Pro earphones from the tech titan are the Apple AirPods 3. Flipkart is presently selling the Apple AirPods 3 for Rs 19,100, but it also has an immediate cashback offer of Rs 100 on the Paytm wallet. Additionally, Flipkart is slashing the price of Apple AirPods 3 by Rs 500 by providing up to a Rs 18,500 discount in return for an old smartphone. SEE ALSO: You Can No Longer Use Microsoft Authenticator On Apple Watch Anymore But Here’s The Catch ● One of the best-selling iPhones to date is the Apple iPhone 11. The price of the Apple iPhone 11 during the Flipkart Valentine's Day sale is merely Rs 19,900. On Flipkart, the cost of the Apple iPhone 11 is presently Rs 41,999. Customers who use their Flipkart Axis Bank card are eligible for a 5% reward. Flipkart is further giving up to a Rs 20,000 discount in return for an old smartphone; this lowers the cost of the Apple iPhone 11 to Rs 19,900.