On July 4, the Parliamentary Standing Committee for Finance has scheduled a meeting to address the issues of cyber security and cyber threats. During this meeting, senior officials from different banks have been summoned to deliver comprehensive presentations on measures to combat cyber threats and enhance cyber security within the country. The focus of the upcoming meeting is centered around the topic of "Cyber security and the increasing occurrence of cyber/white collar crimes." "Oral evidence of the representatives of Punjab National Bank (PNB), Bank of India, Yes Bank and Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) on the subject 'Cyber security and rising incidence of cyber/white collar crimes," the committee agenda read. The committee has also called upon the representatives from Paytm, Flipkart, Google, and Apple to provide oral testimony on the subject of "Cyber security and the growing occurrence of cyber/white collar crimes." Moroever, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance has raised apprehensions regarding the escalating count of cyber threat incidents in the nation. Jayant Sinha, a Member of Parliament from Lok Sabha, holds the position of Chairman for the Standing Committee on Finance. Comprising a total of 31 members, the Committee involves 21 members from Lok Sabha and 10 members from Rajya Sabha. The monsoon session of Parliament will begin on July 20 this year and will continue till August 20. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi made the announcement on his official Twitter handle. The session is expected to be a stormy one as the Opposition parties were closing ranks to put up a united front against the Narendra Modi-led BJP in view of the Lok Sabha elections next year, PTI reported. Joshi also urged political parties to contribute toward productive discussions during the session. “Monsoon Session, 2023 of Parliament will commence from 20th July and continue till 11th August. Urge all parties to contribute towards productive discussions on Legislative Business and other items during the Monsoon Session," Pralhad Joshi tweeted.  (With inputs from ANI) Milestone Alert!
Livemint tops charts as the fastest growing news website in the world 🌏 Click here  to know more.
  3.6 Crore Indians visited in a single day choosing us as India's undisputed platform for General Election Results. Explore the latest updates  here!
 Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment. You are just one step away from creating your watchlist! Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image. Your session has expired, please login again. You are now subscribed to our newsletters. In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder. This is a subscriber only feature Subscribe Now to get daily updates on WhatsApp