Suzuki Motorcycle India has announced the inaugural edition of Suzuki Matsuri. To honour the Spirit of Motorcycling, Suzuki Matsuri will be an epic full-day event of fun and adventure for motorcycle enthusiasts. The first edition of Suzuki Matsuri will be on October 1, 2023, from 2 PM onwards at the iconic Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium in the heart of New Delhi. Passes for the event are available exclusively on Paytm Insider. Suzuki Matsuri promises an action-packed day for motorcycle enthusiasts and fans of all ages. From hands-on workshops, expert talks, and captivating displays, to electrifying performances, the event also promises thrilling track rides, an immersive experience for attendees in the rich tapestry of the motorcycling world. The heart of motorcycle culture lies at the Arena & Workshops section of Suzuki Matsuri 2023. In the Garage & Workshops area, riders can gain hands-on experience with toolkit usage tips, meet motorcycle influencers, master motorcycle photography with tips and tricks from experts, prioritize safety with a dedicated workshop, attend enlightening expert talks, and delve into the intricate art of B-Byoing guided by a seasoned professional. Meanwhile, the Arena section offers an array of experiences, including product display zones, diverse food options, showcases, captivating merchandise displays, captivating Manga Art and Animation, and a vibrant space for graffiti and customization.  For entertainment, the charismatic Rustom K Patel will keep the energy high throughout the day and DJ Netin will give electrifying performances. Motorcycling enthusiasts can take Track Arena Rides at Suzuki Matsuri 2023. Registered riders can take the latest Suzuki models for a spin with Test Rides, witness the mastery of off-road riders during the Soft Enduro display, be awed by daring stunts at the Stunt Show performed by skilled riders, and test their riding skills at the Gymkhana course. Commenting on the occasion, Mr. Devashish Handa, EVP Sales, Marketing & After Sales, Suzuki Motorcycle India said, “Suzuki Matsuri promises to be a remarkable fusion of passion, skill, and camaraderie, embodying the spirit of Suzuki. It is all about celebrating the true essence of motorcycling, a shared love for the road, and the thrill of riding. The celebration is our ode in deference to the Spirit of the Rider around whom our entire operations revolve.” Tickets for Suzuki Matsuri 2023 for October 1st, 2023 at the Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, Delhi are available exclusively at Paytm Insider. 

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
  Notify me of follow-up comments by email.  

  Δ