Games & Quizzes April 21 | 4PM - April 29 | 11PM Online ₹199 Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events! Digital Event Online For Age(s) For Kids Language English Online Game Participate and have fun Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience Games & Quizzes April 21 | 4PM - April 29 | 11PM Online ₹199 Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events! Digital Event Online For Age(s) For Kids Language English Online Game Participate and have fun Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience Digital Event Online For Age(s) For Kids Language English Online Game Participate and have fun Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience As cricket fever grips the nation, Hindustan Times brings to you India's first and only initiative to include school-going children in the fun.Switch Hit is a unique opportunity for children to participate in a fun and engaging quiz based on the Indian Dometic T20 Cricket League. There are amazing prizes to be won including FREE match tickets, FREE flight tickets and FREE hotel accommodation to watch the IPL 2023 Final, Qualifier and Eliminator matches! What's more, all participants get guaranteed certificates.This is the perfect opportunity for parents to inculcate the hobby of quizzing in their children through their favourite topic - cricket! Quizzing helps children sharpen their learning and knowledge retention skills while also developing their confidence and social skills.Start them on the path of one of the most rewarding hobbies and also win great prizes along the way with Switch Hit - Hindustan Times Cricket League Quiz!  As cricket fever grips the nation, Hindustan Times brings to you India's first and only initiative to include school-going children in the fun. Switch Hit is a unique opportunity for children to participate in a fun and engaging quiz based on the Indian Dometic T20 Cricket League. There are amazing prizes to be won including FREE match tickets, FREE flight tickets and FREE hotel accommodation to watch the IPL 2023 Final, Qualifier and Eliminator matches! What's more, all participants get guaranteed certificates. This is the perfect opportunity for parents to inculcate the hobby of quizzing in their children through their favourite topic - cricket! Quizzing helps children sharpen their learning and knowledge retention skills while also developing their confidence and social skills. Start them on the path of one of the most rewarding hobbies and also win great prizes along the way with Switch Hit - Hindustan Times Cricket League Quiz!  Games & Quizzes April 21 | 4PM - April 29 | 11PM Online ₹199 Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events! Digital Event Online For Age(s) For Kids Language English Online Game Participate and have fun Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now ₹199 Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events!   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now Subscribe to our newsletter There’s a range of amazing experiences; from music and comedy to food and beverage festivals that you probably have nooooooo idea about. Be in the know! HIT PAUSE ON BOREDOM Watch and cheer for your favourite teams, Discover new hobbies with workshops & courses And Groove to the beats of your favourite artists. Download our App now! Curated & Handpicked Events in Online Music Events: Gigs & Festivals  in Online Comedy shows: Standup & Open Mic in Online Cheer Your Favourite Sports Team! Cheer Your Favourite Sports Team! Trekking, Camping & Adventure in Online EXPLORE events in TRENDING cities Paytm Insider is a platform that helps you discover and buy the best in events, travel and food in your city. We strive to curate experiences that are worth your time and money, possibly something you have never tried before. Paytm Insider is built by the same team that created Bacardi NH7 Weekender (us) and we sure know what goes into putting together a great experience. Our technology, marketing and customer support can help you build a community of not just ticket buyers, but also fans. Find us on: