  Susan Phillips
WHYY The Delaware City Refinery in New Castle, Del. — WHYY Photo/Cris Barrish The Delaware City Refinery, owned by PBF Energy, in New Castle County is second on the list for most nitrogen discharges from oil refiners nationwide, according to a new report from the Environmental Integrity Project (EIP). The report, “Oil’s Unchecked Outfalls,” looked at 2021 data from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on discharges from all 81 refineries nationwide. While the 1,198,371 pounds of nitrogen discharged into the Delaware River in 2021 did not violate Delaware City’s permit, the report outlines how outdated standards pose a problem. EIP’s director Eric Schaeffer said the EPA needs to strengthen refinery regulations. “We’re living with standards that were set 40 years ago,” said Schaeffer. “We [now] have 21st-century wastewater treatment methods that could do a lot more to clean up those discharges.” Schaeffer, who used to run EPA’s office of civil enforcement, said the current refinery standards for nitrogen discharges, as well as those for industrial salts, cyanide, arsenic, chromium and selenium are based on the technology available in the 1970s. Nitrogen is one of the main reasons more than half the nation’s waterways do not meet current standards outlined by the Clean Water Act, according to Schaeffer. “Nitrogen is very bad for waterways,” he said. “It’s a nutrient, which makes it sound like a good thing, but it supercharges algae blooms and causes them to grow and spread. It also feeds the growth of weeds and other plants that suck up oxygen that fish and aquatic life need to survive.” The Clean Water Act, which was enacted 50 years ago, requires the EPA to set standards based on the best available technology. But Schaeffer said when it comes to refineries, and a number of other industrial polluters, that has not happened. “And that’s really illegal,” he said. “[They] have a mandatory duty to turn those limits up and make them more stringent.” States can also set higher standards than federal regulations. EPA says it’s reviewing the EIP’s report. Delaware’s Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control did not return a request for comment. The Delaware River Basin Commission also oversees water discharges into the Delaware Estuary and has set its own standards for selenium, nickel and total dissolved solids. The DRBC is currently looking at nutrient pollution as part of its Aquatic Life Designated Use project, but declined to comment on the report. Brian Moran, chair of the Surfrider Foundation’s Delaware chapter said he wants state and federal officials to reject the refinery’s permit renewal. “Pollution in the river can have an impact downstream on our wetlands, bay and ocean,” said Moran in a statement. The report also found the Delaware City Refinery discharged into the Delaware River 145,847 pounds of aluminum, 39,831 pounds of suspended solids, and 7,499 pounds of oil and grease. The Delaware City Refinery, owned by PBF Energy, in New Castle County is second on the list for most nitrogen discharges from oil refiners nationwide, according to a new report from the Environmental Integrity Project (EIP). The report, “Oil’s Unchecked Outfalls,” looked at 2021 data from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on discharges from all 81 refineries nationwide. While the 1,198,371 pounds of nitrogen discharged into the Delaware River in 2021 did not violate Delaware City’s permit, the report outlines how outdated standards pose a problem. EIP’s director Eric Schaeffer said the EPA needs to strengthen refinery regulations. “We’re living with standards that were set 40 years ago,” said Schaeffer. “We [now] have 21st-century wastewater treatment methods that could do a lot more to clean up those discharges.” Schaeffer, who used to run EPA’s office of civil enforcement, said the current refinery standards for nitrogen discharges, as well as those for industrial salts, cyanide, arsenic, chromium and selenium are based on the technology available in the 1970s. Nitrogen is one of the main reasons more than half the nation’s waterways do not meet current standards outlined by the Clean Water Act, according to Schaeffer. “Nitrogen is very bad for waterways,” he said. “It’s a nutrient, which makes it sound like a good thing, but it supercharges algae blooms and causes them to grow and spread. It also feeds the growth of weeds and other plants that suck up oxygen that fish and aquatic life need to survive.” The Clean Water Act, which was enacted 50 years ago, requires the EPA to set standards based on the best available technology. But Schaeffer said when it comes to refineries, and a number of other industrial polluters, that has not happened. “And that’s really illegal,” he said. “[They] have a mandatory duty to turn those limits up and make them more stringent.” States can also set higher standards than federal regulations. EPA says it’s reviewing the EIP’s report. Delaware’s Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control did not return a request for comment. The Delaware River Basin Commission also oversees water discharges into the Delaware Estuary and has set its own standards for selenium, nickel and total dissolved solids. The DRBC is currently looking at nutrient pollution as part of its Aquatic Life Designated Use project, but declined to comment on the report. Brian Moran, chair of the Surfrider Foundation’s Delaware chapter said he wants state and federal officials to reject the refinery’s permit renewal. “Pollution in the river can have an impact downstream on our wetlands, bay and ocean,” said Moran in a statement. The report also found the Delaware City Refinery discharged into the Delaware River 145,847 pounds of aluminum, 39,831 pounds of suspended solids, and 7,499 pounds of oil and grease. This article first appeared on WHYY.org. This article originally appeared on WHYY.org.     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Joe Biden delivers remarks in Texas marking 60th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act in Houston, Texas.  Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on! Obituaries and death notices are paid. The editorial department may decide to cover someone's passing. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:       Account processing issue - the email address may already exist Would you like to receive the Tribune Today headlines by email? Sign up today Sign up with  Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. Invalid password or account does not exist Sign in with Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. No promotional rates found.   
 Secure & Encrypted 
Secure transaction.
Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.
  
Thank you.
                                     
Your gift purchase was successful!
Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.
 A receipt was sent to your email.