A COUPLE are raking in an extra £1,500 a month by letting out space in their home.  Sue and David Black, from Barnet, London, have earned around £15,000 since they started the lucrative operation in December 2021 by using Peerspace. The rental space marketplace allows people to let out spaces in their homes to serve as meeting rooms, event venues and filming locations, among others. Fusing David's design skills and Sue's knack for property space, the couple's home is now a popular choice for punters. “I would say with Peerspace alone, we have made about £15,000 since December 2021", Sue told the Express. “Definitely could have made more if we had dropped our price but we were happy with the level of bookings coming in. “Initially I thought it would be great to use the extra money towards our holiday fund but recently it’s really come in handy with the cost of our heating!” With spiralling gas and electricity bills crippling Brits up and down the country, Sue explains the benefits of earning a few extra quid without leaving her home. Sue continued: “It feels great knowing that my house can generate an income instead of consuming it!   “I can tailor my price point to where I can manage the frequency of bookings without it becoming a chore as I wouldn’t want to be tied to the house all the time and you have to be on-site when there is a booking.  “However, if I really needed extra cash I know I could drop my price and get a lot more interest which is good to know.” But the couple's savvy business move has not been without its issues, with the couple naming littering and noise as two main problems. It is, however, a rare occurrence. She said: “Other than that, we've not had any real problems with the shoots themselves." It comes after one woman revealed how she makes £80,000 a year with her simple side hustle - and only works a few hours a week.  The Sun Online also reported how a 23-year-old is raking in £300,000 a month through her unique business project - after coming up with the idea at her parent's house during the pandemic.  ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.