Brought to you by  The global auto industry experienced a 9% drop in new job postings related to social responsibility in Q1 2023 compared with the previous quarter, according to GlobalData’s Job Analytics. This compares to a 12% increase versus Q1 2022. The key social themes, commitment details of leading companies to social responsibility, and discussions and hiring activity for social responsibility in automotive and 15 other key sectors are covered in GlobalData’s Social Responsibility Trends by Sector – Thematic Intelligence report. Buy the report here. The global auto industry experienced a 9% drop in new job postings related to social responsibility in Q1 2023 compared with the previous quarter, according to GlobalData’s Job Analytics. This compares to a 12% increase versus Q1 2022. The key social themes, commitment details of leading companies to social responsibility, and discussions and hiring activity for social responsibility in automotive and 15 other key sectors are covered in GlobalData’s Social Responsibility Trends by Sector – Thematic Intelligence report. Buy the report here. Buy the Report 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             
                    Find out more
                    



 Notably, Sales and Related Occupations jobs accounted for a 23% share of the global auto industry’s social responsibility-related total new job postings in Q1 2023, up 13% over the prior quarter. Sales and Related Occupations drive social responsibility-related hiring activity Sales and Related Occupations, with a share of 23%, emerged as the top social responsibility-related job roles within the auto industry in Q1 2023, with new job postings rising by 13% quarter-on-quarter. Management Occupations came in second with a share of 13% in Q1 2023, with new job postings dropping by 3% over the previous quarter. The other prominent social responsibility roles include Installation, Maintenance, and Repair Occupations with a 10% share in Q1 2023, Architecture and Engineering Occupations with a 6% share of new job postings. Top five companies in auto industry accounted for 46% of hiring activity The top companies, in terms of number of new job postings tracked by GlobalData, as of Q1 2023 were Advance Auto Parts, Caliber Collision Centers, Penske Automotive Group, AutoNation, and Tesla. Together they accounted for a combined share of 46% of all social responsibility-related new jobs in the auto industry. Advance Auto Parts posted 5,094 social responsibility-related new jobs in Q1 2023, Caliber Collision Centers 2,644 jobs, Penske Automotive Group 1,549 jobs, AutoNation 1,237 jobs, and Tesla 1,114 jobs, according to GlobalData’s Job Analytics. Hiring activity was driven by the US with a 78.03% share of total new job postings, Q1 2023 The largest share of social responsibility-related new job postings in the auto industry in Q1 2023 was in the US with 78.03% followed by the UK (5.30%) and India (2.96%). The share represented by the US was one percentage point higher than the 77.22% share it accounted for in Q4 2022. To further understand GlobalData's analysis on Social Responsibility Trends by Sector – Thematic Intelligence buy the report here. 
                                            From 
                                            
 
                                        Blending expert knowledge with cutting-edge technology, GlobalData’s unrivalled proprietary data will enable you to decode what’s happening in your market. You can make better informed decisions and gain a future-proof advantage over your competitors. 

                                         
 Be better informed
 Buy the Report The gold standard of business intelligence. 

                        Find out more
                        



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Just Auto :  Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		Automotive Industry News & Analysis | Market Research - Just Auto 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024 By clicking here, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and consent to us collection your details for the purposes of your enquiry