The world should harness the power of computing to cut the depletion of natural resources caused by technological advances, the founder of Alibaba Cloud Wang Jian has said on a trip to Hong Kong. Wang, in an interview with the Post on Thursday during a three-day visit to the city, also appealed to Hong Kong residents to think outside the box and embrace the “uncertainties” as the city tried to strengthen its track record in innovation and IT development. “How can we go from increasing carbon emissions to reducing emissions? I think the only way is by computing,” he said. “In the future, perhaps for every bottle of water we drink or everything we use it would involve a bit of computing to figure out whether those resources should be consumed.” The influential tech executive was in Hong Kong as part of his “2050” initiative, designed to bring together young people from a variety of cities who are passionate about innovation and aviation for meetings until the middle of the century. Wang, who masterminded the creation of a cloud business that rivals Amazon and Microsoft on a global scale, is seen as a major mover in Alibaba’s emergence as an e-commerce giant. Alibaba owns the South China Morning Post. The Hong Kong gathering is one of the four exchanges this year under the banner of “tech brings youths together”. The first event was staged in 2018 in Hangzhou, the capital of China’s Zhejiang province. This year’s events in Singapore, Hong Kong, Hangzhou and Wuhu also coincided with the final segments of an intercontinental flight by a crew led by pilot Zhang Bo, the first Chinese flier to complete a round-the-world flight. The four-seater Diamond DA42 left Chicago in April and made multiple stops, including Greenland, Rome, Dubai and Singapore, before it touched down in Hong Kong. A group of pupils from Mu Kuang English School in Kowloon, which began regular classes in aviation last year, were taken to the airport by the event organisers to see the aircraft up close and handle the controls. “Once I got in the cockpit, I knew where the controls were. I could have started the engine if I had the key,” Wong Pak-yin, 15, president of the school’s aviation club, said. Pak-yin has piloted many flights in simulators at school and at home, but it was the first time he had touched the controls of a real aircraft. “It’s most impressive that I could get into the airport’s restricted area and climb inside a real cockpit,” he added. Instilling a sense of discovery through events like the cockpit tour might “open a window” for the youngsters to consider broader issues, Wang told the Post after the event. “This is a big world but, for whatever reason, we only see the tip of the iceberg,” he said. “We always box our minds up when thinking about problems, and activities like this take us outside the box.” Wang highlighted his experience of taking a sailing boat from the Sai Kung pier to reach the HKUST campus at Clear Water Bay as an example. The morning voyage was almost cancelled because of intense thunderstorms – but Wang said the unpredictability faced by pilots and seafarers also reminded him of the upside of facing uncertainties as these moments were often when an individual’s capabilities could be shown to the fullest. Wang added such an adrenaline-pumping sense of uncertainty could be beneficial to Hong Kong and unleash its potential. “Why were there comparisons between Shenzhen and Hong Kong? Shenzhen was a place of uncertainties. You don’t know what will happen there. For Hong Kong to become more energetic, I think it needs more uncertainties,” he said. “Not that we’re going to mess everything up – we can introduce uncertainties by bringing up new questions.” Wang said he learned on his sailing boat trip that, despite the many piers available for public use in the city, the sport has had a limited reach among Hongkongers partly because it was associated with the wealthy. He said, if the information was more widely discussed, more Hong Kong residents might be able to enjoy the city’s coastline from the water. “Sometimes a question might seem so simple, but it’s still worth asking questions if others aren’t asking,” Wang explained. The administration is also examining the development of an artificial intelligence supercomputing centre. The Post earlier reported that Wang has just resumed his full-time role at Alibaba Cloud, which is restructuring for a spin-off from its e-commerce parent in preparation for an initial public offering of shares in the next 12 months.