According to grill master Bobby Flay, there are only two ingredients you need to season your burgers: Salt and pepper. Adding other spices, garlic, or onion is a no-no. "That is meatloaf," he told Today Food. For what it's worth, Flay isn't the only famous chef who sticks to just salt and pepper. "Adding junk like onions, herbs, eggs, bread crumbs, anything to your ground meat not only forces you to over-handle the mix, but instantly relegates your burgers to the 'meatloaf sandwich' category," J. Kenji López-Alt wrote for Serious Eats. At first blush, this rule seems a little arbitrary. If you like onions, why not add them to your burger mix? Well, there's actually a strategy behind this unspoken rule. The more you handle ground beef, the denser it gets. When you add extra ingredients to it, it's easy to overwork. As for turning your burger into meatloaf, well, that's a matter of preference. If you like meatloaf sandwiches, you like meatloaf sandwiches -- and that's okay. Just don't expect to win any best burger contests. Read more: The 13 Best Steaks For Grilling If you've spent your whole life adding egg, breadcrumbs, and chopped onion to your burger mix, you might need a little more convincing that salt and pepper are enough. Let's think it through. Beef comes out of the grinder in, to use the scientific term, little squiggles. If you leave them alone, just barely forming the beef into a patty, the end result will be a caramelized, craggy crust on the outside with a light, juicy texture inside. If you vigorously mix the beef, on the other hand, the squiggles knit together, forming a dense puck. That effect intensifies if you add salt to the mix. According to J. Kenji Lopez Alt, salt causes muscle proteins to dissolve, and then crosslink. The result? Dense, chewy meat. That's why you should wait to sprinkle your patties with salt after you've already worked them into your desired shape. Sprinkling extra seasoning right on top of your patties is the way to go. There's no reason that should negatively affect the texture of your burger. Even Bobby Flay added some ranch seasoning to one of his burger recipes in a sponsorship for Hidden Valley. Thus, the fewer seasonings you add to your mixture, the less you mix your meat and the juicier your burgers turn out. Whether you agree with Bobby Flay about mix-ins or not, you can learn a lot from the grill master about making a great burger. His lessons start at the grocery store (or better yet, butcher): Buy ground chuck with at least 20% fat. The high-fat content makes for a juicy, flavorful burger. (Psst: Other high-fat cuts like brisket can also be part of the perfect burger patty blend.) Next, break out the cast iron skillet. "Cast iron has excellent heat diffusion and retention and produces evenly cooked burgers with a really great crust," he told Today Food. But before you fry up your patties, be sure to shape them correctly: With a big thumbprint in the middle. Otherwise, "it plumps up like a football," Flay said. Once you've fried up perfect burgers, serve them with potato chips. "I love getting a mouthful of juicy burger and salty, crispy potato chips in one bite," Flay wrote in a recipe for the Food Network. "It's a way to get a true contrast of textures into your cheeseburger." Bon appétit. Read the original article on Daily Meal. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.