Today's e-Edition Get Morning Report and other email newsletters  Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Today's e-Edition 
			Trending:		 A Rohnert Park woman was arrested Tuesday after pepper spray and stolen documents were located in her vehicle.Most of the mail was from Sonoma County, including Rohnert Park and Petaluma, but there was some mail from the Bel Marin Keys area of Novato and other areas within Marin County, said sheriff’s Sgt. Adam Schermerhorn.He said investigating deputies reached out to the U.S. Postal Inspectors Office to assist with the investigation and locate potential victims.A deputy located a vehicle with expired and suspended registration in the area of Binford Road near Novato early on Tuesday morning. The occupant was found to be on felony probation out of Sonoma County for financial crimes and identity theft.A search of the vehicle located stolen mail, financial documents, banks cards and social security cards, as well as multiple cans of pepper spray.Shelby Wilcox, 29, was arrested on suspicion of possession of pepper spray while a felon, a felony, and misdemeanor charges possession of stolen property and misappropriation of lost or stolen property.She was booked into Marin County Jail with a $10,000 bail amount.

 Most of the mail was from Sonoma County, including Rohnert Park and Petaluma, but there was some mail from the Bel Marin Keys area of Novato and other areas within Marin County, said sheriff’s Sgt. Adam Schermerhorn. He said investigating deputies reached out to the U.S. Postal Inspectors Office to assist with the investigation and locate potential victims. A deputy located a vehicle with expired and suspended registration in the area of Binford Road near Novato early on Tuesday morning. The occupant was found to be on felony probation out of Sonoma County for financial crimes and identity theft. A search of the vehicle located stolen mail, financial documents, banks cards and social security cards, as well as multiple cans of pepper spray. Shelby Wilcox, 29, was arrested on suspicion of possession of pepper spray while a felon, a felony, and misdemeanor charges possession of stolen property and misappropriation of lost or stolen property. She was booked into Marin County Jail with a $10,000 bail amount. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group