E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Red Hot Chili Peppers brought its 2023 global tour through central New York this week with an electrifying concert at the JMA Wireless Dome.Kicking off an unseasonably warm spring weekend, fans flocked to the Dome on Friday night as the acclaimed rock band prepared to show the Syracuse audience what Red Hot Chili Peppers is all about.First, opening acts King Princess and The Strokes took the stage to warm up the crowd.King Princess, a 24-year-old pop rock singer from Brooklyn, caught the attention of thousands in the stadium with material from her budding career, highlighting tunes off of her 2022 sophomore studio album Hold On Baby.Next up, New York City-based band The Strokes delivered some danceable rock that got folks moving, including “Bad Decisions” and “The Adults Are Talking” from the group’s most recent 2020 album The New Abnormal.Before long, Red Hot Chili Peppers took the spotlight by storm for the night’s headlining performance.Frontman Anthony Kiedis, bassist Flea (Michael Balzary), guitarist John Frusciante and drummer Chad Smith greeted the Dome full of fans with a high-energy production that included elaborate lighting and video displays designed to enhance to band’s signature funk rock sound.Each member sported their own unconventional fashions, most notably Flea – who arrived on stage doing a walking handstand – shirtless and wearing a long purple skirt and yellow belt.

The guys started right off the bat with a few crowd-pleasing hits, playing “Can’t Stop,” “Scar Tissue” and “Snow (Hey Oh).”The Grammy-winning group is currently touring in support of its latest studio albums that were released in 2022, Unlimited Love and Return of the Dream Canteen. Both were produced by longtime collaborator and creative confidant Rick Rubin. As a result of the two album releases going #1, Red Hot Chili Peppers notably stand out as the first rock band in 17 years to achieve this feat. Singles from this fresh material included in Friday’s setlist were “Tippa My Tongue” and “Black Summer.”From deeper down in the extensive Red Hot Chili Peppers portfolio, Syracuse concertgoers also heard hits like“Suck My Kiss,” “Soul to Squeeze” and “Californication.”After “By The Way” the musicians left the stage, but were beckoned back by a venue filled with screaming fans to play an encore of “I Could Have Lied” and “Give It Away” off of the group’s 1991 album Blood Sugar Sex Magik.Before concluding the show, Kiedis expressed a heartfelt thanks to those in the audience. “We love you. We appreciate you. We’re glad to be here tonight with you,” he said, looking out into the sea of people.The JMA Wireless Dome is set to host two more rock concerts later this year: Def Leppard, Motley Crue and Alice Cooper on Aug. 5 and Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band on Sept. 7.More information about these events can be found online at cuse.com.Red Hot Chili Peppers plays for fans on Friday at the JMA Wireless Dome in Syracuse. (Lauren Halligan – Medianews Group)Opening act King Princess performs on Friday at the JMA Wireless Dome in Syracuse. (Lauren Halligan – Medianews Group)Opening act The Strokes plays on Friday at the JMA Wireless Dome in Syracuse. (Lauren Halligan – Medianews Group)Red Hot Chili Peppers frontman Anthony Kiedis performs on Friday at the JMA Wireless Dome in Syracuse. (Lauren Halligan – Medianews Group)  Kicking off an unseasonably warm spring weekend, fans flocked to the Dome on Friday night as the acclaimed rock band prepared to show the Syracuse audience what Red Hot Chili Peppers is all about. First, opening acts King Princess and The Strokes took the stage to warm up the crowd. King Princess, a 24-year-old pop rock singer from Brooklyn, caught the attention of thousands in the stadium with material from her budding career, highlighting tunes off of her 2022 sophomore studio album Hold On Baby. Next up, New York City-based band The Strokes delivered some danceable rock that got folks moving, including “Bad Decisions” and “The Adults Are Talking” from the group’s most recent 2020 album The New Abnormal. Before long, Red Hot Chili Peppers took the spotlight by storm for the night’s headlining performance. Frontman Anthony Kiedis, bassist Flea (Michael Balzary), guitarist John Frusciante and drummer Chad Smith greeted the Dome full of fans with a high-energy production that included elaborate lighting and video displays designed to enhance to band’s signature funk rock sound. Each member sported their own unconventional fashions, most notably Flea – who arrived on stage doing a walking handstand – shirtless and wearing a long purple skirt and yellow belt. The guys started right off the bat with a few crowd-pleasing hits, playing “Can’t Stop,” “Scar Tissue” and “Snow (Hey Oh).” The Grammy-winning group is currently touring in support of its latest studio albums that were released in 2022, Unlimited Love and Return of the Dream Canteen. Both were produced by longtime collaborator and creative confidant Rick Rubin. As a result of the two album releases going #1, Red Hot Chili Peppers notably stand out as the first rock band in 17 years to achieve this feat. Singles from this fresh material included in Friday’s setlist were “Tippa My Tongue” and “Black Summer.” From deeper down in the extensive Red Hot Chili Peppers portfolio, Syracuse concertgoers also heard hits like “Suck My Kiss,” “Soul to Squeeze” and “Californication.” After “By The Way” the musicians left the stage, but were beckoned back by a venue filled with screaming fans to play an encore of “I Could Have Lied” and “Give It Away” off of the group’s 1991 album Blood Sugar Sex Magik. Before concluding the show, Kiedis expressed a heartfelt thanks to those in the audience. “We love you. We appreciate you. We’re glad to be here tonight with you,” he said, looking out into the sea of people. The JMA Wireless Dome is set to host two more rock concerts later this year: Def Leppard, Motley Crue and Alice Cooper on Aug. 5 and Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band on Sept. 7. More information about these events can be found online at cuse.com.    Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group