Coke Canada Bottling, distributor of Coca-Cola soft drinks, has taken delivery of six Volvo VNR ... [+] Electric trucks to provide distribution services along their celebrated ‘Red Fleet’ delivery routes. Class 8 trucks are big, heavy-duty tractor-trailers with gross vehicle weights (GVW) of up to 80,000 pounds. They are engineered to carry massive loads on interstates and highways. Today, 97 percent of Class 8 tractors (technically speaking, the “tractor” is the part of the truck that contains the propulsion and driver, while the “trailer” carries the load) are powered by diesel fuel. Yet that number is rapidly falling as many truck manufacturers begin to engineer emission-free electric powertrains. Tesla has captured much media attention with its Tesla Semi, a pure-electric Class 8 tractor. It has a distinctively futuristic appearance, and the EV automaker has stated that it can travel up to 500 miles on a single charge, thanks to its (estimated) 900 kWh battery. Tesla also boasts that its Semi can recover 70 percent of its range in just 30 minutes — credit Tesla’s innovative Semi Chargers. PepsiCo, a beverage company selling soft drink brands including Pepsi-Cola, Mountain Dew, and 7 Up, began testing nearly two dozen Tesla Semis in California last December with the help of a $31 million grant from the California Air Resources Board (CARB). But Tesla isn’t the only pure-electric Class 8 solution, and PepsiCo isn’t the only North American soft drink maker using the technology for distribution. Coke Canada Bottling, distributor of Coca-Cola soft drinks, has taken delivery of six Volvo VNR Electric trucks to provide distribution services along their celebrated ‘Red Fleet’ delivery routes throughout the Greater Montreal Area in Canada — they are the first Canadian food and beverage manufacturer to adopt electric Class 9 trucks into its fleet. Like PepsiCo, Coke Canada Bottling took advantage of incentives (Écocamionnage and the iMHZEV Program) to help offset the expenses associated with the new emission-free trucks. “Our global brand and this Canadian, family-owned business are well aligned on rapidly advancing environmental sustainability action plans,” said Peter Voorhoeve, president of Volvo Trucks North America. “We look forward to supporting Coke Canada Bottling as they test out feasibility through this pilot. The deployment of the first battery-electric Volvo VNR Electric trucks at their fifth birthday celebration demonstrates the importance of pursuing environmental sustainability goals, which benefit the community and employees at every level.” Volvo’s VNR Electric trucks, which could easily be visually mistaken for their combustion counterparts, have a battery capacity of 565 kWh and can go up to 275 miles on a single charge — ideal for their role at Coke, as they will make several 93-mile round trips between the distributor and customers. Coca-Cola Canada Bottling has installed three 150 kW DC chargers to support the vehicles that can obtain an 80 percent charge in just 90 minutes. “Piloting the electrification of some of our ‘Red Fleet,’ an iconic presence on the roads of our country, underscores our ambition to be the leading beverage partner in Canada by earning our social license to operate, and we are immensely proud to partner with Volvo Trucks on this initiative,” remarks Todd Parsons, chief executive officer at Coca-Cola Canada Bottling Limited. “We acknowledge the journey ahead, the work to be done, and are enthusiastic about the potential of this pilot with Volvo Trucks.” Last May, Freightliner Trucks, a Daimler Truck North America LLC (DTNA) division, unveiled its new ... [+] pure-electric eCascadia tractor. Freightliner, the dominant force in the trucking industry, holds nearly 38 percent of today’s tractor-trailer market. Last May, Freightliner Trucks, a Daimler Truck North America LLC (DTNA) division, unveiled its new pure-electric eCascadia tractor. The eCascadia also projects a traditional appearance despite hiding a 438-kWh battery (the larger of the two battery options) within its bodywork. According to Freightliner, the eCascadia provides a range of up to 230 miles per charge. The truck has two charging ports for more versatility — up to 180 kW with single port charging and up to 270 kW with dual port charging. It may replenish to 80 percent charge in as little as 90 minutes. And don’t forget Kenworth, a truck company founded 100 years ago in Seattle. Three years ago, the company announced the pure-electric Kenworth T680E — engineered to deliver electric performance, reliability, and comfort for those seeking a zero-emission Class 8 trucking solution. The T680E has an estimated operating range of 150 miles, courtesy of its 396-kWh battery. And the tractor may use a CCS1 DC fast charger for a 3-hour recharge cycle. Electricity will eventually replace all fossil fuels in tractor-trailers, so it’s no surprise to see traditional truck manufacturers joining EV-giant Tesla in the race to capture market share. It’s equally impressive to see two soft drink giants — Pepsi and Coke — embrace the emerging technology and put electrification to a practical, real-world test.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.