0 By clicking the button, I accept the Terms of Use of the service and its Privacy Policy, as well as consent to the processing of personal data. Don’t have an account? Signup  
                            Powered by :
                            





   Follow Us Click on the Image to watch the TVC. PepsiCo India has introduced a new TVC to celebrate the expansion of its Sizzlin' Hot platform. The TVC features the complete Sizzlin’ Hot range including Lay's, Kurkure, and Doritos while highlighting the irresistible heat-packed experience each product offers. The TVC portrays a spectrum of reactions that unfold when people snack onto the irresistible Sizzlin' Hot range. Set against a captivating backdrop of diverse scenes, including cozy living rooms, bustling offices, and vibrant public spaces, each moment captures their unfiltered, spontaneous responses to the fiery spiciness. From frantically searching for something cool to shedding tears and energetically sprinting in search of relief, this engaging sequence of genuine and humorous reactions serves as a mirror, reflecting the surprise that awaits anyone who takes their first bite of Sizzlin' Hot. Anshul Khanna, Vice-President and Foods Category Head of India and South Asia, PepsiCo, said, "Last year, we introduced one of our most successful global platforms, Sizzlin’ Hot in India and have witnessed an overwhelming response. As we approach the festive season, we're thrilled to announce the expansion of the platform with localised flavours for the unique Indian spice palate across our beloved brands, including Lay’s Maxx, Kurkure, and Doritos Dinamita. The launch will be accompanied by a comprehensive 360-degree marketing campaign that is sure to get people to intrigued about the fiery range. We hope that consumers love this new range and continue to spice up their snacking occasions." Vikram Pandey (Spiky), National Creative Director, Leo Burnett India, said, “The Sizzlin’ Hot flavour is available in 3 formats – Kurkure, Lays and Doritos. No matter which one you pick up, the fiery taste is likely to make you react in unexpected ways. From fiery exclamations to bizarre sounds, the execution of the TVC brings together a gamut of expressions in a way that you can’t help but watch it again. Pretty much like the product, that you can’t help but eat another.” Lay’s film – Kurkure film - Doritos film– Agency credits Creative Agency – Leo Burnett India CEO and Chief Creative Officer, South Asia – Rajdeepak Das CEO Leo Burnett South Asia – Dheeraj Sinha National Creative Director – Vikram Pandey and Sachin Kamble  President-North – Samir Gangahar Executive Vice-President – Jaikrit Singh Executive Creative Directors – Harsh Maheshwari, Saarthak Dutt and Shahnawaz Qadeer, Creative Team – Alisha Sharma and Shweta Bharti Executive Vice President-Strategy and Planning – Ankit Singh Strategy Team – Ashish Mathew and Shailja Dhoundiyal Vice-President – Binay Mehra and Neha Kapoor  Account Management Team – Kirti Sinha, Shubham Aggarwal and Uday Lalotra Film Department – Sagar Bhanushali Production House – Pack Films Director – Vivek Kakkad Producer – Leejude Dsouza Info@BestMediaInfo.com  Subscribe to our Newsletter!   
                        Share this article 
                        If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later
                    