Mary J. Blige performs during the Pepsi Super Bowl LVI Halftime Show last year at SoFi Stadium in California. Pic: Getty   THE hottest ticket in town for advertisers is officially sold out. Fox Television has confirmed that in-game television ads for Super Bowl LVII have all been sold. The big game between the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles takes place on Sunday. The Super Bowl is advertising’s biggest stage, with advertisers jockeying to get their products in front of the more than 100 million people that watch each year. Mark Evans, executive vice president of ad sales for Fox Sports, said a few ads went for more than $7 million for a 30-second spot. Most sold between $6 million and $7 million. Anheuser-Busch remains the biggest advertiser with three minutes of national airtime. The beverage giant gave up its deal to be the exclusive alcohol advertiser this year, so Heineken, Diageo, Remy Martin and Molson Coors are also in the game. Other big categories advertising include packaged food like Doritos and M&Ms, movie studios and streaming services, automakers and tech companies, Evans said. Out this year: crypto companies. Last year’s Super Bowl was dubbed the “Crypto Bowl” because four cryptocurrency companies — FTX, Coinbase, Crypto.com and eToro — ran splashy commercials. It was part of a larger effort by crypto companies to break into the mainstream with sports sponsorships. But in November, FTX filed for bankruptcy and its founder was charged in a scheme to defraud investors. This year, two crypto advertisers had commercials “booked and done” and two others were ”on the one-yard line,” Evans said. But once FTX news broke, those deals weren’t completed. Now, “There’s zero representation in that category on the day at all,” he said. Evans said most Super Bowl ads sold much earlier than usual, with more than 90% of its Super Bowl ad inventory gone by the end of the summer, as established advertisers jockeyed for prime positions. But the remaining spots sold slower. Partly that was due to the implosion of the crypto space, as well as general advertiser concerns about the global economy, Evans said. Last year, NBC sold out of its ad space briskly and said an undisclosed number of 30-second spots went for $7 million, a jump from the $6.5 million that 2021’s ads went for. 
Associated Press
 More in this section Sport Newsletter Get the latest news from the world of sport along with the best opinion from our outstanding team of sport writers, direct to your inbox every Friday Please click here for our privacy statement. Puzzles hub     By clicking on 'Sign Up' you will be the first to know about our latest and best sporting content on this browser. You have accepted push notifications for this content. If you would like to manage your push notification preferences, you can do so here. Latest news from the world of sport, along with the best in opinion from our
      outstanding team of sports writers Puzzles hub At the heart of the GAA Monday, August 19, 2024 - 9:00 PM Monday, August 19, 2024 - 10:00 PM Monday, August 19, 2024 - 8:00 PM © Examiner Echo Group Limited, Linn Dubh, Assumption Road, Blackpool, Cork. Registered in Ireland: 523712. © Examiner Echo Group Limited