The New York Post ranks the best sportsbook promo codes and betting offers available in the USA, with some of the most lucrative sign-up offers available to bettors.    This apparel giant’s online sports betting division is presently accessible solely through its mobile app, limited to specific states. Yet, there’s growing anticipation for Fanatics to extend its influence to numerous new jurisdictions. Live in several states, Fanatics Sportsbook is promoting a new customer offer that lets new users Bet and Get up to $1,000 in Bonus Bets! Those who opt in to this offer will be awarded $100 in bonus bets each day for 10 days after a daily first bet. Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee, and North Carolina bettors can Get up to $1,500 in Bonus Bets over Their First 11 Days on Fanatics. This offer awards a $500 matching bonus on your first day with Fanatics, then 10 consecutive days of a $100 maximum bonus bet match each day. For those granted access to the Fanatics Sportsbook mobile app, a wide array of diverse betting opportunities await. These span from total bets to player props and encompass everything in between. Furthermore, users of Fanatics Sportsbook gain the valuable advantage of accumulating FanCash while engaging in wagers on the platform. This earned FanCash can subsequently be utilized for procuring fresh apparel on Fanatics.com or seamlessly transformed into in-app bonus bets.  BetMGM Promotional Offers Not Available in Mississippi, New York, Nevada, Ontario, or Puerto Rico BetMGM stands above others for betting experience. They boast a growing range of sports to bet on, with strong odds and plentiful live streaming broadcasts.  Their mobile app features a simple design and provides easy navigation, making sure you’re always finding what you’re looking for. It’s hard to find any flaws with BetMGM, with their welcome offer being very competitive amongst other sportsbooks.  New users can claim one of two new customer offers from BetMGM. Sign up with bonus code NYP1600 to get a 20% Deposit Match up to $1,600 in Sports Bonus! This offer comes with a 10x wagering requirement. Washington D.C. bettors can take advantage of this offer. BetMGM has another new customer offer that lets new users Get up to $1,500 Back in Bonus Bets if Your First Bet Doesn’t Win! with bonus code NPBONUS. Sports bonus expire in 7 days. One new customer offer only. Frequent promotions and bonus offers make BetMGM exciting to play with, catering to all different types of bettors. If you’re uncertain about which betting site to start with, then look no further than BetMGM.  A global sportsbook, bet365 really knows the sports betting game inside and out. There are plenty of sports to bet on across the world, more so than their competitors. There are a ton of bonuses that are available for new customers and for regular bettors on a daily basis. Many of these deals focus on bonus bets, early payout offers, and parlay betting for various sports.  Despite not being legal and licensed is as many states as other big names in sports betting, there is no doubting bet365 is still a strong online betting site.  Like other sportsbooks, FanDuel initially specialized in daily fantasy sports, but now has become one of the best online sports betting sites in the US. Boasting one of the biggest betting markets out there, FanDuel also presents an impressive geographic footprint. In most states with legal sports betting, FanDuel has a presence, with it often being one of the best in these states. Their welcome bonus is simple and easy to claim: Bet $5, Get $200 in Bonus Bets + 3 Weeks of NFL Sunday Ticket. There’s no doubt that FanDuel deserves to be high up on our list, and you will not be disappointed.  ESPN BET has joined the sports betting world. With the promo code NYPOST, new users can claim a $1000 First Bet Reset, which lets you get up to $1,000 in bonus bets if your first bet loses. Bettors in North Carolina can claim the same offer. The Caesars Sportsbook Promo Code is at the top of the list for one very important reason, it’s the most lucrative new customer offer in the USA. Their new customer offer is one of the largest and most generous you’ll get on any legal sports betting site, and they also provide a fantastic online sportsbook experience for all types of bettors.  They offer competitive odds on all the biggest sports out there, with some smaller, less popular sports markets also available. Their betting limits are high, which is great for high rollers, with loads of payment choices available. A great new customer offer is the key to being a great online sportsbook, and Caesars do not tread lightly in that department. All in all, we’re big fans of Caesars Sportsbook, and their new customer offer is fantastic.  CLICK HERE FOR Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Virginia ($500 in 2nd Chance Bets) CLICK HERE FOR Colorado, New Jersey ($250 in 2nd Chance Bets) CLICK HERE FOR Arizona ($100 in 2nd Chance Bets) BetRivers’ sign-up offer and available betting markets are on par with other highly rated bookmakers, with strong odds to boot.  Their live streaming feature and their extremely easy to use mobile app give BetRivers some plaudits other sportsbooks may not gain. The BetRivers sportsbook app is their particular strongpoint, engulfing everything that a great sports betting app should have. They are professional, experienced, and courteous, with great customer service options should you need any help. There’s a lot to like about BetRivers, but as always, there’s still room for improvement. One of the newer faces in online sports betting, Borgata is a safe choice to place your sports wager. Their welcome offer is easy to claim, and despite not being as generous as other sports betting sites, still boasts a healthy first promotion. Their mobile betting app is slick and easy to use, and their customer ratings are fantastic. Borgata has not been going for too long, and we would expect them to improve over the coming months and years. Play Gun Lake may not be one of the bigger names in the industry, but it definitely is worth checking out. Bringing a fresh and attractive interface that is user-friendly and makes it easy to navigate. They provide exciting customer promos throughout the year on many different sporting events. Bonus bets, bonuses, and odds boosts are consistently being promoted, including an exciting exclusive promotion called Half the Spread and Double the Spread.   Their mobile app has good reviews, a reflection of an easy-to-use app that has plenty to offer. With a fantastic deposit offer to get your account started, now is as good a time as any to download the app and start betting.  New customers who sign up with a sportsbook site or app will receive some form of bonus once they’ve completed their registration. Such bonuses can vary in value and style, with the best sportsbooks offering various values of promotions, and different types of offers. Listed below are the most common sign-up offers you’ll receive when using sportsbook bonus codes.   Signing up for a new sportsbook account using a promo code can be a little confusing, especially as some sportsbooks do not require a bonus code when signing up. There’s plenty of sportsbook promotions to choose from, each with different sign-up offers available. Luckily for you, we’ve ranked the best offers, which should hopefully make that decision a little bit easier.  Once you’ve found a sportsbook bonus you like the look of, click on the link which says ‘Go to Sportsbook’.  The next page you will be greeted with is the sign-up page, which is where the sportsbook gets to know you, and where you fill in your details. Name, date of birth, email address and phone number are the fields which you will have to fill in, as well as creating a password for your new sportsbook account Depending on the sportsbooks they will now verify your account information by sending a verification email or text message. This ensures that your details are yours and those of an unsuspecting third party.  Depending on the type of bonus offer you’re claiming, this final step will differ. Many promo codes are based on rewarding you for making your first deposit, so the next step is to make a qualifying deposit which will then credit your account with the deposit value and the bonus amount due to you.  To claim bonus bets, you would now place your first sports wager. Make sure that you meet the minimum odds requirement, and have read the terms and conditions of the offer to ensure you haven’t missed anything.  The best way to keep up with promo codes is to check this page, and keep up to date with the best sports betting sites. Offers are constantly changing, with sportsbooks competing with one another for the best sign-up bonuses.  Only new customers who are of legal gambling age, 21+, can use the promo codes to claim the new customer offers available. Please note: Certain offers will be available in specific states, so it is worth checking beforehand.  Bonus codes are used to claim the fantastic new customer offers. Some offers will have specific bonus codes, and without the code, you will not be able to claim the offer. In most cases, promo code offers have a limitation of one use per customer.  For new customers, it can be a little confusing when to enter your promo code. The point at which you enter your promo code will differ for each sportsbook. Some sportsbooks do not require a promo code, and just by following the links above, you’ll be able to claim the new customer offer.  We hope you enjoy the companies that we recommend! Just to be clear, please note that we may collect a share of sales or other compensation from the company links provided on this Website. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us or reference our terms and conditions.