Can never go wrong with freebies, right? Tower of Fantasy is another, you guessed it, fantasy-infused action-RPG with it's own set of free codes offering powerful items and resources that you'll no doubt need. Published by Level Infinite - a subsidiary of Chinese gaming giant Tencent Games - it's available for PC, mobile and PlayStation, and shares quite a few similarities to another imaginative gacha game that you may already be familiar with. As you explore the lush, alien world where Tower of Fantasy is situated, free rewards can be especially helpful during your first few hours. Following the tradition of gacha games before it, Tower of Fantasy is privy to its own codes that players can redeem for various gifts and goodies that'll aid them with crafting the strongest of weapons, and keeping each of them upgraded. Below, we've made a note of all the latest Tower of Fantasy codes and explain how to redeem Tower of Fantasy codes, First things first, you need to have completed the Tower of Fantasy tutorial. Once this is done, you're ready to start redeeming any Tower of Fantasy codes that you've got your hands on. As you can see, there's a fair bit of messing around to be done, but it's always worthwhile for some free goodies. That's it for Tower of Fantasy codes! For more on the fantasy RPG, take a look at our guide to the Tower of Fantasy's currency and how to earn it. For help with other anime-infused mobile games check out our list of Honkai Star Rail codes, Reverse 1999 codes and Genshin Impact codes. 
Tower of Fantasy
 
Android, 
            iOS, 
            PC
 
        Sign in and unlock a world of features
       
        Get access to commenting, homepage personalisation, newsletters, and more!
       

Cold blooded


Tower of Fantasy review: Genshin Impact’s newest rival will be lucky to survive the winter                    
 

Tower of Fantasy Dailies: What should you do every day?                    
 

Team up!


Tower of Fantasy World Bosses - how to form a group and take down world bosses                    
 

Wheels on the ground


Tower of Fantasy vehicles guide: How to get very vehicle                    
 

Guns out


Tower of Fantasy character tier list: Best weapons (August 2022)                    
 

Enter the Matrice


Tower of Fantasy Matrices Explained: How to get, use, and upgrade your Matrices                    
 

Tower of Fantasy: Where to gather Crystals                    
 

Tower of Fantasy: Weapon types and how to upgrade them                    
 VG247 is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.