Clean up the competition in the Bleach-inspired game. Peroxide is a popular Roblox game inspired by the hit anime series Bleach. The action RPG boasts a huge world to explore, and a deep combat system that lets you recreate the epic, super-charged fights you would have seen in the anime. Like Type Soul, which is also inspired by Bleach, players can follow in the footsteps of Ichigo Kurosaki and become a Soul Reaper, or they can turn to the dark side and play as a Hollow. To help customise your character just the way you like, you'll need plenty of Product Essence. This in-game currency is needed to reroll classes and cosmetics, and usually you would have to farm for it. But if you want to save yourself plenty of time you can just redeem a couple of Peroxide codes, which dish out plenty of Product Essence. Not sure how to redeem codes in Peroxide? Here's what you need to do: If the code you entered is active then the text in the textbox will change, showing you what goodies you've redeemed for free. But if the code is no longer working then an error message will appear instead. Codes for Roblox games are time sensitive, so if you see a code you like the look of for Peroxide don't delay in redeeming it. Just finished a game of Peroxide and looking for something else to play on Roblox? If you're still in the mood for an anime-inspired experience then check out our lists of Blox Fruits codes and Anime Fighters codes to earn plenty of freebies. For help with other popular Roblox games, head to our Blade Ball codes, Untitled Boxing Game codes, Arm Wrestle Simulator codes and Toilet Tower Defense codes pages. 
Roblox
 
          Video Game
       
        Sign in and unlock a world of features
       
        Get access to commenting, homepage personalisation, newsletters, and more!
       

Jujutsu Chronicles codes                    
 

Bad Business codes                    
 

Arm Wrestle Simulator codes                    
 

Meme Sea codes                    
 

Cake Off codes                    
 

Anime Last Stand codes                    
 

Car Dealership Tycoon codes                    
 

Anime Fighters Simulator codes                    
 VG247 is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.