
												  																			Management Information Systems (MIS)
																		Bachelor of Science Degree
 
Request Info about undergraduate study
Visit
Apply
 Ranked #3 nationally by College Factual, RIT's MIS degree combines computing security, database design, networking, and IT to create dynamic, comprehensive database systems. 
                    97%
 
                      Outcomes Rate of RIT Graduates from this degree
                      
 
$75K
                   
                      Median First-Year Salary of RIT Graduates from this degree
                     
#3
                     
                            
Best Undergraduate MIS Programs
                         
#1
                     
                            
Undergraduate business programs in Western New York; 67th overall nationally
                         Technology enhances an organization’s operational efficiency. Through analysis of existing business processes, you will be able to improve and design new information systems that can help add value to an existing product and help managers make crucial decisions. The management information systems degree focuses on data analytics, teamwork, leadership skills, customer service, and underlying business theories. An MIS degree gives you the ability to develop innovative systems to solve company problems and improve business intelligence. People, processes, and information systems are how organizations do business. Management information systems (MIS) is an interdisciplinary major focused leveraging technology, people, and processes to help improve, transform, and support business operations. It is a discipline that emphasizes the management of information and communications technology elements within business organizations. As an MIS student, you can expect to gain an understanding of computer databases, networks, and computer security, but you'll also learn how to help people better use technology. You will become are the essential link between technology and the people who don't understand it as well as you do. The management information systems major prepares you for careers involving leading-edge enterprise technologies and the analysis, design, and management of computer-based information systems. The curriculum provides you with the opportunity to analyze existing business processes and learn to utilize digital technologies to improve and/or design new models. As a result, you are able to apply the concepts of enterprise resource planning and work with sophisticated enterprise systems to help companies achieve their goals. You will also design systems that are usable, practical, and cost-effective. The MIS program prepares you for careers involving the design, development, configuration, and management of IT-based information systems for business organizations. In addition to your technology focus, you will also develop the critical business acumen and soft skills needed for successful communication, leadership, business analysis, and project management. MIS graduates frequently pursue careers in such areas as systems analysis, business analysis, data administration, information security, web design and development, management and IT consulting, and project management. Career opportunities in MIS are excellent. According to forecasts for computer and information systems managers from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment for MIS-oriented positions will grow by approximately 11% between 2020 and 2030. Because of the broad relevance of IT management skills in contemporary business, there is high demand for MIS graduates in nearly every sector and industry, with the following sectors having a particularly high demand for MIS skills: information technology, banking and financial services, health care, government services, and management consulting. Today’s careers require advanced degrees grounded in real-world experience. RIT’s Combined Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s Degrees enable you to earn both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in as little as five years of study, all while gaining the valuable hands-on experience that comes from co-ops, internships, research, study abroad, and more. +1 MBA Early Acceptance Pathway: Successful RIT applicants who are offered admission into the BS degree in management information systems as an incoming first-year student may also be offered conditional early acceptance into the +1 MBA Early Acceptance Pathway. This option enables you to earn both your BS degree and an MBA in as little as five years of study. Learn how the +1 MBA Early Acceptance Pathway can help you add a competitive advantage to your studies. +1 MBA: Students who enroll in a qualifying undergraduate degree have the opportunity to add an MBA to their bachelor’s degree after their first year of study, depending on their program. Learn how the +1 MBA can accelerate your learning and position you for success. 
Request Info about undergraduate study
Visit
Apply
 Apply for Fall 2025 Get an early start on your application and learn what we look for. How to apply  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 What’s different about an RIT education? It’s the career experience you gain by completing cooperative education and internships with top companies in every single industry. You’ll earn more than a degree. You’ll gain real-world career experience that sets you apart. It’s exposure–early and often–to a variety of professional work environments, career paths, and industries.  Co-ops take your knowledge and turn it into know-how. Business co-ops provide hands-on experience that enables you to apply your knowledge of business, management, finance, accounting, and related fields in professional settings. You'll make valuable connections between course work and real-world applications as you build a network of professional contacts. Students in the MIS degree are required to complete at least one block of cooperative education. Less Is More In Semiconductor Manufacturing 
											Ali Tosyali									 
							
																								Reducing sensors lowers costs, improves reliability
																					 Research Insights: Health Communication Technology and COVID-19 
											Emi Moriuchi, Quang Bui									 
							
																								The effects of dashboards and tracking apps on gaining compliance
																					 Bose, Boston, Massachusetts 
											Tharunika Ashok Kumar  ’24									 
							
																																	"The co-op program at Saunders College of Business has been a significant part of my education, giving me a unique edge. It let me use what I learned in class in actual jobs, improving my tech and...
																					 Microsoft, Redmond, Washington 
											Sedrick Thomas, co-op ’24									 
							
																																	"I built my network gradually over my four years at RIT by being genuine and showing interest in topics I'm passionate about. Without Saunders, I don't know If I would've ended up in the position I am...
																					 Research Insights: Ethics and algorithmic decision-making systems 
											Sean Hansen									 
							
																								Should Australian banks monitor gambling tendencies

																					 Wegmans, Rochester, NY 
											Maggie Dempsey, co-op ’24									 
							
																								"Saunders has provided me with a comprehensive education that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and experiences necessary to succeed in the job market."
																					 Current Students: See Curriculum Requirements Please see General Education Curriculum (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses. † Students will satisfy this requirement by taking either a 3 or 4 credit hour lab science course. If a science course consists of separate lecture and laboratory sections, students must take both the lecture and lab portions to satisfy the requirement.   The curriculum below outlines the typical course sequence(s) for combined accelerated degrees available with this bachelor's degree. Please see General Education Curriculum (GE) for more information. (WI) Refers to a writing intensive course within the major. Please see Wellness Education Requirement for more information. Students completing bachelor's degrees are required to complete two different Wellness courses. † Students will satisfy this requirement by taking either a 3 or 4 credit hour lab science course. If a science course consists of separate lecture and laboratory sections, students must take both the lecture and lab portions to satisfy the requirement. A strong performance in a college preparatory program is expected. This includes: Transfer course recommendations without associate degree
Courses in economics, accounting, liberal arts, science, and mathematics Appropriate associate degree programs for transfer
AS degree in computer information systems, accounting, or business administration 
Learn How to Apply
 
100% of all incoming first-year and transfer students receive aid.
 RIT’s personalized and comprehensive financial aid program includes scholarships, grants, loans, and campus employment programs. When all these are put to work, your actual cost may be much lower than the published estimated cost of attendance.
Learn more about financial aid and scholarships
 Saunders College of Business undergraduate and graduate programs are fully accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) International, the premier accrediting organization for business schools. Less than 5 percent of the institutions granting business degrees have received this accreditation. 
              Sean
              Hansen
             
              Rick
              Mislan
             
              Quang
              Bui
             
			August 6, 2024
		 
						Business Exploration Provides Business Exposure to First-Year Students
					 The business exploration program at Saunders College of Business is your opportunity to spend up to a year and a half taking fundamental business courses and meeting with faculty, staff, and career advisors before selecting from one of the college’s seven, nationally-ranked, business majors. 
			August 6, 2024
		 
						Work with Computers, Technology and People with the #1 NYS Management Information Systems Program
					 The bachelor of science in management information systems (MIS) at Saunders College of Business sits at the intersection of business and technology, people and computers, combining computing security, database design, networking, and IT. 
			June 6, 2024
		 
						Event in Genoa, Italy marks milestone for RIT experiential learning programs
					 RIT marked the 20th anniversary of its experiential learning programs in Genoa, Italy, with an event at the historic Palazzo Doria-Tursi, which houses Genoa’s city hall. The celebration, organized in collaboration with Door to Italy, an esteemed language school in Genoa that partners with RIT on the programs, highlighted the success of RIT’s study abroad and work abroad initiatives, which have enriched students’ academic and professional experiences over the past two decades. Address and Phone 
					One Lomb Memorial Drive
					Rochester, NY 14623
					585-475-2411
				 
				Copyright © Rochester Institute of Technology. All Rights Reserved.
Land Acknowledgment.
				Disclaimer.
				Copyright Infringement.
				Privacy Statement.
				Nondiscrimination.
				Accessibility.
				Emergency Information.
			