The Water Mill, NY, home includes seven bedrooms, eight full bathrooms and two half bathrooms, plus a pool house and state-of-the-art amenities. “It’s basically like a box in the middle of [nowhere]. It’s off-grid, meaning that there is no infrastructure,” the “Scary Movie 3” actor shared. 
												The actress posed for photos inside her home while wearing various floral outfits to promote her upcoming movie, "It Ends With Us."											 
												The actor's new bachelor pad is much simpler than his and the "On the Floor" singer's marital home, hosting a reported 5 bedrooms and 6 bathrooms.											 
												The Oscar winner, 51, snapped up the plush pad in the ritzy Pacific Palisades neighborhood as his and Lopez’s marital home still sits on the market.											 
												The "Bodak Yellow" rapper has an expansive real estate portfolio that includes properties in the Dominican Republic and New Jersey.											 
												The estranged couple was reportedly given a $13,707.47 state tax lien in April 2022 for unpaid taxes from 2020, but paid it off.											 
												The "Good Will Hunting" star reportedly purchased a $20.5 million mansion in the ritzy Pacific Palisades neighborhood of Los Angeles.											 
												"I think he just needed to table it ... and spend some time with friends and get [his] life back," Tutor tells Page Six's "Virtual Reali-Tea" of Flagg.											 
												"I think the facts tell a story and it's almost like the facts were on a global Netflix TV show," Serhant quips to Page Six's "Virtual Reali-Tea" podcast.											 
												The couple quietly tried to sell the massive mansion off-market last month. However, they publicly listed the 38,000-square-foot home on Thursday.											 
												"It's gonna be a little different, but it's a tighter bathroom area, so we will be close. ... And that's better. I want to see him," the singer said.											 
												Bündchen purchased the land for her home in 2022 amid her divorce from her ex-husband.											 
												A Douglas Elliman real estate whiz who is licensed in three states, Bensimon has been a premier broker at the building as well as a resident.											 
												The reality star previously described the sale of her home a "weight lifted off [her] shoulders" that would allow her to pursue other aspirations.											 
												"I fail to see how hosting a gaggle of children at the pool is likely to generate any sales," says a letter from an annoyed tenant at the building.											 
												The "I'll Be Missing You" rapper's Los Angeles and Miami mansions were raided in March in connection to an ongoing sex trafficking investigation.											 
												The actors' estate offers "a once in a lifetime opportunity to enjoy a life of unparalleled beauty, luxury and privacy," according to the mansion's listing.											 
												Page Six is taking readers on an exclusive tour of the VIP property where Drake, Rihanna, Doja Cat, Leonardo DiCaprio and more have all partied at over the years.											 
												"I don't know how at this hour or in our state she knew what to do," Abrams said of a hungover Swift using a fire extinguisher in the wee hours...											 
												"Travis and I have really been taking our time figuring out where it makes sense for us to live together because the kids are all so comfortable," she said.											 
												The actress, who clarified that she has "a permanent residence now," admitted she is not "the cleanest, most organized person" on the planet.											 

