Lee County Property Appraiser Matt Caldwell released his preliminary report on real estate values in Lee County during 2022, painting a picture of devastating hurricane damage on tropical islands. While the total county real estate values have grown a tenth, two barrier island communities hit hardest by Hurricane Ian saw sharply falling values, a nearly 40% decrease in Fort Myers Beach and 31% in Sanibel Island. The lower values could strip them of enough cash to support municipal services at current levels. Caldwell's report finds a total value increase of 10.3% to $199 billion as of Jan.1. Taxable property – the land and buildings owned by families and businesses – increased in value by a relatively meager 5.2%. Property taxes are paid on the value of homes, businesses and other property. He will set the final taxable values in later summer when the official certification is due. After the certification, each government entity, ranging from the mosquito control district to the sheriff's office, can adjust its tax rate. "There is certainly an impact across the board, most acutely on the two islands,” Caldwell said of Sanibel Island and Fort Myers Beach, in a telephone interview after releasing the report. “We also see it in the fire districts – all island fire districts lost value across the board as well as Iona, where damage was most concentrated." Other districts would include city, library, water management, inland navigation control and others. In black and white, the property appraiser's report puts a value on the impact the hurricane had on the barrier islands where it was traumatically worse than on the mainland. Comparatively, mainland communities saw increases in the value of taxable property, led by a 11.6% increase in Cape Coral, a nearly 11% increase in Fort Myers, 7% in Bonita Springs and 8% increase in Estero. There has been no question that when Hurricane Ian came ashore from the Gulf of Mexico on Sept. 28, it hit Sanibel and Fort Myers Beach the hardest. Taxable property on Sanibel lost nearly $2 billion of its value, according to the property appraiser, from $6.3 billion in 2021 to an estimated $4.3 billion in 2022. Fort Myers Beach saw taxable new construction worth $189 million while the taxable new construction in Sanibel was $1.7 million. Coastal fire departments also saw significant declines in property values after the storm. Fort Myers Beach Fire District property values dropped 38%, Sanibel's by 32%. On Captiva Island, values dropped by 12.4%, and in the Iona McGregor area on the mainland by more than 7%. The Matlacha/Pine Island district was down by 4.6%. Fire districts are taxed separately from the countywide property tax. Property Appraiser Coldwell said government and families have similar decisions to make when income fluctuates. "We live on budgets, we have to pay every month, compared to the big purchases – same thing for government," Caldwell said. "You have to run the agencies, work at the water plant, and make sure the street lights are operating but may have to put off for a year on a big road project ... demand still seems to be there, people want to move here." This article originally appeared on Fort Myers News-Press: Lee County property appraiser: Sanibel, Fort Myers Beach take hits New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.