Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Performance Food Group Co. engages in the market and distribution of food products. It operates through the following segments: Foodservice, Vistar, & Convenience. The Foodservices segment delivers food and food-related products to independent restaurants, chain restaurants, and other institutional food-away-from-home locations. The Vistar segment offers candy, snack, and beverage to customers in the vending, office coffee services, theater, retail, and other channels. The Convenience segment consists of a range of products, marketing programs and technology solutions to locations in the United States and Canada. The company was founded in 1885 and is headquartered in Richmond, VA. The already-powerful company aims to bulk up even more through acquisitions. Shares of the food distributor got a boost from the company's earnings update, which was clearly pretty good. The company is likely on a multi-year upswing that can carry its stock even higher. The food supplier shared encouraging weekly sales data ahead of an investing conference. Investors applauded some good news in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic, as consumers could trickle back to their favorite restaurants again. Food service distribution may be in for a wake-up call if Amazon continues to expand in the space. Stronger cash flow wasn't enough to overcome a Q4 underperformance and a weak fiscal 2019 outlook. PFGC earnings call for the period ending October 2, 2021. PFGC earnings call for the period ending July 3, 2021. PFGC earnings call for the period ending March 31, 2021. PFGC earnings call for the period ending December 26, 2020. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.