Or wait...  
Trending
 
COVID-19 
 
Obesity 
 
Industry 4.0 
 
Emerging Science & Tech 
 
Brexit 
 
Allergens 
 
Start-ups 
 
Plant-Based 
 Site Archive Multimedia 
Expertise
 
Operations 
 
Technical 
 
Environment 
 
Business Leaders 
 
People & Skills 
 
Legal 
 
NPD 
 
Food Safety 
 
Supply Chain 
 
Packaging & Labelling 
 
Promotional Features 
 Site Archive Multimedia 
Sectors
 
Ambient foods 
 
Bakery 
 
Drinks 
 
Chilled foods 
 
Confectionery 
 
Dairy 
 
Fresh produce 
 
Frozen 
 
Meat, poultry & seafood 
 Site Archive Multimedia 
Ingredients
 Resources
 Type of resources Events
 
All Events 
 
Shows & Conferences 
 
Online Events 
 
Editorial Webinars 
 
Awards 
 Events 
Podcasts
 
Foodmanjobs
 

 News 
02-Aug-2023
                            - Last updated on
                                02-Aug-2023 at 13:04 GMT                         Related tags
Business
Revenue
Finance

 Irish food manufacturer Kerry Group posted revenues of €4.1bn (£3.5bn) during the first half of 2023, an increase of 1.6% compared to the same period last year. This was driven by a 0.6% increase in volumes group-wide, which included a 1.4% rise in volume for the taste and nutrition category. Meanwhile, group pricing went up by 4.5% in contrast to the first half of 2022. Kerry is present in more than 50 countries around the world, with its global innovation centre located in Naas, Ireland. Speaking on the results, chief executive Edmond Scanlon was pleased with the group’s performance despite what he described as “varying conditions across our markets​”. “Strong volume growth was achieved in Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA) and Europe led by our performance in the foodservice channel, while North America saw customers work through elevated inventory levels​,” Scanlon said. “We continue to see good levels of customer innovation activity, and our margins reached an inflection point in the second quarter​.” Recent acquisitions include Proexcar, which bolstered its position within the Latin American meat market, and Chinese tastings manufacturer Greatang. Kerry completed the Greatang deal at the end of last month (July 2023), with the Shanghai-based firm offering a strategic partner within the local foodservice market. “We also made good strategic progress, particularly in executing on our emerging markets strategy with significant acquisitions and investments across APMEA and LATAM​,” Scanlon added. “With Kerry’s strong local footprint and track record of growth across emerging markets, these complementary strategic developments will support our future growth ambitions. While recognising current market conditions, we remain strongly positioned for growth and reiterate our full year constant currency earnings guidance​.” In other news, UK-based meat producer Cranswick has revealed its results for the first quarter of the 2023/24 financial year​​. 
Set up a job alert
 Copyright - Unless otherwise stated all contents of this web site are © 2024 - William Reed Ltd - All Rights Reserved - Full details for the use of materials on this site can be found in the Terms & Conditions Related topics
Operations
 Show more 
Post a job today
                            Powered by FoodManJobs
                     Search jobs Upcoming editorial webinars On-demand webinars Listen to the Food Manufacture podcast