Business Journal Daily | The Youngstown Publishing Company BOARDMAN – Catullo Prime Meats closed for good Saturday, the third-generation family business announced on a Facebook post. “It’s with a heavy heart that after almost 40 years of business, that we have decided to close the doors at Catullo Prime Meats, stated the post, signed by Danny and Angelo Catullo and the family. “Although we are sad to come to this decision based on a multitude of factors, we find solace in the pride that comes with serving this Valley and beyond for three generations with quality food and the best customer service,” the post stated. As of 11 a.m. Saturday, the post had generated more than 200 comments from customers expressing surprise at the closing and gratitude for what one post called “the great products and service.” In 2013, Danny Catullo expanded the butcher shop by adding online ordering and shipping prime meat nationwide. His startup plan was partially funded through the FedEx Small Business Grant Contest. Catullo subsequently established Perishable Shipping Solutions in Youngstown. In June 2022, Perishable Shipping Solutions was acquired by Minnesota-based Lineage Logistics LLC, which has 400 storage and distribution sites in 20 countries. Local operations include fulfillment centers at 1701 Henn Parkway in Warren and 1130 Performance Place in Youngstown. With the acquisition by Lineage Logistics, Danny Catullo exited the Perishable Shipping Solutions. He currently is vice president of e-commerce for PPX Hospitality Brands, a Boston-based management company that operates high-end steak, Italian and seafood restaurants. Image: Danny Catullo, from Catullo Prime Meats website. Copyright 2024 The Business Journal, Youngstown, Ohio. Company News August 19 YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio – Steward Health Care System – now managed by a transition committee that excludes executives who signed the real estate deals under criminal investigation in multiple jurisdictions – is accusing its landlord of “undermining” and “interfering with” efforts… Company News August 19 PITTSBURGH, Pa. – Under an agreement announced Monday, Giant Eagle Inc. will sell its GetGo Café + Markets to Canadian-based Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. The acquisition is expected to close in 2025 and is subject to standard regulatory approval and closing… Company News August 19 YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio – A new initiative of Flying High Inc. aims to help meet the rising demand for donated food by providing produce grown by its clients. Flying High, which provides drug and alcohol treatment, reentry and employment training services,… Now Available Check out the latest issue of The Business Journal 
				Just $99/year or $10/month will get you full
				access to all of our articles every month.
			 
				Already a subscriber? Log In
 Stay up to date with all of our latest news, events, and resources All Content © 2024 Business Journal Daily | The Youngstown Publishing Company Flipbooks are available to paid subscribers only. Subscribe now or log in for access.