LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: For Alabama Barker beauty is a kind of self-care that comes from the soul, not from the makeup you use. When she partnered with IPSY in her recent Instagram post, the 17-year-old daughter of Travis Barker was trolled, as users questioned whether the starlet even uses the products she promotes.  Travis was recently chastised for "liking" his 17-year-old daughter's "inappropriate" photos. On Wednesday, June 21, the teen star shared a number of racy photos on her Instagram account, including one in which she was wearing a mini-skirt. Alabama was photographed wearing a small brown skirt, a matching brown top, leather boots, and a big leather jacket. As she posed provocatively in the exposed clothing, the adolescent lifted her eyebrows. While several of Alabama's followers reacted to her caption, the majority of admirers and critics were drawn to her provocative clothing.  Shared post on Time Getting Real by 37signals is an ebook that I bought it when it releases. It consists a bunch of essays to create and manage a better software rhealin könyvei. Founder of Lifehack Read full profile Getting Real by 37signals is an ebook that I bought...  Alabama Barker collaborates with IPSY IPSY, the world's most popular beauty membership, has signed another famous face to promote the brand. Alabama, who has almost 2 million Instagram followers, went to the platform on June 23 to showcase her latest brand partnership. Travis' daughter captioned a series of photos of herself wearing a strapless dress, "I just spent 6 figures & looked at bae like look what you made me do." She further added, "Did this look with products from my June @boxycharm by @ipsy box #ipsypartner." Subscriptions to beauty boxes IPSY and Boxycharm are merging into one service. Boxycharm is now part of IPSY, and the company has reduced its subscription box offering from six to three. IPSY purchased Boxycharm in 2020, but the company operated independently over the previous three years. The combination of IPSY's AI member quiz and personalization capabilities with Boxycharm's brand portfolio and curated approach to marketing creates a single beauty membership. A sample-size Glam Bag; a full-size subscription Boxycharm by IPSY; and a quarterly, celebrity-curated Icon Box are among the reinvented box possibilities. The firm has also introduced a new feature called Power Picks, which ensures that popular items based on the platform's gathered customer data are featured on a monthly basis.   As Alabama's new promotional post hit the Internet, users were soon to call out the teen star. One person commented under the post, "Girl I know your ass did not use those products." Another person chimed in, "I know right lol I’m obsessed with her signature look but us makeup girls knowwww." A third user wrote, "Her makeup looks great but if you’re a makeup person you know those products (while good) do not match up to what’s happening here." While others reacted to her caption saying, "Six figures on what??"  Reacting to the 17-year-old scoring a brand promotional deal, one user commented, "Yo daddy money I will never get how children stunt w they parents' money n they haven’t hustled likeeee." While another person wrote, "Girl chill. we know you're rich and we don't care." Some thought, "I was confused that she uses benefit too." Another person doubting her claims of using the product asked, "Do YOU?"  