Q: I don't know if you saw this article, but it is pretty interesting/informative: bit.ly/adverseevents23. Thank you for your weekly articles in the Daily News! — Connie White A: I have included the link to this article for anyone who would like to read through it. It is titled “Adverse Events Associated with Canine Vaccines 2023 Study” by Dr. W. Jean Dodds. Dodds graduated from Ontario Veterinary College in 1964. According to her biography, she was a member of many national and international committees on hematology, animal models of human disease, veterinary medicine and laboratory animal science from 1965 to 1986. She was a grantee of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. This particular article is a discussion on research that was performed by George Moore and colleagues at Purdue University studying the number of adverse events associated with canine vaccines. The study discussed was completed in 2023 and was similar to a study done by the same group in 2005. Both studies utilized current data from the Banfield Hospital network. You can read the article for yourself, but there are several main points and conclusions that are drawn from the data. They include the fact that French bulldogs and dachshunds seem to be at higher risk for adverse vaccine reactions. I agree with this assessment based on what I see in private practice. While their studies showed variance in the percentage of reactions, both the 2005 and 2023 studies implicated certain factors in the likelihood of a vaccine reaction. They were: body weight, age, number of vaccines given during the visit, breed of pet and, surprisingly to me, sex and neuter status. The smaller the dog’s body weight was, the more likely it was to have a vaccine reaction. Also, the more vaccines given on the same day increased the likelihood of a vaccine reaction. It was unclear to me which researcher was drawing this conclusion, but it was suggested that the reason the small dog and the increased number of vaccines were more likely to cause a reaction was because both of these situations increased the volume of protein injected compared to the body weight of the pet. With any of these studies, I think the first takeaway should be that veterinarians are continually researching and trying to reduce the number of vaccines given to pets. For now, it is my belief that lifestyle vaccines are the answer. If a pet is not at risk for a condition, then don’t vaccinate for it. Cats that never go outside do not need the Leukemia vaccine. Dogs that never go in areas frequented by wild animals could decline the Leptospirosis vaccine. Definitely get the three-year rabies rather than the one-year for your pet. It means two fewer years of having to have a rabies vaccine. One also can split up the vaccines. It may mean making two or even three visits a couple of weeks apart, but it would accomplish not making the pet’s immune system deal with multiple vaccines at one time. Vaccines are a necessary evil. I have seen firsthand the consequences of not getting them. We have a balancing act to perform when we vaccinate. We want safety and protection. Discuss the needs of your pet with your veterinarian. This article originally appeared on The Gainesville Sun: Vaccines: A necessary evil | Pet Peeves New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.