Ipsy Senior Social Media Manager Marra Vargas reveals how Threads will fit into the beauty box subscription firm’s social media plans Threads, the ‘kinder’ answer to Twitter from Mark Zuckerberg’s Meta, burst onto the social media scene on 6 July.   Threads garnered 30 million sign-ups in less than 24 hours, making it the most rapidly downloaded app ever.  The mostly text-based app lets users respond to, repost and quote other people’s posts in a similar way to Twitter.  The software also allows users to share posts from Threads directly to Meta stablemate Instagram’s Instagram Stories. Naturally, brands – beauty included – flocked to join Threads.  L’Oréal’s first post was an on-brand ‘Because you’re worth it’ sealed with a kiss emoji, while Estée Lauder apologised for being ‘Fashionably late. Like every great icon’.  But in a social media landscape dominated by the proven selling power of TikTok and Instagram, where does Threads fit in?


Not yet a Subscriber?

                                        This is a small extract of the full article which is available ONLY to premium content subscribers. Click below to get premium content on Cosmetics Business.
Subscribe now
Already a subscriber? Sign in here.





Share




X

LinkedIn
Facebook

 





Companies:

                                                        Ipsy
                                                    


See more



 
                                        This is a small extract of the full article which is available ONLY to premium content subscribers. Click below to get premium content on Cosmetics Business. Through digital, live and print
                                    products, Cosmetics Business informs and inspires
                                    business leaders and decision-makers around the world. With a digital-first
                                    strategy, the Group’s Editors write breaking news, product releases, technical
                                    papers, innovation features, trend reports and live content agendas covering the
                                    entire industry from ingredients and packaging to regulation, retail and
                                    marketing.