When we go to our doctors, communication is a very important part of the visit. We want the doctor to listen to our concerns and we, in turn, listen to the doctor’s recommendations. This is true in veterinary medicine as well. Did you know there are things you can do to improve the communication between you and your veterinarian? Before you take your pet in to be seen, make a list. Make a list of any concerns that you might have about your pet’s health. List all of the things you want done on this visit. Don’t forget the nail trim or the anal glands. List heartworm and flea medications so that you can discuss what your pet is on at this time. If you need any refills of medications, put that on your list. Are there any new lumps that you want checked out? Does your pet seem to be having trouble getting up and down? Put it on your list. Take a picture of your bag of dog or cat food before you leave the house. Veterinarians like to know what you are feeding, but it can be hard to remember when you are at the visit. If your pet is sick, think about when it started. How many days has it been going on? Has he been throwing up occasionally for years, or did it just start two days ago? If your pet is throwing up or having loose stool, take a picture of the vomit or diarrhea. A picture is truly worth a thousand words in this case. When a veterinarian sees the picture, it makes the problem much more real and it helps the doctor in determining what medications he is going to use on your pet. Communication. This is a hard subject, but we must communicate concerning the risk of your pet snapping during the exam. If your pet has any history of biting or snapping at home or in another office, you must let your doctor know. Don’t wait and hope that this time will be different. I cannot tell you how many times I or my technician have almost been bitten and then the owner will mention that it is not the first time something like this has happened. You are the only one who knows that history. Veterinarians really appreciate the client that will say that their pet would be better off muzzled so no one has to worry about getting hurt. Not all dogs require muzzles, but there are some that do. Sometimes we, as veterinarians or technicians, go into a room and the dog immediately growls at us or makes aggressive eye contact. Sometimes the pet is just in pain and any manipulation during the exam could be a trigger. This pet would be better off wearing a muzzle for this appointment. Muzzles do not hurt the pet, but they keep the pet honest. No one gets hurt when the muzzle is on. Lastly, it is important for the person bringing the pet in to know what is going on. Sending a teenager that has a car and can get to the appointment but doesn’t know what to say or what the parents want done is the death knell for communication. We end up trying to talk to the parents on the phone. It is not a good situation. If the results of the appointment are less than satisfactory, don’t be surprised or blame the veterinary office. Communicating, as an owner, what you hope to get out of the visit will enable your veterinarian to serve you and your pet more effectively. This article originally appeared on Northwest Florida Daily News: How to communicate with your vet | Pet Peeves New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.