If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on July 4, 2023
 
By: Maurie Backman
 Writer  KEY POINTS Not so long ago, my friend's dog needed kidney stone surgery, and not shockingly, it was a multi-thousand dollar procedure. Thankfully, my friend had pet insurance that would cover the bulk of that expense. And since her dog is fairly young, doing the surgery was really an easy call. The problem, though, was that my friend still had to charge that procedure on her credit card and carry the balance forward for a bit of time, all the while racking up interest. This annoyed her immensely since she had pet insurance and the expense at hand was a covered one. But because her pet insurance company took its time to process her claim and reimburse her, she wound up losing money to interest charges. With human health insurance, what'll often happen is you'll present your insurance card at the time of a service or procedure, and the provider will bill your insurer from the start, leaving you to only be liable for a copay. Pet insurance often doesn't work like that.


 Instead, with pet insurance, you'll commonly have to cover the cost of your pet's care yourself, submit a claim, and then wait for it to get approved or not. Once approved, your insurer should issue you a check for the amount your policy allows for given your pet's procedure. But at the end of the day, you're still shelling out that money upfront. And if your pet insurance company drags its feet on the approval process, you could end up waiting quite a while to get paid. That's what happened to my friend. She submitted a claim to her pet insurance company right after her dog's procedure. But her credit card bill came due before her insurance company had so much as approved her claim. Since she didn't have the money in her savings account to pay her credit card bill in full, she racked up some interest on it.




 Thankfully, it wasn't a catastrophic amount of interest, since she got reimbursed shortly thereafter and was then able to pay off her balance in full. But it irked her to rack up any amount of interest in that situation, and understandably so. And if you don't want to land in the same boat, make sure you have some money set aside for pet care costs -- even if you have a comprehensive pet insurance policy. Carrying a credit card balance forward for a month or so may not seem like such a big deal. But every dollar you waste on credit card interest is a dollar you don't have for something else, whether it's food, utilities, or treats for your dog. Recent data by Lemonade found that 70% of pet owners don't have any savings for a pet care emergency. If that's the boat you're in, sock money away in the bank in case your pet winds up needing surgery that you need to pay for. That could help bridge the gap until your insurance company reimburses you. 
Maurie Backman is a personal finance writer covering topics ranging from Social Security to credit cards to mortgages. She also has an editing background and has hosted personal finance podcasts.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.