KATIE Price's son Junior has landed a huge gig opportunity as he revealed he'll be performing at Bestival in the summer. The musician, 17, has followed in his father Peter Andre's footsteps after he released his first single Slide last year, which became an instant hit with his fans. Now, the youngster will take to the stage at the music festival held in the south of England.  Junior announced the news on Instagram with a promo photo and wrote: "I’m gonna be appearing at Bestival this summer. Can’t wait! Who’s coming?" The Mysterious Girl singer, 49, was chuffed with the news and simply wrote: "Let's go," with a string of flame emojis. While his other fans were thrilled with the annoucement and commented that they'd be there to support him. Junior stormed to the top of the charts within hours of releasing his debut single in 2022. His upbeat track shot to the top of the UK iTunes charts.  Slide sold more than both Harry Styles and Lady Gaga, the other debut song on the charts, The King and I by Eminen, entered the charts at number 14. He celebrated his success on Instagram by sharing a photo of the charts and thanked his fans. "Thank you to all those who have supported," he wrote. Then he added: "You guys are mad can we get this to the top?", of the national charts where he sat at number four before getting to the top. Dad Pete was ecstatic too writing: "What a start. Wow son," and mum Katie wrote she was "so proud" of her boy. Before the track was released, he had been teasing his track on TikTok for weeks - where clips of the song have garnered over six million views. In support of the up-and-coming music artist at his single launch was rapper and comedian Big Narstie, who was among those in the crowd for the performance. Princess Andre declared herself "so proud" of her older brother Junior as he performed his upcoming single for the first time. She filmed her sibling in action during the launch party of his debut tune, which will be released on Friday. Flanked by two backing dancers on a stage, Junior performed in front of an intimate crowd who were clearly fans of the 17-year-old's debut song as they sang along. As the song hit the chorus, both backing dancers show off their abilities with impressive flips on stage while Junior serenaded the audience.  Junior is following in his dad’s footsteps by carving out a career in the music industry. He inked a mega-deal with Columbia Records and thanked his Mysterious Girl pop star dad for kickstarting his career. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/