Working with furballs isn’t restricted to being a dog walker or groomer.  These unconventional careers will make you realize what paw-sibilities are out there and may very well inspire pet lovers to take on a fun and lucrative side hustle. Karis Nafte, 43, an American living in Cape Town, South Africa, works online as the certified dog behavior consultant and divorce mediator behind WhoKeepsTheDog.com. Her first book, a guide for pet custody, comes out later this year. “I help couples decide what happens with their pets after a divorce or separation so that the well-being of the animal is the priority,” she said. “My aim is to stop fights or legal battles by providing guidance based on the needs of the dogs (or cats, or parrots).” In addition to four years’ experience as a mediator, Nafte also has 27 years of professional experience working with dogs as a trainer and behaviorist.  As far as she knows, she’s the first dog behavior expert who does this work.  “I also developed, and teach, the first accredited course on pet custody for lawyers and mediators to learn best practices for handling animals in divorce cases,” she added. The work requires equal dog and people skills.  You’ll also need qualifications to work with behavioral challenges in dogs. “In addition, you need to become an accredited mediator,” she said. “And be patient, compassionate and skilled when working with people going through a hard time,” she added. Skylar Liberty Rose, 48, moved to New York from London in 2014 and began dog walking as a way of supplementing her income as a writer and a midlife women’s coach. “It was an opportunity for me to get more acquainted with different areas of the city, and also get some animal therapy,” said the Queens resident, who now runs Pet Sitting NYC. “I’m a huge dog lover, as well as an introvert, so spending time with pups while also continuing to freelance and build my other business was a win-win situation.” Rose started staying in clients’ homes with their pup while they were out of town.  “With my British accent and genuine delight for the pups I care for, I quickly acquired the name ‘Mary Puppins,’ ” she said. These days, she has clients running the gamut from TV producers to fund managers.  Once, she was hired to take care of a pup as part of a wedding celebration at the Rainbow Room at Rockefeller Center.  “I was there to chaperone her and put her in her special wedding outfit,” she said. “I’ve also been flown out — twice — to pet sit in LA by clients who only trust me to take care of their pup.” For those looking to break into something similar, she said it’s important to focus on building up a good reputation.  “Start simple and offer cat visits or dog walks to begin with. Definitely get insurance — you’re taking care of precious beings and it’s worth every penny for peace of mind,” Rose said. “You have to truly love being around animals. You’ll get to stay in some beautiful homes and, sometimes, receive some very generous tips, but you’ll also have to deal with upset tummies and 3 a.m. wake-up calls.” Robyn Pope, 38, CEO and photographer at Haute Dog Pet Photography in Dallas, has carved out a full-time career for the past 10 years by snapping pictures of pets. “In a world where moments can be fleeting, my profession stands out for its ability to immortalize the unconditional love and unique personalities of our beloved animal companions,” she said. “I began photographing with one simple goal — to make my ‘heart dog’ live forever — then I realized I shared that dream with pet parents worldwide and set out to provide my service.” Currently, she specializes in colorful dog portraits and couture-inspired horse photography, “creating images that exude personality and capture the essence of each animal.” “Some clients invest tens of thousands of dollars in their session and artwork,” said Pope, sharing that when a client loses a pet, it’s not uncommon for her to be contacted with a note about the profound importance of their portraits. If you’re looking to say, “Lights, camera, dog treats,” Pope suggests volunteering with local shelters and rescue organizations to become proficient with your craft and working with animals of all sizes and personalities.  “This is a great opportunity to hone skills while giving back at the same time,” she said. Gigi Chow, 36, who lives in San Francisco, provides consulting services to people who want to travel internationally with their dogs, or incorporate dogs into their wedding, via her company, Wet Nose Escapades. “I started this career path shortly after resigning from my management role in a conventional office to pursue my dream of becoming a digital nomad,” she said. “After traveling in Europe for six months, I returned home in 2016 to do the paperwork to bring my rescue Yorkie along.” At the time, there were very few resources on traveling with your dog internationally, said Chow, so she started sharing her experience with dog parents who wanted to do the same. For dog weddings, she works with folks who are either planning a destination wedding with their dog or simply trying to train their dog to walk down the aisle.  “I’m providing a very personalized service that isn’t yet too popular in the general pet industry,” she said. Chow is also still learning as she continues to travel with her two dogs. “People want to hear my mistakes, examples and stories — good, bad and ugly,” Chow said. Advertisement