PETER Andre's wife Emily shared son Theo's sweet milestone on social media. The mum of two took to Instagram to gush about what had happened to her six-year-old son, Theo. Emily, 33, revealed that Theo had lost his first tooth. The NHS doctor took to her stories to detail the event, writing: "Maaaajor excitement this evening, Theo's first tooth fell out! "(Apart from the one he had to have pulled out, but the dentist kept that one.) "Now waiting for the tooth fairy." Theo could be seen proudly holding out his tooth as he eagerly awaited a visit from the tooth fairy. Emily captured the adorable moment where Theo kissed a personalised bag that homed his tooth, before popping it under his pillow. Theo's bag read: "Theo's tooth fairy bag", and was decorated with a drawing of a face. Alongside the cute clip, Emily penned: "Bless him kissing the tooth goodbye," before tagging husband Peter. Emily and her family recently jetted off on a luxury holiday to Dubai, celebrate Peter's very own milestone, his 50th birthday. The social-media personality, her daughter Amelia, nine, Theo, six, and her step children Princess, 15, and Junior, 17, who Peter shares with Katie Price, enjoyed sea, sand and sunshine on their getaway. Emily even shared an adorable tribute to Peter to celebrate his birthday, including romantic selfies as well as a picture of him caring for her in hospital. She captioned the post: "Happy birthday to my lovely lovely hubby. "It’s your 50th birthday and your 11th since we’ve been a couple! Time truly flies when you’re having fun. "Thank you for everything you do for our family. We all love you so much xxxxxxxx." ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO)