Clayton and David Bottomley were killed when the construction lift they were using suddenly collapsed An inquest into the deaths of a father and son who died after an external lift collapsed will go before a jury. Clayton Bottomley, 17, and his dad David died following an incident at the Unity Building at the corner of Chapel Street and Rumford Place, where the pair had been working, at 3.30pm on May 19, 2021. David died at the scene, while Clayton, a former Rugby League player, died in hospital four days later. At a pre-inquest hearing today, coroner Johanna Thompson announced the investigation would be held with a jury, as the law states this must occur when a death was caused by an accident, poisoning or disease reported to a government department or inspector. READ MORE: Elle Edwards’ heartbreaking '2023' message to dad that never came true The father and son, from Castleford in West Yorkshire, were killed when the construction lift they were using on the exterior of the Unity building suddenly collapsed. We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info David was an experienced insulation fitter who had worked at the site in Liverpool city centre for the past two years, according to friends. Clayton was a talented Rugby League player who had once played for Castleford Tigers. Rick Brown, of Lock Lane RLFC in Castleford, said: "Clayton joined Lock Lane in the Under 12s and played through to the under 16s. He was raw at first but soon got into the game, a very determined player to do well. He never took a backward step and gave 100% every game. He used to bring his large speaker on match day to get the team moral up in the changing room, he was a true team player. "No parent should have to lose their child and our thoughts and prayers go out to his mum Paula and his sister Molly who he adored. "This has had a massive impact on our team our club and the whole community. You well never be forgotten, may you rest in peace Clayton from everyone at the club." Solicitors representing the Bottomley family, site contractors Laing O’Rourke, building facade specialists AAI Selby, mast climbing work platform suppliers Adastra Access, and gearbox specialists Nord Gear Ltd all appeared in court today. Representatives from the Health and Safety Executive and Merseyside Police also attended. Ms McGlynn, of the HSE, said it would likely take until September or October for the leading inspector to prepare a full report into what happened. Ms Thompson said: "At the moment, we are unable to make any more substantial progress until we have the report from the Health and Safety Executive, so I am going to therefore arrange a future pre-inquest review hearing. That's not likely to be for at least another two or three months. It's very difficult because this is a case with complexities, and it's important we get it right by making all the evidence come at the right time so we will progress." Don't miss the biggest and breaking stories by signing up to the Echo Daily newsletter here