May 16, 2023 by Jonny Whitfield 
The high volatility, all-ways title offers several bonus features and mechanics, as well as a 20,000x maximum win. 
Yggdrasil’s DoubleMax Game Engagement Mechanic sees every cascade double the total win multiplier. Winning symbols are removed and replaced with a wild symbol. 
Three scatters award seven free spins and two extra free spins are awarded for every two additional scatters. 
Meanwhile, Multiplier Jumps can activate at any time and move the game’s win multiplier up one position. 
Stuart McCarthy, head of product and programs at Yggdrasil, backed Barbarossa DoubleMax’s “excellent features and mechanics” to help the slot “truly succeed.” 
Yann Bautista, business development manager at Peter & Sons, added the title forms part of the company’s mission to “deliver thrilling experiences and great artwork to players around the globe.” Stretch Network has launched a new cash table leaderboard set to begin at the start of September. Online gaming revenue in Portugal hit another record figure in Q2. Online casino and sportsbook Stake is furthering its expansion into LatAm by launching stake.pe after being awarded a Peru licence. InterGame is the only monthly magazine covering the international coin-op amusements and gaming industry. InterGaming is the leading magazine covering the international land-based casino and gaming industry. Published bimonthly, iNTERGAMINGi is the leading publication for the growing international online gaming industry. An extensive annual buyers’ directory with more than 1,500 suppliers listed in the coin-op, casino and iGaming sectors. All the latest innovations for children in the indoor play, edutainment, outdoor adventure and simulation sectors. Coin-op Community covers the latest news for the UK’s amusements, attractions and leisure sectors. InterGame Ltd, Earl Mill, Dowry Street, Oldham, OL8 2PF  Tel: +44 (0)161 633 0100 © InterGame Ltd. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | Directory T&Cs | Subscriber T&Cs | Advertiser T&Cs | Anti-slavery Statement This website uses cookies to enhance your experience and allow key parts of the site to work. By browsing this website you are giving us your consent to set cookies. Learn more › Not now
Subscribe
