Sean "Diddy" Combs and Misa Hylton's son Justin Dior Combs was arrested Sunday morning in Los Angeles for driving under the influence. Combs, 29, was taken into Los Angeles Police Department custody around 9 a.m. PDT and booked for a misdemeanor, online inmate records viewed by USA TODAY show. He was released at 12:30 p.m. PDT on his own recognizance, meaning he did not have to post the $5,000 bond set under the condition that he will appear in court when requested. Combs' arrest occurred during a traffic stop in Beverly Hills. "(Officers) observed the driver possibly under the influence of unknown alcohol or drugs," an LAPD officer told Fox News Sunday. "The investigation revealed that he was under the influence." Sean 'Diddy' Combsaccuses spirits company of racism, neglecting his vodka and tequila brands Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Officers observed Justin run a red light leading to the traffic stop, the LAPD told Entertainment Tonight. "He was put through a sobriety test that he failed," a spokesperson said. USA TODAY has reached out to the LAPD and reps for Combs. Justin's mother Hylton seemingly reacted to the arrest on Instagram Sunday in a series of now-deleted posts on her story. "I’m not protecting no one anymore, just my son. And ALL the children," the celebrity stylist and designer wrote. "The statement ‘a fish rots from the head down’ means that, in addition to being a major contributing factor in a family or organization’s success, leadership is also the root cause of its failure and demise. The Truth shall set you free." Singer DaniLeigh arrestedfor driving under the influence, hit-and-run in Miami "Act BAD BAD boy I used to want to be a BAD Girl I chose to be a QUEEN Tried and true. I’m not perfect but I am INTENTIONAL," she continued, a reference to Diddy's single "Act Bad" with the City Girls and Fabolous. "I should have kept my child with me," Hylton added. Combs is the executive producer of "The Crew League," a televised celebrity basketball tournament, and "Respectfully Justin," a limited reality series with Justin Laboy. The 29-year-old has also dabbled in acting, making two appearances in "Power Book II: Ghost" earlier this year. Prior to his entry into show business, Combs played football for UCLA.