Source:ABC Radio Melbourne|Program:Melbourne Mornings Brought to you by Presented by What feels better: winning a premiership, or watching your sons do the same? Collingwood great Peter Daicos, father of current Magpies stars Nick and Josh Daicos. told Raf Epstein on ABC Radio Melbourne. Collingwood's Peter Daicos passed his talent onto his sons. (Supplied: AFL Photos) Raf Epstein: I was truly, as a Carlton fan, taught to hate Collingwood. And I was taught that when I was watching people like Peter Moore and Peter Daicos run around. But on the text,:"The Daicos family are a class act, a beautiful moment that brought a tear to my eye". It is a great pleasure to welcome onto the radio one of Collingwood's most cherished sons, father to Josh and Nick, Peter Daicos. Good morning. Peter Daicos: Good morning, Raf. Thanks for having me on. Raf Epstein: Absolute pleasure to have you on. What is better? Is it better to win one yourself or is it better to watch your sons win one? Peter Daicos: I think, look, it was great winning one as, you know, in my own right, you know. But I think as a parent, you always want your kids to exceed anything you've ever done. And so, no, I would have to say watching the boys go around and do what they're able to do and achieve is a way better feeling for sure. Raf Epstein: There's a beautiful moment that is being replayed online where you rushed out and you and your wife just hug your sons. Do you remember what you said to them? Peter Daicos: I said a lot of things, but I think one of the main things I said was that they're now a part of history and that, you know, they have a really, really special bond with the rest of their -not just the teammates on the day - but the club and the list. So, you know, it's unbreakable, as they say. But it was along those lines, but at different times, because we were on the oval for very close to an hour. I also said, 'Do you remember when we were, you know, we'd come to the footy?' and I remember pointing to the stand and saying that, you know, we'd sit up there talking about playing in the grand final and the boys kept saying, 'Yeah, yeah, I remember, I remember'. And it was just - it was fantastic for both myself and Colleen, my wife, to be able to share it with the boys and be out there was just fantastic. Raf Epstein: That's beautiful to hear you talking about sitting there watching it with them. Do you and Colleen take credit? How do you view what they achieved? Peter Daicos: Oh, look, Raf, I always say that I'm even -we're even - a lot happier with the outcome because, you know, I keep saying that people get to see a finished product. We get to see all the work the boys put in. So having said that, the most pleasing thing with all this - and I'm sure the other, you know, 17 clubs that missed out and weren't able to do or achieve what Collingwood achieved on Saturday, you know, they put in a hell of a lot of work - and yeah, so for us, I think the most pleasing thing is that the outcome, you know, just complemented the amount of work the boys had put into their football. So that was really pleasing. Raf Epstein: I don't actually understand, Peter Daicos, how different football teams are to when you were part of a successful Collingwood side. How do you explain, or how do you think about the way this team back each other? Like every minute of every game, when it gets close, they just appear to have more determination than any other team. What do you think is going on inside your son's football team? Peter Daicos: Well, firstly, I think, you know, it's all relative to the times and that, but we were no different. You know, to be able to achieve what what you achieve, you need a certain grit and determination and willpower. You know, I could throw in probably another half a dozen things that would be apt in and around, you know, team success. But I think one of the underlying things, Raf, with this team is that, yeah, exactly that -their determination.I think what's underpins it all is their conditioning. They are super, they're a super fit team and group. And I think the results last year and this year have shown that. Even the grand final showed that. I mean, we had to wait until the death knock to to come home with the win. So, you know, they have a steely grit and determination and, you know, they are supremely fit, you know, and that probably underpins, you know, what this team's about. Yeah. Raf Epstein: And I think a lot of people want to know, I'm sure you've got lots of things to do this morning, but final question. Were you very hands on, like training them as kids? How much was that you? Peter Daicos: Oh, well, we were constantly at the park. I mean, we were constantly at the park. If we weren't at the park, we're in our own backyard kicking a ball, kicking indoors. So it was constant. And, you know, I'm sure there's a lot of dads and parents that can relate to it as well with their kids. And nah, we were never too far away from a football or kicking, which, you know, I always say that, you know, we personalise our touch, whether kick or by hand, you know, with a football. The one thing you can never explain is how hard you need to kick the thing and that needs to be felt. So that's why your training comes into play. And that's why the constant hours of being out there, you know, even if it's unstructured sort of practice time, it's really, really important. So we were forever there. But then, you know, once they get into the latter parts, you know, they join the competition, they get to the latter, you know, the start of their careers and the latter part of their junior years, you know, they start getting into these programs that are a lot more structured and there's a lot more content that goes into it and a lot more technical nous that goes into it. So, yeah, it all plays its part. But I think the thing we taught the kids more than anything is to just love the game. And that's - I think that clearly shows. Raf Epstein: Thank you so much for joining us and relish your sons' victory. Thanks a lot. Peter Daicos: Thanks Raf, thanks for having me. Published: 6h agoMon 19 Aug 2024 at 10:30pm Published: 6h agoMon 19 Aug 2024 at 10:30pm Published: 6h agoMon 19 Aug 2024 at 10:30pm Published: SunSun 18 Aug 2024 at 10:30pm Download the ABC listen app to text and call your favourite live radio We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the
    First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we
    live, learn and work.