With a weekly newsletter looking back at local history.  A swimming pool now stands where monkeys once frolicked in the 1930s in Elmwood Park. Where travelers spent the night in the park’s tourist camp in the 1920s is now the golf course parking lot. The pedestal still stands where the statue of a baseball player was erected in 1927, next to the city’s oldest park pavilion. And an Alaskan totem pole stood tall next to the pavilion for a long time, too. But unlike the other features of Elmwood Park that came and went, the fate of the totem pole is open-ended. Elmwood’s first years were a boom-and-bust cycle tied to the streetcar. The park was busy when there was temporary service to the Nebraska State Fair on what became the Ak-Sar-Ben grounds. Once the fair returned to Lincoln and the tracks pulled up, few Omahans had ways of getting to Elmwood. The streetcar line was restored to the 60th and Leavenworth Streets entrance in 1910. By then, Elmwood had its $6,000 pavilion, its architecture borrowing from the style of a Mexican mission. Elmwood Park’s golf course, as shown in this detailed map in the Omaha Daily News in December 1915, originally had its No. 1 tee north of the pavilion that’s been in use since 1909. A golf course was the next major improvement. First proposed in 1909, the city recreation board approved construction in 1915 and the 18-hole course, designed by Happy Hollow Club professional Charlie Johnston, opened the following summer. “I hope you will remember that this is a public park as well as a golf course and if picnic parties happen to run across the course when you are playing don’t lose your temper,” Parks Commissioner Joe Hummel said on opening day. Elmwood’s clubhouse wasn’t inside the park at first. Golfers bought and remodeled a house at 5912 Leavenworth (still standing) in 1916. They installed 100 lockers and six large showers. In 1923, John Shearman was hired as the first municipal course professional and the city converted the north end of the pavilion into his golf shop. The first tee was across the road. Between the course and Pacific Street, in Elmwood’s southeast corner, the city opened an “auto tourist camp” in 1921. Lodging choices at that time were limited. Hotels, cabins, tents. Hummel was inconsistent whether he liked the camp being in the park. He first advocated for it when it needed City Council approval. But within a couple months, “washing and dogs and cats and all sorts of camp rubbish hanging around don’t improve a park’s looks,” he said in agreeing with naturalist Dr. Harold Gifford that the camp needed to relocate. The camp’s first amenities — a cook house with two army ranges, telephone and sanitary facilities consisting of two showers and two sinks — were replaced in 1923. The city erected two brick buildings. The administration and recreation building, which also housed the park caretaker, had wicker chairs, a brick fireplace, tables with glass-topped maps and telephones. The second building contained a kitchen with 15 gas stoves, laundry facilities and bathrooms with private showers. The city charged 50 cents a night to stay. Four nights maximum. “Joe Hummel has one perfectly good tourist camp he would like to get rid of. No reasonable offer ignored,” the Omaha Bee-News wrote in 1932. “Just a few years ago Omaha had fame from coast to coast because of hospitality offered, the Elmwood Park tourist camp. Now none so poor as to make use of its facilities. It has just gone the way of peewee golf; that’s all.” Competition from tourist cabins led to the tourist camp’s closure. In 1933, when the city rerouted the 18 golf holes, the administration and recreation building was repurposed as the clubhouse for the newly christened Johnny Goodman Golf Course. (Yes, the city has two courses officially named for the 1933 U.S. Open champion. The other was renamed from Applewood in 2000). East of Elmwood Park’s pavilion is the monument base that held a bronze statue of a baseball player, dubbed Bosco, from 1927 until its donation to the World War II scrap drive in 1942. In 1927, the Omaha Amateur Baseball Association spent $3,500 for the first monument given to the city, in recognition of the city’s support to the sport. A life-sized bronze statue of a baseball player, said to be modeled from the swing of batting champion George Sisler, sat atop an 8-foot tall granite base. The figure drew widespread ridicule. World-Herald sportswriter Robert Phipps in 1942 wrote that no one knew whether the statue was a right- or left-handed batter; whether it represented a hit or strikeout; or who famous player the statue represented, and if it were Sisler, he “would shoot anyone with that kind of swing.” Known derisively as Bosco, the statue went into the World War II scrap drive in 1942. The base of the monument still stands in Elmwood — and inside should be a copper box containing the names of 37,891 amateur baseball players and others from the baseball association’s first 14 years of operation. Bosco had a neighbor in the park — the totem pole donated to the Omaha city library museum in 1921 by coal man Ralph Sunderland. He bought it in 1909 from Native Americans while visiting Alaska. The pole was moved to Hummel Park sometime after World War II. The World-Herald wrote in 1976 that it was on the campgrounds north of the kitchen building at the park’s day camp. It’s not there now, and what happened to it is unknown to parks officials. Fort Omaha soldiers Paul Young, left, and John J. Daly, check out the carvings of the Alaskan totem pole donated to the Omaha city library museum by Omaha coal dealer Ralph Sunderland in 1921. We can’t forget the monkey business. OK, they were rhesus macaques. Monkey Island opened in July 1933. After seeing monkeys in Minneapolis, Parks Commissioner Frank E. Frost spent $901.43 for a 20-by-40-foot island guarded by a 3-foot-deep, 15-foot-wide moat — because it was believed monkeys wouldn’t cross the water. But rhesus macaques will. It only took one peanut, tossed to “Jim,” the oldest of the 10 primates relocated from the Riverview Zoo, to show the moat was too shallow. Jim waded to the shore, to the wire-fence enclosure, and the other nine followed. Several more escapes ensued. One rhesus macaque was on the lam a couple days until found on top of a chimney at 6705 Dodge St. Frank Frost seriously thought of placing alligators in the moat to keep the primates at bay. A deeper moat and a stronger barrier were the solutions until the colony was returned to the zoo after three years. Elmwood Park’s pavilion, its architecture borrowing from the style of a Mexican mission, opened in 1909 at a cost of $6,000. When the city opened the pool on this site in 1964, it was almost a half-century after Joe Hummel floated the idea. Residents of Dundee and the Evanston addition east of the park prevailed in their objections that a pool would be an undesirable feature. Another water feature in Elmwood was its springs. Omahans drew water from the natural springs, sometimes forming long lines to fill their containers, from pioneer days until 1947, when health officials determined the water was contaminated. The grotto at the springs was restored in 2000 through a Peter Kiewit Foundation grant. But the warning remains: “Do not drink the water.” That idea to move traffic from 30th Street has been bandied about since the 1930s. That idea to move traffic from 30th Street has been bandied about since the 1930s. Many Omahans of a certain age remember visiting Santa at Toyland in the Brandeis department store. The tradition dated to the 1900s when J.L. Brandeis and Sons were the proprietors of the Boston Store. Many Omahans of a certain age remember visiting Santa at Toyland in the Brandeis department store. The tradition dated to the 1900s when J.L. Brandeis and Sons were the proprietors of the Boston Store. The Benson and the Hanscom are only two of the more than 70 theaters that sprung up outside downtown Omaha during the first half of the 20th century. The majority opened — and closed — during the era of silent films.  The Benson and the Hanscom are only two of the more than 70 theaters that sprung up outside downtown Omaha during the first half of the 20th century. The majority opened — and closed — during the era of silent films.  Omaha’s first auto club, formed in 1902, included 20 of the city’s 25 auto owners. Their first activity was a road rally to Blair and back. Omaha’s first auto club, formed in 1902, included 20 of the city’s 25 auto owners. Their first activity was a road rally to Blair and back. Take a look back at the history of the Chermot Ballroom and some of the big names that played there. Take a look back at the history of the Chermot Ballroom and some of the big names that played there. The New Tower’s front lobby had a Normandy castle motif with great stone walls, heraldic crests and wood-burning fireplace. The massive beams and lofty ceilings carried over into the Crest Dining Room.  The New Tower’s front lobby had a Normandy castle motif with great stone walls, heraldic crests and wood-burning fireplace. The massive beams and lofty ceilings carried over into the Crest Dining Room.  A generation of Omahans — and newcomers to the city — likely are unaware that Peony Park, the major amusement spot from the 1930s through 1994, was at 78th and Cass Streets.  A generation of Omahans — and newcomers to the city — likely are unaware that Peony Park, the major amusement spot from the 1930s through 1994, was at 78th and Cass Streets.  Pardon the pun, but another of my deep digs has turned up forgotten burial grounds across Douglas County. Pardon the pun, but another of my deep digs has turned up forgotten burial grounds across Douglas County. The fame of Curo Springs was so far-reaching that in pioneer days — every fall and spring — people from 100 miles away (some crossing the Missouri in crude boats) would come to load up with the water. The fame of Curo Springs was so far-reaching that in pioneer days — every fall and spring — people from 100 miles away (some crossing the Missouri in crude boats) would come to load up with the water. Here are some books relating to Omaha and Nebraska history, many by local authors, to check out. Here are some books relating to Omaha and Nebraska history, many by local authors, to check out. They were the twin banes in Omaha’s pioneer years. One of them came back to life during the nighttime deluge that hit the area last weekend. They were the twin banes in Omaha’s pioneer years. One of them came back to life during the nighttime deluge that hit the area last weekend. The Omaha Chamber of Commerce was prepared to remove its $35,000 hangar — built in modular sections — until the city was ready to build a municipal airport. Then came back-to-back windstorms. The Omaha Chamber of Commerce was prepared to remove its $35,000 hangar — built in modular sections — until the city was ready to build a municipal airport. Then came back-to-back windstorms. Research has turned up a juicy nugget — the whereabouts of the burial site of Omaha, the Triple Crown horse in 1935. Hint: there are people resting every night on top of it. Research has turned up a juicy nugget — the whereabouts of the burial site of Omaha, the Triple Crown horse in 1935. Hint: there are people resting every night on top of it. Keystone has become the name applied to the area bounded by 72nd and 90th Streets, Maple Street, Military Avenue and Fort Street. It has expanded since Keystone Park was platted in 1907. Keystone has become the name applied to the area bounded by 72nd and 90th Streets, Maple Street, Military Avenue and Fort Street. It has expanded since Keystone Park was platted in 1907. Ezra Meeker’s crusade is credited for reawakening awareness of the Oregon Trail in the early 20th century. In the process, he erroneously linked Omaha to the trail and others took his word for it. Ezra Meeker’s crusade is credited for reawakening awareness of the Oregon Trail in the early 20th century. In the process, he erroneously linked Omaha to the trail and others took his word for it. An Omaha real estate firm had the idea in the heyday of the '20s that it could sell 1,500 cottage lots platted away from the lakes and the Platte River. So what happened? An Omaha real estate firm had the idea in the heyday of the '20s that it could sell 1,500 cottage lots platted away from the lakes and the Platte River. So what happened? Check out a glimpse of Omaha’s Black history before 1880. Check out a glimpse of Omaha’s Black history before 1880. The Dan Parmelee-Tom Keeler feud, which included an Old West shootout on the outskirts of old Elkhorn in December 1874, left Keeler dead and made news nationwide. The Dan Parmelee-Tom Keeler feud, which included an Old West shootout on the outskirts of old Elkhorn in December 1874, left Keeler dead and made news nationwide. In the 1950s and 1960s, Omahans had their pick of drive-in movie theaters. Cars with families and cars with teens -- some watching the film and others, well, you know -- side by side, wired speakers hanging inside a car door. In the 1950s and 1960s, Omahans had their pick of drive-in movie theaters. Cars with families and cars with teens -- some watching the film and others, well, you know -- side by side, wired speakers hanging inside a car door. Clontarf never was incorporated as a village, but functioned like one and wielded political clout larger than its 47 acres. There was a lawless element, too. Clontarf never was incorporated as a village, but functioned like one and wielded political clout larger than its 47 acres. There was a lawless element, too. 'Mascotte was a big joke but it looked good while it lasted.' The village had a factory, railroad depot, hotel, general store, school and about 40 cottages. By 1915, it was all gone.  'Mascotte was a big joke but it looked good while it lasted.' The village had a factory, railroad depot, hotel, general store, school and about 40 cottages. By 1915, it was all gone.  West Dodge Road has been rebuilt over and over. And along the way, the Old Mill area has lost its mill, its hazardous Dead Man’s Curve and the most beautiful bridge in the county. West Dodge Road has been rebuilt over and over. And along the way, the Old Mill area has lost its mill, its hazardous Dead Man’s Curve and the most beautiful bridge in the county. stu.pospisil@owh.com,  twitter.com/stuOWH With a weekly newsletter looking back at local history. Reporter - High school sports       Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.