Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter.      CEDAR FALLS — The Sons of Norway Lodge meeting will be held on Dec. 13 at the Cedar Falls Women's Club, beginning with hors d'oeuvre at 5:30 p.m.  The program will be given by the Rev. Duane Lindbergh on the "Mystery of the Disappearance of the Norse Colonies in Greenland." Call (319) 277-2294 for reservations by Dec. 6.  Northern Iowa celebrates after scoring against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa Emily Holterhaus (10) shouts after the Panthers' score against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis last November.  Northern Iowa's Payton Ahrenstorff, left, Emily Holterhaus, center, and Carly Spies celebrate on the court after scoring against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa celebrates after scoring against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Carly Spies attacks the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Sydney Petersen bumps the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Kira Fallert attacks the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Kira Fallert attacks the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Carly Spies serves the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Kira Fallert attacks the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday, Dec. 3. Northern Iowa's Baylee Petersen bumps the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Olivia Tjernagel attacks the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Inga Rotto leaps to make a block at the net against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Kira Fallert makes the dig against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Kira Fallert bumps the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Olivia Tjernagel spikes the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Inga Rotto leaps to make a block at the net against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa's Kira Fallert serves the ball against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday, Dec. 3. Northern Iowa's Olivia Tjernagel, left, and Carly Spies attempt to make a block at the net against Minnesota in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday. Northern Iowa shakes hands with Minnesota after the Panthers' loss in the second round of the NCAA volleyball championships at Maturi Pavilion in Minneapolis on Saturday.  Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter. Recently released court records detail some of the evidence authorities used to arrest a former Decorah corn maze operator for murder in conne… Despite public comments against the proposal, the Cedar Falls Board of Education on Monday approved the sale of the old high school to Waterlo… The long-awaited documentary on the disappearance and slayings of two Evansdale cousins in 2012 is out. Located at 6815 Innovation Drive and named Cedar Ridge Crossings, the 78,000-square-foot building will include office and warehousing space fo… The new Cedar Falls High School is wrapping up preparations to welcome students for the first time Aug. 23. Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.