Brought to you by  Construction work on St Peter’s Hospital Mental Health Inpatient Unit located in Surrey, the UK commenced in Q1 2023, after the project was announced in Q2 2021. According to GlobalData, who tracks and profiles more than 220,000 major construction projects from announcement to completion, the project is expected to be completed by Q2 2024. To learn more about the St Peter’s Hospital Mental Health Inpatient Unit project, buy the profile here. The project involves the construction of a hospital building on 1.10ha of land in Surrey, the UK. Buy the profiles 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             
                    Find out more
                    



 The project includes the following: 1. Construction of 64 bedrooms with 73 beds and en-suite facilities. 2. Construction of communal areas3. Construction of assisted bathrooms 4. Construction of associated support rooms5. Construction of therapeutic gardens 6. Construction of external courtyard spaces Construction on the project, spread across 1 hectares, is expected to be completed by Q2 2024. For more details on the St Peter’s Hospital Mental Health Inpatient Unit project, buy the profile here.  Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                                            From 
                                            
 
                                        Blending expert knowledge with cutting-edge technology, GlobalData’s unrivalled proprietary data will enable you to decode what’s happening in your market. You can make better informed decisions and gain a future-proof advantage over your competitors. 

                                         
 Be better informed
 Buy the profiles The gold standard of business intelligence. 

                        Find out more
                        



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the construction industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024