A MOTORS expert has revealed the best electric vans currently on the market - and it could help drivers save thousands of pounds. It's becoming more and more tempting to switch to an electric van as several cities are charging diesel vehicles for entering clean air zones or outright banning them. Most electric vans have a driving range that will be more than capable of a day's work - and their overall cargo volume is comparable to that of their diesel counterparts. But, it can be challenging to choose one because there are now many models on the market. Handily, car experts at Auto Express have shared the best vans in the UK. Car experts at Auto Express say that the Ford E-Transit is a game-changer for the electric van market, and rate it so highly that they named it 2022 Electric Van of the Year. The new electric Transit takes the diesel model as its starting point, but the engine, gearbox and transmission have been replaced with electric gear. The motor produces 181bhp or 265bhp, depending on the model you choose, with both options providing plenty of power. These closely-related vans share the longest range of any electric load-lugger currently on sale in the UK - with up to 205 miles on offer  with the 75kWh battery option.  Fast charging of up to 100kW is available, so you can charge the 50kWh battery from 10 to 80 per cent in half an hour, while the larger 75kWh battery can get to the same percentage in 45 minutes.  And there's a 7.4kW charging system fitted to the van as a standard, while an 11kW charger is available for drivers on a busy schedule. The Citroen e-Berlingo, Peugeot e-Partner, Toyota Proace City Electric and Vauxhall Combo-e all have the same underpinnings, with a 50kWh battery providing a range of up to 170 miles on a single charge. CCS fast-charging at a rate of up to 100kW should also prove useful to operators, meaning these vans can be topped-up to 80% in around half an hour.  The E-Ducato promises a wide variety of tailored options for electric van buyers. And there are three lengths and three heights of panel van for a total of 28 body styles, well as, a chassis cab option and even a passenger version with up to 9 seats. There's a choice of two batteries; either 47kWh or 79kWh, offering a range of 137 and 224 miles, respectively.  A slightly different approach to plug-in hybrid van technology comes from LEVC and its taxi-based VN5 van. The VN5 uses a 'range-extender' approach, whereby the petrol engine is used as a generator, sending power to the electric motor, rather than the wheels. There's a 31kWh battery, so the VN5 has an all-electric range of 58 miles. Inside, there's a payload of 830kg and a cargo volume of 5 cubic metres, so the VN5 isn't the biggest van around, but it should be enough for urban deliveries.  This comes after a car expert shared Britain's best cars according to people who actually bought them. Plus, a car expert has revealed the best hybrid cars you can buy in the UK - and they could help you cut your fuel costs. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/