
        Please do not leave this page until complete. This can take a few
moments.
       Due to our new system upgrade, we are requesting all existing users to update their password. Create a new password Forgot your
                    password ? A real estate holding company affiliated with McGovern Automotive Group of Newton purchased a restaurant property at 20 Nagog Park in Acton for $1.3 million, in a transaction which was recorded on Thursday by the Middlesex South Registry of Deeds. McGovern owns the adjacent Nagog Mall in Acton, which it purchased in August 2022 for $9.6 million.  Both the restaurant property and the mall were sold by KVA Nagog LLC of Wellesley, which purchased both properties in 2004 for $10.3 million. An office building, Unit #30, on the same parcel as the restaurant has a separate owner and was not involved in the deal. The property was the former home of As Good as it Gets Cafe, which closed in May according to a Facebook post by the restaurant blaming the staffing crisis and inflation for the closing. The cafe has locations in Wilmington and Norwood still in operation. In May, McGovern Auto Group acquired Acton Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram  at 196 Great Road in Acton. That was the 25th dealer acquisition in six years for the company, which was founded in 2016, according to a May 16 press release from the group. McGovern is building a collision center at 420 Boston Turnpike in Shrewsbury. Plans for that project were announced in 2022 and approved in January. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. Stay connected! Every business day, WBJ Daily Report will be delivered to your inbox by noon. It provides a daily update of the area’s most important business news. Worcester Business Journal provides the top coverage of news, trends, data, politics and personalities of the Central Mass business community. Get the news and information you need from the award-winning writers at WBJ. Don’t miss out - subscribe today.  Worcester Business Journal presents a special commemorative edition celebrating the 300th anniversary of the city of Worcester. This landmark publication covers the city and region’s rich history of growth and innovation. In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register In order to use this feature, we need some information from you. You can also login or register for a free account. By clicking submit you are agreeing to our cookie usage and Privacy Policy Already have an account? Login  Already have an account? Login  Want to create an account? Register This website  uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Our privacy policy To ensure the best experience on our website, articles cannot be read without allowing cookies. Please allow cookies to continue reading. Our privacy policy