If this was leasing, I will be interested! Yeah. You don't wanna own a Peugeot for a long time especially in our country. It will be a major headache in the future. That's also because since that brand is a unit of Stellantis, which also contains Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep, Peugeot's presence in the Philippines is more an analog to its fellow Stellantis brands Fiat and Alfa Romeo selling cars in the Philippine market decades before, that means with Fiat no longer in PH since 2000 (but inports continue with performance models wearing the Abarth name) and Alfa Romeo's presence in Philippines is very limited - unlike to say Ford - therefore in honesty means Peugeot's experience in the Philippine and other Southeast Asian markets (ex: Thailand) is totally different from Stellantis' presences in their home markets Europe and North America. (Even in Argentina and Brazil means Stellantis deeply sells more cars but none of them are were exported to Southeast Asia nor Oceania given the reputation of Latin American-made cars being known for unsafe.)Of course, if Stellantis were to join forces with Ford rather than to have the former make itself look like they're a lose-lose company, then I could say since Ford already retained a myriad of cars with dated technology (well they're all US-developed) means the Blue Oval may just trade them for rebadging Peugeot's cars instead - anyway who needs Peugeot, Fiat or Opel when you already have Ford? (Stellantis in fact is meaningless so Ford has more meanings and instead they're abbreviated as reflecting to their series of failures like "Fix Or Repair Daily".) 


Feel free to comment or share your views. Comments that are derogatory and/or spam will not be tolerated. We reserve the right to moderate and/or remove comments.






 Feel free to comment or share your views. Comments that are derogatory and/or spam will not be tolerated. We reserve the right to moderate and/or remove comments. View in Desktop | View in MobileTips? Send them to carguideph [at] gmail.comCopyright © 2011-2023 CarGuide Internet Services. All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy