United States: British biopharmaceutical giant GSK sued Pfizer in a U.S. court on Wednesday, alleging that Pfizer’s respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine Abrysvo violates GSK’s patent rights in its rival RSV shot Arexvy. In the lawsuit brought in federal court in Delaware, GSK said New York-based Pfizer’s vaccine infringes four of its patents related to the antigen its shots use to fight the respiratory disease. Pfizer said in a statement that it is “confident in its intellectual property position” and will “strongly defend” its right to bring Abrysvo to patients. Both vaccines were approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in May for use in adults over age 60. They are the first vaccines approved to prevent RSV, which causes around 14,000 deaths in adults 65 and older in the United States annually, according to government estimates. Pfizer and GSK are running a tight race to tap into the RSV vaccine market, which could exceed $10 billion by 2030, according to analysts. The vaccines are part of both companies’ strategies to replace aging drugs that will face cheaper generic competition. A GSK spokesperson said in a statement that intellectual property protections are the “foundation of research-based companies’ ability to drive innovation,” and that the lawsuit should not affect GSK’s ability to launch Arexvy. GSK said in the lawsuit that Pfizer began working on its RSV program as early as 2013, at least seven years after GSK. The lawsuit said Pfizer knew of GSK’s patented technology since at least 2019, when it began challenging the validity of European versions of the patents. Read also: GSK RSV shot Arexvy approved in Britain for adults aged 60 years and older Ruchika Sharma joined Medical Dialogue as an Correspondent for the Business Section in 2019. She covers all the updates in the Pharmaceutical field, Policy, Insurance, Business Healthcare, Medical News, Health News, Pharma News, Healthcare and Investment. She has completed her B.Com from Delhi University and then pursued postgraduation in M.Com. She can be contacted at editorial@medicaldialogues.in Contact no. 011-43720751 Editorial Prediabetes in India: Sugary Iceberg and Place of Metformin to Mitigate it Prediabetes in India: Navigating the Sugary Crisis with DCGI-Approved Metformin LENS trial a first of its kind large scale trial shows striking 27% reduction in diabetic... The Role of Aspirin in Reducing ASCVD Mortality Among Adults with High Lp(a) Concentrations API- ICP issue practical guidelines for doctors for management of Hypertension in patients with Type... Journal Club  Today The Role of Probiotics in Prenatal Health: Study Sheds Light on Benefits for Moms and Babies Health News Today Health Bulletin 17/ August/ 2024