Telangana : Application forms online have been invited from NEET-PG-2023 qualified candidates from Indian Nationals / OCI / NRIs for admission into Post Graduate Medical Degree / Diploma courses under Management Quota seats for 2023-24 into Private Non-Minority and Minority Medical Colleges affiliated to KNR University of Health Sciences, Warangal in the state of Telangana. Notification is issued for online registration for web based counseling to determine State Merit position for admission into Management Quota seats only. Provisional Merit list will be notified after scrutiny of all certificates uploaded at the time of online registration.  Total number of seats available under Management Quota for the academic year 2023-2024 will be notified on website before exercising web options for counseling. Tuition fee will be as notified by the Government of Telangana later on. Cut-off score in NEET PG 2023 Exam Category Qualifying Criteria Cut off   Score General Category   (UR/EWS)  50th Percentile 291 SC/ST/OBC (including PWD   of SC/ST) 40th Percentile  257 Persons with Disability   (OC)PWD 45th percentile 274 Schedule for registration of online application and uploading of original certificates. Candidates can register online and upload scanned original certificates on website https://pvttspgmed.tsche.in/ from 8.00 AM on 09-08 -2023 to 5.00 PM on 16-08-2023 Provisional Final Merit position of the applied candidates will be prepared based on NEET - PG  2023 Score and other eligibility criteria notified hereunder after verification of uploaded certificates. ELIGIBILITY:   A) Candidate should have qualified in NEET PG-2023 by securing marks of cut- off score or above as displayed above. B) Candidate should have passed MBBS Degree examination from an Institution recognized by the Medical Council of India. C) Candidates who have completed their MBBS course from an institution outside the country shall submit permanent registration certificate compulsorily. NOTE: The candidates should have completed internship by 11-08-2023 and shall submit internship completion certificate/likely to complete internship by 11-08-2023 issued by Principal of the College. The NEET PG 2023 qualified and eligible candidates as per concerned regulations who desire to take admission into PG Medical Degree/Diploma Courses shall apply online and upload all original certificates for determining the Merit position for Telangana State Management quota seats using NEET PG 2023 ranks in the Website https://pvttspgmed.tsche.in from 8.00 AM on 09-08 -2023 to 5.00 PM on 16-08-2023 II) only. The online application can be filled through any computer with Internet connection. (NOTE: PREFERABLY DESKTOP OR LAPTOP) III) Registration and Verification Fee for PG Degree/Diploma courses :- The Registration and Verification fee of Rs.6300/- (Bank transaction charges extra) shall be paid online through Debit card / Credit card or Net Banking.** ** Registration and Verification fee once paid will not be refunded or adjusted to a further date. ** Candidates are advised to check their eligibility to apply for determining the Merit position in respective categories by using NEET PG - 2023 score by reading Prospectus / Regulations carefully. Candidates who completed MBBS from other states must pay Equivalency Verification fee for certificate verification apart from the registration fee. The fee for MBBS Degree from other state or other country is Rs. 5,000 & Rs. 7,000 respectively. The Registration and Verification fee once paid will not be refunded or adjusted to a future date. IV) For other details read the Prospectus carefully. The Prospectus of the courses, instructions for filling of Online Application and uploading of scanned original certificates is available on the University Website: http://knruhs.telangana.gov.in/ & https://pvttspgmed.tsche.in. Candidates are advised to download and read the  (1) Management quota Prospectus of the course  (2) Instructions for filling Online Application available in the website before filling the online Application V) Procedure of filling online application, scanning/uploading of original certificates and online payment for registration 1)The Registration and Verification fee can be paid through Debit card / Credit card or NetBanking   2)The Registration and Verification fee paid by the applicants is not refundable under any circumstances. 4)The following documents are required for Uploading:   (a) Latest passport size photo.   (b) Admit card and Score Card – NEET – PG 2023.   (c) Original/Provisional Degree Certificate   (d) Aadhar Card   (e) Study Certificate(s) from first to final MBBS.   (f) Latest Category certificate in case of BC/SC/ST candidates issued by Competent Authority of Government of Telangana if applicable ( for NEET Cut-off score under category as there are no reservations for Management Quota seats) . (g) Muslim Minority Certificate issued by Competent Authority of Government if applicable.   (h) Internship completion certificate   (i) Valid Medical Council Registration Certificate. (If issued before June 2018 shall be renewed )   (j) Permanent Medical Council Registration Certificate is mandatory if the candidate obtained Medical Degree Certificate from outside the country. (k) candidates claiming NRI quota (MQ2) Should submit the following documents from a Blood relative such as Father/Mother/Brother/Sister/Uncle/Aunt only and should submit a declaration to that effect. 1. NRI Sponsorship certificate (DECLARATION Form)   2. NRI status certificate of the financial supporter issued by embassy of respective country under their seal. 3. Copy of NRI Bank account pass book of the financial supporter.   4. Copy of Pass port of NRI financial supporter   (l) Sponsorship Certificate from College for Institutional Quota (MQ3)   6. Fill all the details in the online application form and upload all the documents which are mandatory   VI) Procedure for submission of filled-in online Application form and original certificates for PG Medical Degree/Diploma courses:- The candidate should submit the print-out of the filled-in Online application form and original certificates along with One (1) set of self attested copies to the Principal of allotted college at the time of joining for final verification. In case of any discrepancy,the provisional allotment order will be cancelled. VII) MANAGEMENT QUOTA SEATS :   A) The PG Degree / Diploma seats available under Management Quota in Private un-aided Non- Minority /Minority Medical Colleges will be displayed on KNRUHS website before Online Counseling. B).Final seat matrix for Management Quota sub-category - MQ.-1, MQ.2, MQ-3 will be displayed on KNRUHS website i.e. : http://knruhs.telangana.gov.in/ before online counseling. Note:   i) On-online application form without uploading mandatory Certificates, Passport size photo, without signature at declaration area, incomplete applications will be automatically rejected and will not be considered for determining the Merit position in respective categories using NEET-PG-2023 Rank. ii) The mere fact that the Merit position issued to the candidate does not imply that the candidature is accepted by the University and it does not mean that the entries made by the candidate in the online application are accepted as true and correct. iii) Candidates may please note that the University will take up the verification of certificates with regard to eligibility conditions i.e., Educational qualifications, validity of Registration with NMC/MCI/State Medical Council, Internship certificate, Category status as per uploaded relevant certificates by the University. If the information furnished by the candidate in the application is incorrect, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled and  further action that deems fit will be taken. iv) Candidates eligibility for admission into PG courses for the academic year 2023-2024 will be examined by the University only after scrutiny of application along with all copies of required certificates and provisional final merit list will be notified. v) Registration along with uploading of Scanned Original certificates will be done only once irrespective of the number of times of exercising web options / Number of counseling. No separate notification will be given for verification of original certificates. Therefore the candidates should register and upload all the mandatory Certificates without fail. vi) Scrutiny of uploaded Original Certificates shall be done by the University and concerned departmental officials. After scrutiny of application and certificates provisional final merit list will be released. Candidates are advised to refer to KNRUHS website for further details regarding schedule of exercising web options. vii) Admissions will be in accordance with the Orders issued from time to time by State Government with regard to process of Admissions to Post Graduate Medical Courses under Management Quota and relevant Hon'ble Court orders. viii)The procedure for preparation of seat matrix and selection into PG MD/MS broad specialty in the Management Quota and seat allocation will be done as the procedure given in G.O.Ms.No.40, 42, HM&FW (C1) Dept., dated: 09-05-2017. ix) The notification is for determining the State Merit position in respective categories using NEET- PG - 2023 Rank only. The dates for exercising web options for admission to PG (MD/MS/Diploma) courses and procedure will be notified separately on University website. Candidates are advised to check the University web-site for notifications, schedules and other details from time to time. x) An in-eligible candidate obtaining Merit position does not make the candidate eligible for admission. xi) Admissions will be considered only for candidates, who have secured marks above cutoff score in NEET- PG-2023 exam and based on the state merit order as the case may be. xii) If the candidate faces any difficulty for submitting the Online application the following numbers may be contacted: IMPORTANT DATES TO REMEMBER 1 Date of    issue of Notification for admission into PG Medical Degree/Diploma courses    for 2023-24 08-08-2023 2 Availability    of on line application and uploading of certificateshttps://pvttspgmed.tsche.in/ From 8.00 a.m. on 09-08­2023 to 5.00 p.m. on 16-08­2023 3 Date of    release of provisional final merit list of applied candidates after    verification of uploaded Certificates. Will be notified later 4 Schedule    of exercising web options Will be    notified later 5 Commencement    of Classes Will be    notified later 6 Closure    of Admission As notified by NMC/MCI Note:  1. No further Notification will be issued by the University unless there is any change in the schedule. No Individual intimations will be sent.   2.	Candidates are informed to check to KNR University website regularly for notifications and information.   3.	Printout of application along with all enclosures should be submitted at the time of verification.   4.	If the candidate faces any difficulty for submitting the online application the following numbers may be contacted:   REGULATIONS:   The following are the Regulations for admission into Management Quota seats in Post Graduate Medical Degree / Diploma Courses for the academic year 2023-2024 and shall apply to all admissions into all the Un-aided Private Non- Minority and Minority Medical Colleges affiliated to KNR University of Health Sciences in the State of Telangana.   Number of seats under Management Quota:   a.	The number of seats to be available for the academic year 2023-2024 in Post Graduate Medical Degree/Diploma courses at Private Un-Aided Non-Minority and Minority Medical Colleges will be in accordance with the orders of the NMC/MCI/GOI/Govt. of Telangana.   b.	The seat matrix for Management Quota seats for the academic year 2023¬2024 will be displayed in the KNRUHS website before notification exercising web options for counseling.   c.	In case any new PG Medical seats are permitted by Government of India in colleges affiliated to the KNRUHS for the academic year 2023-24, those seats also will be filled up. NO FURTHER NOTIFICATION WILL BE ISSUED.   ELIGIBILITY:   a.	The candidates who fulfill the following criteria are eligible for admission into post graduate Medical Degree / Diploma courses. Candidates have to apply online and upload the original certificates for Management Quota seats in colleges affiliated to Kaloji Narayana Rao University Of Health Sciences, Warangal.   b.	The candidates qualified in NEET PG-2023 examination with the following cutoff scores and above conducted by National Board of Examinations, New Delhi as per section (10) of Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 are eligible to apply. i.	The Candidates from all over India are eligible for Management Quota Sub – Category – 1. ii.	NRI / OCI / NRI sponsored candidates are eligible for Management Quota Sub – Category – 2.   iii.	Candidates sponsored by the Managements of Private Un – Aided Non – Minority and Minority Medical Colleges having Post Graduate Courses in Telangana State are eligible for Management Quota Sub – Category – 3.   iv.	MBBS Degree should be recognized by the MCI/NMC.   v.	MBBS Graduates pursuing internship should have completed internship on or before 11.08.2023 from recognized colleges. (by NMC).   vi.	Must have registered with State Medical Council and subject to the fulfillment of the conditions stipulated in Regulations and its documentary proof should be uploaded along with the online application.   Note:   i.	If a candidate is found to have submitted false information or concealed any relevant information regarding admission matter, such candidate is liable to be disqualified for admission and in case already admitted, the admission will be cancelled. Further disciplinary action against him/her will be initiated by the University/respective institution as per rules. Legal issues if any shall be under the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad for the State of Telangana.   ii.	If the candidate is having a Medical qualification equivalent to MBBS (Primary Medical qualification) from outside India, the Degree should have been recognized by Medical Council of India/ National Medical Commission for enrolment as Medical Practitioner in the Country and registered by MCI.   iii.	Candidate must have Permanent Registration with Medical Council of India or any State Medical Council and attested copies should be uploaded along with the application. Candidates who are completing internship by 11-08¬2023 shall submit a certificate indicating that the candidate is likely to complete internship issued by the Principal of the Medical College.   iv.	Candidates must pay equivalency fee for verification of degree certificate obtained outside the State/Country as specified in the regulations along with the registration fee.   v.	The Registration and Verification fee once paid will not be refunded or adjusted to a future date. Therefore candidates are advised to check eligibility conditions thoroughly before applying for determining merit position. ,   ONLINE APPLICATIONS:   The on-line application form for determining merit position in respective categories (Sub category – 1,2 & 3) for Management Quota seats using NEET-PG–2023	scores will be available on the website https://pvttspgmed.tsche.in/from 8.00 AM on 09-08-2023 to 5.00 PM on 16- 08-2023 Note: The candidates are advised to take a print out of the Prospectus / Instructions to fill the application from the websitehttp://www.knruhs.telangana.gov.inor https://pvttspgmed.tsche.in/before proceeding to fill the application form.   1)	The candidate should fill the online application form available in the Website and upload all necessary certificates with the data required for through computer with data connection. The online application form can be filled through any computer with Internet connection or mobile with data connection. The candidate is advised to fill the online application form after going through the Prospectus by keeping all the Certificates, scanned Photo and Signature in the jpg/.gif format separately (as shown below) (step-1) and ready to enter his/her correct data and upload the original certificates, photo and signature after the payment of application fee through Online.   PROCEDURE OF FILLING ONLINE APPLICATION, UPLOADING OF ORIGINAL CERTIFICATES AND PROCEDURE FOR ONLINE PAYMENT:   (a)	Latest passport size photo.   (b)	Admit card and Score Card – NEET – PG 2023.   (c)	Original/Provisional MBBS Degree Certificate   (d)	Aadhar Card   (e)	Study Certificate(s) of MBBS.   (f)	Latest Category certificate in case of BC/SC/ST candidates issued by Competent Authority if applicable for NEET Cut-off score under category as there are no reservations for Management Quota seats.   (g)	Muslim Minority Certificate issue by Competent Authority of Government if applicable.   (h)	Internship completion certificate/likely to complete internship certificate by 11-08-2023.   (i)	Valid Permanent Medical Council Registration Certificate. (If issued before June 2018 shall be renewed )   (j)	candidates claiming NRI quota (MQ2) Should submit the following documents from a Blood relative such as Father/Mother/Brother/Sister/Uncle/Aunt only and should submit a declaration to that effect.   1.	NRI Sponsorship certificate (DECLARATION Form)   2.	NRI status certificate of the financial supporter issued by embassy of respective country under their seal.   3.	Copy of NRI Bank account pass book of the financial supporter.   4.	Copy of Pass port of NRI financial supporter   (k)	Sponsorship Certificate from College for Institutional Quota (MQ3) candidates.    The fee can be paid through Debit card / Credit card or Net Banking.   The Registration and Verification fee paid by the applicants is not refundable and not adjusted to a future date under any circumstances   List of Documents Sl.No Details of    Certificate File Type Size of file 1. Copy of    Provisional or Original MBBS Degree Certificate. (Mandatory) pdf 500 KB 2. Copy of MBBS study    certificate. (Mandatory) pdf 500 KB 3. Copy of the Compulsory    Rotatory Internship certificate. (Mandatory) pdf 500 KB 4. Copies of    Temporary / Permanent Medical Registration from the respective State Medical    Council. (Mandatory) pdf 500 KB . NRI Sponsorship Letter for    (MQ2) pdf 1000 KB 6. Sponsorship    Letter from Institute/College (for MQ3) pdf 500 KB 7. Social    Status Certificate (Permanent Caste Certificate) as shown in Annexure - I in    the application form. (issued through mee-seva) if applicable for eligibility pdf 500 KB 8. Minority    Certificate (if applicable) pdf 500 KB 9. NEET PG - 2023–    SCORE CARD. (Mandatory) pdf 500 KB 10. Photo identity    proof (Aadhar) (Mandatory) pdf 500 KB 11. Candidate’s    Latest passport size Photo (Mandatory) jpg OR jpeg 100 KB 12. Specimen    Signature of the Candidate (Mandatory) jpg OR jpeg 100 KB Open the websitehttps://pvttspgmed.tsche.inHome page displayed as follows.   There are 4 steps to Register for PG admission program   a.	Mobile and Email Registration,   b.	Candidate Registration (Payment of fee),   c.	Data updation   d.	Uploading of Certificates. Click on the Mobile and Email Registration. The candidate should have a valid /working Mobile and Email Id. OTP will be sent to registered Mobile and Email Id at different stages. The candidate should keep the Mobile and Email Id active till completions of the counselling process. The candidate has to enter OTP’s received to mobile and Email Id for registration and Verification of Mobile and Email Id. After entering the details click on Validate Button 3.	If all the details entered are correct and verified with OTP’s your system will display a successful message and proceed to registration form After entering the details click on Validate Button it will take you to the Payment Gate way for payment fee. Registration Form appears in which Candidate has to give the details. If all the details entered are correct your system will display payment reference number Button to proceed for payment. Depending on your caste category the Registration fee is varied. Once paid you will not get any refund. Hence, you are requested to double check the eligibility conditions mentioned in the Prospectus yourself and pay the fee. Now you will be directed to the Payment Gateway,   Select mode of payment  After payment you will receive a Successful Payment message on the screen and you will receive the Registration number to your mobile. Please note down the registration number for further correspondence For updating the details of the candidate enter Roll Number and the Registration number and click on validate button to enter into the Application form. The application form will be displayed as shown below. You have to fill the details and upload Passport Size Photo and Signature(Note: Scanned photo and Signature should be less than 100 KB and in JPEG or JPG format) After filling the form, click on Save and Exit Button. This process can be repeated till all the data you entered are correct. Then click on Upload Certificates Button to proceed for document attachments. Click Upload Certificates. You will be directed to upload Scanned PDF Certificates (Note: The size of each PDF document should be less than 500 KB)    After uploading all the required certificates, Click on Print Application, You will get your filled in application form, take printout of this form for further assistance.  REGISTRATION & VERIFICATION FEE FOR ONLINE APPLICATION:   The Registration and Processing fee is Rs. 6,300/- (Bank transaction charges extra).   EQUIVALENCY VERIFICATION FEE FOR CANDIDATES STUDIED OUTSIDE THE STATE AND ABROAD:   The candidates who completed Under Graduate Degree course outside the State or Country/Abroad and got their certificates registered with Medical Council of India and applying for admission into Post Graduate Medical Degree/Diploma courses under this University, shall pay Verification fee of Rs. 5,000/- for the Degrees acquired outside the State and of Rs. 7,000/- for Degree certificates acquired abroad. MERIT LISTS:   The provisional final merit position of the candidates who have applied online in response to the notification issued by KNR University of Health Sciences for Management Quota seats shall be determined as per NEET-PG-2023 scores and as per their eligibility criteria, applicable regulations, guidelines viz: i.	As per PG Medical Regulations of National Medical Commission / Medical Council of India, the candidates shall secure minimum of marks at 50th percentile for General category, 40th percentile for SC/ST/BC category and 45th percentile for Persons with disabilities (under General category) in NEET PG – 2023 cutoff scores are eligible for admission into PG Medical Courses only for the purpose of qualifying criteria as there are no reservations under Management Quota   ii.	The University will notify provisional final merit list of eligible candidates for exercising web options after verification of uploaded original certificates by the University and issue schedule for exercising web options.Management Quota Seats (as per G.O.Ms.No. 40, 42, HM&FW (C1) Dept., dated: 09- 05-2017: and subsequent amendments for distribution of seats a)	50% of seats in each specialty in each college are management quota seats. The Management Quota Seats are categorized into Management Quota (a) Sub – Category – MQ1. 25%, Management Quota (b) Sub – Category – MQ2. 15% NRI quota (NRI/NRI Sponsored) (c)	Management Quota Sub – Category – MQ3 Institutional Preference Quota – 10%. b)	For Management Quota Sub – Category – MQ1 – 25%, candidates from all the states and union territories of India are eligible.   c)	For Management Quota Sub – Category – MQ2 – 15%, NRI candidates and NRI sponsored candidates are eligible.   d)	For Management Quota Sub – Category – MQ3 – 10%, candidates sponsored by the Management’s of the Private Un – Aided Non – Minority and Private Un-aided  Minority Medical Colleges having Post Graduate Course in the State of Telangana. Note: I. The eligibility criteria for sub category MQ3 in an institution is as follows.   1.	Candidate completed MBBS from that institution   2.	Candidate is an employee of that institution   3.	Candidate is the son / daughter of employee of that institution   4.	Candidate shall submit a sponsorship certificate from the Principal of concerned Medical College.   The Eligibility criteria for NRI (MQ2) Quota is as follows:   i)	Admission to NRI seats will be made on the basis of NEET - PG- 2023 merit ranks of eligible candidates who have applied on-line for NRI seats.   ii)	NRI Financially supporting the candidate must be a Blood relative such as Father/Mother/Brother/Sister/Uncle/Aunt only and should submit a declaration to that effect. iii)	Candidate opting for NRI seat must furnish the photocopies of following supporting documents.   1)	NRI Sponsorship certificate (DECLARTION Form)   2)	NRI status certificate of the financial supporter issued by embassy of respective country under their seal.   3)	Copy of NRI Bank account pass book of the financial supporter.   4)	Copy of Pass port of NRI financial supporter   There are no reservations of SC/ ST, BC categories in the management quota seats, there are no other reservations.   Minority medical colleges seats will be filled with muslim minority category   candidates only.   In case, muslim minority candidates are not available, those seats will be allotted to non- minority students in the last phase of counseling.   UNIVERSITY FEE:   a)	Allotted candidates have to pay the following University fee through payment gate way for downloading the allotment order   MQ 1 Management Quota sub category 1: Rs.49,600/-   MQ2 (NRI) & MQ3 ( Institutional Quota) : Rs.69,600/-   b)	Tuition Fee as notified by the Government   c)	The candidates selected into MD / MS / Diploma shall work for one year as “Senior Resident” in the Institution where they pursued the course. NOTE:Candidates who have applied online in response to this office notification for determining merit position for Management Quota seats shall upload the certificates online along with the application. Candidates have to submit one set of print out of application form, original certificates and self attested copies of certificates at allotted college at the time of admission for verification. in case of any discrepancy, allotment of admission is cancelled.   COUNSELING:   Provisional final merit list will be displayed on KNRUHS website after scrutiny of application and uploaded certificates. Verification of uploaded certificates will be done only once for web based counseling irrespective of number of phases of exercising web based options and counselings. Hence, candidates who have applied on-line are advised to upload all original certificates at the time of online registrations without fail for scrutiny by University. No individual communications will be sent. The notification for schedule for exercising web options will be issued separately on KNRUHS website. Candidates are informed to check the website regularly for notifications.   The Admission Committee shall have power to review the selection in case of any errors, misrepresentation or glaring injustice and cancel the selection/admission. In all matters relating to selection and admissions, the decision of the Admission Committee shall be final and binding on the Candidates and selections cannot be questioned after admissions are closed.   The procedure of selection of candidates will be as per G.O.MS. No. 40 & 42, HM&FW (c1) Dept., Govt. of Telangana, dated: 09-05-2017 and relevant Hon'ble Supreme Court & Hon'ble High Court orders.   The tuition fee for Management Quota seats in respect of degree and diploma of Clinical, Para-clinical and Pre-clinical courses will be as notified by the Government of Telangana DOCUMENTS TO BE UPLOADED AT THE TIME OF ONLINE REGISTRATION   1.	NEET-PG-2023– ADMIT CARD.   2.	NEET-PG-2023 SCORECARD.   3.	Provisional /Original Degree   4.	Permanent Medical Registration from the respective State Medical Council (If issued before June 2018 shall be renewed).   5.	Compulsory Rotatory Internship certificate.   6.	MBBS study certificate.   7.	Category certificate if applicable (for cut-off score of NEET PG).   8.	Minority Category Certificate for MUSLIM Candidates only, if applicable.   9.	NRI Sponsorship letter if applicable.   1)	NRI Sponsorship certificate (DECLARATION Form)   2)	NRI status certificate of the financial supporter issued by embassy of respective country under their seal.   3)	Copy of NRI Bank account pass book of the financial supporter.   4)	Copy of Pass port of NRI financial supporter   10.	Institutional Quota Sponsorship letter if applicable  To view the official Notice, Click here : https://medicaldialogues.in/pdf_upload/20230808105715mq-pg-prospectus-2023-24-216062.pdf Editorial Prediabetes in India: Sugary Iceberg and Place of Metformin to Mitigate it Prediabetes in India: Navigating the Sugary Crisis with DCGI-Approved Metformin LENS trial a first of its kind large scale trial shows striking 27% reduction in diabetic... The Role of Aspirin in Reducing ASCVD Mortality Among Adults with High Lp(a) Concentrations API- ICP issue practical guidelines for doctors for management of Hypertension in patients with Type... Journal Club  Today The Role of Probiotics in Prenatal Health: Study Sheds Light on Benefits for Moms and Babies Health News Today Health Bulletin 17/ August/ 2024