History
Causes and symptoms
Epidemiology
Case reports
Diagnosis and treatment
References
Further reading Yunis-Varon Syndrome (YVS) is a rare genetic disorder with characteristic skeletal and ectodermal abnormalities. It is also known as cleidocranial dysplasia. The disorder comprises structural brain abnormalities, facial dysmorphisms, sparse and pale hair and follows the autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Neurons, muscles, and cartilage all have enlarged vacuoles. Symptoms and signs are usually present from birth. Affected infants may be born small, have slowed growth and are difficult to feed. Mutations in the FIG4 gene cause Yunis-Varon syndrome. Cleidocranial dysplasia (absent clavicles, macrocrania, diastasis of sutures), absent thumbs and distal phalanges of fingers, micrognathia, hypoplasia of the proximal phalanx were described by Yunis and Varon (1980) in 5 children of 3 families. Other observed symptoms were the absence of the distal phalanx of the big toes, pelvic dysplasia, bilateral hip dislocation, and retracted and poorly delineated lips In two of the families, the parents were consanguineous. Yunis-Varon syndrome was coined by Hughes and Partington (1983). YVS is reported to be caused by mutations in the FIG4 gene. FIG4 protein (also known as SAC3), coded by the FIG4 gene, is a 50-phosphoinositide phosphatase that is required for endosome and lysosome activity. On early endosomal membranes, FIG4 forms a functional complex with Vac14 and Fab1. This complex mediates the conversion of endosomal phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI3P) to phosphatidylinositol 3,5-biphosphate (PI(3,5)P2), which is required for protein sorting, trafficking late endosomes to the lysosomal degradation compartment, and regulating other endolysosomes/lysosomal functions such as ion channel activation and endolyso FIG4 deficiency results in a decrease in PI(3,5)P2, which causes endosome/endolysosome/lysosome dysfunction. FIG4 is also known to be associated with other conditions like Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease 4J, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 11, and bilateral Temporooccipital Polymicrogyria. Yunis-Varon syndrome is a multisystem disorder comprising a wide range of orthopedic, cardiovascular, and endocrine abnormalities. A large proportion of patients experience aplasia of the distal phalanx of the hallux and aplasia of the distal phalanges of the hand along with a short proximal phalanx of the hallux. Other frequent symptoms include agenesis of the corpus callosum, anteverted nares, arrhinencephaly, bilateral microphthalmos, cardiomegaly, cardiomyopathy, and abnormalities of the occipital, parietal, and pelvis bone. Anomalies of the face comprise dolichocephaly, high, narrow palate, hypertelorism, high forehead, short chin, proptosis, sparse eyebrows, and eyelashes. Affected neonates may also experience syndactyly, thin vermilion border, short stature, reduced/lack of hair on the scalp, rocker-bottom feet, and sclerocornea. Neuronal loss in the central nervous system, pachygyria, and postnatal growth retardation are also common observations. Supernumerary, retained, or misplaced teeth, insufficient cementum, or no secondary eruption are possible features related to the dental profile. Atrial septal defect, cerebellar hypoplasia, glossoptosis, cryptorchidism, clitoral hypertrophy, hearing impairment, polyhydramnios, hydrocephalus, renal artery stenosis, and flared metaphysis are present in less than 30% of the patients. YVS is a rare disease with limited (less than 30) cases reported from across the world. The incidence of the syndrome and its prevalence in different ethnicities is yet to be investigated. Siddique et al., in 2019 described a newborn with classic clinical and radiologic symptoms of Yunis-Varon syndrome, as well as a complete cleft lip and palate, who was born to consanguineously married normal parents. The newborn girl was born at 39 weeks of gestation in a tertiary care hospital in Lahore via lower segment Caesarean section, with Apgar scores of five and seven at one and five minutes, respectively. Absent clavicles bilaterally with winging of scapulae, syndactyly, hypoplastic nails, hypoplasia of distal phalanges of fingers, agenesis of thumbs and big toes, and bilateral developmental dysplasia of the hip joint were among the skeletal anomalies. Biventricular hypertrophy was found on an echocardiogram, along with strong left ventricular function and a 60% ejection fraction. The neonate was given oxygen via nasal prongs and a nasogastric tube was placed in his stomach, but he died on his ninth day of life due to respiratory difficulties. Two earlier babies in the family had comparable traits but died in infancy. This is the first case of Yunis-Varon syndrome to be documented in Pakistan. Umair et al., in 2021 described a newborn with typical YVS clinical manifestations who was born to a consanguineous couple. They discovered a unique homozygous missense variant (c.968A>G; p.Gln323Arg) in the FIG4 gene using whole-exome sequencing. This research broadens the molecular and genomic scope of FIG4-related alterations. This is the first time YVS has been documented in the Saudi population. After a thorough clinical evaluation and identification of typical features, Yunis-Varon syndrome can be diagnosed or confirmed after birth. FIG4 mutation testing can potentially be used to confirm a diagnosis. Antenatal screening using ultrasonography can detect the syndrome in infants with skeletal or cardiac abnormalities. The image of the developing fetus is created using reflected sound waves in fetal ultrasonography. Treatment is determined by the signs and symptoms that each individual exhibits as there is no cure for the condition. Bone and skeletal abnormalities can be diagnosed and treated by orthopedic specialists. Syndactyly can be treated with surgery to separate the digits. This can be done for either utilitarian or cosmetic purposes. Standard techniques can successfully handle the varied indications of cardiovascular disease. When breathing problems are serious and life-threatening, additional measures, such as the use of a ventilator, may be required. In Yunis-Varon syndrome, early intervention is critical. Special services that may be beneficial to children who have been affected are necessary. Affected individuals and their families may also benefit from sessions of genetic counseling. Although the majority of patients with Yunis–Varon syndrome are expected to have a bad prognosis, given the wide range of phenotypic expression, survival into adulthood is feasible. Further ReadingAll Genetic Disorder ContentWhat are Genetic Disorders?Genetic Disorder ComorbiditiesMultifactorial And Polygenic (Complex) Genetic DisorderSingle Gene Genetic DisorderMore... 
                        Last Updated: Sep 18, 2023
                     Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: APA S. A., Syed. (2023, September 18). What is Yunis-Varon Syndrome?. News-Medical. Retrieved on August 19, 2024 from https://www.news-medical.net/health/What-is-Yunis-Varon-Syndrome.aspx. MLA S. A., Syed. "What is Yunis-Varon Syndrome?". News-Medical. 19 August 2024. <https://www.news-medical.net/health/What-is-Yunis-Varon-Syndrome.aspx>. Chicago S. A., Syed. "What is Yunis-Varon Syndrome?". News-Medical. https://www.news-medical.net/health/What-is-Yunis-Varon-Syndrome.aspx. (accessed August 19, 2024). Harvard S. A., Syed. 2023. What is Yunis-Varon Syndrome?. News-Medical, viewed 19 August 2024, https://www.news-medical.net/health/What-is-Yunis-Varon-Syndrome.aspx. Cancel reply to comment John Yates In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024, we spoke to Professor John Yates about capturing cardiomyocyte cell-to-cell heterogeneity via shotgun top-down proteomics. Tim Simpson Hologic’s Tim Simpson Discusses the Future of Cervical Cancer Screening. Maria Marco In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024 in San Diego, Maria Marco discusses her research on the health benefits, safety, and waste reduction potential of fermented foods, and the microbial processes involved in their production. 

                                                  
                                                        News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                                        with these terms and conditions.
                                                        Please note that medical information found
                                                        on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                                        between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
                                                  
                                                  

                                             Last Updated: Monday 19 Aug 2024  News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site Owned and operated by AZoNetwork, © 2000-2024 
                Your AI Powered Scientific Assistant
             Hi, I'm Azthena, you can trust me to find commercial scientific answers from News-Medical.net. A few things you need to know before we start. Please read and accept to continue. Great. Ask your question. 
                Azthena may occasionally provide inaccurate responses.
Read the full terms.
             Terms 
            While we only use edited and approved content for Azthena
            answers, it may on occasions provide incorrect responses.
            Please confirm any data provided with the related suppliers or
            authors. We do not provide medical advice, if you search for
            medical information you must always consult a medical
            professional before acting on any information provided.
         
            Your questions, but not your email details will be shared with
            OpenAI and retained for 30 days in accordance with their
            privacy principles.
         
            Please do not ask questions that use sensitive or confidential
            information.
         Read the full Terms & Conditions. Provide Feedback