Resistance is futile. This week, Congress heard testimony from Sam Altman, the CEO of OpenAI, the company behind ChatGPT. ChatGPT, for those who don’t know, is a machine learning program (or artificial intelligence, AI) that, depending on which scenario you ascribe to, will either take your job or eventually form Skynet and enslave us all, turning our bodies into bio-organic goop to feed the never-ending phalanx of sentient murder machines. I have concerns either way. Artificial intelligence is having a moment. ChatGPT burst onto the scene toward the tail end of the pandemic and delighted and amused millions with its ability to kinda, sorta sound like a human being. Give it a request like: Write a resume in the voice of Stephen King, and you’ll get back a passable CV that reads like the master of the macabre took a pass and submitted a draft. The AI we have open access to isn’t very good, yet. That’s how machine learning and large language models work, they start out slow but the more data sets you cram into it the better the end result. There are currently billions of dollars in capital flowing into the AI space as competing models scrape the internet, and yes your personal data, hungrily consuming every last byte of data. What’s the end result of the machine learning revolution? Depends on who you ask. There’s no shortage of alarm bells ringing. From engineers claiming that certain AI has achieved sentience (hint: if you can unplug it, it’s not alive), to groups of scientists and academics signing letters urging everyone to slow the hell down and think about what we’re doing, the effects of AI on us puny humans is front and center. Back to Altman. Altman and OpenAI are the poster bots for the industry and during his congressional testimony he admitted that in the future AI may pose some problems for humanity and it’s probably a good idea if congress regulates it. When the guy in charge says maybe we should get a handle on this before it gets out of hand, you should listen. Bookmark NJ.com/Opinion. Follow us on Twitter @NJ_Opinion and on Facebook at NJ.com Opinion. Get the latest news updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices