Cyberpunk 2077's dev has clarified what's actually included in the paid expansion, and what's coming for free as part of update 2.0. The RPG will see two major events later this month: Phantom Liberty, the long-awaited and paid-for expansion, and update 2.0, the free patch that plans to overhaul vast areas of the RPG. Now, CD Projekt Red has clarified which features are included in the free update, and which players will have to shell out for as part of the expansion. Check out this handy infographic about the main features coming to #Cyberpunk2077 together with the #PhantomLiberty expansion — and the ones that will be added to the game in the free Update 2.0! pic.twitter.com/ky8LBu6rHNSeptember 1, 2023 See more In short, the free 2.0 update boasts redesigned Skill Trees, the revamped Cyberware and capacity systems, new vehicle combat and car chases, significant AI improvements, and the new police system. It'll also offer an overhauled UI to give Cyberpunk 2077 a fresh coat of paint, as well as some brand new radio stations to tune into while you're out and about. Phantom Liberty, meanwhile, obviously boasts the new district of Dogtown, as well as the new story missions of the DLC. It'll also contain new vehicles and dynamic missions throughout Night City, the brand new Relic skill tree with accompanying abilities, over 100 new items including weapons and Cyberware, a vehicle missile launcher, and a level cap increase to 60. This probably goes a long way to help clear up confusion about which features are included in which package. I actually assumed the new dynamic events would be bundled into patch 2.0 for free, and it's a bit of a shame to see that the feature and the level cap increase to 60 will effectively be put behind a paywall. Despite all this, we still don't have a release date for patch 2.0. We know that Cyberpunk 2077 Phantom Liberty will be here on September 26, exclusively for PC and new-gen consoles, but CD Projekt Red still hasn't said if patch 2.0 will arrive alongside the expansion, or before. You can read our full Cyberpunk 2077 Phantom Liberty preview to see what we made of Night City's new district when we experienced it for ourselves. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.