Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 And the winner for weirdest Craigslist ad might just go to Jennifer Lawrence — or at least her old toilet.The Oscar winner, 32, shared while promoting “No Hard Feelings,” that the raunchy comedy, out June 23, hits closer to home than even she originally realized.“Years ago, Lee Eisenberg bought a toilet on Craigslist from my mom. My toilet,” Lawrence told People of the “Bad Teacher” screenwriter.
Jennifer Lawrence at Cannes on May 21, 2023.Not only did Eisenberg know exactly who he was purchasing the toilet from, but he happened to pen the Cameron Diaz vehicle with Gene Stupnitsky — the director of Lawrence’s long-awaited new flick.“That’s how we know the story now,” said the “X-Men” and “Hunger Games” alum, who remains unsure why her mother took to putting the porcelain throne up for sale.“I’m like, ‘I broke it.’ My mom sold it for me,” she continued. “So thanks, Mom.”“No Hard Feelings” sees Lawrence playing a Long Island woman who answers a Craiglist ad placed by a 19-year-old introvert’s overbearing parents and has one summer to help him break out of his shell.While Lawrence has long been known for her breezy comedic chops and relatability exhibited in interviews and public appearances, Lawrence’s big screen comedic work has so far been limited to her work with David O. Russell. But even “Silver Linings Playbook,” the dramedy that netted Lawrence her first Academy Award, was not a straight comedy — nor were “American Hustle” and “Joy.” “No Hard Feelings,” Lawrence will finally add a full-fledged comedy to her film resume.

 The Oscar winner, 32, shared while promoting “No Hard Feelings,” that the raunchy comedy, out June 23, hits closer to home than even she originally realized. “Years ago, Lee Eisenberg bought a toilet on Craigslist from my mom. My toilet,” Lawrence told People of the “Bad Teacher” screenwriter. Not only did Eisenberg know exactly who he was purchasing the toilet from, but he happened to pen the Cameron Diaz vehicle with Gene Stupnitsky — the director of Lawrence’s long-awaited new flick. “That’s how we know the story now,” said the “X-Men” and “Hunger Games” alum, who remains unsure why her mother took to putting the porcelain throne up for sale. “I’m like, ‘I broke it.’ My mom sold it for me,” she continued. “So thanks, Mom.” “No Hard Feelings” sees Lawrence playing a Long Island woman who answers a Craiglist ad placed by a 19-year-old introvert’s overbearing parents and has one summer to help him break out of his shell. While Lawrence has long been known for her breezy comedic chops and relatability exhibited in interviews and public appearances, Lawrence’s big screen comedic work has so far been limited to her work with David O. Russell. But even “Silver Linings Playbook,” the dramedy that netted Lawrence her first Academy Award, was not a straight comedy — nor were “American Hustle” and “Joy.” “No Hard Feelings,” Lawrence will finally add a full-fledged comedy to her film resume. Copyright © 2024 New York Daily News