Jul. 4—WILLIAMSBURG — Two graduate students at University of the Cumberlands who received research fellowships to study emerging blockchain technologies have recently published their findings. Greg Solt (Columbus, OH) and Arunkumar "Arun" Azhagudurai (Chicago, IL) are both students in University of the Cumberlands' online Master of Science in Global Business with Blockchain Technology degree program. In summer 2022, they received a $6,000 research fellowship from Phemex, a crypto exchange located in Singapore, to study innovative topics related to blockchain. For months, both students participated in a personalized blockchain research module and worked wone-on-one with Phemex staff exploring topics related to smart contracts, blockchain applications, and their integrative potential in other industries such as supply chain and IoT (internet of Things). Greg Solt published his findings in an article entitled "Tracking Bourbon on the Blockchain." As his paper states, "The alcohol industry has developed two large and lucrative markets in the last few years... Since this market has become so large, there has become a larger counterfeit market for both bourbon and wine. The counterfeit market is robbing millions and millions of dollars from suppliers and consumers every year. This paper will explain the use of blockchain technology and how it can help to track these bottles." 1 Using his research in Internet of Things (IoT) sensors, mobile technologies, radiofrequency identification (RFID), and the Ethereum blockchain and its smart contracts capability, Solt provides insight into how these technologies can bring better accountability, visibility, and efficiency to bourbon and wine supply chains. Arun Azhagudurai's article has four parts. As the introduction explains, "Part one will explore the concept of Industry 4.0 and how it's evolved over time. Part two will discuss the eight essential emerging technologies that have the potential to disrupt the economy we know today. Part three will discuss the sustainable frameworks for smart cities by looking at industries such as health care, supply chain, manufacturing, finance, insurance, and real estate. Part four will relate the eight essential technologies and the concept of smart cities back to how they can help scale and service a living ecosystem for Industry 4.0."2 Azhagudurai noticed the rapid expansion of digital technologies in recent years and how the technological advances are "reshaping the social and economic landscape around us."2 Since the technologies are here to stay, he decided to study them and research ways in which they can realistically be used to best benefit humankind across various sectors. University of the Cumberlands' online master's degree program in global business and blockchain technology is offered year-round at one of the lowest price points in the country. Learn more at www.ucumberlands.edu/academics. 1 — https://phemex.com/student-foundation/papers/bourbon-blockchain 2 — https://phemex.com/student-foundation/papers/industry4 New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.