Advertisement Advertisement This content has been archived. It may no longer be relevant. Deribit is a Bitcoin and Ethereum futures and options trading derivatives exchange. Deribit allows up to 100x leverage for Bitcoin and up to 50x leverage for Ethereum futures exchanges. Deribit B.V was originally launched in the Netherlands by Jinh Jansen and his team in 2016. But it was later rebranded to be simply known as ‘Deribit’, and since February 2020, Deribit has been operating out of Panama. 
 Advertisement Deribit is a cryptocurrency derivatives exchange platform for futures and options trading. Traders can exchange BTC futures at 100x leverage and trade ETH futures at 50X leverage. Options trading for BTC also goes up to 10x leverage. But in spite of the high leverages offered, Deribit ensures that the customer’s digital funds are kept secure with the help of cold storage wallets.  Deribit customers can view two trading pages- one for Bitcoin futures trading and one for Bitcoin options trading. Users then select the page they want and then select their order. Deribit accepts stop market orders, limit orders, and market orders. The orders are processed through Deribit’s fast trade matching engine. The orders pass through a risk management system and are executed as per time-price prioritization analyzed by the Deribit algorithm. Deribit does not accept any self-orders. Self-orders are immediately identified by the Deribit system with the help of the deposit address and sending address and rejected. The risk management engine is a very important part of the Deribit derivatives exchange. The risk engine processes thousands of orders every second. Orders approved by the risk engine are sent to the order matching system and the rest are returned to the user. The orders that are matched then go on to be executed. But the prices for the trades are decided by the Deribit BTC exchange which meets all market standards. The Deribit BTC index uses real-time data from Bitstamp, Coinbase, Gemini, Itbit, Bitfinex, Bittrex, Kraken, and LMAX Digital to calculate the BTC Index prices. The Deribit BTC index is updated every 4 seconds. The orders are finally executed at the price which is an average of all 450 updates of the index in the last 30 minutes before the expiration of the order. Deribit customers have to maintain a maintenance margin. All funds in an account are considered to determine the margin trading. If the user’s funds fall below the margin, a margin call is initiated and the user’s assets are liquidated till the margin is reached once more. Deribit uses a system of incremental auto-liquidation. During this auto-liquidation process, the user loses complete control of their account. The process only ends when the maintenance margin is brought back to less than 100% of the user’s equity. In addition to the auto-liquidation measures kept in place to prevent bankruptcy, Deribit also has an insurance fund to cover the losses suffered by bankrupt crypto derivatives trading.  Deribit is registered under the Republic of Panama, but any international financial regulatory authorities do not regulate it. In fact, Deribit is suspected to have moved its operations from the Netherlands to Panama in order to avoid stricter AML regulations being introduced in the Netherlands. But since the 9th November 2020, it does require its customers to submit proper KYC documentation in order to create their trading account and trade through the exchange. Advertisement Deribit offers global cryptos derivative exchange services that are legal in many countries. But it is also restricted in a few countries. Deribit is not legal in the USA, Canada, or Japan. Citizens and residents of these countries cannot use Deribit.     Deribit does not charge any deposit fees for the deposit of Bitcoins and Ethereum. But there is a trading fee. For all trades, there is a maker-taker fee model. This is applicable for both futures trading and options trading for both Bitcoin and Ethereum. Deribit also charges a small delivery fee for the execution of the order at the time of expiry. There is also a liquidation fee that is charged and this charge is automatically added to the user’s insurance fund. Withdrawal fees are charged depending on the condition of the blockchain network. But withdrawals are often slow due to low hot wallet balances. The hot wallets are replenished once daily for customers who have exhausted their hot wallet assets. Click here for more details. Deribit does not charge any deposit fees at all for any deposit methods, which makes it a lucrative option for many investors. But a small withdrawal fee is charged. This fee is dependent on the congestion in the blockchain network at the time of the withdrawal initiation. Deribit is a global cryptocurrency derivatives exchange that is legal in a large number of countries like Russia, China, England, Spain, and many more. But Deribit operations are restricted in the USA, Canada, and Japan, and a few more countries. This is because Deribit does not adhere to all international financial regulations. Deribit only supports Bitcoin and Ethereum futures and options trading and perpetual swaps. Deribit is a cryptocurrency derivatives exchange designed to support Bitcoin and Ethereum trades. The Deribit trading platform supports futures trading, options trading, as well as traditional perpetual swaps. The Deribit trading platform also gives investors access to the best market analysis tools. The platform is also designed to be user-friendly and very easily accessible for users of all demographics. In fact, Deribit is also available as a mobile app to make crypto trading easier and simpler. Deribit lets users complete futures trading for Bitcoin and Ethereum. For futures trading, stop-limit orders, limit orders, and market orders are accepted. Bitcoin futures trading on Deribit is cash-settled. That means that the user doesn’t buy or sell, send or get any Bitcoins. The order is only executed at the order expiry time at the BTC index price average of the last thirty minutes and the gains or losses are just added to the user’s account. Deribit allows for trading options for leveraged futures contracts. Bitcoin futures contracts can be leveraged up to 100x times, while for Ethereum it is 50x times. Leveraged trades are also available for options markets. The high liquidity of the Deribit trading platform allows for options market trading of Bitcoins at up to 10x leverage. Deribit has a mobile application to make cryptocurrency trading accessible from anywhere and at any time. The Deribit mobile app is available for both iOS and for Android. The user interface is designed keeping in mind the ease of use and security concerns of users. Deribit reviews for the mobile app on online app stores are generally positive.   Deribit has a very efficient customer support service system. Users will first have to raise a ticket notifying customer support about their problem. The support team personnel will respond promptly and try to solve the issue as soon as possible. Deribit has a specific email address that the users can contact to raise any questions about the API or any information about possible bugs. Deribit is very appreciative of ethical hackers. Ethical hackers who inform Deribit about any possible security breaches in their operational infrastructure are rewarded highly through the Bug Bounty program. Deribit’s customer support team is also accessible through Telegram.  Deribit is a cryptocurrency derivatives exchange that has been in operation now for a few years. It is not yet regulated but has been deemed safe by thousands of users who utilize its services regularly. Deribit reviews are also mostly positive. The only complaints one comes across are regarding slow withdrawals and high internet speed requirements. Deribit had experienced a huge security breach and a flash crash in 2019, but since then it has been able to make a successful recovery and regain its reputation on a global level. Deribit is not regulated by any international financial regulatory authority. But it does require KYC verification from its clients and claims to conform to AML requirements. Deribit is legal in many countries like China, Russia, England. But some countries like the USA, Canada, and Japan do not allow its operations. Deribit was originally based in the Netherlands. But since 10th February 2020, it has shifted its base to Panama. Advertisement No, US citizens are not allowed to use Deribit because it is not regulated by any internationally recognized financial regulatory authority. Leveraging lets users amplify their potential profit levels or losses for each trade. Futures trades for Bitcoin and Ethereum on Deribit can be leveraged up to 100x and 50x respectively. Options trading for Bitcoin can also be leveraged 10x. Deribit charges maker fees and taker trading fees for all transactions. The fees vary for futures trades, perpetual trades, and options trades. But the fee charged is very little and is at par with industry standards worldwide. Advertisement 