Search CSP Daily News Tobacco product manufacturer Philip Morris International (PMI) is joining the We Card retailer support program. Following its acquisition of Swedish Match in November, for the first time in the company’s history, it is marketing nicotine-containing products in the United States.  The We Card Program Inc. is a national nonprofit serving retailers’ of age-restricted products. PMI’s Swedish Match affiliate will serve on We Card’s Manufacturer Advisory Council. Retailers including convenience stores use We Card’s educational and training services for their compliance efforts with federal, state and local laws aimed at preventing age-restricted product sales to minors.  “As we enter the U.S. market, our ambition is twofold: to be the market leader across America for innovative smoke-free products that are a better choice than continued cigarette use, and to ensure that youth cannot access these products, which are intended only for adults who smoke or use another nicotine product,” said Stacey Kennedy, president of Americas and CEO of PMI U.S. business. “Joining We Card reflects the commitment shared by PMI and Swedish Match to further enhance youth access prevention programs in close cooperation with our retail partners.” Kennedy said PMI has invested more than $10.5 billion to research, develop and commercialize smoke-free products as part of its efforts to end cigarettes.  PMI, Stamford, Connecticut, bought Richmond, Virginia-based Swedish Match in November to help with its smoke-free goals. Swedish Match sells Zyn modern oral nicotine (MON) pouches in the United States, among other products. PMI makes oral smokeless products like Shiro, e-vapor product Veev, and heated tobacco product Iqos.  Philip Morris USA, an Altria company, sells Marlboro cigarettes, among other brands, stateside. PMI and Altria had an agreement for Philip Morris USA to sell Iqos in the United States; however, in October 2022 the companies announced the agreement would be ending. PMI paid Altria $2.7 billion so it could have the full rights to commercialize IQOS in the United States as of April 30, 2024.  Members help make our journalism possible. Become a CSP member today and unlock exclusive benefits, including unlimited access to all of our content. Sign up here. Hannah Hammond is a senior editor at CSP Magazine...
					 Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. The Latest Related More on this Topic In latest store plan, convenience retailer condensing combustible cigarette section ‘more and more’ Protein, portion control and fresh fruit are increasingly at home alongside chips and candy Convenience retailers are increasingly making shelf space for local favorites Get today’s need-to-know convenience industry intelligence. Sign up to receive texts from CSP on news and insights that matter to your brand. The latest from CSP, sent straight to your inbox. CSP’s Top 202 details the largest chains in the convenience-store industry and the biggest M&A stories of the past year. Welcome to a deep dive into the c-store landscape. Category sales performance in Beverages, Candy, General Merchandise, Packaged Food/Foodservice and Snacks. The industry’s largest distributors by sales volume Corporate retail news affecting the convenience-store industry The latest information on products and trends in the convenience-store and foodservice industries. Peek inside new convenience stores to uncover the best in retail store design across North America. Do not sell my personal infoPrivacy PolicyCode of ConductContact UsRSS Copyright © Informa Connect 2024