According to a press release, Autel plans to produce up to 5,000 DC Fast chargers annually. This will create 150 jobs to start and 400 in five years. According to a press release, Autel plans to produce up to 5,000 DC Fast chargers annually. This will create 150 jobs to start and 400 in five years. The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. According to a press release, Autel plans to produce up to 5,000 DC Fast chargers annually. This will create 150 jobs to start and 400 in five years. Autel Energy, a global leader in electric vehicle charging technologies, is expected to create hundreds of jobs in Greensboro over the next five years. Top Stories Get the latest news stories of interest by clicking here This week, the company announced that they will begin production later this month at its North Carolina facility with the MaxiChrger 180kw-640kw DC Fast EV charger. According to a press release, Autel plans to produce up to 5,000 DC Fast chargers annually. This will create 150 jobs to start and 400 in five years. The company shared that they expect to hire 150 employees at the 200,000-square-foot facility with plans to expand. According to the release, the Greensboro facility has undergone significant renovations since being purchased in May 2023. Watch: NOWCAST streaming newscasts The company said they chose the gate city  location after conducting an extensive site selection process throughout the United States. "Autel was attracted to the Triad region for its embrace of new energy technologies, a conductive business environment, and a skilled, hardworking workforce," said Frank Li, Chairman of Autel Intelligent Technology Corp., Ltd., the parent company of Autel Energy North Carolina. NAVIGATE: Home | Weather | Watch NOWCAST TV | Local News | National | News We Love | Keep up with the latest news and weather by downloading the WXII app here. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.