Evening, weekend and summer courses for beginners, improvers, and professionals. Whether you're a designer, an artist, a marketer, or just searching for a new challenge, come and get inspired! Take a short course that'll ignite your creative spark into a fully blown flame. You’ll have access to the same tech, tools, and experts as our full-time students, on courses designed to suit your needs, lifestyle, and other commitments. On all of our courses, you’ll get: If you'd like to discuss which course is right for you or have any questions, we'd love to help! Just email or call us on 0115 848 2813. Maybe you’re looking to take your first steps in something brand new; maybe you want to upskill an existing talent, or supercharge your CV for a change of career. Whatever your plan is, browse our courses to embark on a new learning adventure. Find out more and book your place on one of our Architecture and Interior Design courses including Interior Design for Beginners, CAD for Interior Design and Blender 3D for Architecture. Find out more and book your place on one of our popular creative writing courses spanning beginners courses to more specialised sessions in comedy, memoirs and copywriting. Find out more and book one of our courses in design and digital arts spanning animation, design software, graphic design and illustration. Find out more and book your place on one of our fashion, textiles and costume courses including fashion design and making, leatherwork, knit and CAD courses. Discover your inner artist with contemporary painting and drawing courses and experimental techniques in life casting, sculpture and metalwork. Find out more and book your place on one of our specialist courses for marketing and communication professionals, journalists and web designers. Find out more about our creative short courses in Photography, Film and Television. From darkroom to digital you can choose from beginners courses to more specialised workshops for professionals. Find out more and book your place on one of our product design and furniture making courses. Know when but not what? Take a look at all of our creative short courses in order of when they start. Design your summer with Nottingham Trent University's creative courses for 15-17 year olds in July and August. Professional development courses for industry professionals designed to enhance your current skillset, explore new career opportunities, or start your own business. The University Language Programme (ULP) provides language courses at different levels of proficiency to students, staff and members of the public. We get it, you're a visual person! Watch the video below to get a feel of what it's like to be on a short course at NTU. Video credit: My Town Vision. Learn more from tutor Tom Dennis on our Video Making for Marketing and Communication course. The numbers don't lie - 99% of students who've joined our creative community now want to complete a second short course at NTU. I just wanted to say how excellent (truly excellent) the course was and how much I'm enjoying it. I’m learning SO much! I loved the space we were in, the BA studio, very inspiring to be in a space where art is made and there's evidence of that all around. Children's Book Illustration student This course has inspired me to pursue graphic design and illustration in my future professional life. The tutor was great, they had seemingly endless patience, it was a privilege to be taught by them.  Adobe Illustrator student Excellent course, so much information learnt and skills that I have developed. Inspirational tutor, magic! Acrylics Now student 
+44 (0)115 848 2999
enquiries@ntu.ac.uk
Other ways to get in touch
 Lines are open:
                Monday – Thursday 8.30 am – 5 pm
                Friday 8.30 am – 4.30 pm
             © Nottingham Trent University.