E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
For information on submitting an obituary, please contact Reading Eagle by phone at 610-371-5018, or email at obituaries@readingeagle.com or fax at 610-371-5193.
 
Most obituaries published in the Reading Eagle are submitted through funeral homes and cremation services, but we will accept submissions from families. Obituaries can be emailed to obituaries@readingeagle.com.
 
In addition to the text of the obituary, any photographs that you wish to include can be attached to this email. Please put the text of the obituary in a Word document, a Google document or in the body of the email. The Reading Eagle also requires a way to verify the death, so please include either the phone number of the funeral home or cremation service that is in charge of the deceased's care or a photo of his/her death certificate. We also request that your full name, phone number and address are all included in this email.
 
All payments by families must be made with a credit card. We will send a proof of the completed obituary before we require payment. The obituary cannot run, however, until we receive payment in full.
 
Obituaries can be submitted for any future date, but they must be received no later than 3:00 p.m. the day prior to its running for it to be published.
 
Please call the obituary desk, at 610-371-5018, for information on pricing.
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 Three Geisinger providers have been recognized by the Pennsylvania Medical Society for achievement early in their careers.Family medicine physicians Dr. Hans Zuckerman and Dr. Joanna Kraynak-Appel and interventional cardiologist Dr. Nicholas Ierovante are among PAMED’s Top Physicians Under 40 for 2023.They were nominated by their peers and selected by a committee of PAMED members who yearly honor the best of the best early-career physicians in the state.“We had a lot of great nominations, but these candidates stood out among the rest,” said Kristen Sandel, M.D., PAMED president-elect and chair of the awards committee. “With their ambition and innovative ideas, they will shape and shine bright in the future of medicine.”Zuckerman practices at Geisinger Pottsville and serves as division chief of the Department of Community Medicine for Schuylkill County and Geisinger Kulpmont in Northumberland County. He specializes in family medicine and has clinical interests in preventive care, infectious diseases, obesity and women’s health.His nominator said, “as a leader, his patient-centric views and encouraging reminders on why we do what we do are contagious throughout his clinics” and that “he inspires everyone from the support staff to the providers to provide the best possible care to patients.”Ierovante practices at Geisinger Community Medical Center in Scranton and serves as assistant professor in the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine for Geisinger Commonwealth School of Medicine.Kraynak-Appel is associate director of Community Medicine in Columbia County and assists in managing Geisinger Primary Care clinics in Benton, Berwick, Buckhorn and Elysburg.

Dr. Hans Zuckerman (Courtesy of Geisinger) Family medicine physicians Dr. Hans Zuckerman and Dr. Joanna Kraynak-Appel and interventional cardiologist Dr. Nicholas Ierovante are among PAMED’s Top Physicians Under 40 for 2023. They were nominated by their peers and selected by a committee of PAMED members who yearly honor the best of the best early-career physicians in the state. “We had a lot of great nominations, but these candidates stood out among the rest,” said Kristen Sandel, M.D., PAMED president-elect and chair of the awards committee. “With their ambition and innovative ideas, they will shape and shine bright in the future of medicine.” Zuckerman practices at Geisinger Pottsville and serves as division chief of the Department of Community Medicine for Schuylkill County and Geisinger Kulpmont in Northumberland County. He specializes in family medicine and has clinical interests in preventive care, infectious diseases, obesity and women’s health. His nominator said, “as a leader, his patient-centric views and encouraging reminders on why we do what we do are contagious throughout his clinics” and that “he inspires everyone from the support staff to the providers to provide the best possible care to patients.” Ierovante practices at Geisinger Community Medical Center in Scranton and serves as assistant professor in the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine for Geisinger Commonwealth School of Medicine. Kraynak-Appel is associate director of Community Medicine in Columbia County and assists in managing Geisinger Primary Care clinics in Benton, Berwick, Buckhorn and Elysburg. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group