A personal loan is an unsecured form of credit for which you are not required to provide collateral or pledge anything up as security. These loans also have set interest rates and flexible repayment terms, which make them a stable option for borrowers. However, the interest rate levied by the lender determines the affordability of a personal loan. Personal loans with affordable interest rates are the best way to meet your immediate financial needs. All your large expenses, from paying for your child's education to planning a scenic destination wedding, can be met with a personal loan. But it is important to get a personal loan with the best interest rate with flexible tenures. This will make it easier for you to make payments without facing a financial crunch. Therefore, it is crucial to look around for the most affordable price. Here are a few ways to get competitive personal loan interest rates: Lenders can quickly and easily assess your creditworthiness based on your credit score. A reduced interest rate on a personal loan may be offered to you if you have a high credit scoresince lenders will see you as less of a risk. A credit score of 685 or higher is recommended. The competitive interest rate on a personal loan can be earned through a combination of factors but the most important of them all is a high credit score. Maintaining a reliable repayment record, a manageable debt-to-income ratio and a reasonable level of credit utilisation will help you achieve this goal. Overall, showing that you are responsible with money might help in showing lenders that you are a safe borrower. It is important to include all your income when applying for a loan, including income from investments, dividends, and rental income. This demonstrates to the lender your ability to repay the loan and improves your creditworthiness as a borrower. All these factors allow you to obtain reasonable interest rates on personal loans. It is crucial to compare the offers of various lenders, as their terms and conditions can vary. Similarly, there will be some variation in the personal loan interest rates. Using a personal loan EMI calculator simplifies the process of comparing offers. This personal loan calculator estimates EMIs by factoring in the personal loan rates, loan amount, and tenure. This tool can be used as often as necessary to find loan options that match your repayment capacity. A high income combined with employment at a reputable public or private company will make you appear more reliable to a lender than someone making a lower wage. Take advantage of this fact to bargain for a cheaper interest rate. If your business has a solid reputation, you may be able to negotiate a more favourable interest rate with lenders. It is essential to pick a lender with straightforward eligibility criteria for a personal loan. It can be harder to get a loan if you have to meet a lot of complicated requirements, and you may have to settle on the amount you can borrow or the interest rate you pay. However, straightforward eligibility requirements and a rapid verification and approval process can expedite the delivery of your funds. Before applying, compare the terms of various lenders. This also keeps you from wasting time by applying for loans you don't qualify for. Lenders like Bajaj Finance offer personal loans of up to Rs. 40 lakh, with the funds usually disbursed within 24 hours* of approval. The Flexi Hybrid Loan facility also permits interest-only EMIs during the initial tenure, which makes repayment even more convenient. Making correct choices requires financial planning, and this is especially true before taking on any kind ofdebt. Make use of the suggestions listed above to secure the best personal loan interest ratespossible. Disclaimer: This article is a paid publication and does not have journalistic/editorial involvement of Hindustan Times. Hindustan Times does not endorse/subscribe to the content(s) of the article/advertisement and/or view(s) expressed herein. Hindustan Times shall not in any manner, be responsible and/or liable in any manner whatsoever for all that is stated in the article and/or also with regard to the view(s), opinion(s), announcement(s), declaration(s), affirmation(s) etc., stated/featured in the same. This information does not constitute a financial advice. Catch all the Business News, Market News, Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.