 Never miss a breaking story in Cheltenham by signing up to our daily newsletter We have more newsletters Never miss a breaking story in Cheltenham by signing up to our daily newsletter We have more newsletters Pre-children. TGI Fridays was a go-to place for me and my then girlfriend/fiancee/new wife to go. Even when we had children, although our visits were more sporadic, we still happily went there - it was a way to treat and meet friends. The food is predictable (and that's not a criticism) because it's reliable and you know what you are getting. It's family/children friendly and the atmosphere is always pretty decent. During lockdown, we did get a delivery which left us a bit cold as it was a bit cold. Burgers and chips don't really travel in our experience and TGI Fridays dropped off our family food radar. READ MORE: Top Gear star Richard Hammond burst into tears in a Cheltenham pub after getting good news So, in an almost random thought at Valentine's Day - let's got to TGI Fridays - we pre-booked and headed back down the A40 Lansdown Road in Cheltenham with our two children and pulled into the rather cramped car park which also serves the Premier Inn. And we could not be more glad that we did return for the first time since lockdown played havoc with our dining out regime. Like many people, the range of restaurants in Cheltenham has made us try many new places and old favourites in the town. We can't say we have any bad experiences, apart from in one place which we will never return to (basically, very long wait for food, appalling service, and such small portions we had to go to McDonald's afterwards). Going to TGI Fridays was almost like going back to the beginning, very much a 2009 vibe. And to be fair, the building has very much a first-decade-of-the-21st-century feel to it. But any shabbiness to the decor was instantly dispelled by probably the warmest welcome all four of us have ever received outside our own family. An exhuberant and chatty greeter put us in a great mood and made us feel really welcome. And the good service didn't stop there with attentive serving staff who really seemed to enjoy their work. Even people who weren't directly taking our orders or bring us food and drink stopped by to compliment our children's drawings or to make little jokes with them. We could overhear other conversations at tables with the staff and customers and the atmosphere was so relaxed, calm and friendly it really threw us. Not that we were expecting necessarily anything less, but in a mass chain corporate restaurant, the personal touch really shone through. But if the staff were the 'first course' of our dining experience, the food again was fantastic and exactly what we all seemed to need. I plumped for the Towering Inferno (£18.50), a double-stacked burger on base of Habanero relish, tomato and pickled red onions, topped with Monterey Jack cheese, jalapeños and extra Habanero relish - difficult to eat with any sense of decorum, but I hardly felt judged. My wife went for the chicken tacos with grilled garlic & lemon chicken, crunchy lettuce, mojito pineapple, chilli, coriander, lime and pico de gallo (£9) and the sesame chicken strips at £8.50 (two starters as a main). She loved it and said the portions were the perfect size and extremely tasty - hot, perfectly cooked, and presented. Our children dived into the children's menu with the crispy chicken tenders (£7) and a cheese burger (£7) selected with a mixture of sides including chips, sweetcorn and baked beans. There was more than enough for our girls, who are gradually outgrowing some of the 'kids' portions' in other places. I usually rely on hoovering up my girls' leftover, but there were only a few chips left... Which considering the calorie-packing double burger I had, may have been all to the good. Despite our feast, it seemed rude not to go for dessert. So we did, big time. We demolished between us a chocolate fudge fixaction (£7), a brownie obsession (£8.50), while the girls had the sundae with ice-cream (£3), a choice of three sauces and a selection of three toppings. Again, there wasn't that much left for me to hoover up at the end. Throughout our stay, the staff were incredible and friendly and made us definitely think we'll return before the next pandemic. READ NEXT:  