Dyson's Zone headphones boast noise cancellation technology synonymous with soon-to-be market rivals from the likes of Sony, Apple, and Bose - but the most striking feature is the attachable air purifier. Thursday 8 December 2022 12:49, UK A pair of high-end headphones equipped with a personal air purifier that may leave you looking like a Batman villain have been priced at a whopping £749. Dyson's first attempt at an audio device was announced earlier this year, boasting noise cancellation technology synonymous with soon-to-be market rivals from the likes of Sony, Apple, and Bose. But the most eye-catching feature was an attachable mouthpiece, drawing comparisons with the mask worn by superpowered fighter Bane in the DC Comics series. It is the result of six years of development, as the company sought to develop a portable iteration of its existing air purification technology. The visor-like shield, which attaches to the cups of the headphones, sits over the user's nose and mouth, pumping out filtered air to combat exposure to air pollution. Chief engineer Jake Dyson said: "The Dyson Zone purifies the air you breathe on the move. "And unlike face masks, it delivers a plume of fresh air without touching your face, using high-performance filters and two miniaturised air pumps". 
                  US election: Iran was behind attempted hacks on Trump and Biden/Harris campaigns, FBI says
                 
                  Late-phase solar flares could be more dangerous for Earth's communication than thought, new study suggests
                 
                  In pictures: Blue supermoon lights up sky around the world
                 What are the specs like - and when do they get released? Dyson says the headphones offer up to 50 hours of audio battery life, comparable to the top performers in the field. But that time takes a massive hit if you use the air purifier as well, dropping to around four hours. If you do turn it on, the company says the filtration system can capture 99% of particle pollution and can be adapted based on the air quality by using a smartphone app. It was first trialled in the notoriously smoggy city of Beijing, and the final product will launch in China in January. It will follow into the UK, Ireland, the US, Hong Kong and Singapore in March, priced £749/$949.