Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us and terms apply to offers listed (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate products and services to help you make smart decisions with your money.  Welcome to Personal Finance Insider, a biweekly newsletter that connects you with the stories, strategies, and tips you need to be better with money. While experts are still debating the shape of a 2023 recession — if it will happen, when, and how big it will be — Insider has been asking financial planners one of the most urgent questions on our minds: What do we do with our money today? They have a lot of advice. Get your debt under control while you can, they say; diversify your sources of income where possible, and invest as much as you can afford. But many of them have the exact same tip: Start shoring up your savings now. Financial planner Alex Alba told Insider it's important to pad your emergency fund, especially if you're worried about layoffs. Your emergency fund is three to six months' worth of living expenses, stored somewhere easily accessible. Financial planner Pamela Capalad recommends a high-yield savings account for this purpose. High-yield savings are offered by major banks, and many accounts are currently paying 3% or more. Financial planner Adrianne Yamaki, who works exclusively with millionaires, says the same thing, pointing out that high-earners might expect lower bonuses, and that cash reserves will make unexpected expenses more manageable. Saving is easier said than done, but the experts are clear: The more cash you can set aside now, the better. The best credit cards for holiday shopping Shopping around for the best holiday sales and deals always makes sense, but how you pay for your purchases can also make a huge difference.  What's going on with BlockFi? Insider's Rickie Houston demystifies the latest news in crypto. You can now use Venmo to pay at Amazon — but if you value credit card rewards, you probably shouldn't Insider's Joseph Hostetler explains why the newest payment option at Amazon isn't as appealing as it seems. 3 investment moves a 31-year-old made with her $40,500 down payment after twice being rebuffed on home offers Anita Garcia split her down-payment savings between index funds, I bonds, and a high-yield savings account after two failed attempts at buying a home. Enjoying this newsletter and want to recommend it to a friend? Here's a sign-up link.  Have feedback about this newsletter? We'd love to hear it. Get in touch at pfi-email@businessinsider.com. Jump to