Digital creation platform Picsart is launching new in-app communities dedicated to specific topics and interests, the company announced on Tuesday. The communities are called "Spaces" and are described as a place where users can connect and create around the things that they love. In a blog post, Picsart explained that it sees Spaces as collaborative forums or group chats with people who share the same interests. When you’re in a Space, you can browse, post content and like and comment on other’s posts. Some of the current Spaces on Picsart are titled "Cats," "Generative AI," "K-pop Fans" and "Light Effect Edits." You can suggest new Spaces for Picsart to create. Picsart plans to offer users the ability to create and moderate their own Spaces in the future. "Maybe you’re sharing your latest k-pop album art edit, or showing others how to use a new AI tool," Picsart wrote in the blog post. "Maybe you’re looking to find new nature content and just want to get inspired. Whatever it is, Spaces is a way to express your passions, collaborate and get inspired by others, learn new tips and tricks, and have an easier content discovery experience." Image Credits: Picsart Picsart explains that for the more technical Spaces, like "Light Effect Edits" and "AI Replace," users are sharing tips and tricks. As for more general interest Spaces, it's all about content and user discovery. To get started with Spaces, you have to first make sure you have the most up-to-date version of Picsart. From there, you should see the new Spaces icon on the top-right corner of your screen. You can browse through different communities and engage with content even if you aren't a member of that Space yet. If you want to create a post, you will have to join the Space. Once you have joined, you can tap the bar at the bottom of the screen labeled "create a post" and click the image library icon on the left, which will open up your camera roll and allow you to select an image to post. You also have the option to post directly from the Picsart editor or your profile. The rest of the feature functions like any other social platform. You can tap the heart icon to like a post, tap the message icon to comment and tap the “Remix” button to continue editing and iterating upon another user’s post. If you want to report a post, you can do so by tapping the three dots on the top right of a post. Image Credits: Picsart Picsart has over 150 million monthly active users and 80% of them are under the age of 35. The company says its popularity and growth is tied to what Gen Z wants and right now, it believes that’s micro-communities. In early testing, Picsart saw Spaces users generating 15x more content and seeing 20x more post engagement across the platform. With Spaces, Picsart says it's focused on driving engagement between users and enabling easier content discovery, which opens up the potential for premium and collaborative features in the future. The company says it's exploring more direct monetization down the line. Although Picsart already has some social features, such as the ability to follow others, the launch of Spaces indicates that the company wants to build out its platform beyond its digital creation tools and focus more on social collaboration. The introduction of Spaces also comes at a time when users are looking for alternatives to Twitter, which has been going downhill since Elon Musk purchased the social network last year. Spaces is currently available to all users in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, New Zealand and Australia for both standard and Gold members. Picsart plans to roll out Spaces to more users soon. Picsart’s AI-powered SketchAI app turns images and outlines into digital art New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.