Profet AI, a Taiwanese startup that makes auto machine learning software for manufacturers, announced today it has raised $5.6 million in Series A funding. The round was led by Darwin Ventures. Returning investors Hive Ventures, AUO and SVTI also participated, along with Harbinger VC and Jensen Capital Management. Founded in 2018, Profet AI’s customers include Foxconn, Advantech and ASE Group, and it says it doubled its revenue in 2022. The funding will be used on Profet AI’s expansion in Japan, Southeast Asia and China, with plans to sign joint ventures with overseas partners. Profet AI’s software lets users build prediction models and industrial AI apps for production and digitalization, even if they only have basic knowledge of machine learning. The company’s flagship products are its AutoML Virtual Data Scientist Platform and Ready To Go Applications. They are intended for use by clients in the semiconductor, electronics, chemicals and textile manufacturing industries. The AutoML Virtual Data Scientist Platform is a no-code development program that lets users design enterprise AI applications, while Ready To Go Applications are industry-specific AI apps that are ready to be used in public cloud or on-premise environments. In a statement, Darwin Venture Management partner Kay Lin said, "The AutoML Virtual Data Scientist Platform of Profet AI is based on empowering, which quickly enables digital transformation and intelligent evolution in the manufacturing industry. Darwin is very optimistic about Profet AI’s strengths and will leverage our solid background in the semiconductor and electronics industry to actively assist Profet AI’s market development.” Smartex sews up $24.7M to put smarter eyes on textile manufacturing Beijing is “convinced that America is seeking to contain it and suppress its rise,” PM Lawrence Wong argued on Sunday. Nam Nguyen’s 10-day campaign of abuse was ‘some of the worst offending’ Met detectives dealing with the case had ever seen Often revered as an astute judge of character, Queen Elizabeth II told friends that she found Donald Trump “very rude,” and mused that he must have “some sort of arrangement” with his wife, Melania.The stunning claims are made in a new biography of the late queen which is being serialized in the Daily Mail. It also says that the late monarch “particularly disliked” Trump’s habit of looking over her shoulder, as if “in search of others more interesting.”Elizabeth hosted Trump twice during her rei Pahang Crown Prince Tengku Hassanal Ibrahim Alam Shah says Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin’s remarks could openly incite the public to lose faith in the institution of Malay Rulers, and divide the people. The post Incredible Roasted Meat: “I would travel here just for these succulent Roasted Wings” appeared first on SETHLUI.com. When Marlon realised his daughter was being groomed and sexually exploited by grown men, he engaged with police, doing everything he could to keep his 14-year-old child safe.  "For a child who has been groomed and then taken to a police station to be strip searched is just massively inappropriate, its appalling," says Marlon.  The search was conducted by female officers in front of a glass door, says Marlon, meaning she was also visible to male officers. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. ‘We were super unprepared for the experience,’ Margaret Bienert said in a TikTok "We joked that it wasn't April 1st," a Ukrainian soldier identified only by his first name, Serhiy, told The Economist. Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process On a cold night in January, Akanksha Mehta*’s phone pinged with a text message that would change her life. Singapore’s Prime Minister Lawrence Wong dishes fresh handouts in first major speech. A former Soviet aircraft carrier burned in a waterway near Shanghai over the weekend, the latest setback for the decommissioned warship since its conversion into a Chinese tourist attraction. All the latest updates, gossip, rumours and deals from the summer transfer window Keep up to date as Arsenal look set to complete £30m swoop while Chelsea continue their new striker search A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. "Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward," Harris said to a crowd in Rochester, Pennsylvania. Vice President Kamala Harris’ ascent to the top of the Democratic ticket has dramatically reshaped the 2024 electoral map since earlier this year, when the contest looked to be between an unpopular and elderly incumbent president and the former president (and now convicted felon) he defeated four years prior. The post 15 best “clucking good” chicken rice stalls in Singapore [2024] appeared first on SETHLUI.com. The post Baba Ho Liao Restaurant: Peranakan eatery serving ayam pong teh, Nyonya laksa & chap chai appeared first on SETHLUI.com.