Manasi Vartak is founder and CEO of Verta, a Palo Alto-based provider of solutions for Operational AI and ML Model Management.   AI continues to transform our world as companies look to win over consumers with intelligent experiences delivered in real time on smartphones, smart TVs, smart cars—smart everything. But along with new opportunities, organizations are also finding new challenges as they seek to cross the AI chasm. Here are the top six AI/ML trends that I’ll be tracking in the year ahead, along with recommendations for how enterprises can stay ahead of each trend. A recent study by our company’s research group, Verta Insights, found that more than two-thirds of ML practitioners expect real-time use cases to increase significantly over the next three years. This trend will challenge companies whose ML tech stacks were built around analytical/batch workloads that are not suited for operationalizing real-time use cases at scale in customer-facing applications. Recommendation: Organizations that have been living in a data warehousing world and supporting analytical/batch workloads need to reevaluate their tech stack with an eye to transactional processing for real-time use cases. They will also need to lean into responsible AI to ensure they don’t cross the line from useful hyper-personalization into being creepy as they interact with their customers. The EU AI Act. The American Data Privacy and Protection Act. The Securing Open Source Software Act. The number of proposed regulations around artificial intelligence is rising rapidly, signaling that the days of companies self-policing their AI/ML projects (or not policing them at all) are coming to an end. Gartner predicts that by 2025 regulations will force companies to focus on AI ethics, transparency and privacy. Recommendation: Companies must ensure that they have the enterprise model management tools in place to meet new regulatory requirements, like “algorithm design evaluations” and “algorithm impact assessments.” That means being able to track and report on how models were created, trained, tested, deployed, monitored and managed. And if you don’t have an ethics council in place to oversee AI/ML, the time to establish one is now, before regulators come knocking on your door. ML tools remain highly fragmented. One of the challenges this creates is that, to date, diverse stakeholders (practitioners, management, risk and IT) have not had a common, unified view of the end-to-end ML life cycle. But now, model management platforms will offer a center of gravity tying together the separate tooling around experimentation, production, ML data and orchestration. In effect, a model management platform becomes the control tower from which enterprises will manage all their AI/ML. Recommendation: Take a holistic approach to machine learning, and consider how you are managing models across the model life cycle. Does your ML tooling have a center of gravity that lets you manage models end to end? Identify and fill gaps in your tools for experimentation, production, ML data, and orchestration, but also implement a model management platform that gives you visibility and control over the entire model life cycle. Companies that are serious about real-time machine learning will put an ML platform team in place to ensure that their models perform at the same high levels of reliability and availability as other business-critical applications. The ML platform team assembles, manages and improves the tooling that keeps models running smoothly in production. The challenge will be finding and hiring the “unicorns” with the technical and soft skills necessary for this role. Recommendations: You don’t need to hire dozens of platform engineers to get started. Start building your ML platform team with just one or two engineers. (Note: DevOps engineers looking to up-level their skills could be good candidates.) Arm the team with a good set of operational AI tools to quickly improve performance from your AI/ML projects, then build on those successes. Often where AI/ML has taken root in large organizations, we see siloed data science groups spread across disparate business units, each with its own tools and processes. That works when ML is at the artisanal stage of small-scale, bespoke projects. But when a company puts ML to work in customer-facing applications at industrial scale, governance becomes essential, and governance requires standardized processes with checks and balances to create efficiency while mitigating risks. Recommendation: Start by identifying a group to lead ML standardization across the company. This could be the Enterprise Architecture group, a Data Science Center of Excellence, or an ML Platform Team. This group’s mandate is to create enterprise-wide standards that enable ML at speed and at scale, but with guardrails that ensure the proper process is followed and risk is minimized. Stable diffusion, the technology behind “text to image” and other flavors of generative AI, has attracted significant VC investment. Along with GPT-3 for text generation, stable diffusion represents a step change, accelerating creative work and opening up new avenues for expression. But these technologies raise ethical questions given their ability to create fake content at scale. Recommendation: Humans who understand this technology need to take the lead in ensuring that ethics are baked into generative AI use cases. Also, companies that rely on digital input from their customers should consider how generative AI opens up new avenues for fraud—like faked images of damage to an automobile submitted with an insurance claim—and plan strategies for strengthening fraud detection to mitigate risks. As the trends above suggest, AI is evolving rapidly as the technology matures and companies discover innovative ways to incorporate AI into intelligent products and services. No organization will be immune to AI’s transformative impact, and executives should begin now to ensure they are preparing their companies for the AI-enabled future. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 