BAGNEUX, France--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Regulatory News:
 
Genomic Vision (Paris:GV) (FR0011799907 – GV, – the “Company”), a Euronext-listed biotechnology company that develops products and services dedicated to the analyses and control of changes in the genome, today announces the launch of FiberSmart®, an innovative, Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based technology aimed at automating the detection and quantification of fluorescent signals on combed DNA molecules.
 
Initially, FiberSmart® will be available for the analysis of Replication Combing Assays (RCA), Genomic Vision’s proprietary method for the direct visualization of DNA replication kinetics at the single molecule level. The software leverages advanced AI methods to visualize, detect and analyze DNA replication kinetics up to three times more accurately and up to ten times faster than Genomic Vision’s existing software solutions.
 
Ergonomically designed, FiberSmart® offers a simple and user-friendly interface, allowing fast analysis of DNA replication signals to deduce essential parameters describing replication kinetics. The technology was successfully tested and validated by AstraZeneca (LSE/STO/Nasdaq: AZN), and the Fritz Lipmann Institute, Germany.
 
The software is compatible with Genomic Vision’s suite of scanners FiberVision® and FiberVision-S® for the RCA assay of the Company’s proprietary DNA combing technology, which has multiple potential applications including in cell and gene therapy quality control.
 
More information about FiberSmart® can be found here: https://info.genomicvision.com/FiberSmart
 
Aaron Bensimon, Chief Executive Officer of Genomic Vision commented: “The launch of FiberSmart® is an important milestone for Genomic Vision as we bring the benefits of powerful AI technology to our users, who can now perform faster and more accurate genomic analysis seamlessly. Our proprietary DNA combing technique has multiple potential applications, particularly in the cell and gene therapy space, where highly accurate genomic analysis is paramount to ensure robust quality standards are met. With the launch of this software we are making it easier for users to exploit the full potential of our proprietary advanced genomic analysis technique.”
 
ABOUT GENOMIC VISION
 
GENOMIC VISION is a biotechnology company developing products and services dedicated to the structural and functional analysis of genome modifications as well as to the quality and safety control of these modifications, in particular in genome editing technologies and biomanufacturing processes. Genomic Vision proprietary products and services, based on DNA combing technology and artificial intelligence, provide robust quantitative measurements needed for high confidence characterization of DNA alteration in the genome. These products and services are also used for monitoring DNA replication in cells to improve anti-cancerous drugs development. Genomic Vision, based near Paris in Bagneux, is a public company listed in compartment C of Euronext’s regulated market in Paris (Euronext: GV – ISIN: FR0011799907).
 
www.genomicvision.com
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT
 
Genomic Vision has set up a financing line in the form of convertible notes with warrants (OCABSA) with Winance, which does not intend to remain a shareholder of the company, after receiving the shares resulting from the conversion or exercise of the securities.
 
The shares resulting from the conversion or exercise of the aforementioned securities will, in general, be sold on the market very quickly, which is likely to create strong downward pressure on the share price as well as a strong dilution.
 
Shareholders could therefore suffer a loss of their invested capital due to a significant decrease in the value of the company's shares. The company has carried out several dilutive financing operations, and investors are advised to be very careful before making a decision to invest in the company's securities.
 
This press release contains implicitly or explicitly certain forward-looking statements concerning Genomic Vision and its business. Such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that Genomic Vision considers to be reasonable. However, there can be no assurance that such forward-looking statements will be verified, which statements are subject to numerous risks, including the risks set forth in the “Risk Factors” section of the universal registration document filed with the AMF on April 14, 2022 under reference number R.22-0293, as updated by the amendment filed with the AMF on May 20, 2022, under number D.22-0293-A01, available on the web site of Genomic Vision (www.genomicvision.com) and to the development of economic conditions, financial markets and the markets in which Genomic Vision operates. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release are also subject to risks not yet known to Genomic Vision or not currently considered material by Genomic Vision. The occurrence of all or part of such risks could cause actual results, financial conditions, performance or achievements of Genomic Vision to be materially different from such forward-looking statements.
 
This press release and the information contained herein do not constitute and should not be construed as an offer or an invitation to sell or subscribe, or the solicitation of any order or invitation to purchase or subscribe for Genomic Vision shares in any country. The distribution of this press release in certain countries may be a breach of applicable laws. The persons in possession of this press release must inquire about any local restrictions and comply with these restrictions.
 
Genomic VisionAaron Bensimon
Chairman of the Management Board
Tel.: +33 1 49 08 07 51
investisseurs@genomicvision.com
Ulysse CommunicationMedia Relations
Bruno Arabian
Tél.: +33 1 42 68 29 70
barabian@ulysse-communication.com
Consilium Strategic CommunicationsInternational Investor Relations
& Strategic Communications
Tel.: +44 (0) 20 3709 5700
GenomicVision@consilium-comms.com
NewCapFrance Investor Relations
& Strategic Communications
Tel.: +33 1 44 71 94 94
gv@newcap.eu
 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.