Mastercard Highlights Economic Growth at Tanzania Forum Simplifying Wealth Management with DocFusion’s Advanced Document and Report Tool United Front is Crucial as Businesses Combat Financial Crime Payments Firm Secures Enhanced License from Bank of Ghana UNDERSTANDING CREDIT: A BEGINNER’S GUIDE FOR SOUTH AFRICANS How Can SA Enterprises Enhance their Cyber Defense? Armata Cyber Security Introduces an All-in-One Cybersecurity Bundle 8 Reasons Hackers Might Choose Your Business as a Target Assessing the Cost of Major Network or Application Failures How to Differentiate Between Real and Fake Apps? What Role Does AI Play in Modernizing Agriculture? 5 AI Applications to Boost Your Productivity and Output “Walmart Leverages Gen AI for Enhanced Efficiency,” says CEO Mimecast Acquires Aware for Advanced AI Security 8 Cutting-Edge Tech Innovations Revolutionizing Healthcare Safaricom is currently Kenya’s Largest 5G Network Human Touch and Tech Expertise into E-commerce Intelligent Demand Programme Generates $768 Million Fiorano Expands African Presence with New Office in Nairobi “Walmart Leverages Gen AI for Enhanced Efficiency,” says CEO Google Launches Feature to Limit School Hours Distractions Mastercard Highlights Economic Growth at Tanzania Forum 8 Cutting-Edge Tech Innovations Revolutionizing Healthcare What Role Does AI Play in Modernizing Agriculture? FNB Appoints New Chief Information Officer (CIO) 5 AI Applications to Boost Your Productivity and Output Machine learning (ML), a branch of artificial intelligence (AI), is the subject of a lot of discussion. This might be confusing for SMME owners who can feel pressured to join the trend. This does not make it any less necessary. When SAP first introduced the concept of the intelligent enterprise, it was defined as: “An intelligent, sustainable enterprise is one that consistently applies advanced technologies and best practices within agile, integrated business processes.” ERP systems play a crucial role in enabling the intelligent enterprise. An intelligent enterprise can be defined as one that leverages data, analytics, and digital technologies to optimise its operations, but does this mean that AI is needed in the business? ERP systems are designed to help SMMEs manage their operations and processes more efficiently by integrating various departments, automating routine tasks, and providing real-time data insights. While AI and ML can enhance these capabilities by analysing large volumes of data and predicting outcomes, their implementation can also be complex and expensive. Advanced technologies like AI, ML and Internet of Things (IoT) are powerful tools that can be used to solve a wide range of problems, from predicting consumer behavior to identifying potential disease outbreaks. However, to effectively leverage these technologies, it is critical to first have a solid ERP foundation in place to integrate data, infrastructure, and business processes. Without the basics in place, any business challenges that the organisation is trying to address will not be resolved. Before SMME’s think of looking at AI, they need to build the basics which include centralised data, automated tasks, technology integration and real-time insights that enable SMMEs to grow and be profitable. Here are three reasons why advanced technologies are useful and appropriate only when the basics are in place: AI and ML algorithms rely on large amounts of high-quality data to learn and make accurate predictions. If the data is incomplete, inconsistent, or inaccurate, the results of the AI or ML model will be similarly flawed. That’s why it’s crucial to have a robust data collection, management, and quality assurance process in place to ensure that the data is clean, reliable, and suitable for use in machine learning. AI and ML require a significant amount of computational power and infrastructure to run efficiently. Without proper infrastructure, including hardware and software, the algorithms will not be able to run quickly or accurately. Moreover, this can result in increased operational costs and decreased accuracy in decision-making. Sophisticated technologies must be integrated into existing business processes to be truly effective. Organisations must have a clear understanding of their business goals, the problems they are trying to solve, and the metrics they use to measure success. Without these foundational elements in place, AI and ML may be unable to provide meaningful insights or actionable recommendations. To make the best use of this technology it is crucial to spend time on developing a use case that defines and articulates the problems or challenges that the business would like AI to solve. Then, to ensure the processes and systems already in place are capable of capturing and tracking the data needed to derive real value from the technology. By Heinrich de Leeuw, Managing Director, SEIDOR in South Africa © IT News Africa | All rights reserved.