
				Naples running back Robert Oliver carries the ball for the Wildcats. Oliver ultimately scored two touchdowns, carrying 26 times for 77 yards, to help Naples clinch the DODEA European Division II title, 21-14 against Aviano on  Saturday, Oct. 21, 2023.  (Alison Bath/Stars and Stripes)
			 NAPLES, Italy — Naples held Aviano scoreless in overtime Saturday to retain the DODEA European Division II title Saturday 21-14 in a nail-biter that sometimes seemed more like ping-pong than football.   It was the Wildcats’ third championship in three years, but it didn’t come easy. Strong defense by both teams put pressure on offensive squads that struggled with multiple fumbles and interceptions.   “Last week, we lost the turnover battle and this week we won the turnover battle, which made the difference,” Naples head coach Jim Davis said.   Saturday’s matchup followed the Wildcats’ only regular season loss at Aviano last week, 20-14. That gave the Saints an opportunity to vindicate a punishing 47-6 loss at Naples during last year’s championship game.  The first half saw Saints running back Julius “JuJu” LaSalle and wide receiver Colin North each score a touchdown. A second touchdown by North was called back on a penalty.    “It got points on the board and points for the team, and it made a difference,” said LaSalle of his touchdown. “But we just couldn’t (tie it down) at the end.”  Running back Robert Oliver and wide receiver Jerimiah Robinson each scored a touchdown apiece for Naples.   That left the game tied 14-14 at the half.   
				Saints wide receiver Colin North looks to catch a pass during Saturday's DODEA European Division II championship game at Naples. North caught the pass for a touchdown, which was called back on a penalty.  (Alison Bath/Stars and Stripes)
			 
				Aviano and Naples players scramble to take possession of a loose ball during Saturday's DODEA European Division II championship game at Naples. Tough defense by both teams put offensive squads to the test, resulting in several fumbles and interceptions. (Alison Bath/Stars and Stripes)
			 “This is the point we prove to everyone that this season we came to win,” Saints head coach Benjamin Dubenion told the team at the half.    But a scoreless second half saw the Wildcats and Saints each fail to capitalize on turnovers that came late in the fourth quarter.   Naples quarterback Camden Kasparek threw his third interception of the game, giving the Saints the ball with just a few minutes left in the last quarter. Kasparek completed 7 of 15 passes for a total of 58 yards.   With little more than two minutes on the clock in regulation play, Naples returned the favor by picking off a pass by Saints quarterback Andrew Walker, giving the Wildcats an opportunity to clinch the game.   But Naples couldn’t move down the field before time ran out, throwing the game into overtime and realizing one of Davis’ concerns.   “I didn’t want to get into overtime,” Davis said. “I thought their offense was better suited in that red zone area.”  He needn’t have worried.   Oliver, who carried 26 times for 77 yards, carried the ball into the endzone on Naples’ first overtime play, and the Wildcats defense held Aviano for four plays.   For Oliver, who was named most valuable player (offense) his final high school game was too close for comfort but amazing all the same.   “I tried to put the team first,” said Oliver, a senior. “I wanted to win more than anything.”  Sign up to receive a daily email of today's top military news stories from Stars and Stripes and top news outlets
      from around the world. 
Sign Up Now 