To make sure you never miss out on your favourite NEW stories, we're happy to send you some reminders Click 'OK' then 'Allow' to enable notifications Joe Adams Arsenal striker Folarin Balogun could pursue a career away from the football pitch after joking he has the talent to play another sport at Olympic level. Balogun has been in electric form on loan at French side Reims this season, helping himself to 17 goals in Ligue 1. Mikel Arteta faces a difficult decision to make on the 21-year-old's future when he returns from loan, with the likes of Gabriel Jesus and Eddie Nketiah seemingly ahead of him in the pecking order. Advert Whilst the forward is expected to have a whole host of top European clubs ready to pounce if he becomes available. But should he find himself at a loose end, Balogun has an Olympic career to fall back on. Speaking in an interview with Sky Sports, Balogun revealed that if he didn't have a ball at a feet, he would have a paddle in his hand, joking he could go to the very top. Advert "I'm very, very good at ping pong. We have one [a table] here and honestly, I think I could play it at Olympic level," Balogun said, tongue-in-cheek. "I'm honestly that good, I've made a lot of money with a few bets, but yeah, I'm really, really good." His prolific form has led to calls for him to be promoted to England's senior squad. However, Gareth Southgate decided against including the Arsenal man, opting for Brentford's Ivan Toney instead. Balogun was called up to the Under-21 side, but has since pulled out with an injury. Although his withdrawal has sparked confusion considering he played all 90 minutes in Reims' last match against Marseille, which saw him score in a 3-1 defeat. Advert The news comes following mass speculation surrounding his international future, with the striker also eligible to play for both the United States and Nigeria. Topics: Arsenal, Mikel Arteta, Football, Premier League Joe is a journalist at SPORTbible. He has written about football, rugby and F1. His sporting icons include Neil Warnock, Santi Cazorla and Sutton United's reserve goalkeeper Wayne Shaw. @joeadamsjourno Advert Advert Advert