
  A RESTAURANT owner feels ‘let down’ by police after her business was targeted by thieves for the third time in less than two years.
 
  Shocking CCTV images show three masked burglars smashing a window with a crowbar at Karma Café and Meze in Broadstone, Poole.
 
  The trio caused around £1,000 in damage at the site in Dunyeats Road and made off with a cash till containing just £40.
 
  However, owner Manuela Dimitrova said she is disappointed by the police response and said she had to wait 33 hours before officers came to investigate the raid that happened in the early hours of Tuesday morning.
 

 
  The 34-year-old rang 101 shortly after 3am and was told to wait for police to arrive and to leave the crime scene for forensics.
 
  She finally spoke to a forensics officer at around 9am, but rather than wait for them to arrive, she closed the restaurant for breakfast and lunch while she cleaned up.
 
  The loss of business cost more than she had to spend on repairing the broken window and the damaged cash register.
 

 
  She said: “I’m not the type of person to say this is the biggest crime ever, it’s not.
 
  “I had to take a decision, deliveries were starting to come, there was glass everywhere, it was just not safe. I didn’t know for how long I could wait.
 
  “I took the decision to clear everything, and destroy all this evidence unfortunately, but I could operate my business.”
 
  “I really felt let down.”
 

 
  Manuela said despite the lack of action from the police, the support from the Broadstone community had been “amazing”.
 
  “I accept that a crime cannot be resolved, but a crime that aggressive, happening for the third time, not being looked at, this is ridiculous,” she said.
 
  “I can’t go through it for a fourth time. I just don’t know what to do. If it happens for a fourth time, I’ll have to leave this premises and go to another area, relocate my business, I can’t live like that.”
 
  “It’s the third time it happened for us.”
 

 
  Manuela said she intends to make a formal complaint to Dorset Police about how the case was handled.
 
  Following a previous burglary in June 2021, police have said officers did a thorough investigation following all lines of enquiries, including CSI, CCTV and house-to-house.
 
  Unfortunately, it was not possible to identify those responsible.
 
  The county force says an officer from Crime Scene Investigation contacted the business but was advised that due to the shop needing to open their attendance was rejected.
 
  A spokesperson for the county force said by the time the crime was reported the offenders had left the scene and officers prioritise responses based on the immediacy of any threat and risk.
 
  Officers did not at the time attend, as there was no ongoing incident.
 
  The spokesperson added: “We are sorry that the victim feels dissatisfied on this occasion, but we would like to reassure an investigation is ongoing and the victim is being supported by the local neighbourhood policing team.
 
  "Our advice is to report an ongoing incident directly to police via 999 when the crime is in progress. Any concerns about the service of Dorset Police should be raised with the Force through the available channels.
 
  “We fully understand the impact that crime has on our local businesses and we are determined to reduce issues for this community.”
 
  The force ‘works closely with the BIDs (Business Improvement Districts) and local authorities to tackling business crime to ensure Dorset remains a safe place to live, work and visit’.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.