Mar 17, 2023 I have a friend named Chuck. We have been friends since we met each other in the first grade at Garfield Elementary back in late 1941. Back then, I could call him Charlie and he could call me Donnie. As the years passed, we continued our friendship. But in our junior and senior high school years, I became Don and he became Chuck. (I still call him Charlie under my breath.) Of course, all my relatives still call me Donnie. Many of them have passed, but their offspring call me Donnie. So, at family reunions, I’ll always be called Donnie. I don’t mind so much, especially when Cousin Donna calls me that. She’s very attractive, and I think she could get away with calling me Vacuum Head. I think Donna is my namesake. My family had a wonderful ping pong table in our basement recreation room. It was beautifully made, and could be folded into two benches. Very often after school, during our junior high and senior high years, Chuck would come over to my house to play ping pong with me. Dad had told everyone what a great and unbeatable ping pong player I had become — and I believed it. But, wouldn’t you know it, Chuck could beat me just about every time. Chuck was always the better athlete, but I think we were Even Steven scholastically. We would spend many hours after school doing our math homework. We even worked out difficult extra credit problems that really pleased (startled?) Mr. McEwen.  Although Chuck was the better mathematician, I may have been better in English class, where English teacher Mary Duck really liked some of my every Friday themes that were required. She called me her “Wisey.”  Chuck and I even dated the same girls — but not at the same time, though. So, college years, marriage, kids, relocations and just making our ways through life in general intervened for quite a few years — although we saw each other briefly on his other visits to good old Warren. A few months ago, Chuck telephoned me from his home near Philadelphia. He was coming to visit Warren on a sentimental journey. He was bringing his son and grandson. (Both named Charles — or Chuck). We had a great visit and I couldn’t help but notice some similarities in Chuck’s and my life styles since our high school days. Even though we went our separate ways after high school, we both joined the same national fraternity in college. We both received military commissions — he in the U.S. Marines and I in the U.S. Army. Our firstborn children were both named Charles — his nicknamed Chuck, mine nicknamed Chip. The big difference has been in our careers: Chuck’s was in real estate and mine was in public relations — although each of us needed the gift of gab in order to succeed.  Both our dads were pretty high profile in good old Warren — his dad ran Vautrot and Myers jewelry, and my dad ran the Warren Transportation Co. bus business. Chuck had the beautiful jewelry but I had a bus pass! Soon, we were driving our very own cars, but I think I had the edge in knowing what to do — except for one time my car broke down way out on Route 5 and Chuck and I were stranded for a while. So things have just about come full circle in our respective lives. All in all, it’s been pretty good. Mumford, of Warren, can be reached at donmumford@aol.com  Today's breaking news and more in your inbox Picture this — a tall and slender green plant with elegant magenta flowers.

It is plentiful this year, observed ... Here are upcoming gardening events through the Ohio State University Trumbull County Extension Office. Contact the ... Gardeners generally like to be the proverbial “early bird” when it comes to buying spring plants for their ... To include or update items in the weekly Senior News list, email information to tmunnell@

tribtoday.com or ... In 1988, Aug. 21 was proclaimed National Seniors Day by President Ronald Reagan.

According to Reagan, ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Tribune Chronicle | https://www.tribtoday.com | 240 Franklin Street SE, Warren, OH 44483 | 330-841-1600 