To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. Learn more. May the 4th be with you on this galactic Star Wars Day. Rejoice! Tons of different Star Wars-themed products are on sale, from tech and accessories to video games and clothing. We've rounded up the best discounts below. Many of these deals expire at the end of the day. Additionally, some companies have announced gear with Star Wars designs to celebrate the day. These products may not be discounted, but we've included a list at the bottom of this story in case you're particularly enthusiastic about the franchise.  Updated May 4th: We've added new deals on Lego sets, video games, and toys. Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off). This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day. If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism. Learn more. This Nanoleaf Shapes collection includes 17 panels that can be configured to look like Din Grogu (aka Baby Yoda). There's also a Big Baby Gu Bundle with 53 panels on sale for $580 ($160 off). The panels can be rearranged to make other shapes of your choosing. Nanoleaf makes some of our favorite smart light panels.  If you have a third-generation Echo Dot, you can pop it into this stand to give it Grogu's cute ears. The stand has fallen this low in price before, but we've not seen it drop any lower. The third-generation Echo Dot is also on sale, down to $20. It's an older gadget (we're on the fifth-gen at the moment), but it'll still do the job. We generally like Otterbox Symmetry cases. They're slim but still offer enough protection all around without adding too much bulk. Several Star Wars-themed cases are 15 percent off through the end of the day.  This 675-piece set is meant for ages 18 and up. It's a bit more complex and a lot more display-friendly, compared to most of the other sets on sale today. There's a Mandalorian Helmet version on sale for the same price at Amazon, Target, and Best Buy.  This 412-piece building kit is good for ages 9 and up. The completed build features a minifigure cockpit, a cargo compartment, and a spring-loaded shooter. A Grogu minifigure is included too.  This 625-piece set includes three minifigures and all the bricks you need to build a TIE Bomber (and six torpedoes). It's meant for people ages 9 and up.  Spend at least $40 and you'll get this set (valued at $5) for free automatically during checkout. Lego VIP members can get additional freebies and points by spending more. However, the individual kit deals above aren't necessarily the same at Lego's official store, so do whatever makes the most sense for your situation.  Xbox Series S.  This deal is even better than what Microsoft is offering. If you're in the market for a new Xbox, getting Star Wars Jedi: Survivor for free is a steal. It just came out and has rave reviews across the net. The Gilded Hunter Bundle also includes bonus content for the excellent free-to-play games Fall Guys, Fortnite, and Rocket League. Be sure to check out our guide on How to Set Up Your Xbox Series S for more tips on getting the most out of your new console.  This deal has been around for a few days, but it's still a worthy one. Star Wars Jedi: Survivor is the buzzed-about follow-up to Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order. This deal snags you a bonus $10 Target gift card that you can use in-store or online. The same deal is available for the Xbox Series X. This sale is full of discounted Star Wars games that can be played via Steam. Prices start at $3, so it's worth browsing the selection to see if anything catches your eye. I can personally attest to the fun of the Lego Star Wars games—they're adorable and incredibly satisfying.  Ultrasabers This sale extends to several different sabers. One standout is the Consular, a lightsaber inspired by the one Qui-Gon Jinn wields in The Phantom Menace. It’s made out of aircraft-grade aluminum, features a removable emitter (the side the blade comes out of), and a removable pommel, plus it’s powered by 4 AAA batteries. You can also kit this one out with all kinds of customizations, including different sound patterns. Again, the percentage discount applies to a bevy of different replica weapons. We especially fancy the Original Cal Replica, which is inspired by the lightsaber young Cal Kestis wields in Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order. It features a solid metal build, with one end being weathered and “broken” like Cal’s lightsaber is at the beginning of the game. This one features a built-in rechargeable battery. This box includes two mystery Pops, a mystery iron-on patch, a decal, and a pin. Choose free in-store pickup to skip the shipping fees. Otherwise, shipping is free on orders over $59.  What could be better than fighting for fake real estate while playing a board game with your family members? Doing it as a game piece inspired by the Child. The traditional game pieces have been replaced with options such as Baby Yoda while he's floating in a stroller … or eating a frog. Outside of other cosmetic themes, this game plays much the same as the original version.   Behold: a tiny egg-shaped toy housing your very own virtual R2-D2 droid. Keep him clean and happy and he can learn 19 skills and 7 minigames. It's unclear whether or not he poops on the floor like other Tamagotchi pets—but, for $12, you can find out.  We haven't recently covered this brand, but it's a popular one and generally sees positive reviews around the web. Corkcicle has several Star Wars products on sale. I'm partial to this adorable minimalist R2D2 mug, but there are tons of options to choose from. Some of these prices are matched on Amazon.  This discount applies to a huge range of Star Wars gear. BoxLunch is a sister store to Hot Topic. You can save on clothing, jewelry, accessories, home goods, toys, stickers, pins, and all sorts of other items. Seriously, there are over 20,000 products to choose from. You might be able to choose free in-store pickup.  This is another generally well-received brand we have not covered. The 30 percent discount applies automatically once you add something to your cart. If you're still shopping for Mother's Day, and Mom's a fan of Star Wars, this sale is worth checking out. Case in point: These minimalist Grogu Stud Earrings fall to $32 in the shopping cart.   It can be tough to find reliable luggage for kids, but American Tourister's products are a solid choice. This 18-inch spinner suitcase features the Child on the front. The luggage has a telescoping handle, basic internal organization, and a removable themed ID tag.  Find more discounted Star Wars luggage here.  This is a brand-new 3D phone grip that complements the previously released Darth Vader and Stormtrooper editions. We've tested PopSocket's Dimensionals grips before, and they're seriously well built and hefty. They're a little heavy, but they provide a good grip and are really more about the aesthetic anyway.  This wireless gaming headset features a Beskar-like finish and a Mando design on the ear cups. It is compatible with nearly every console and gaming system. Read our Best Wireless Gaming Headsets guide for other top picks.  There are only 1,000 of these limited-edition box sets available. The bundle includes a limited-edition aluminum Modified N-1 Starfighter phone case, a Grogu AirPods Case, and a Mandalorian Helmet Case. Check out the rest of Casetify's Mandalorian lineup here. In your inbox: The best and weirdest stories from WIRED’s archive How the brain decides what to remember The Big Story: Meet Priscila, queen of the rideshare mafia Silicon Valley's soulless plutocrats flip for Donald Trump Event: Join us for The Big Interview on December 3 in San Francisco Dyson Airwrap deal: Free $60 Case + $40 Gift Get Up To An Extra 45% Off August Sale Vista Print Coupon Code: 20% Off Select Signage Newegg Coupon 10% Off Peacock Premium Offers Starting at Just $7.99/Month Explore DJI's Student Discounts & Educational Offers For 2024 More From WIRED Reviews and Guides © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices