Unique Homestays is an exclusive booking agency with an impressive selection of rental homes across the UK. Founded back in 2001 by Sarah Stanley, who saw a gap in the market for ultra-luxury rental homes, it now has over 180 properties on its books – from remote towns in Ireland to hot spots in Cornwall. Ideal if you want a staycation with a difference, each property is chosen for its uniqueness, whether that’s inspiring interiors or design, a one-off location or impressive facilities. Only a handful of properties make the cut to join the final list you see on site, so you can be sure each home is really special. Beyond just renting you the property, Unique Homestays creates guides for each home to ensure guests have all the insider info on where to go and what to do during a stay. The selection of holiday homes is curated by experts.
The team curates the collection to offer variation, so there’s something for every guest, be it a chic pad right on the beach in Cornwall, a cosy cottage in the Cotswolds, an architectural woodland cabin in Scotland, or a sprawling country house for the whole family in Cheshire. Guests are treated to an immersive experience. 
Forget stressful check-ins and extra cleaning fees. The team take care of all the details and offer lots of little extras to make your trip even more special. You’ll also have access to a bespoke guide on what to see and do in the local area. You can hire event planners and private chefs.
Make your stay even easier with the help of an event planner or private chef who can help organise an occasion or cook up a storm in the kitchen. Ideal for larger groups and special moments. “When house hunting a few years ago, I fell in love with Somerset; a county full of villages that are enticing and attractive, without being too twee or chocolate boxy. In particular, Beckington has it all: it’s a pretty, vibrant working village with an incredible deli serving good coffee and food. The other major draw is that it’s so close to places like Frome, with its cobbled streets and vintage shops, as well as Bath with its Georgian architecture and World Heritage status. Wool Merchant’s House is perfect during every season. In the summer, you can kick back the doors and enjoy lazy days outside, playing games, cooling off in the pool and picnicking or enjoying the BBQ late into the evening. Come winter, light the fire, run yourself a bath (there are a few to choose from) and take the time to unwind, relax and soak up the peace and quiet. The gardens really come to life in the spring, when the flower beds erupt in colour, and in early autumn, when the apple trees are heaving with fruit. The house is steeped in character and history (parts of it date back to the 15th century) and we were keen to restore and enhance period features like the fireplaces and wooden beams during the renovations. For the colour palette, we took inspiration from some old wallpaper we unearthed in what is now the TV snug; the muted blues, greens and splashes of pink pay homage to this. The mullioned windows wash the rooms in a magical light at sunrise and sunset. We like to think the house is a perfect blend of past and present. Then there’s the outdoor space which feels like stepping into a scene from The Secret Garden. A walled garden with an orchard and heated outdoor swimming pool makes it very special – it takes all our guests by surprise and is a joy for children and adults alike.” Terrarium has space for up to six adults and four children – if you recognise it, this beautiful house was featured on Grand Designs. Part of Unique Homestays’ limited-edition collection, it has plenty of eco-friendly features like silvered timber cladding and a regenerative garden. When you’re not bathing in the natural outdoor pool, you’ll be admiring the striking, gravity-defying architecture. Book here. A truly beautiful property, Ariabelle is set at the end of a sweeping tree-lined drive, surrounded by South Downs countryside. From the French chateau-style shutters to the glamorous indoor pool, it has everything you need for a special stay, with six rooms of varying size for 14 guests. Ideal for Goodwood and Cowdray Estate events. Book here. The Find is a contemporary lakeside home that’s won awards for its ultra-minimalist design, which is sympathetic to the nearby area of natural beauty (AONB). With space for up to 12 guests, glass wraps around the sprawling living area, while an old stone cottage provides an open fire which oozes cosiness. The rooftop terrace is perfect for stargazing and al fresco dinner parties. Book here. For multigenerational escapes and large group gatherings, this golden stone home sleeps up to 21. Surrounded by 320 acres of Gloucestershire farmland, the house has colourful and interesting interiors, ideal for entertaining. There’s even an outdoor spa, pool and kitchen. Book here. This secluded, modern home is set in the beautiful Quantock Hills. Perfect for design lovers, the house has some cool architectural features like an enormous gable end, originally built by a Lebanese opera singer. Inside, rooms are light and bright, with tall ceilings and winding staircases, while a beautiful garden and patio awaits outside. Book here. Tucked into the Mendip Hills and with views of Glastonbury Tor, Kilnwood is a rustic family home in rural Somerset. Carefully restored, the interiors have a chic and contemporary country feel, with six bedrooms including a bunkbed room for children. There’s also a heated outdoor pool, a play area and two acres of gardens. Book here. At this luxury hideaway on the east coast of Cornwall's Lizard Peninsula, you'll be able to spot wildlife like birds and dolphins from the large glass windows. The main bedroom overlooks the sea – with a freestanding bath in the window – while a twin room sleeps two extra guests. Guests can sit around the fire pit in the garden or enjoy a soak in the wooden hot tub. Book here. It’s Cornwall, but this stunning home would fit in along the shores of India. The country home of the founders of House of Hackney, this private residence in a lesser-known part of the county is available for select weeks throughout the year. Pruned topiary, a stone pool, an Indian pool house, castle turrets, sweeping staircases, open fires and, of course, patterned wallpaper all help it stand out. Book here. This small retreat on the edge of Snowdonia National Park has a private hot tub overlooking the hills. The interiors are dark, moody and cosy thanks to a king-size bed layered with plush cushions and thick throws. Guests can cook in the al fresco kitchen before sinking into the outdoor tub. Book here. Sleeping up to ten guests across four double bedrooms and a bunkbed room, this property has fun pops of colours throughout and fantastic facilities – including a hot tub, games room, fire pit area, and a private river for wild swimming. There’s also an excellent pub within walking distance and Unique Homestays guests can pre-order chilled champagne for their arrival. Book here. For more information, visit UniqueHomestays.com 
      Share This Story
     DISCLAIMER: We endeavour to always credit the correct original source of every image we use. If you think a credit may be incorrect, please contact us at info@sheerluxe.com.    