When Sam Smith is not performing kicks and spins in a giant feather boa and corset for a cabaret-style concert, it turns out they are just like the rest of us. After the Irish leg of their tour over the weekend, Sam took some time to soak up the spring sunshine at a Dublin hotspot - the Forty Foot in Sandycove!  Today's top videos 
 The Unholy singer stripped down to take a well-deserved, relaxing dip in the likely rather chilly water on a sunny afternoon when the hot-spot was on the quiet side. They shared candid photographs from their time at the very popular swimming location, showcasing some of their tattoos and sporting a pair of bright blue togs! A post shared by SAM SMITH (@samsmith) Fans were thrilled to see Sam's lovely photos. Many rushed to the comments to ask them 'How cold is the water??' with some adding that they too took a dip on the same day and the water was in fact freezing! Many Irish followers were swift to offer the singer kudos for having braved the Irish elements which can so often be deceiving when the sun is out. We have seen so many A-listers taking the plunge when they're visiting Dublin. Jodie Comer was previously spotted going for a dip in Killiney. Harry Styles hilariously did a Matt Damon there too. Sam had Irish fans wishing them well as they set sail for the UK via ferry. A post shared by SAM SMITH (@samsmith) Basked in the sunlight sipping on a coffee, they said: 'Farewell Ireland 💚 always a true pleasure x.' Sam's two-night 3Arena 'Gloria The Tour' tour in Dublin was well received by concert-goers who took to Twitter to applaud the impressive performer, whose show included outfit changes, intricate dance numbers, and of course, those quintessential Sam Smith vocals. They performed classics like Diamonds and Like I Can as well as their more recent material like Unholy, which was a TikTok sensation over the course of the last year. The expressive artist even greeted fans who were queueing outside the 3Arena who were keen to share their snaps with the singer who so kindly gave time to everyone.