Jamie Dornan has starred in a number of disparate movies and TV shows over the course of his career so far. His performance as serial killer Paul Spector in "The Fall" was met with critical acclaim, though he's probably best known for playing Christian Grey in the "Fifty Shades of Grey" trilogy opposite Dakota Johnson. While the Irish actor has starred in a number of action movies, he's yet to appear in a comic book movie. However, he did have a brief brush with DC in the early 2010s when he was one of many to audition to play Superman in Zack Snyder's "Man of Steel." Dornan even took a unique approach to the audition process, as he told the "Happy Sad Confused" podcast last year that he wore Superman pajamas to try and impress Warner Bros.  "The only one I auditioned for is Superman. That was way back when, like when Henry Cavill got cast. That's probably 12 years ago or something," the star explained in the interview, which has resurfaced on social media this week. "I wore my own suit there. Was that a mistake? They were Superman pajamas, they weren't an actual suit," Dornan added. "I remember an early audition for that."  
                                Related stories
                               The 41-year-old star pointed out that he didn't get a chance to wear an official Superman costume as part of the process, unlike Henry Cavill, who stepped into Christopher Reeve's original outfit for a test shoot. "I got nowhere near putting the suit on. I've had meetings with heads of studios that do those things and would talk about it, but I never got deep in any audition process for them," said Dornan. While "Man of Steel" could've elevated Dornan's name at the time, his career hasn't exactly been damaged by losing out on the chance to play Superman.  The "Fifty Shades of Grey" trilogy raked in over a billion dollars worldwide, though he went into the raunchy franchise based on the books of the same name knowing that "fans would love and the critics would despise it."  He added: "I'm grateful that Dakota and I have managed to come out and make work that people still like and have had some of those said critics do a bit of a 180." 
                                Read next
                               Jump to