Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account  Follow us All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. Supermodels, actors, pop icons of past and present — every A-lister and their momager shares something crucial in common with us mere mortals… and you can forget the seven degrees of separation. It's actually a humble pair of £75 Adidas Gazelles.  Once found on the feet of Noel Gallagher, Mick Jagger, and the ever-streetwise Run-DMC, the Gazelle can now be found laced up with the likes of Harry Styles and Prince Harry, well and truly carving out its place in celebrity style. We'd go as far to say that, between musicians, athletes, and more rogue celebs in the form of Kate Moss, Helena Christensen and Fred Durst, the Gazelle has gone beyond merely a mainstay of sneaker culture, becoming that of pop culture itself. The Rolling Stones, Mick Jagger wears red Adidas Gazelles Just one of the many stars to be born in 1966, Adidas Gazelles are arguably one of the most notable sneakers in the history of gum soles. The shoe raised eyebrows as it pushed the envelope of sneaker-based style, replacing white leather with vibrant suedes in red and blue, delineated for the type of sport they best suited… But why are we (and a myriad of modern-day famous faces) taking stock again, fifty-something years later?  JD Sports  JD Sports Well, any trend that came to prominence in the seventies-to-mid-noughties era has been enjoying something of a resurgence of late. Between the wide-leg trousers, Cuban shirts and knit polos that are "'fit-checking" their way through Instagram Reels, TikTok and online vintage resellers, Adidas Gazelles fit pretty naturally amid the cultural backdrop of these historic trends returning to modernity. Of course, it doesn't hurt that alongside these old-school silhouettes, Gazelles continue to be championed by the likes of Harry Styles, Kendall Jenner, Kit Harington, and Mo Sallah (and on our own cover, no less). Adidas Asos In truth though, the Gazelle never left prominence. Worn by hip-hoppers in the ‘80s and Britpoppers in the ’90s, every evolution has seen the simple silhouette go from strength to strength. Since its ‘66 debut, though, Adidas’ Gazelles have abandoned their functional colour-coding, and are now available in a vast variety of vibrant suedes, offset with those all-important Three Stripes. Simply put, they're versatile – tapered, minimalistic, and with room for customisation. It's these colourful iterations that have earned them places in such discordant and varied wardrobes, from a travelling Prince Harry to martini-clasping 007.   JD Sports  Adidas  JD Sports Adidas JD Sports And, of course, if there's one thing modern fashion loves more than its own retrospective trend cycles, it's a good ol' collaboration, and Adidas is never one to be left out. Forming a key part of both the Adidas x Gucci collaborative collections and a certain Mr Harry Styles' famed touring wardrobe, the Gazelles' latest makeover is perhaps its most celebrated to date.  This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from. Given a Guccified update in the form of a branded midsole and tongue, as well as a series of House code patterns, Adidas' sporty Gazelles had never been further from their Olympian roots, now officially cemented in the world of Italian luxury. And, as Gucci's most beloved poster child, it ought to come as no surprise that Styles is rarely seen without them. In fact, the hybridised Gucci x Adidas Gazelle sneaker was given its first public outing on Styles' feet amid an ensemble built of all his go-to brands (JW Anderson, Ami and Eliou) as he posed for promotional shots for “As It Was”. And what it was, was very exciting.   Gucci  Gucci  Gucci  Gucci So, in a world where FYPs and discovery tabs dictate a new ‘X-core’ trend almost weekly, there's something to be said for a shoe whose popularity can remain almost entirely static, even between the trad £75 Gazelles and Gucci's own luxury lab rat. That… and truly, if it works for Harry Styles, it's always going to work for us.  NOW READ Inside the enduring appeal of Mo Salah-approved Adidas Gazelles Brad Pitt is mad for Adidas and Gucci Of course Harry Styles has already copped the Adidas x Gucci Gazelles The best Adidas shoes you can buy right now See More Stories Condé Nast Britain © 2024 Condé Nast