We’ve seen our fair share of Raspberry Pi-powered drones before, but this is the first time we’ve seen a Pi-powered drone tracker. This project was put together by a team of researchers from the University of Texas as well as the University of Tennessee and has been dubbed DroneChase. It’s impressive in that it not only tracks drones using a camera, but also can estimate where the drone is should it move behind an object where it’s completely unseen. The Pi is programmed to draw a red box around the drone when it’s detected. Of course, it’s easy enough for it to track the drone using image recognition with a camera. Where it gets really interesting is how it detects the drone when hidden from view. The team decided to hone in on the drone’s location by using audio. The red box will appear based on the estimated location even if it’s not visible. According to the paper put together by the team, the project is designed to be mounted to a vehicle. The AI is trained using a model that helps it locate the drone if it’s in the visual scope of the camera. This is used in tandem with a custom system designed by the researchers that uses multiple microphones to help triangulate the drone's location. The hardware is housed inside of a 3D-printed enclosure that was digitally designed for the project. It houses the Raspberry Pi along with a speaker, a battery pack to keep things mobile and six different microphones. The video feed is captured using a Logitech Conference Cam BCC950. The team is using six microphones, as this helps with the accuracy of estimating the location of the drone when it’s out of visual range. This side of the project took the most work and is at the heart of their effort. You can read more about how this system works as well as how it was developed in greater detail in the official research paper. If you want to get a closer look at this Raspberry Pi project, we absolutely recommend reading through the DroneChase paper to both understand and appreciate all the hard work that went into its creation. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.