 With so many different ways to pay for college, students and families may have a hard time trying to decipher which loan options are best for them. After scholarships, grants, as well as subsidized and unsubsidized loans, students can apply for other types of aid. Two options available to prospective students are Parent PLUS loans and private student loans; here's how to weigh the pros and cons of each before making a decision.
  Parent PLUS loans are federal loans available to parents of dependent, undergraduate students. That means the parents are responsible for payments and loan management on behalf of the child who is benefitting from the loan funds.
  You might want to get a Parent PLUS loan if:
  Private student loans are school loans coming from private institutions, like banks, credit unions, and online lenders.
  You may want to choose private student loans if:
 In most cases, it’s best for a student to take out a student loan as long as they are aware of the risks and requirements that come with borrowing money. If you’ve exhausted all your federal options as a student and your parent has the tools and financial resources to help, they might take out a Parent PLUS loan for you or co-sign a private student loan with you. The best student loan is the one that provides the right amount of funds to cover education-related expenses, comes with the lowest interest rate available, and provides affordable monthly payments after you leave school. A Parent PLUS loan is a type of federal student loan that is taken out by the parent of a dependent, undergraduate student.  Whether a Parent PLUS loan or a private student loan is the right fit for you or your child will depend on your needs and financial circumstances. Generally speaking, a Parent PLUS loan is worth taking out if you're eligible and have exhausted all other conventional means of paying for college. However, if you still need funds and have no federal student aid options left, then a private personal loan is worth considering for a student.
 Federal Student Aid. "Parent PLUS Loans." Federal Student Aid. "Federal Interest Rates and Fees." Federal Student Aid. "Federal Versus Private Loans."