Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 Pioneer Natural Resources sees several factors supporting higher oil prices. Pioneer Natural Resources (PXD) believes the weakness in oil prices over the past year is about to end. The oil company anticipates that a cascade of catalysts will support higher crude prices through the end of this year and beyond. That sets the oil company up to produce a gusher of free cash flow. Here's a look at what's driving the oil company's bullish view on crude prices and what that could mean for investors. Pioneer Natural Resources CEO Scott Sheffield recently provided a broad overview of the current oil market and its impact on prices on the company's second-quarter conference call. Sheffield pointed out that "crude has been range bound between $65 and $80 over the past several months." He noted that several factors have weighed on oil, including releases from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR), recessionary concerns, and weak economic data from China.  However, that weakness has reversed over the past couple of months, pushing oil up toward the $80-a-barrel level. The driver is the expectation that supply and demand fundamentals will tighten in the second half of this year. Sheffield pointed out that there's growing optimism that the U.S. economy could experience a soft landing while China has taken steps to boost its economy. These factors bode well for demand to remain strong.  Meanwhile, Sheffield highlighted that supplies are growing tighter. U.S. oil producers continue to limit drilling to produce free cash. On top of that, the SPR is at a 40-year low, restricting the country's ability to release additional supplies in an emergency. Finally, Saudi Arabia continues to keep a lid on OPEC's production. Sheffield said he expects "Saudi to extend their 1 million-barrel-a-day cut they initiated July 1 toward the end of '23." This combination of factors drives his view that demand will outpace supplies during the second half of this year, drawing down global-inventory levels. This outlook is "supportive for oil pricing in the $80 to $100 range for the remainder of '23 and through '24 on." Higher oil prices would be a boon for Pioneer Natural Resources. The company's concentrated position in the Midland side of the Permian Basin gives it tremendous scale. Because of that, it has very low operating costs, enabling it to produce peer-leading margins.  That combination of scale and margins would enable Pioneer Natural Resources to produce a massive amount of cash in the $80 to $100 a barrel range: Image source: Pioneer Natural Resources.  As that slide shows, Pioneer could produce $27 billion in free cash flow over the next five years if oil averages $80 a barrel, more than double what it could produce at $60 crude. Meanwhile, free cash flow would reach $40 billion if oil averaged $100 a barrel. To put that into perspective, Pioneer's current market cap is less than $55 billion. It suggests the company could produce more than half its market cap in free cash flow in just the next five years.  Pioneer Natural Resources expects to return most of this windfall to shareholders. The oil company set a framework to return at least 75% of its free cash flow to investors each year. It has three methods to accomplish that aim:  With its free cash flow likely to be even higher in the future, Pioneer will have more cash to opportunistically repurchase shares and pay variable dividends. Pioneer Natural Resources expects oil prices to be higher in the coming years. That sets the oil company up to produce a massive amount of free cash flow, the bulk of which it intends to return to shareholders. Those growing cash returns could give the company the fuel to produce strong total returns in the coming years. That makes Pioneer a potentially attractive oil stock to buy for those who are also bullish on oil prices.  Matthew DiLallo has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Pioneer Natural Resources. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.