Our evaluations and opinions are not influenced by our advertising relationships, but we may earn a commission from our partners’ links. This content is created by TIME Stamped, under TIME’s direction and produced in accordance with TIME’s editorial guidelines and overseen by TIME’s editorial staff. Learn more about it. Credit card users who want to spend less than $100 on their annual fee have a surprising range of options offering a lot of value at a reasonable price. While it’s possible to upgrade to pricier, ultra-premium credit cards, the credit cards in this group have high earnings rates and attractive intro offers. Our top pick for the best credit card with an annual fee under $100 is the card_name, thanks to its ease of earning Chase Ultimate Rewards points, the flexibility you get when redeeming those points, and its attractive intro offer. However, other cards in the sub-$100 annual fee category might also be an excellent choice, depending on how you plan to use them. If you plan to spend money just for the privilege of using a credit card, you probably want to ensure you get the most out of it. This list covers the best credit cards with annual fees under $100. However, the best choice for you depends on your spending habits and the perks that work best for your lifestyle. Introductory Offer: Card Rewards: Additional Benefits: Member FDIC The card_name gets the nod as the best overall credit card with an annual fee under $100 thanks to its ease of earning points, the usefulness of those points and its generous intro offer. This unique combination of benefits makes it the best sub-$100 annual fee card for most people. Most important, Chase lets you earn points quickly with this card: You also get $50 in annual statement credits for hotel stays booked through Chase Ultimate Rewards. This card usually has a generous intro offer, as well. As of this writing, you can bonus_miles_full. And when you book travel through Chase Ultimate Rewards, your points are worth 25% more. That’s not as good as the 50% boost from the Chase Sapphire Reserve (annual fee of annual_fees), but it’s still a nice benefit. This card includes several other benefits, like trip cancellation insurance and purchase protection. The card_name also makes the list, thanks to its ease of earning points and excellent intro offer. Unlike many other cards on this list, you won’t need to keep track of categories—dining vs. streaming vs. travel, etc.. Instead, you simply earn unlimited 2X miles on all purchases. As of this writing, you can bonus_miles_full. In addition to the 2X miles it earns on all purchases, this card earns unlimited 5X miles on hotels and rental cars booked through Capital One Travel; the same rate also applies for car rentals and other purchases made through Turo. You can also transfer points to one of Capital One’s transfer partners, although U.S.-based customers may find these options somewhat limiting, as many of the partners are foreign carriers. One of this card’s other benefits is two free lounge visits per year, plus a $100 credit for TSA PreCheck or Global Entry. It also has the usual slew of additional perks, such as an auto rental collision damage waiver and travel accident insurance. The  is the best business card for travel due to its rewards flexibility,  foreign transaction fees, and protective consumer benefits. Introductory Offer: Earn 120,000 bonus points after spending $8,000 on purchases within the first 3 months from account opening. That’s equivalent to $1,200 cash back or $1,500 toward travel when redeemed through Chase Travel℠. Card Rewards: Additional Benefits: Member FDIC If you run a business in any capacity, you can apply for the card_name for all your business expenses. This card has some of the same benefits as the card_name, including that 25% boost when booking travel through Chase Ultimate Rewards. However, the card_name adds benefits that cater to business owners. The most notable difference is in points earnings: It earns 3X points on purchases up to $150,000 annually on shipping purchases; ad purchases with social media sites and search engines; internet, cable, and phone services; and travel. It also earns 5X points on Lyft rides through March 2025. As of this writing, you can bonus_miles_full. The card_name also lets you issue employee cards at no extra cost, which allows you to set individual spending limits while still earning rewards. (Rates & Fees) At first glance, the Citi Strata Premier℠ Card  may not seem fantastic, but it makes the list because it gives you many ways to earn Citi ThankYouPoints fast. With the Citi Strata Premier℠ Card, you can earn: Plus, earn a total of 10 ThankYou® Points per $1 spent on hotel, car rentals, and attractions (excluding air travel)booked on the Citi Travel℠ portal. Points are transferable to participating airline loyalty programs including TrueBlue®, Virgin Atlantic Flying Club, and Singapore AirlinesKrisFlyer. You also get an annual $100 hotel savings benefit, which gives you $100 off each year when you spend $500 or more on a hotel reservation through Cititravel.com. And as of this writing, you earn 70,000 bonus ThankYou Points after you spend $4,000 in purchases within the first 3 months of account opening. Plus, earn a total of 10 ThankYou Points per $1 spent on hotel, car rentals, and attractions (excluding air travel) booked on the Citi Travel portal. If you like to travel in the Hilton ecosystem, the Hilton Honors Surpass Card is a no-brainer. Despite its modest $95 annual fee, it has the potential to earn a huge number of Hilton Honors points without much effort. Its bonus categories are: You also earn complimentary Hilton Honors Gold Status, so this card is perfect if you want to upgrade your Hilton experience. Another benefit is a free night reward when you spend $15,000 on eligible purchases in a calendar year. You also get 10 complimentary Priority Pass™ Select visits per year, which gives you access to Priority Pass’s 1,200+ locations worldwide. Added benefits with this card include rental car protection, baggage insurance and 24/7 help from Hilton’s global assistance hotline. Also travel friendly: There are no foreign transaction fees when using this card internationally. Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card (Rates & Fees) Hilton Honors American Express Surpass® Card We chose the best credit cards for annual fees under $100 by studying the available products, including their rewards, benefits, and fees. The author's experience analyzing and writing about credit cards and personal finance narrowed the list to the best cards in the category. Credit cards may have an annual fee due to higher cash-back or points/miles rates than no-annual-fee credit cards. Credit cards with annual fees often have additional perks, such as trip cancellation insurance, extended warranties, priority boarding and free hotel nights. Of course, if you don’t use your credit card often enough, you can apply for a no-annual-fee credit card instead. But for many cardholders, the benefits far outweigh the cost of the annual fee. It’s up to each consumer to decide if that added cost is worth the benefits it provides. While credit cards can offer a complicated array of points and perks, making the best choice means deciding which card makes the most sense for you. To make the best choice, consider these factors: As we have seen throughout this article, there’s a wide choice of credit cards with annual fees under $100. They often have attractive intro offers and are packed with hidden perks. However, every credit card is different, and every consumer is different. Be sure to consider what each card is best for and whether that aligns with how you plan to use it. Yes. Usually, annual fees are charged each year automatically, whether you used the card or not. Some credit cards waive the annual fee in some cases. For example, some might waive the annual fee for the first year. Cards that do this include the card_name (Rates & Fees), the United MileagePlus Explorer Card, and the card_name. Many excellent credit cards charge no annual fee. Popular choices include the card_name, the card_name, and the Citi Double Cash® Card. For rates and fees of the card_name, please visit this URL. Eligibility and benefit level varies by card. Terms, conditions and limitations apply. Please visit americanexpress.com/benefitsguide for more details. Underwritten by New Hampshire Insurance Company, an AIG Company). All information about Hilton Honors American Express Surpass® Card has been collected independently by TIME Stamped. Hilton Honors American Express Surpass® Card is no longer available through CardRatings.com.  The information presented here is created by TIME Stamped and overseen by TIME editorial staff. To learn more, see our About Us page.