You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: Jul 26, 2024, 7:46pm An S-corp is a type of corporation that elects to pass corporate income, loss, deductions and credits to its shareholders. In other words, an S-corp is a tax status classification that some businesses can elect. It provides limited liability while enabling corporations that have less than 100 shareholders to be taxed as a partnership. However, it’s important to know the advantages and limitations of an S-corp before jumping at the pass-through tax advantages it offers. This guide covers everything you need to know about the requirements for electing S-corp status, including details of its strict requirements on shareholders and stock so you can decide if it’s the right choice for your company. Featured Partners  1 ZenBusiness $0 + State Fees Varies By State & Package 1 ZenBusiness On ZenBusiness' Website 2 LegalZoom $0 + State Fees Varies By State & Package 2 LegalZoom On LegalZoom's Website 3 Northwest Registered Agent $39 + State Fees Varies By State & Package 3 Northwest Registered Agent On Northwest Registered Agent's Website 4 Formations $0 + State Fee Varies By State & Package 4 Formations On Formations' Website An S-corp is a specific tax designation governed by the tax code’s subchapter “S”—where it gets its name. An LLC or a corporation may elect “S” status if it meets the requirements laid out in the subchapter, the majority of which deal with limits on shareholders and stock. The defining feature of an S-corp is its “pass-through” tax structure. An S-corp doesn’t pay corporate income tax. Instead, corporate income, losses, deductions and credits pass through to shareholders for federal tax purposes. Because an S-corp is not a business structure, businesses must first be created as either a corporation (normally taxed as “C-corps”) or LLCs (limited liability companies, normally taxed as sole proprietorships or partnerships). Either type of business can choose to be taxed as an S-corp, but the typical reasons for choosing S-corp status vary. LLCs often choose S-corp status to reduce the owners’ self-employment taxes. By default, LLC owners are self-employed, paying both personal income tax and self-employment tax on their share of business profits. If the LLC elects S-corp status, the owners can be company employees, paying employment taxes on their reasonable salary but not on the business’s total profits. Corporations typically elect S-corp status to avoid double taxation of distributions. Traditional C-corporations pay corporate income tax on their profits. When those profits are distributed to shareholders, the shareholders also pay personal taxes on them. With an S-corp, there is no tax at the corporate level, so profits are only taxed once, at the shareholder level. For more specifics, check out our guide on S-corps or our other articles on the advantages and disadvantages between LLCs and S-corps and the differences between C-corp and S-corp elections. Not every LLC or corporation qualifies for S-corp taxation. The IRS has strict requirements for S-corp status, and it’s generally limited to smaller, domestically owned companies. The requirements can be broken down into a few simple categories: requirements for the type of corporation you will be operating, requirements for the shareholders who will own stock in your company and requirements for correctly filing your S-corporation with both your state and the IRS. Your S-corporation election requires your entity must be a domestic business, meaning it must have been formed or incorporated within the United States. Your S-corporation must also not be an ineligible corporation. The IRS defines ineligible corporations as “certain financial institutions, insurance companies and domestic international sales corporations.” If you’re running one of these types of businesses, consult with tax and legal professionals before attempting to make an S-corp election. Finally, your corporation can only have one class of stock, disregarding differences in voting rights. The IRS treats stock as being in one class if all shares have equal rights to distribution and liquidation proceeds. Because LLCs do not issue stock, it’s best to consult with a lawyer or accountant to find out how this requirement applies to your business. Your S-corporation must also fit strict requirements for the shareholders (or members, in the case of an LLC) who own your business. Most importantly, you must have no more than 100 shareholders to qualify as an S-corporation. You must also only have what the IRS defines as “eligible shareholders,” meaning shareholders must be individuals, certain trusts or estates. Shareholders also must be U.S. citizens or legal residents. Partnerships and corporations cannot be shareholders. Click on the state below to get started.  
			Start Now
		
 You can elect S-corp status by filing Form 2553 with the IRS as well as filing any forms required by your state or jurisdiction. You must have unanimous shareholder consent and meet the corporation and shareholder requirements outlined above to become an S-corporation. Form 2553 is due no more than two months and 15 days after the beginning of the tax year for which the election is to take effect, or any time during the preceding tax year. The instructions for Form 2553 provide several examples to help you calculate this deadline. Once you have filed Form 2553, you will have to file an annual tax return reflecting your business’s election as an S-corp. Unlike a traditional corporation, because an S-corporation is a pass-through entity, the information on your S-corp tax return will be more informational. While C-corps file Form 1120, an S-corporation files federal Form 1120-S with the IRS, which reports the S-corps’ income, deductions and payments. While S-corporation profits aren’t subject to federal corporate income tax, your state may have different rules. Some states fully recognize S-corps, while others treat them as C-corps or impose additional eligibility or filing requirements. You may have to file a separate state tax return for your S-corporation. If you think the advantages of an S-corp are worth it compared to an LLC but you are a small business with limited experience in navigating the complexities of corporate tax law, you should consider hiring a tax professional. The current version of Form 1120S, which you are required to file with the IRS, is 47 pages long. Unless you are a tax expert or an accountant, you may be banging your head into your desk after the first few pages. Since establishing as an S-corp can save you significantly in taxes, it may be worth putting some of that money into hiring a tax professional to help you with the various forms and filings required to operate your S-corp. While electing S-corporation status, managing payroll and filing your business’s tax return can be much more complex than filing as an LLC, it also allows business owners the advantages of a corporation without the heavy taxes that come with running a traditional C-corp. An S-corp gives its owners the limited liability protection of an LLC while still offering the flexibility of paying its owners with payroll and offering dividends—both ways to reduce the tax burden of self-employment. Click to get started. Until S-corp status was created in 1958 on the recommendation to Congress by United States President Dwight Eisenhower, businesses typically could only choose between either the protection from liability of a corporation or the single layer of taxation enjoyed by sole proprietors and partnerships. To make small businesses more competitive, the U.S. Treasury proposed S-corp status as a solution that could give smaller American businesses a leg up in an increasingly conglomerated corporate landscape. The requirements of an S-corporation include being based in the U.S., issuing not more than one type of stock and maintaining shareholder requirements that include a shareholder count maximum of 100. Shareholders can be individuals, certain trusts and estates, but cannot be nonresident aliens, corporations or partnerships. An S-corporation is a tax classification, while an LLC is a type of business entity. In some instances, a business may be an LLC and elect S-corporation tax status. As the owner of an S-corporation, you will classify and pay yourself as an employee of the S-corporation and receive both a salary—which is subject to traditional payroll tax withholdings—and a percentage of the distribution of the S-corp’s profit. These earnings are reported on your individual tax return but usually are not subject to self-employment taxes. The IRS offers all the fine print on eligibility in its Instructions for Form 2553. Before making any moves, business owners should seek out all relevant details about eligibility requirements and see how these stack up with the specifics of their businesses. 

 Chauncey grew up on a farm in rural northern California. At 18 he ran away and saw the world with a backpack and a credit card, discovering that the true value of any point or mile is the experience it facilitates. He remains most at home on a tractor, but has learned that opportunity is where he finds it and discomfort is more interesting than complacency.