MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS Jung-Hyu McCann said she is excited to join a company with a mission of helping employers embrace "more inclusive and fairer hiring practices." December 30, 2022 at 07:30 AM  2 minute read General Counsel and In House Counsel Greenhouse, a decade-old hiring-software company that has raised more than $110 million in funding, has hired former Apple and Broadcom attorney Jung-Hyu McCann as its first chief legal officer. McCann started her legal career at Shearman & Sterling. She then moved in-house, becoming a senior manager at Apple, an associate general counsel at Broadcom and then, for the last three years, chief legal officer of Druva, a data-protection company valued at $2 billion in its latest funding round. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Maria Dinzeo By Maria Dinzeo By Maria Dinzeo By Michelle Morgante 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Simpson Thacher to Face UK Tribunal Over Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Allegations International Edition Simpson Partner Heads to Paul Hastings, as Firm Plots Growth in Banking, Finance The American Lawyer Presented by BigVoodoo  Join General Counsel and Senior Legal Leaders at the Premier Forum Designed For and by General Counsel from Fortune 1000 Companies Women, Influence & Power in Law Awards honors women lawyers who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession. WIPL is the original global forum facilitating women-to-women exchange on leadership and legal issues. 
                                        SALARY/STEP INCREASES 3% Annual Across the Board Salary Increases on February 2025/2026 (Salary Increases contingent upon assessed values fo...
                                 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join Corporate Counsel now! Already have an account? Sign In Predictive reporting, trend analysis, peer guidance and a practical playbook to help general counsels succeed in their increasingly high stakes roles as risk managers and corporate strategists The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.