Joe Salisbury and Rajeev Ram are aiming to win a third consecutive men's doubles US Open title US Open 2023 Venue: Flushing Meadows, New York Dates: 28 August-10 September Coverage: Daily live text and radio commentaries across the BBC Sport website, app, BBC Radio 5 Live and 5 Sports Extra Defending champions Joe Salisbury and Rajeev Ram reached the US Open semi-finals with a straight-set win over Maximo Gonzalez and Andres Molteni. It is a 16th successive victory in New York for Britain's Salisbury and American Ram, winners in 2021 and 2022. They fought back from 3-0 down in the second set to beat Argentine pair Gonzalez and Molteni 6-4 6-3. They will play second seeds Ivan Dodig and Austin Krajicek for a place in the final. Follow live radio and text coverage of day nine of the US Open Live scores, results and order of play Aiming to win their fourth major title together at Flushing Meadows, third seeds Salisbury and Ram have now won three of their four matches in straight sets. While a single break of serve proved enough to clinch the first set, they were made to work harder for the second by the fifth seeds on Louis Armstrong Stadium. Gonzalez and Molteni broke serve on their way to establishing a 3-0 lead, saving three break points in doing so. However, a love hold in the fourth game marked the start of a six-game streak for Salisbury and Ram, who sealed victory on a second match point after one hour and 42 minutes. Semi-final opponents Dodig and Krajicek defeated Hugo Nys and Jan Zielinski 6-4 2-6 6-3 to progress.  They are the highest ranked seeds remaining in the draw after Britain's Neal Skupski and Dutch team-mate Wesley Koolhof fell in the third round. Alerts: Get tennis news sent to your phone Will Jessie and Tom rekindle the old flame?: Award-winning comedy, Starstruck, returns Boot Dreams: Now or Never: Roman Kemp and Bruno Fernandes give rejected players a second chance at the game they love Veteran Vardy earns Leicester draw against wasteful Tottenham Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Chelsea agree Felix fee, Gallagher to join Atletico Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.