A highly trained cadaver dog from New South Wales Police is on its second day of searching Philosopher Falls at Waratah for missing 31-year-old Belgian bushwalker Celine Cremer. Login or signup to continue reading Ms Cremer was reported missing on June 26, with her vehicle found the following day at the Philosopher Falls car park. Police said information indicated that her car may have been there as early as June 17. "Police and SES have been conducting further searches in a revised area of interest at Philosopher Falls, since receiving further information about Celine's last mobile phone activity," they said. "Weather conditions have been challenging amidst strong winds and rain." Yesterday, on July 29, Inspector Anthea Maingay said that police would be downgrading the search for Ms Cremer if she was not found by the end of today. Our journalists work hard to provide local, up-to-date news to the community. This is how you can continue to access our trusted content: I'm a passionate reporter covering all things North-West. Got a story idea? Contact me on 0439 660 724 or simon.mcguire@austcommunitymedia.com.au. I'm a passionate reporter covering all things North-West. Got a story idea? Contact me on 0439 660 724 or simon.mcguire@austcommunitymedia.com.au. DAILY Today's top stories curated by our news team. Also includes evening update. WEEKLY Get the editor's insights: what's happening & why it matters. WEEKLY Love footy? We've got all the action covered. WEEKLY The latest news, results & expert analysis. WEEKLY Every Sunday explore destinations, deals, tips & travel writing to transport you around Australia and the globe. WEEKDAYS Sharp. Close to the ground. Digging deep. Your weekday morning newsletter on national affairs, politics and more. TWICE WEEKLY Your essential national news digest: all the big issues on Wednesday and great reading every Saturday. WEEKLY Get news, reviews and expert insights every Thursday from CarExpert, ACM's exclusive motoring partner. TWICE WEEKLY Get real, Australia! Let  the ACM network's editors and journalists bring you news and views from all over. AS IT HAPPENS Be the first to know when news breaks. DAILY Your digital replica of Today's Paper. Ready to read from 5am! DAILY Test your skills with interactive crosswords, sudoku & trivia. Fresh daily! Advertisement Advertisement