After admitting that she “didn’t want to go this thin” while taking Ozempic for weight loss, Sharon Osbourne said that she’s going to stop taking the medication David M. Benett/Getty Sharon Osbourne is one of the many celebrities who has publicly shared their experience taking Ozempic for weight loss. However, last week The Talk UK host, 70, admitted that after dropping 42 lbs. she’s quitting the trendy medication because “I didn’t want to go this thin.” Similarly, Shahs of Sunset alum Golnesa "GG" Gharachedaghi said in June that she was “cutting back” on the drug after losing “more weight than I was anticipating.” Ozempic is an FDA-approved prescription medication for people with type 2 diabetes. It's one of the brand names for semaglutide and tirzepatide — also known as Wegovy and Mounjaro — which works in the brain to impact satiety, and is the latest Hollywood weight loss trend. Taken once a week by injection in the thigh, stomach or arm, Ozempic comes with common side effects like nausea and diarrhea, and sometimes vomiting or constipation, Ania Jastreboff, M.D., PhD., an obesity medicine physician scientist at Yale University, previously told PEOPLE. “It's very important to always start at the lowest dose when you're starting these medications and to go up slowly. If the medication is increased too quickly, then these side effects are more likely to occur,” Jastreboff added. “We also know that a majority of the side effects occur during that dose escalation phase.” Related: Nurse Who Took Ozempic for COVID Weight Gain Reveals What Happened After Stopping the Medication Getty Although Osbourne successfully lost weight, she decided to ditch Ozempic. A study in the Journal of Pharmacology and Therapeutics found that a majority of people who take semaglutide gain most of the weight back within a year of stopping the medication, which can be difficult to control. Jastreboff also told PEOPLE that because drugs like Ozempic and Wegovy are intended for type 2 diabetes and obesity — which are chronic conditions — they aren’t meant to be stopped. "If you have a patient who has high blood pressure, they have hypertension, and you start them on an antihypertensive medication, and their blood pressure improves, what would happen if you stopped that medication? Well, their blood pressure would go back up — and we're not surprised. It's the same with anti-obesity medications," she explained, adding that the drugs are not tested for people who do not have type 2 diabetes or chronic obesity. Related: Ozempic Rebound Is Real: Doctor Says Weight Gain Can Be 'Devastating' After Stopping Mario Tama/Getty Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. "[Expecting a patient with chronic obesity to lose weight through willpower] is akin to having a patient with diabetes and thinking that they can concentrate really hard to bring their blood sugars down," Jastreboff continued. "You can't do that, and with obesity, our patients can't use their prefrontal cortex for the rest of their lives to impact every morsel of food that they eat. So, it's not in our control. Once that set point is elevated, you need treatment." Content creator and model Remi Bader previously shared that her weight rebounded after stopping Ozempic. She explained that although she was able to lose weight from the medication in 2020, when she stopped taking it she "gained double the weight back," adding that she thinks it really should just be used for those who need it medically. Meanwhile, Obourne admitted that expects something similar to happen to her, quipping, “I’ll probably put it all on again soon.” For more People news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on People. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.