A former Illinois news anchor passed unexpectedly while on vacation with her family. She was 42. According to NBC affiliate WGEM, Lesley Swick Van Ness was vacationing with her family when she suddenly became ill and was taken to a hospital on April 6. By the following Monday, April 10, she had died. The obituary for Van Ness stated that she passed away in Naples, Florida. According to her LinkedIn page, Van Ness carved out a career for herself at WGEM, starting as a reporter in 2003. By 2006, she became a weekend anchor. In 2008, she served as a weekday evening anchor. In 2016, she became a corporate recruiter for Quincy Media — a media company that was acquired by Gray Television in 2021. On April 12, Jennifer Dale, the vice president of recruiting at Gray Television, issued a statement regarding her death to Muddy River News. “It is with a very heavy heart that we share some devastating news with you. Lesley Van Ness, who we have been so fortunate to have as part of the Gray family, passed away this (Monday) morning,” said Dale’s statement. “Lesley and her husband Tom have two precious young boys. Please keep all of them in your prayers. We will keep everyone posted on arrangements.” Van Ness’s also former colleagues reflected on her career during an April 12 segment of the show. Anchor Natalie Will touched on her working relationship with Van Ness, sharing that the two started at WGEM on the same day as interns. While speaking about her late co-worker, Will became visibly upset. “Lesley was a phenomenal journalist. She was a leader in the newsroom,” she remarked before tearing up. “Sorry... I didn’t think this was going to be hard.” Another former WGEM colleague, Matt Schmidt, described Van Ness as someone who was easy to get along with. “She was very commanding of the room and, you know, spoke up and was not afraid to say things,” he remarked. “(Our) personalities just blended well.” The obituary for Van Ness describes her as an “exceptional mother and wife” who worked to create opportunities for future journalists across the United States via fellowship programs and paid internships. “She was a determined parent who taught her children the importance of reading, safety, learning and loving,” the obituary said in part. “Together with (her husband), their goal was to raise the most well-rounded young men they could, regardless of their boys’ lack of enthusiasm from time to time.” This article was originally published on TODAY.com New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.