 [ACCESSWIRE] TEA Group will use PlanetWatch's data to add more value to their services SAINT-GENIS-POUILLY, FRANCE / ACCESSWIRE / April 17, 2023 / PlanetWatch, a CERN spin-off that is building the first global hyperlocal air quality monitoring network, closed a deal to sell data from 180 devices deployed across Italy to TEA Group, a spin-off of the Italian National Research Council that provides air quality monitoring services and manufactures advanced sensors.  TEA has over 30 years of experience in the air quality monitoring business. Its clients include the cities of Arezzo, Prato, and the Livorno Port Authority. The Florence-based company will now integrate data from PlanetWatch's hyperlocal air quality network into their business offers to add more value to their clients. Alessandro Zaldei, TEA's Chief Scientific Officer, explains the rationale: "When analyzing pollution patterns in a city, the need for data from adjacent territories often emerges, as air flows obviously do not correlate with municipal boundaries. In addition, pollution sources are sometimes located at the boundary between two municipalities. As mayors have no power to deploy sensors beyond their territory, we often lack critical data. Leveraging data from PlanetWatch's network across the country will be instrumental in filling this gap." According to Carolina Vagnoli, Researcher at Italian National Research Council's Institute for Bioeconomics, "PlanetWatch's innovative participatory model allows for a dense network of sensors that provide detailed information on the air quality of the territory, enabling the provision of services that until now were unthinkable with the few available monitoring stations of the official European monitoring network. To date, PlanetWatch's network has thousands of sensors whose detailed information allows, for the first time, the realization of hyperlocal studies of air quality at the scale of neighborhood, street, and even individual buildings." Claudio Parrinello, PlanetWatch's CEO, said: "We are proud to be chosen by TEA, a leading Italian air quality monitoring service provider. This partnership substantiates the business case for hyperlocal air quality data from PlanetWatch's network. Our scalable, incentivized, community-driven deployment strategy is generating tangible results." PlanetWatch is building the first hyperlocal air quality monitoring network across the globe by merging the power of communities with blockchain technology, advanced algorithms, and high-performance devices. This approach allows the collection of accurate, real-time, hyperlocal data that any organization can use for multiple purposes. Currently, PlanetWatch has over 20.000 indoor and outdoor air quality monitoring devices in its network. Some of the cities with high outdoor coverage include Bucharest, Madrid, Munich, London, Riga, and Bern. The CERN spin-off has also partnered with several universities. About PlanetWatch Planetwatch is a French-based startup that's leveraging blockchain, advanced algorithms, and high-performance yet affordable air quality sensors, to deploy dense air quality monitoring networks. PlanetWatch's worldwide network powers advanced data products for governments and companies while building the first immutable air quality data ledger. An official CERN spin-off company, PlanetWatch is a member of the Crypto Sustainability Coalition fostered by the World Economic Forum. Contact Information: João Simões de Abreu Marketing Manager [email protected] Beatriz Giestas Communications Manager [email protected] SOURCE: PlanetWatch Copyright 1998 - 2024 Baystreet.ca Media Corp. All rights reserved. Nasdaq Stocks: Information delayed 15 minutes. Non-Nasdaq Stocks: Information delayed 20 minutes. Bid and Ask quotation information for NYSE and AMEX securities is only available on a real time basis. Market Data is provided by QuoteMedia.com. Earnings by Zacks. Analyst Ratings by Zacks