UAW President Shawn Fain called for a targeted strike of an estimated 9,000 workers late Wednesday with no warning at the Kentucky Truck Plant in Louisville. Around 7:15 p.m., Ford workers gathering outside the KTP plant on Chamberlain Lane were heard yelling “It’s utter chaos out here” as they were searching for strike captains, responsible for organizing the striking workers. “This was a surprise," said one Ford worker who asked not to be named. "We didn’t have two hours to prepare.” On Wednesday, Fain said “We have been crystal clear, and we have waited long enough, but Ford has not gotten the message. It’s time for a fair contract at Ford and the rest of the Big Three. If they can’t understand that after four weeks, the [thousands of] workers shutting down this extremely profitable plant will help them understand it.” After months of negotiations, the Detroit Three automakers, which include General Motors, Ford and Stellantis — which owns the Jeep, Ram, Chrysler, Dodge and Fiat brands — have been unable to reach an agreement on a new labor contract with the UAW. The contract expired on Sept. 14 at 11:59 p.m., and the union, which represents roughly 150,000 autoworkers nationwide, began picketing against the companies, striking all three automakers simultaneously for the first time in the UAW's 88-year history. Thoughts on UAW Strike?Submit a letter to the editor. In Louisville, UAW Local 862 represents about 12,000 workers at the area's two Ford assembly plants, Kentucky Truck Plant and Louisville Assembly Plant. In late August, Local 862 held two days of practice pickets to prepare workers for a strike. And on Sept. 21, they held a large rally outside of the union hall. Now, these workers are on the picket line, striking for what they believe will lead to a better working situation. Ford fired back Wednesday, saying in a statement "The decision by the UAW to call a strike at Ford’s Kentucky Truck Plant is grossly irresponsible but unsurprising given the union leadership’s stated strategy of keeping the Detroit Three wounded for months through 'reputational damage' and 'industrial chaos.'" "The UAW leadership’s decision to reject this record contract offer — which the UAW has publicly described as the best offer on the table — and strike Kentucky Truck Plant, carries serious consequences for our workforce, suppliers, dealers and commercial customers," the statement continued. David “Shaggy” Firkins, the bargaining committee person for UAW Local 862, said the International UAW went to the table to negotiate with Ford Wednesday but the automaker was not willing to negotiate. Around 6 p.m., Firkins, who was on his way to the plant, got a call from Fain, UAW Vice President Chuck Browning, and Jon Jaggers, a national negotiator out of Local 862, telling him “We’re going to walk the plant tonight.” Firkins said what it comes down to is Ford is not willing to negotiate battery plants and ensure a “just transition” for workers. Earlier Wednesday, BlueOval SK, a Ford joint venture electric vehicle facility, announced a raise for workers who have not even started working. The rates being offered to the non-union workers at BlueOval SK facilities in Glendale and Stanton, Tennessee will quickly top the top wage rate for current Ford workers. You may like:Why is BlueOval SK already raising starting salaries at Kentucky battery park? “We’ve been preparing … we’ve worked hard to get this set up,” Firkins said as workers flooded to the picket line, adding he hopes the community will support them. “This will help all facilities in Kentucky and Indiana and across the country,” Firkins said. Several members from Teamsters Local 89, which represents roughly 10,000 UPS workers in Louisville, were out on the picket line with Ford workers. Stephen Piercey with UPS Teamsters said, “It’s important for us to be here because all working people have to stand together. When workers win, we all win.” Numerous cars driving down Chamberlain Lane, where the plant is located, were honking their horns at workers. “It’s showing everyone is in solidarity with the UAW and UAW families. It’s time for us to get our just do," Anthony McDaniel, a Ford worker and UAW member said. On Wednesday, Kentucky's Gov. Andy Beshear said, "The UAW represents thousands of our hard-working families and Ford is an important employer in Kentucky. We need both a strong UAW and Ford. My hope is that they can reach an agreement quickly – one that works for both sides and moves everyone forward.” U.S. Rep. Morgan McGarvey tweeted "I stand with our UAW brothers [and] sisters on strike. Local 862 is responsible for 54% of Ford’s North American profits, [and] their workers deserve a fair contract, good benefits & wages, & safe working conditions. Louisville is a union town [and] it’s going to stay that way." As the clock struck 8 p.m. Wednesday, a new crew of UAW strikers took the line and will hold it until midnight when the next shift change takes place. UAW members will work four-hour shifts for strike duty, Todd Dunn, president of Local 862, previously told the Courier Journal. His members would have upward of 54,000 available strike hours if both Kentucky Truck and the Louisville Assembly Plant went on strike. As of Wednesday, LAP is not on strike. “Ford Motor Company has gone back and forth … but it seems like things have stalled out in the last week and half,” Dunn said. Striking KTP is a move focused on the future of Ford, the future of the workers, and what the future looks like with EVs, Dunn said.“This is about more than us and more than me … it’s about everything, EVs and the things we don’t even know yet,” Dunn said. “We need to secure a strong future for all Ford workers.” Kentucky Truck builds the Ford Super Duty, Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator. Super Duty is among the most profitable products the Dearborn, Michigan automaker sells. The vehicles produced at the Louisville-based factory generate $25 billion a year in revenue, according to a statement from Ford. By Dunn's estimation, Ford stands to lose roughly $30 million per day in profit with the truck plant out on strike. Dunn said by taking out the Kentucky Truck Plant, Ford could see the Louisville Assembly Plant and the Ohio Assembly Plant fold within one to two days since they rely on the truck plant for stamping, among other things. The Kentucky Truck Plant Local 862 union hall, about one mile down the road from KTP, is serving as the operational headquarters for the strike. By 9 p.m., the union hall was bustling with workers eating pizza, drinking lemonade, and waiting for their turn to head to the strike line. Some folks sat around discussing the "good old days" while others sought out Dunn to see how they could be helpful. At this point, Dunn sees his role as being "mindful ... for how this [affects] everyone and our community. I’ve got to be proactive and genuine with our membership.” Recently, negotiations have taken a sharp focus on increased pay for workers, with Shawn Fain, the International President of UAW who was sworn into office in March as the first UAW president directly elected by the members, demanding pay raises upwards of 40% for workers. A major sticking point in negotiations this year is cost-of-living adjustments or COLA, the Courier Journal previously reported. The union wants to see COLA returned; it was originally suspended in 2009 in response to the financial crisis. The union believes the return of COLA would provide better financial conditions for workers. Ford sources, however, disagree, stating the current structure of general wage increases plus inflation bonuses of $1,500 per year, have far exceeded the benefits COLA would provide. A Ford source previously told the Courier Journal that the goal during negotiations this year is protecting American jobs since 80% of Ford vehicles are made in the U.S., rewarding employees' hard work, navigating the transition to electric vehicle production, and maintaining flexibility to respond to customer demands. Come back to courier-journal.com for updates on this developing story. Contact reporter Olivia Evans at oevans@courier-journal.com or on Twitter at @oliviamevans.