The Meta CEO hopped in a race at Stanford University—even though he says he barely runs anymore.  Apparently billionaires run weekend 5Ks like the rest of us.  On Sunday, Mark Zuckerberg, the co-founder of Facebook and Meta, toed the line at the 2023 Stanford Medicine My Heart Counts 5K, finishing in 19:34, under his stated goal of sub-20 minutes.  The 38-year-old billionaire posted about the race on Instagram after, saying “Good 5k with friends. Whole crew hit our sub-20 min goal, but that before and after photo shows we had to push!” His finish was good enough for 11th place out of the 885 participants who finished the Palo Alto race, and he took 4th in the 35-39 age group. Zuckerberg is the CEO of the tech giant Meta (the parent company of Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp), which is based in nearby Menlo Park, California.  Known as an avid runner in years past—he completed his goal of running 365 miles in 2016 with five months to spare—Zuckerberg has recently cut back on the miles.  “I used to run a lot,” he said on Joe Rogan’s podcast in August. “But the problem with running is you can think a lot.” Now, he turns to other outlets, such as mixed martial arts and Brazilian jiu-jitsu, to keep his mind off of business.  “I actually stopped running for a while and got stronger from MMA,” he said on Sunday in a Facebook comment. “Then I ran for about a month before this race and realized I was faster than before.” In a comment on his Instagram post, he said, “All the BJJ (Brazilian jiu-jitsu) got me stronger. I barely train running now and I'm faster than when I used to run a lot.”  On March 24, Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, welcomed their third daughter, Aurelia Chan Zuckerberg, to the family. Chan and the family’s oldest daughter, Maxima (age 7), ran the Stanford 5K back in 2018, too.  Now, is Zuckerberg's quick time enough make him change his mind about running?  Theo Kahler is the news editor for Runner’s World. He is a former all-conference collegiate runner who’s based in Easton, PA. Previously, he worked as the newsletters editor at Runner's World, Bicycling, and Popular Mechanics. David Roche Demolishes Leadville 100 Record Are Strava “Surrogates” The Next Big Thing? Noah Lyles Doesn’t Have Anything to Prove to You The MVP of the Olympics? ISO: Boy Who Inspired Dakotah Lindwurm at 35K  Fiona O’Keeffe: DNF at Olympic Marathon What’s the Deal With Kipchoge’s Headband? American Women Finish 8th, 9th, 11th in 10K Marathon Alternate Jess McClain Jets to Paris  Why the U.S. Distance Men Have Been Killing It 16-Year-Old Quincy Wilson Makes His Olympics Debut Can Athletes With COVID Compete at the Games?  A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.