The IFRS Foundation is a not-for-profit, public interest organisation established to develop high-quality, understandable, enforceable and globally accepted accounting and sustainability disclosure standards. Our Standards are developed by our two standard-setting boards, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB).  IFRS Accounting Standards are developed by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The IASB is an independent standard-setting body within the IFRS Foundation. IFRS Accounting Standards are, in effect, a global accounting language—companies in more than 140 jurisdictions are required to use them when reporting on their financial health. The IASB is supported by technical staff and a range of advisory bodies. IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards are developed by the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB). The ISSB is an independent standard-setting body within the IFRS Foundation. IFRS Sustainability Standards are developed to enhance investor-company dialogue so that investors receive decision-useful, globally comparable sustainability-related disclosures that meet their information needs. The ISSB is supported by technical staff and a range of advisory bodies. You need to Sign in to use this feature IAS 16 establishes principles for recognising property, plant and equipment as assets, measuring their carrying amounts, and measuring the depreciation charges and impairment losses to be recognised in relation to them. Property, plant and equipment are tangible items that: Property, plant and equipment includes bearer plants related to agricultural activity. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised as an asset if, and only if: An item of property, plant and equipment is initially measured at its cost. Cost includes: In April 2001 the International Accounting Standards Board (Board) adopted IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, which had originally been issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee in December 1993. IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment replaced IAS 16 Accounting for Property, Plant and Equipment (issued in March 1982). IAS 16 that was issued in March 1982 also replaced some parts in IAS 4 Depreciation Accounting that was approved in November 1975. In December 2003 the Board issued a revised IAS 16 as part of its initial agenda of technical projects. The revised Standard also replaced the guidance in three Interpretations (SIC‑6 Costs of Modifying Existing Software, SIC‑14 Property, Plant and Equipment—Compensation for the Impairment or Loss of Items and SIC‑23 Property, Plant and Equipment—Major Inspection or Overhaul Costs). In May 2014 the Board amended IAS 16 to prohibit the use of a revenue‑based depreciation method. In June 2014 the Board amended the scope of IAS 16 to include bearer plants related to agricultural activity. In May 2017, when IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts was issued, it amended the subsequent measurement requirements in IAS 16 by permitting entities to elect to measure owner-occupied properties in specific circumstances as if they were investment properties measured at fair value through profit or loss applying IAS 40 Investment Property. In May 2020, the Board issued Property, Plant and Equipment: Proceeds before Intended Use (Amendments to IAS 16) which prohibit a company from deducting from the cost of property, plant and equipment amounts received from selling items produced while the company is preparing the asset for its intended use. Instead, a company will recognise such sales proceeds and related cost in profit or loss. Other Standards have made minor consequential amendments to IAS 16. They include IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement (issued May 2011), Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009–2011 Cycle (issued May 2012), Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (issued December 2013), IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (issued May 2014), IFRS 16 Leases (issued January 2016) and Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards (issued March 2018). IFRS Foundation cookies We use cookies on ifrs.org to ensure the best user experience possible. For example, cookies allow us to manage registrations, meaning you can watch meetings and submit comment letters. Cookies that tell us how often certain content is accessed help us create better, more informative content for users. We do not use cookies for advertising, and do not pass any individual data to third parties. Some cookies are essential to the functioning of the site. Other cookies are optional. If you accept all cookies now you can always revisit your choice on our privacy policy page. Essential cookies are required for the website to function, and therefore cannot be switched off. They include managing registrations. We use analytics cookies to generate aggregated information about the usage of our website. This helps guide our content strategy to provide better, more informative content for our users. It also helps us ensure that the website is functioning correctly and that it is available as widely as possible.

None of this information can be tracked to individual users.  Preference cookies allow us to offer additional functionality to improve the user experience on the site. Examples include choosing to stay logged in for longer than one session, or following specific content.  Share this page The IFRS Foundation's logo and the IFRS for SMEs® logo, the IASB® logo, the ‘Hexagon Device’, IAS®, IASB®, ISSB™, IFRIC®, IFRS®, IFRS for SMEs®, IFRS Foundation®, International Accounting Standards®, International Financial Reporting Standards®,  NIIF® and SIC® are registered trade marks of the IFRS Foundation, further details of which are available from the IFRS Foundation on request. The International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation is a not-for-profit corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware, United States of America, with the Delaware Division of Companies (file no: 3353113), and is registered as an overseas company in England and Wales (reg no: FC023235). Head office: Columbus Building, 7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London E14 4HD, UK. © IFRS Foundation 2024 
Accessibility
Privacy and Cookies Policy 
Terms and Conditions
Trade mark guidelines
All legal information
Using our website
Modern Slavery Statement
