Heart failure is a leading cause of death worldwide and is especially fatal for people who don't have access to medical facilities. So, a team of researchers aims to bring heart failure screening from the lab to the home. From coffee to tea, caffeinated beverages are an integral part of morning routines across the globe, but these popular drinks can be harmful when enjoyed in excess. In 2016, medical device giant Abbott issued a recall for its MitraClip cardiac device — "a Class I recall, the most serious type," the FDA said. Researchers investigate the effects of stretching and meditation on nocturnal muscle cramps in patients with cirrhosis. Work-related stress caused by job strain and an imbalance between efforts applied vs. rewards received may increase the risk of developing atrial fibrillation, according to new research published today in the Journal of the American Heart Association, an open access, peer-reviewed journal of the American Heart Association. The Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) today announced the approval of funding awards totaling more than $165 million for new patient-centered comparative clinical effectiveness research (CER), as well as research to improve methods and strengthen the science of engagement in patient-centered CER. Cardiologists in Mayo Clinic's Heart Rhythm Clinic are using a new innovative energy source to safely and successfully treat a common type of heart arrhythmia. MRI scans could replace invasive heart tests, as new research shows they can reliably estimate pressures inside the heart to predict if a patient will develop heart failure. The American College of Cardiology has issued updated guidance on managing patients hospitalized for heart failure (HF) to provide a decision-making pathway that tailors therapy to clinical trajectory to better manage disease. New Cleveland Clinic research shows that consuming foods with erythritol, a popular artificial sweetener, increases risk of cardiovascular events such as heart attack and stroke. A new stem cell therapy for heart failure is being tested in patients at the University of Louisville and UofL Health. New research from a team of genome scientists and DNA damage response experts breaks new ground in understanding the function of a protein currently limited in clinical trials for cancer treatments. Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) is a protein receptor on T immune cells that prevents the cells from killing other cells, such as cancer cells. Nicholas A. Marston, MD, MPH, of the TIMI Study Group and Carl J. and Ruth Shapiro Cardiovascular Center at Brigham and Women's Hospital, is the corresponding author of a paper published in Nature Medicine, "Clonal hematopoiesis, cardiovascular events and treatment benefit in 63,700 individuals from five TIMI randomized trials." Nearly 100 wildfires are currently raging throughout the country, burning more than 2 million acres. In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024, we spoke to Professor John Yates about capturing cardiomyocyte cell-to-cell heterogeneity via shotgun top-down proteomics. A national study found over half of pneumonia patients experienced discordant diagnoses from initial presentation to discharge, highlighting significant diagnostic uncertainty and the need for improved accuracy in pneumonia care. A modeling study estimates cancer screening costs in the United States exceed $40 billion annually, highlighting the need for policy prioritization to enhance equitable access. The study emphasizes that recommended screenings significantly reduce cancer-specific mortality and can be cost-effective. A MedUni Vienna study has investigated gender-specific differences in the diagnosis of systolic heart failure in patients with type 2 diabetes. A new small study led by Johns Hopkins Medicine researchers and published July 25th in the journal Nature Cardiovascular Research has revealed the impact of obesity on muscle structure in patients having a form of heart failure called heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). John Yates In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024, we spoke to Professor John Yates about capturing cardiomyocyte cell-to-cell heterogeneity via shotgun top-down proteomics. Tim Simpson Hologic’s Tim Simpson Discusses the Future of Cervical Cancer Screening. Maria Marco In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024 in San Diego, Maria Marco discusses her research on the health benefits, safety, and waste reduction potential of fermented foods, and the microbial processes involved in their production. 

                                                  
                                                        News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                                        with these terms and conditions.
                                                        Please note that medical information found
                                                        on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                                        between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
                                                  
                                                  

                                             Last Updated: Tuesday 20 Aug 2024  News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site Owned and operated by AZoNetwork, © 2000-2024 
                Your AI Powered Scientific Assistant
             Hi, I'm Azthena, you can trust me to find commercial scientific answers from News-Medical.net. A few things you need to know before we start. Please read and accept to continue. Great. Ask your question. 
                Azthena may occasionally provide inaccurate responses.
Read the full terms.
             Terms 
            While we only use edited and approved content for Azthena
            answers, it may on occasions provide incorrect responses.
            Please confirm any data provided with the related suppliers or
            authors. We do not provide medical advice, if you search for
            medical information you must always consult a medical
            professional before acting on any information provided.
         
            Your questions, but not your email details will be shared with
            OpenAI and retained for 30 days in accordance with their
            privacy principles.
         
            Please do not ask questions that use sensitive or confidential
            information.
         Read the full Terms & Conditions. Provide Feedback