Marshall Tucker was a South Carolina piano tuner, who was born blind, but friends say he had an extraordinary ear for pitch and could name any note he heard. Tucker died peacefully Friday, Jan. 20 in West Columbia, according to a message on the Instagram page of the Marshall Tucker Band. He was 99. The Instagram post also said "Marshall was blind since birth but amazingly could play the heck out of the piano. He always said his talent was simply God-given. He tuned pianos in South Carolina for decades." "He was a very nice guy who had our best interest at heart. He would do interviews and had always good words for us," said Douglas Gray, lead singer of Marshall Tucker Band. "He's just a great guy, so kind all the time, and I'd call just to cheer him up when he was sick." Tucker's name became synonymous with the Southern Rock Band, but he was never part of the group. However, some band members have said over the years without Tucker there would have never been a band by that name. The band saw the name in 1972 when they rented an old warehouse in Spartanburg to use for rehearsals. Marshall Tucker Band ConcertMarshall Tucker Band performs in front of crowd of 5,500 in downtown Spartanburg One of the members noticed the name "Marshall Tucker" inscribed on the building's key, as it had been previously occupied by Tucker for his piano tuning business. And the rest is history. "How do you cover 99 years of life? He was kind, nonconfrontational and he just went with the flow," said Deborah Duval, the daughter of Tucker. "He loved people and could talk to anybody about anything. He was just a good, Christian man." Duval said her father's disability never stopped him from learning and trying new things, and she never thought of her father as blind. "My daddy has been independent, since forever," Duval said. "He learned how to use a computer and had a house full of toys such as his organ, piano, harmonica and radio. They [Tucker and his wife] did their Sunday school lessons and read many books, and he even worked for the National Federation of the Blind. He and a few blind friends would go to Columbia to discuss politics for blind people. He's done so much, we should write a book." Tucker also served as the president for the National Federation of the Blind in South Carolina and worked on legislation for blind residents. When the band started using his name, Tucker didn't know anything about it and the band didn't know him. The band and Tucker eventually figured out what was happening. Tucker was the namesake for the band ever since. Marshall Tucker BandIn their own words: Spartanburg classic rockers Marshall Tucker Band talk legacy, future The six founding members of Marshall Tucker were, brothers Tommy and Toy Caldwell on bass and lead guitar, rhythm guitarist George McCorkle, drummer Paul T. Riddle, lead singer Doug Gray and Jerry Eubanks on flute and saxophone, Through tragedy, various lineup changes and more have happened with the band, but it has now spanned a half-century. Last year in celebration of the group’s 50th anniversary, Gray and the rest of the group's current members - guitarists Rick Willis and Chris Hicks, drummer B.B. Borden, keyboardist-saxophonist-flutist Marcus James Henderson and bassist Ryan Ware -- played dozens of shows across the U.S., including a free hometown performance on June 7 at Morgan Square in downtown Spartanburg, held in conjunction with the BMW Charity Pro Am golf tournament. "We are in California right now for our shows, but I wish we were over there to give the family our condolences," Gray said. "He's in a much better place now, and someday we will be in a better place with him too." This article originally appeared on Herald-Journal: Namesake of Spartanburg's Marshall Tucker Band dies at 99 New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.