The PlayStation Publisher Sale is live until 7 September.  Story Highlights Who would’ve thought about PlayStation exclusives arriving on PC back when the likes of God of War and The Last of Us ran rampant and attracted attention from all corners of the gaming industry? Well, today, all of that is a reality, and PlayStation’s even taking the liberty to put its best games on discount for PC players. The likes of The Last of Us and Marvel’s Spider-Man are available for enticing prices right now.  God of War (2018) was ported to PC on January 14, 2022, sending shockwaves across the realm of gaming and signaling success for PlayStation across the board. As opposed to its $49.99 MSRP, you can grab the “Boy Simulator” for as low as $29.99 right now. If you prefer the Epic Games Store over Valve’s official storefront for PC games, feel free to head over to it as well.  The highest discounted game of the promotional event is Predator: Hunting Grounds, a game based on the iconic Predator movies where a menacing alien with specialized training hunts down humans to boot. It’s a first-person shooter where you can play as the Predator too and switch up the narrative of the game, similar to Dying Light’s Be the Zombie mode. At the time of writing, Predator: Hunting Grounds can be bought for $7.49, which is a whopping 75% off the game’s $29.99 asking price. Furthermore, all of the game’s additional DLC packs have been discounted by 75% as well, namely the Dutch ’87 DLC Pack, Dutch 2025 DLC Pack, Samurai Predator DLC Pack, Dante “Beast Mode” Jefferson DLC Pack, and City Hunter Predator DLC Pack, among others.  Next up, Helldivers is a Steam-exclusive title that has been discounted substantially as well. Despite the same sale live on the Epic Games Store, you won’t find it on there. It’s a top-down shooter with online co-op that has garnered massive critical acclaim from critics and users alike. Even more so, Helldivers has a sequel coming out, and it’s looking to be a massive upgrade as compared to its predecessor.  Other Interesting Reads: The game otherwise costs $20, but you can get it for $5 right now on Steam. This is a perfect way to brush up your skills on the original before Helldivers 2 comes out. Judging from its reveal and combat trailer, we know many will be looking forward to its imminent release. The announcement of the game came during the PlayStation Games Showcase, which went live on 25 May. In other news, Ubisoft too is hosting its own version of a promotional discount event called the Gamescom sale. A myriad of prominent first-party titles, such as Assassin’s Creed Valhalla, Far Cry 6, Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six Siege, and Extraction, have had their respective prices reduced, and this whole event is for PC players just as well. Better check that out while you’re at it for the best results.  Thanks! Do share your feedback with us. ⚡ How can we make this post better? Your help would be appreciated. ✍ Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           Enjoyed this article? Discuss the latest gaming news, get expert help with guides and errors, and chat about all things gaming on eXputer Forums and Discord Server. Connect with fellow gamers who share your passion by becoming a part of eXputer's community. 
					 Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           
					These are challenging times for video game journalism, and we need your support. If eXputer has been part of your gaming journey, please consider becoming a Patreon member. Your contribution will help us continue delivering the content you love and keep our independent voice alive. Thank you for standing with us.
				 
	eXputer is a leading gaming-focused news and media website catering to a diverse readership across the Americas, EMEA, and APAC regions. Specializing in gaming news, guides, tier lists, game settings, and error fixes, eXputer also conducts interviews and offers exclusives, features, and leaks. Additionally, eXputer provides gaming tools such as a game recommendation engine, all built for gamers by gamers.
 Subscribe to our newsletter and get up-to-speed gaming updates delivered to your inbox. We don’t spam! Read more in our privacy policy. Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
           © 2024 eXputer®. All trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. eXputer® is part of REDLUMB LLC FZ.