Sony had a lot to talk about during its PlayStation Showcase event. Not only did the company take the wraps off some awesome games. But it also has hardware announcements to make. So obviously, PlayStation fans have a lot to be excited about. Table of Contents Fans of the web-slinger are in for a treat! Insomniac showed off a lengthy gameplay trailer for Spider-Man 2 and boy it looks good. Not only will you play as both Peter Parker and Miles Morales but it seems like Parker will be donning his infamous Symbiote suit. Oh, and it looks like Kraven the Hunter will be playing the big bad guy this time around. Looks like the rumours were true. Sony and Konami have been working on a remake of Metal Gear Solid 3. The trailer did not reveal too much gameplay, but it should not deviate too much from the original which has now become a classic. The big question is, who’s going to be directing this? Hideo Kojima has long since departed Konami following a very nasty split. Sony’s acquisition of Bungie has given the PlayStation developer a great foothold in the FPS market. This is especially important considering Microsoft has (well almost) acquired Call of Duty publisher, Activision. As you may know, Bungie’s Halo series can be considered one of the most influential titles in Xbox history and now it is hoping to replicate that success on the PlayStation Platform. The Sci-Fi shooter, Marathon will see players take on the role of cybernetic mercenaries. Interestingly, Marathon is more of a revival as Bungie first released the game back in 1994 for the Macintosh. We got a gameplay trailer for the next title in the long-running Assassin’s Creed series. Assassin’s Creed Mirage is set in Baghdad and sees the rise of Basim Ibn Ishaq, a character that we were introduced to in Assassin’s Creed Valhalla. Based on the trailer, players can expect even more parkour and stealth-based kills. Which is exactly what the series is best known for. When Resident Evil 4 was released, it changed the way people looked at over-the-shoulder shooters. With Resident Evil 4 VR Mode, Capcom must be hoping that it will do the same for VR. The recent Resident Evil 4 Remake (review) was very well received, so hopes are pretty high for this one. Do note that you will need a PS VR2 headset to play this one. This one came out of nowhere. Sony revealed that it is working on a handheld, with plans to release it sometime later this year. Internally known as Project Q, it looks like someone jammed a tablet right in the middle of the DualSense controller. The company notes that this is an 8-inch FHD display and it will come with all the features and buttons from the DualSense Controller. It is designed to stream games from the PS5 via Remote Play over Wi-FI, similar to what gamers could do via the PS Vita. However, it is not yet known if it will also be a standalone console like the Vita. Further, Sony also announced a new pair of PlayStation earbuds designed for gaming. Sony will share additional information about these two later. Aside from all this, the PlayStation Showcase event had a bunch of other game reveals as well. This included Dragon’s Dogma 2, Alan Wake 2, Helldivers 2, and many more. You can check out the entire event via the video below.