Loading... MORE Premier Newspaper for Vietnamese Worldwide Suggestion 

By {fullname}
 BEIJING, March 15, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- WiMi Hologram Cloud Inc. (NASDAQ: WIMI) ("WiMi" or the "Company"), a leading global Hologram Augmented Reality ("AR") Technology provider, today announced the development of a human-computer interaction system based on XR. It conducted in-depth research into edge computing and interactive AI technology by combining AI chips and cloud computing. WiMi's XR-based human-computer interaction system combines artificial intelligence and human-computer interaction. The system combines natural language processing, artificial intelligence, and machine learning technologies to enable machines to understand and respond to any command in a human and engaging, personalized way. The system captures the user's location and viewing perspective to obtain the primary and secondary view images and the configuration method and fusion pattern between the two. Based on the user's viewing perspective and location, the system constructs a multi-view fusion image according to the user's viewing perspective, configuration method, and fusion mode, which provides the user with different view images. By capturing different commands from the user, the system generates a multi-view image of the user's location, and the user can switch between the primary and secondary views or by selecting feature points in the image for multi-view images. The system fulfills the technical requirement of multi-angle observation of the same object and provides a technical reference for the intelligent processing of human-computer interaction with multi-user fusion. The system's user interface includes the software and hardware systems that support human-machine interaction and is an essential component of the HCI system. It involves three parts: interface design, interface development, and interface evaluation, which include four fundamental elements: metaphor, affordance, paradigm, and user experience. In WiMi's system, the user only has to interact with the computer in the most natural way (e.g., natural language and body movements), just as if they were communicating with a natural person. The invention enables the machine to understand human language and emotions humanely, capture early warnings and provide intelligent responses, lowering the interaction threshold and broadening the user population. It is a technical science that allows the computer to become a genuinely harmonious assistant to people in their work and studies by communicating with mutual understanding and performing functions such as information management, service, and processing for people to the greatest extent possible. About WIMI Hologram Cloud WIMI Hologram Cloud, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIMI), whose commercial operations began in 2015, is a holographic cloud comprehensive technical solution provider that focuses on professional areas including holographic AR automotive HUD software, 3D holographic pulse LiDAR, head-mounted light field holographic equipment, holographic semiconductor, holographic cloud software, holographic car navigation and others. Its services and holographic AR technologies include holographic AR automotive application, 3D holographic pulse LiDAR technology, holographic vision semiconductor technology, holographic software development, holographic AR advertising technology, holographic AR entertainment technology, holographic ARSDK payment, interactive holographic communication and other holographic AR technologies. Safe Harbor Statements This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "will," "expects," "anticipates," "future," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," and similar statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Company's beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Among other things, the business outlook and quotations from management in this press release and the Company's strategic and operational plans contain forward−looking statements. The Company may also make written or oral forward−looking statements in its periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on Forms 20−F and 6−K, in its annual report to shareholders, in press releases, and other written materials, and in oral statements made by its officers, directors or employees to third parties. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Several factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward−looking statement, including but not limited to the following: the Company's goals and strategies; the Company's future business development, financial condition, and results of operations; the expected growth of the AR holographic industry; and the Company's expectations regarding demand for and market acceptance of its products and services. Further information regarding these and other risks is included in the Company's annual report on Form 20-F and the current report on Form 6-K and other documents filed with the SEC. All information provided in this press release is as of the date of this press release. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, except as required under applicable laws.          Continue reading uninterrupted with a subscription 
English daily with news, views, sports and entertainment coverage.
 Address
Alley 162/29 Le Trong Tan Street, Khuong Mai Ward, 
Thanh Xuan District, Hanoi City, Vietnam Email
vietreaderdotcom@gmail.com © 2023, VietReader | All rights reserved   