Mar 22, 2023 LUXEMBOURG – Gcore – a European provider of high-performance, low-latency, international cloud, and edge solutions – announces the launch of its Zero-Trust 5G eSIM Cloud platform, which provides organisations worldwide with a secure, reliable, high-speed networking solution. A technological foundation for next-generation AI applications, Gcore's Zero-Trust 5G eSIM Cloud platform will fuel the creation of new business models. Leveraging Gcore's software-defined embedded SIM (eSIM), businesses can seamlessly and securely connect to corporate resources, remote devices, or Gcore's cloud platform via local 5G carriers. With secure private access to IaaS and PaaS edge cloud services, Gcore's 5G eSIM offers a compelling solution to the coverage, reliability and handoff challenges associated with wireless and wireline LANs. Using the solution, business teams can access AI infrastructure from their mobile devices. The solution drives significant cost savings by eliminating the need for unpredictable roaming fees or expensive, complex local area network (LAN) builds. Andre Reitenbach, CEO of Gcore, comments: "The launch of Cloud Computing powered by 5G eSIM technology marks a major milestone for Gcore. Using our solution, enterprises can now embrace the next-generation of AI-powered applications including smart factories, Connected Internet of Things, and machine-learning diagnostics among others." Seva Vayner, Director of Edge Cloud stream, comments: "Gcore's 5G eSIM Cloud technology liberates IT teams from the burden of building and maintaining unreliable LANs, along with the security challenges that come with mobile network access. Our innovative approach provides encrypted access to 5G networks that are protected by telco-grade security, while also enabling granular security protocols that empower IT with complete control of each individual device." Available in more than 150 countries worldwide, Gcore's 5G eSIM Cloud solution provides a powerful foundation for remote working and mobility applications, while delivering the fastest, best-performing mobile access to the Gcore Cloud and its associated AI, IaaS, and PaaS capabilities. Find out more about Gcore's 5G eSIM Cloud Solution on gcore.com/mobile/5g Aug 19, 2024 Aug 19, 2024 Aug 19, 2024 Aug 19, 2024 Aug 19, 2024 Sign up to receive TelecomTV's top news and videos, plus exclusive subscriber-only content direct to your inbox. TelecomTV is produced by the team at Decisive Media. © Decisive Media Limited 2024. All rights reserved. All brands and products are the trademarks of their respective holder(s).