MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — When the road to Canton began, Zach Thomas was a high school junior. He sat in a fast-food restaurant with his new coach at his new school. He told everyone he transferred to Pampa (Texas) High because the academics were better. He really wanted a better chance for a college football scholarship. “Here, let me show you something,” said Max Plunk, the linebackers coach, grabbing a pen and napkin in the restaurant. Thomas already had made a first impression. The opening practice, the head coach, Dennis Cavalier, held a tackling dummy in a drill. Thomas hit it so hard the coach stumbled backward and fell into a bordering street. His glasses broke. His nose was scraped. He was bleeding. He was thrilled by this player. Thomas always was strong as a kid. He began lifting weights daily in fifth grade. He actually took weights on family vacations, once dropping them in the water in a trip to Captiva and delaying everyone as he dove in after them. “This is what a linebacker reads,” Plunk said that day in the restaurant, drawing on the napkin how the guards and center moved according to the play. An inside run, they did this, he drew. A pass, they did that, he showed. Most linebackers read the running backs with a progression to linemen. Thomas translated offenses by the linemen’s actions from that day in high school through his last NFL game. “I was called ‘instinctual,’ or ‘smart,’ but it was just the way I learned on that napkin,” he said. That’s just one day, one moment, one scene frozen under amber. There are others that, when strung together, like Christmas lights, line his road to Saturday’s Hall of Fame induction in Canton. ——— Draft day, 1996. Thomas waits to be drafted. And waits. Too slow at 4.8 seconds in the 40, he hears. Too small at 5 feet 11. And that impressive strength in high school? When Miami Dolphins scout Mike Westhoff worked out Thomas at Texas Tech, he purposely fudged the bench press totals for fear the low total would knock him out of draft contention. The first and second rounds go without Thomas being taken. He lists the linebackers. Kevin Hardy, John Mobley, Reggie Brown … The third and fourth rounds go by. So do more linebackers. Steve Conley, Terry Killens, Tedy Bruschi … Thomas is picked by the Dolphins in the fifth round, the 17th linebacker selected. That isn’t lost on him. He memorizes the names of all the linebackers taken before him and recites them as a motivational mantra through his career. Twenty-eight years after the draft, a week after being inducted into the Hall last winter, Thomas says he thinks he can still recite the names. He gets 15 of the 16 linebackers drafted before him. ——— Third moment: Thomas stands on the sideline as the national anthem plays before his first NFL game in 1996. His eyes water. The hair on his arm stands up. He’s made it. The NFL. His parents can’t believe it. He can’t in some ways, too. It’s all gravy from here, he thinks. That day’s achievement is understood through the flip-side of it. Twenty years later, Dolphins coach Jimmy Johnson and his wife, Rhonda, have dinner with his former player and NFL coach Jack Del Rio and his wife, Linda, plus the actor Gene Hackman. It’s a good night until … “I’m still mad at you,” Linda says. “For what?” Johnson says. The morning after the first preseason game Johnson called Del Rio at home to come to his office. Del Rio wondered why. “Maybe he wants to make you captain,” Linda said. Johnson cut the veteran linebacker that morning. “You’re the starter,” Johnson said to Thomas that day. It still strikes Thomas. “To believe in the 154th pick of the draft like that …” He can still hear that first national anthem — still feel it even. It brings tears to his eyes and makes him stop. He tries to talk and still can’t. He takes a drink of water. “That always gets me,” he says now. He’s concerned about crying in his Hall speech — concerned, mainly, about taking time and attention from the other inductees since he’s the first to talk. “I’ve been trying to read things on not crying,” he said. “So I look at your feet, not your eyes, when I talk about my family. Forgive me.” ——— Fourth snapshot: The Dolphins play Indianapolis. Short-yardage play. It’s quiet in the Indianapolis dome, settled. Thomas listens to Indianapolis quarterback Peyton Manning call out signals deep into their Hall of Fame careers. Manning didn’t have many short-yardage plays, Thomas knew. The formation had two running backs and one tight end. That limited the play possibility even more, his midweek studies showed. Thomas always studied, too. He got 10 hours of sleep at night to stay alert in team meetings. He filled notebooks watching film on his own. Those notebooks became legendary inside the organization. Seth Levit, who worked in the media-relations department, once went to a movie with a friend and Thomas. The friend sat in the backseat beside a pile of Thomas’s notebooks and riffed through pages. He asked Thomas questions. Finally, he looked at the cover. It was for a preseason game Thomas barely played in it. Thomas, by comparison, had a prepared book on Manning. As the quarterback called out signals that day in the dome, Thomas called out the play for his defense. “You should’ve seen his eyes,” Thomas says. Thomas blitzed and made the play — “got to make the play, too,” he says. Manning and Thomas stood up together. Thomas is quick to point out Manning’s skill, his career. But this moment was his. “He went wild, saying, ‘He’s in my playbook,’ ” Thomas said. He shakes his head. “I wasn’t in his playbook.” He was just on the same page in that moment. ——— Fifth snapshot: Thomas is at the kitchen table in his Hillsboro Point home. He’s 50 now, married to Maritza, the father of three children. Johnson was there a few months earlier to announce Thomas was voted into the Hall. The Hall’s sculptor was there more recently to create the bronze bust of Thomas (“He pretty much had to make a square,” he says, pointing to his face.) But opening the box that contained the gold, Hall of Fame jacket before his three children matters most of all. “Y’all ready?” he says. “Yeah,” they said together. Thomas talks of timing in his career. He didn’t marry Maritza until near the end of it. He started his family after retiring. That’s a good thing, he says, because he wouldn’t have had time for them and football. “No. 370,” he says, reading the badge on the lapel representing his membership in the Hall. “There’s only one 370. That’s your dad.” He got two college-scholarship offers. He was a fifth-round pick. He didn’t win a title as a Dolphin. But as he stands there, holding the jacket, looking at his children, he knows where he stands at the end of a long road. “I finally got that win,” he said. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Training camps are in full swing this week and Joe Burrow's hair and Patrick Mahomes highlights have already taken over social media. Scott Pianowski joins Matt Harmon to identify the 12 biggest fantasy questions we have at the QB and RB position this summer and help you cut through the noise to know exactly what you should be paying attention to in training camps. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if there’s a possibility we see pro baseball players participating in the 2028 Summer Olympics, the Braves and Reds taking their game next year to the racetrack and make their picks for The Good, The Bad and The Uggla. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.