Broadway + NYC Broadway Off-Broadway Off-Off Broadway Cabaret Dance Opera Classical Music United States  Eastern  Central  Western St. Louis St. Louis Maine Chicago Maine Washington, DC West End  WEST END UK Regional International Canada Australia / New Zealand Europe Asia Latin America Africa / Middle East Entertainment TV/Movies Music The production will open on Thursday, September 7th and run through September 17th. POPULAR Savannah Rep has announced casting for their production of Empanada Loca opening September 7th. Diany Rodrigues will lead this spine-tingling play that inspired a podcast as well as a television series (The Horrors of Dolores Roach) and have thrilled audiences across multiple media platforms. Sadie Prenda is the production’s understudy. Empanada Loca is directed by Juan Unzueta and will open on Thursday, September 7th and run through September 17th. Drug dealer. Masseuse. Ex-con. Survivor. Dolores has led a life like no other. Now living deep under Manhattan in an abandoned subway tunnel, she has a story you won’t believe – or ever forget. Inspired by the legend of Sweeney Todd, Empanada Loca is a thrilling new play about an indomitable woman who knows that in this dog-eat-dog world only one rule matters: eat or be eaten. 
Empanada Loca will be the first show performed at our Location The Rep - Downtown (402 E Broughton Street). Performances are Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 8 PM. General Admission is $40 and Senior/Military tickets are $35. Tickets are now on sale at http://savannahrep.org. The production is stage managed by Kati Payne, lighting design by Andrea De La Higuera, sound design by Claudia Martinez, set design by Michael Ruiz-del-Vizo and properties design by Juan Manuel Velasco Suarez Ryan McCurdy is the Executive Artistic Director of Savannah Rep, Natasha Drena is Producing Artistic Director, Jennifer Bishop is Founder & Production Manager and Stephen Plunk is 2023 Board Chair. Savannah Rep is Savannah’s flagship regional theatre and a 501(c)(3) nonprofit. The Seagull, Anton Chekhov's tragic comedy of unrequited life, will play at Pratt Pullman Yards with Performance Jam from August 28 to September 8, 2024. Join New Oak Theatre in Savannah for 'Broadway and Bites' on September 9th. Learn how to purchase tickets.  Through September 1, Essential Theatre is presenting its Silver Anniversary Play Festival featuring two World Premiere productions, four staged readings, partner presentations of two more plays, and a 10 Minute Play Bootcamp Showcase - all by Georgia playwrights. Atlanta is gearing up for an unforgettable week as Peacock rolls out a series of dynamic activations to promote their highly anticipated limited series, Fight Night: The Million Dollar Heist. Videos 
Atlanta SHOWS Recommended For You Sign up for announcements, and exclusive discounts on tickets to your favorite shows!  © 2024 - Copyright Wisdom Digital Media, all rights reserved. Privacy Policy 