You know who you are. You’re the guy who swears you love oysters and therefore must order a dozen at the bar, only to follow a familiar pattern. A. Have them steamed. B. Dip in butter. C. Douse with lemon. D. Plunk on a cracker. E. Top with a glob of cocktail sauce And finally, you tell your barstool neighbor how much you JUST LOVE oysters even though you never even tasted it amid all those accessories. Hey precious, how ’bout another pinot to wash it all down? PROPER MAINTENANCE Get your gear in gear! A little lube keeps your reel humming YOU CAUGHT WHAT? The octopus is out there, you bet, and so is the seahorse; send your pics! Could be worse. You could be the would-be lumberjack three stools over who slurped down a dozen raw, right from the shell, only to end up with more in his beard than his belly and now he looks like … well, let’s forget what he looks like. As happens from time to time, we say all that to say this: Just because it’s May, you don’t have to give up your oysters, regardless of whether you truly like them. “As oyster farmers, we can harvest year-round because we get our oysters into the refrigeration really quick,” says Dennis David, whose family owns and operates the New Smyrna Beach business responsible for all those IROC logos you see around town — the Indian River Oyster Company. Along with Dennis’ wife Ilonka, there’s daughter Jessica and her husband, Ryan, who runs the show in the river. Not sure how many of the Old Wives are still with us, but one of their old tales suggested you should never eat oysters in a month that doesn’t include the letter R. Even the worst spellers among us couldn’t slip an R into a month between now and September, but it just doesn’t matter. Not for the commercial harvesters, who adhere to strict rules and laws regarding refrigeration. “In the old days, a fisherman might get a few bushels of oysters, then meet his buddy at JB’s and leave the oysters in the back of his truck in the parking lot,” David says. He need not say more, but he does. “That’s how you can get sick.” Gulp. There’s a strain of aquatic bacteria called Vibrio, and there’s no avoiding it, though almost always in harmless, microscopic doses. Almost. In worst-case scenarios, it multiplies quickly if left to heat up in a tightly closed oyster shell, which basically becomes a petri dish of unmentionables. Gulp again. Good news is, you’ll likely live and you’re guaranteed to lose weight. So maybe beware eating oysters your brother-in-law brought to shore in his jonboat and “processed” in whatever fashion suited his fancy. You can humor him, however, depending on where and when he gathered his haul. As for the “where,” in Florida, the governing FWC offers a map on its website indicating the safe areas to harvest your own oysters. For the “when,” our closed season is July 1 through Sept. 30 — you know, our melting months. Meanwhile, back at the oyster farm, the IROC team planted some 400,000 thumbnail-sized hatchlings about a month ago, and within a year, they’ll be ready for the platter. They sell about 5,000, sometimes more, per week, David says. Wait. Farm? Planted? Well, no, not like corn and soybeans, but suspended in mesh bags in the Indian River Lagoon, within seven-plus acres in Southeast Volusia (roughly adjacent to the Bethune Beach area) IROC leases from the state. If you want to visit, it’s best to take them up on their kayak tours (IrocOysters.com), otherwise you might get lost or stuck navigating the skinny water and maze of mangroves back there. The oysters grow in their own weird way — they secrete proteins and minerals that don’t go far, but stick around, literally, to form ever-thickening layers of shell. Eventually, they’re about three inches long and raising their hands to be plucked. More oyster trivia: You know that chewy part you have to pry away from the bottom shell? Well, there was also one on the top shell before it was knifed open. “It’s the abductor muscle,” says David, a retired FWC wildlife biologist. “It’s connected to both sides of the shell. That’s what allows them to shut their shells really hard.” Given his background and current interest, Dennis David can tell you a lot about oysters — including his theory on why the family’s Indian River oysters have quickly developed such a great reputation. He credits the salinity level in their area of the lagoon. It’s usually in the 30-32 parts-per-thousand, while just across the way in the actual Atlantic Ocean, the level is 32-34. “Our salinity is pretty close to seawater,” David says. “Two weeks ago, it was up to 36.” We can be here all day with the science lesson, but the bottom line says a higher salinity level leads to tastier oysters. Thank the thick mangroves, which soak up the fresher water and ignore the saltier stuff. “It’s like wine country, like those vineyards in California,” David says. “Three miles away, you can have a whole different flavor profile. “Our oysters are nice and briny, and they’re meaty. There’s also a sweetness. Certain times of the year, usually in the fall, they can have a buttery finish.” So remember, come October or November, hold the butter. And we’re nothing here if not a full-service batch of information, so let’s briefly discuss the oyster’s powers as an aphrodisiac. Bottom line: It’s debatable. Ask 10 scientists and, depending on their marital bliss, you may get 10 different answers. They say Casanova, the 18th Century Italian heart-throb, devoured oysters before a romp. Yes, his looks were gone by 50, and soon thereafter his charm departed and he’d die a bitter has-been. Frankly, mix in a dozen on the half-shell, a cup of horseradish, a lemon, and a proper keg of light American pilsner, and it’s not the worst trade-off we’ve ever heard. A segment of our netting population always fears that someday we’ll simply run out of shrimp, and some years, it does feel that way. This ain’t one of them years. The shrimp run down in the Oak Hill area slowed a couple weeks back, but it was apparently just a hiccup. The five-gallon coolers have been overflowing yet again in the wee-hours, which would explain the convoy of boat trailers you might see entering and exiting our southernmost ICW boat ramps these days. If possible, skip the crazy weekends and go midweek. The shrimp, according to all the literature, have no idea it’s Wednesday. Meanwhile, while anglers appreciate winds from the west and southwest, they prefer them weaker than what’s been forced upon us through much of this week. Those hard western blows lead to lower water levels and dirtier water to boot. The winds will start to diminish slightly, but guess what — they’ll be out of the north and east and that about confirms it: Sometimes, you just can’t win. But here’s some actual good news, between the gusts. “The redfish bite has been awesome,” says Capt. Jeff Patterson (Pole Dancer), who says live mullet has been his best bait. Capt. Jeff says he’s also seen “a bunch” of tarpon in the river and deeper into the river, as well as pompano near oyster bars in the Port Orange area. When finding cover from the wind, Art Mowery says pigfish have been getting the attention of trout in the Edgewater area. He also played catch-and-release with some smaller reds. Mangrove snapper are leading the charge up north at the Granada bridge, says Ike Leary, whose been watching the flags whipping outside his Granada Pier Bait & Tackle. He’s also watched nearby anglers mix in some sheepshead and black drum, while “flounder are picking up,” he adds. Much of the area’s shoreline has gotten a break from the seaweed this week (the west wind, perhaps?) and that spells trouble for the ongoing pompano traffic. “We’re definitely in the game out here in Wilbur by the Sea, all the way down to Ponce Inlet,” reports our faithful correspondent, Marco Pompano. If you love sporty catches, ladyfish and blues are still rather thick in the surf. But have your affairs in order. “The ‘fish police’ are on the beach, so mind your P’s and Q’s, as well as your limits and sizes,” Marco says. “They’re looking and measuring. They turned me upside-down but I was totally kosher — I only had five in the bucket and all the right size, amen.” The Sea Spirit has a full schedule in the coming days, assuming the upcoming marine forecast remains decent. Recent trips have brought the usual hauls of snapper, mostly lane and vermillion. Black grouper came off the closed list this past week after four months off-limits. Still a bag limit of one and minimum of 24 inches, and yes, you still need to sign up for the state’s reef angler license. Big flounder are being reported in the canals and creeks from Bings Landing to the north in the ICW. When you start hearing about big flounder, Capt. Mike Vickers (Hammock Beach Bait) is quick to offer a fishing tip — for starters, mud minnow on a jig head, with a small split shot. “These rigs work well with soft plastics, also,” Capt. Mike says. “I fish my baits a little faster than conventional wisdom says to fish them, to take advantage of the reactionary bite.” Those who can handle the wind are still catching sheepshead at the Matanzas Inlet and bridge, while stout surf anglers are seeing huge blues (up to 15 pounds) mixed in with the pompano and whiting. Hook enough 15-pound blues, you can give up your gym membership. Steer clear of the south side of Lake George and the Juniper Springs area Saturday. This first Saturday of May is labeled “Mayhem” by the boating party set, young folks who gather in large numbers and, over time, too often lose control of things. “It’s a rowdy crowd, too rowdy for me,” says Kerry McPherson, whose South Moon Fish Camp is just to the south in Astor. How rowdy. “At times, we’ve let the FWC set up a temporary jail here on the property,” Kerry says. Meanwhile, he’s still expecting to fill all 16 units (from 1 to 3-bedroom) at South Moon this weekend as his annual group from Macon come down to fill their coolers with bluegill. They’ll avoid Juniper Springs, of course. Farther south in DeLand, the water is warming but the speckled perch (crappie, if you prefer) are still falling victim to vertical jigging. “Some nice sizes, too,” says Capt. Bryn Adams (Highland Park Fish Camp). “Bluegill are also hot right now on live crickets,” she adds. “For bluegill, I’d pitch live crickets along the bank, using light tackle.” Both wild shiners and artificials might land you a bass or striper in the main river. Also, Capt. Bryn ways, we’re methodically marching into that time of year where earlier is better, unless you’re just out there for the scenery. We want to see your most recent catch. Email your fish photos to ken.willis@news-jrnl.com. Please include first and last name of angler(s), as well as type of fish (we're occasionally stumped). All are included with our online fishing report, and some occasionally make the print edition. You can find all the license info, including exemptions, on Florida's Fish and Wildlife Commission website: MyFWC.com. But the basics are: No: If you're 65 or older, 15 or younger, you don't need a license. No: If you're fishing with a licensed guide or charter boat, both of which purchase commercial licenses that cover their customers. Yes: Most everyone else, including visitors from other states. Yes: Even if you're a shore-based angler (shoreline, dock, pier, bridge, etc.). However: The shore-based license is free . . . But: You still need to register for that free license. Many bait shops sell licenses, as do the bigger retailers (Bass, Dick's, Walmart, etc.).  Florida's FWC uses a third-party site for buying or renewing fishing licenses:  GoOutdoorsFlorida.com. The cost: $17 for an annual license. Don't forget: Whether you're fishing fresh or saltwater, you need the specific license. Freshwater and saltwater licenses are both $17 annually. Yes you do, and they're also available at GoOutdoorsFlorida.com or certain bait shops and big retailers. Cost: $17 for three days, $30 for seven days, $47 for a year.Also: Non-residents need to purchase that license even if they're just fishing from shoreline or shore-based structures. (Florida residents need that license, too, but they're free.) This article originally appeared on The Daytona Beach News-Journal: Oysters in May? New Smyrna Beach's IROC keeps you shuckin' all summer Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. The Yahoo Fantasy experts give their thoughts on how to use fantasy football rankings when making draft and lineup decisions. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about all the trades that have gone done with less than 48 hours until the trade deadline, who’s next to make a deal and recap all the action from MLB this past weekend. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Start or sit? Improve your process and navigate your most difficult lineup decisions with this advice. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season.