
                
                    
                        Let CFO Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              GTreasury and PNC Bank have released a joint survey report: Pressure Points, Payments & Plans for Automation: The Road Ahead for CFOs and Treasurers. The report explore the current state of CFO and corporate treasury strategy, execution and outlook. The full report, conducted by Topline Strategy and commissioned by GTreasury and PNC Bank, is available here: https://resources.gtreasury.com/PNC-Report-2022.html The research paints a picture of a turbulent road ahead for CFOs and treasury leaders over the next few years—but one that respondents view with somewhat surprising optimism. The majority (85%) of CFOs and treasurers surveyed expect to see either significant or moderate company growth throughout the remainder of 2022 and into 2023, but that optimism is grounded in the fact that nearly half (49%) of these leaders identified cost efficiency as the primary strategic imperative for the New Year. “CFOs and treasurers seem to have clear goals in mind when it comes to achieving more accurate, more efficient, and more automated treasury practices—and they are eager to harness new technology to get there,” said Howard Forman, senior vice president and head of Digital Channels for PNC Bank. “Clearly, CFOs have an especially close eye on costs right now, but smart use of modern technology, such as embedded finance applications and automation, will reduce costly or redundant inefficiencies, while giving treasurers the best tools available to do their jobs.” Among the highlights from the report: “For CFOs and treasurers, this report offers insight into how many of their peers are navigating a particularly critical and turbulent era,” said Renaat Ver Eecke, CEO at GTreasury. “Not only will organizations be affected by economic headwinds out of their control, but the competitive disadvantages of failing to modernize and automate key functionality within finance and corporate treasury are growing by the day. The report provides a window into how businesses are positioning themselves for more digital transformation and growth even as macro conditions remain very much uncertain.” Pressure Points, Payments & Plans for Automation: The Road Ahead for CFOs and Treasurers aims to help educate finance and treasury leaders across the industry and advance finance automation. Participants included 93 finance executives and corporate treasurers, which came from a cross-section of more than 20 industries and represented both large and mid-sized enterprises. The full report is available at: https://resources.gtreasury.com/PNC-Report-2022.html About PNC Bank PNC Bank, National Association, is a member of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE: PNC). PNC is one of the largest diversified financial services institutions in the United States, organized around its customers and communities for strong relationships and local delivery of retail and business banking including a full range of lending products; specialized services for corporations and government entities, including corporate banking, real estate finance and asset-based lending; wealth management and asset management. For information about PNC, visit www.pnc.com.           About GTreasury GTreasury believes there is opportunity in complexity. We connect treasury and finance teams with industry-leading experts, technology solutions and untapped possibility. By simplifying complexity, teams can unleash their organization’s potential to gain strategic advantages and grow. GTreasury helps organizations reach that potential by connecting treasury and digital finance operations through a world-class SaaS treasury and risk management platform and integrated ecosystem where cash, debt, investments, and exposures are seamlessly managed within the office of the CFO. GTreasury delivers intelligent insights, while connecting financial value chains and extending workflows to third-party systems, exchanges, portals, and services. Headquartered in Chicago, with locations serving EMEA (London) and APAC (Sydney and Manila), GTreasury’s global community includes more than 800 customers and 30+ industries reaching 160+ countries worldwide. Visit The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines