The House Judiciary Committee is investigating banks for sharing Americans' financial information with the FBI without regard for privacy concerns. In fact, there's no doubt about the threat to civil liberties posed by the government's leverage over the financial industry; that's long established. At question in this investigation is whether the danger to our freedom inherent in that cozy relationship is being wielded in political warfare between the country's political factions. But the larger problem should be fixed no matter what lawmakers discover. "Today, Chairman Jim Jordan (R-OH) subpoenaed Citibank for documents and communications related to the Judiciary Committee's and Weaponization Select Subcommittee's investigation into major banks sharing Americans' private financial data with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) without legal process for transactions made in the Washington, D.C., area around Jan. 6, 2021," the House Judiciary Committee announced August 17. The subpoena followed June 12 queries to Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase & Company, PNC Financial Services, Truist, U.S. Bankcorp, and Wells Fargo after testimony by FBI whistleblowers that Bank of America voluntarily handed the FBI records on people who had used its services in the Washington, D.C. area around the time of the January 6 Capitol riot. "Individuals who had previously purchased a firearm with a BoA product were reportedly elevated to the top of the list," according to a May report. If the banks in question surrendered private financial information to federal officials based on little more than "please," that's disturbing. It's also believable since financial institutions have long operated as surveillance arms of the state, tracking transactions and movements, making assumptions about what they might mean, then turning that information over to government officials under regulatory pressure. "The mission of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is to safeguard the financial system from illicit use, combat money laundering and its related crimes including terrorism, and promote national security through the strategic use of financial authorities and the collection, analysis, and dissemination of financial intelligence," boasts the federal agency, which operates under the umbrella of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. To that end, it administers a host of rules including customer due diligence mandating that banks "identify and verify the identity of customers," larger "know your customer" rules specifying that financial institutions profile clients once they're identified, the misnamed Bank Secrecy Act which requires "financial institutions to, among other things, keep records of cash purchases of negotiable instruments, file reports of cash transactions exceeding $10,000 (daily aggregate amount)," and suspicious activity reports which banks must file on "suspicious or potentially illicit activity." As it did in many areas, the USA PATRIOT Act tightened the screws of surveillance when it came to financial activity. "The National Security Letter provision of the Patriot Act radically expanded the FBI's authority to demand personal customer records from Internet Service Providers, financial institutions and credit companies without prior court approval," notes the ACLU. The financial industry is heavily regulated by government officials. That gives them the ability to torment private businesses based on idiosyncratic interpretations of vague laws and regulations. "The SEC staff told us they have identified potential violations of securities law, but little more," Paul Grewal, chief legal officer for the crypto exchange Coinbase, complained in March about a nastygram from the Securities and Exchange Commission. "We asked the SEC specifically to identify which assets on our platforms they believe may be securities, and they declined to do so." Grewal went on to detail his company's efforts to comply with rules and regulators' refusal to respond, except with threats. Unfortunately (but probably not accidentally), such power creates incentives to over-interpret activity as "suspicious" and to snitch on customers to stay on the good side of federal agencies. "Government officials can use informal pressure — bullying, threatening, and cajoling — to sway the decisions of private platforms," the Cato Institute's Will Duffield wrote regarding federal efforts to strong-arm tech companies into suppressing disfavored speech. Such "jawboning" is easily applied to any heavily regulated industry, including finance. It can also be used to encourage more than snooping, such as outright denial of service. "According to our data, nearly 2 out of 3 people who earn money in the adult industry have lost a bank account or financial tool, and nearly 40% have had an account closed in the past year," the Free Speech Coalition, an adult-industry trade group, reported of the results of a survey earlier this year. While the report didn't speculate as to the cause of the closures, the problem looks very much like a continuation of the Obama administration's Operation Choke Point, under which federal agencies including the Department of Justice and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation leaned on banks to deny services to businesses which government officials just didn't like. "Operation Choke Point was created by the Justice Department to 'choke out' companies the Administration considers a 'high risk' or otherwise objectionable, despite the fact that they are legal businesses," summarized a 2014 House Oversight Committee report. "The sheer breadth of industries affected – including firearms and ammunition sales, adult entertainment, check cashing, and payday lending – has generated significant concern with the objectives and scope of Operation Choke Point." While Operation Choke Point officially ended in 2017, the Free Speech Coalition survey is only part of the evidence that government still cuts off disfavored individuals and industries from financial services. And if the feds are willing to lean on banks to deny service to targeted customers, they're certainly willing to use their tools to conscript bankers as informants. So, did the FBI squeeze banks for information on people who were present in Washington, D.C. on the day of a riot, without providing evidence that they participated in the violence or even went near the related and perfectly legal election protests? That would certainly be a dangerous escalation in the abuse of government officials' leverage over the financial industry. If House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Jordan finds evidence to support his allegations, heads should roll. But even if he finds no evidence to support those charges, government regulatory power is too intrusive and arbitrary, and easily abused. Just as politicians have leaned on the tech sector to muzzle speech, they have long pressured banks to spy on customers and deny services to people whose existence offends officialdom. That power is a problem in itself, no matter what this investigation uncovers. The post Did Banks Hand Private Financial Data to the FBI Without Legal Process? appeared first on Reason.com. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run.