Partner Tech's new self-checkout solution streamlines checkout and increases peak hour capacity, enabling retailers to assign cashiers to more value-adding tasks ANAHEIM, Calif., Feb. 28, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Partner Tech USA Inc, a global technology company and innovator of intelligent POS and self-service solutions, announces that it has extended its popular Alfred kiosk family with Alfred AD-215-S, a purpose-built self-service kiosk for speedy checkout in high-volume, grab-and-go retail stores with limited floor space. Based on the same modular technology platform as the other Alfred kiosks, Alfred AD-215-S has been optimized for use in retail. It has a built-in, high- performance 2D barcode scanner, support for all your preferred payment options, and a built-in receipt printer that is protected by a lock to prevent user interference. At checkout, customers interact with the kiosk's vibrant touch display, which is available in a 21.5- or 15.6-inch version and built-in speakers can provide audio guidance. Two durable side tables with optional bag holders make bagging quick and easy. In addition, the Alfred platform offers a broad selection of peripherals such as a multi-color LED indicator, camera, RFID reader and ADA keypad for accessibility. "We are experiencing an unprecedented shift to self-service solutions and our Alfred self-checkout solutions enable us to meet the new demand from our customers," says Sandra Hsia, president of Partner Tech USA. "The new AD-215-S is a flexible self-checkout kiosk solution that allows retailers ­– from convenience and drug stores to specialty retail, liquor and hardware stores to streamline the checkout process. As a result, retailers can add extra capacity during peak hours, and because store associates are no longer tied to the cash register, they can focus on revenue-generating sales activities and improvement of the customer experience. About Partner Tech Partner Tech, a member of Qisda Group, is a global technology company and innovator of intelligent POS and self-service solutions with focus on retail and hospitality. Founded in 1990, Partner Tech has more than 30 years' experience as an ISO 9000-certified manufacturer of touch screen POS terminals, self-service kiosks, self-checkout systems, tablets, and mobile computers. The company also offers value-adding solutions for Wi-Fi optimization, cloud device management, global fiscalization software, and more. Partner Tech's American headquarters is located in Anaheim, CA and is providing daily assistance to customers in US, Canada and Latin America. Please reach out to sales@partnertechcorp.com or call 949-598-1888 for more information about our POS and self-service solutions. Visit http://www.partnertechcorp.com and follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter. Media Contact Pernilla Gibson, Partner Tech USA, 1 6314280017, pernilla.gibson@partnertechcorp.com Sandra Hsia, Partner Tech USA, 949-598-1888, sandra.hsia@partnertechcorp.com Twitter   SOURCE  Partner Tech USA © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.