Aug 6, 2023 Jayden Chudy, also at left is pictured welding for Dunkirk Metals. Chudy, along with Katlyn Lawton, top left, and Chase Cooper, top center, are utilizing the skills acquired at WNY P-TECH in the industry.  P-TECH’s welding and mechanical technology pathways prepare students for a professional workload in industry. Three students spoke recently about their experiences and how they found work with Dunkirk Metal Products thanks to their connections through P-TECH.  “The best part is the teachers’ willingness to give you the education you need. I’m very grateful to my welding instructor, Mr. Bryant. He taught me so many things and helped me a lot, so I’m very grateful for that,” said Jayden Chudy of Dunkirk. “The best thing is being able to weld while having all the equipment you need to be able to learn.” Chudy spent his first year welding various frames for drainage rails and recently had the chance to do some Tungsten Inert Gas (TIG) welding work.  “It was really exciting getting my hands dirty and doing some TIG welding work because that’s what I want to do in my future,” he said.  Jayden Chudy, also at left is pictured welding for Dunkirk Metals. Chudy, along with Katlyn Lawton, top left, and Chase Cooper, top center, are utilizing the skills acquired at WNY P-TECH in the industry.  Chudy obtained a paid internship at Dunkirk Metals during his senior year of high school because of his welding experience and connections at P-TECH. He now attends JCC and plans on continuing in the workforce after receiving his associate degree. The experience that P-TECH offers students is the perfect opportunity to learn a trade and feel a sense of community. It also allows students to be hands-on while thriving in a more personal environment.  Chase Cooper of Gowada graduated from P-TECH and JCC with an associate degree in Mechanical Technology Design. At Dunkirk Metals, he now uses elements of CADD that he learned during his time at P-TECH to make drawings, and he’s also dabbling in laser programs and the quote process.  Reflecting on his time at P-TECH, Cooper said he appreciated his one-on-one time in the classroom. “I enjoyed the fact that it was such a small class,” he said. “The staff could focus more on an individual student instead of teaching an entire grade. Each student benefited from it.” Jayden Chudy, also at left is pictured welding for Dunkirk Metals. Chudy, along with Katlyn Lawton, top left, and Chase Cooper, top center, are utilizing the skills acquired at WNY P-TECH in the industry. 
 Katlyn Lawton of Pine Valley is a Sales Estimator at Dunkirk Metals, where she also applies some of her CADD knowledge from her days in the P-TECH program. Lawton graduated from P-TECH in 2021 and earned her associate degree from JCC in Machine Technology. “The SolidWorks asset that P-TECH gave me was one thing that helped the most,” Lawton said. “Some of the best parts were having those friendships afterward and getting my foot in the door of manufacturing. (The program) taught me that hands-on things are OK. I honestly feel that P-TECH helped me out a lot.” WNY P-TECH is an all-day program housed in a state-of-the-art facility at 55 East Benton St., Dunkirk. Students enroll in P-TECH as ninth graders and follow one of four fields of study in Welding, Mechanical Technology with specializations in CADD, Machine Tool, or Mechatronics. Upon completing the program, students earn an associate degree through Jamestown Community College with no out-of-pocket expense. Scholar athletes can participate in after-school clubs and sports for their home district and join the P-TECH National Honor Society, Student Council, or Dream It Do It Club. Participating school districts provide transportation to the program daily. Jayden Chudy, also at left is pictured welding for Dunkirk Metals. Chudy, along with Katlyn Lawton, top left, and Chase Cooper, top center, are utilizing the skills acquired at WNY P-TECH in the industry. 
 Today's breaking news and more in your inbox Last week, Fredonia Trustee Jon Espersen fired off some questions for the North County Water District Board. This ... Jamestown’s escalating homeless crisis has a new storyline in light of a news release issued Friday evening by ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Observer Today | https://www.observertoday.com | PO Box 391, Dunkirk, NY 14048 | 716-366-3000 