Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     In today's fast-paced and constantly connected world, being able to communicate effectively, quickly, and efficiently is crucial. While numerous studies have shown that millennials prefer texting and instant messaging to stay in touch, the ability to make and receive calls remains a fundamental feature of any smartphone.
                         It should be noted, however, that not all phone calls are the same. New technologies, such as Wi-Fi calling and VoIP calling, offer users different ways to make and receive calls. In this article, we'll take a close look at Wi-Fi calling vs. regular cell calls, analyze their key differences, and weigh their pros and cons.
                         While Wi-Fi calling has been around for more than a decade, it has only recently gained popularity. As the name suggests, this technology enables you to make and receive calls and send messages over a Wi-Fi network, rather than using a traditional cellular network. This feature is particularly useful for areas where cellular network coverage is weak or non-existent, or when audio quality on a cellular call is poor.
                         Most of the major networks around the world, including Vodafone, Verizon, AT&T, Rogers, Telus, Airtel, Optus, and other support Wi-Fi calling. Usually, a network operator does not charge extra for Wi-Fi calling services, but it can vary from network to network. But how does it work, and how is it different compared to traditional calling?
                         When you make a regular call, your smartphone sends a signal to the nearest cell tower. The cell tower then forwards the call to the nearest available base station which further connects the call to the intended recipient's device. The call is then carried over the cellular network to the recipient's device.
                         Nowadays, Voice over Long-Term Evolution (VoLTE) is being used for cellular calls. This technology allows for high-speed wireless communication on smartphones. On VoLTE, your phone converts the voice into data packets and uses LTE (or 4G) technology to send that information to the carrier. Using LTE for calls results in better call quality and faster call setup times.
                         Wi-Fi calling also works in a similar way. Think of it as a VoIP call — calls made through apps like WhatsApp or FaceTime — but instead of sending data to the internet, it sends it to your cellular service provider, making it a regular voice call. When you make a call or send a message using Wi-Fi calling, your device sends the data over the Wi-Fi network to the cell tower. From there, the call or message is sent to its intended recipient.
                         It's worth noting that if you move out of the range of the Wi-Fi network while on a call, the call will drop. However, most modern smartphones seamlessly switch over to regular cell call once you're out of Wi-Fi range, allowing you to continue the call without interruption.
                         Here are some advantages and disadvantages of Wi-Fi calling:
                         Here are some advantages and disadvantages of traditional cell calling:
                         Most modern smartphones support Wi-Fi calling. The process of enabling Wi-Fi calling on your iPhone or Android device is relatively simple and straightforward:
                         To turn on Wi-Fi calling on your iPhone, go to Settings > Cellular > Wi-Fi Calling and toggle the switch to on. In case you have dual-SIM enabled, select your carrier after entering the Cellular settings and then follow the same steps. You may be prompted to enter your emergency address if you haven't already done so. Enter your emergency address, toggle on the switch, and Wi-Fi calling will be enabled on your device.
                         For Android users, the process of enabling Wi-Fi calling may vary depending on the device and the operating system version. Generally, steps turn on Wi-Fi calling on your Android device look like this: Go to Settings > Networks & Internet > Mobile network > Advanced > Wi-Fi Calling. Here you'll be prompted to enter your emergency address and then toggle the switch to on.
                         It's also worth noting that not all mobile service providers support Wi-Fi calling on all devices. Before you can use Wi-Fi calling, you'll need to check if your device and service provider support this feature.
     iPhone 14 Pro is the latest premium smartphone from Apple. It features a new pill-shaped 'Dynamic Island' notch, ProMotion 120Hz display, 48MP primary camera sensor, super-fast A16 Bionic chipset, and much more. Check out the best deals on the device using the links given below! The new Google Pixel 7 is powered by the all-new Google Tensor G2 chipset. The device is coupled with 8GB of memory, and it has 128/256GB storage tiers. The phone comes with a significantly improved camera system, and it's more portable than the last generation.  The Pixel 7 is available in Obsidian, Lemongrass, and Snow colors.  The Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra is one of the best Android devices available on the market. It features top-of-the-line specs, tons of power, an extraordinary camera, S Pen stylus support, and other great features. If you're looking for an absolute beast and something that can do it all without breaking a sweat, the Galaxy S22 Ultra got it all.  Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Changes are coming to the iPad Pro; here's what you need to know about them! Take advantage of the latest Apple deals, where you will find the M2-powered MacBook Air, AirPods Pro, and more on sale Learn why clear phone cases turn yellow over time and how you can clean them easily to maintain their clarity.  Buying a rugged case for your iPhone 14 Pro or iPhone 14 Pro Max? Check out Pocketnow's Rugged Case guide to learn about the best options available. GUNNAR Optiks offers some of the best solutions for protecting your eyes from blue light. Here's why.  After unveiling the 2024 Smart TVs at CES, Samsung has now officially announced the pricing & availability details — along with a pre-order promotion!