NINTENDO is in hot water with fans after an error has left players out of pocket. Players hoping to earn money back on their latest purchase were denied the opportunity. Advance Wars 1+2: Reboot Camp was originally scheduled for release on Nintendo Switch in December 2021. However, it was originally delayed until April 2022 as more time was needed for development. The release date was pushed back once more as Nintendo felt it was inappropriate to release a game about war shortly after the conflict in Ukraine began. No release date was given at the time, but a new date was announced during the February 2023 Nintendo Direct. Advance Wars is now available to purchase and was released today on April 21, 2023. However, fans noticed an error with their game that stopped them from getting rewards on their purchase. Usually when players purchase a Nintendo Product they can then redeem Gold Points which can be used to get discounts on other items. Gold Points are available to be redeemed up to a year after a game’s initial release so that players do not have to purchase at launch in order to be eligible. Even though the game didn’t release until today, the points cannot be redeemed due to its original release date. When fans tried to earn the points for their purchase they were faced with an error message. It reads: “You cannot collect the My Nintendo Points for this software as the expiry date has passed.” Nintendo is advertising Advance Wars, but has not mentioned the issue with the points. Fans are hoping that the issue will be addressed soon and it seems to have already been fixed for some players. Written by Georgina Young on behalf of GLHF. Looking for tips and tricks across your favourite consoles and games? We have you covered... Get all of the latest PS5, Xbox and other video game news here   ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO)