Some evidence suggests that certain acupressure points on the ears may help relieve pain and tension around the body. Activating pressure points in the ear may help ease symptoms of several conditions. Acupressure is a type of alternative or complementary medicine. It has played a vital role in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) for thousands of years.  The core technique of acupressure therapies involves applying pressure with the fingers to certain points on the body. The applied pressure sends a signal to the body to start healing itself.  Some believe that, if applied regularly and to the right areas, acupressure can help treat symptoms related to the ears and prevent symptoms from returning. However, more research is necessary to better understand the possible benefits of acupressure points on the ears. The ear apex, or erjian, is a pressure point that may help manage a variety of symptoms. It is at the very top center of the ear, also called the apex.  According to a 2011 study, applying pressure to different auricular pressure points, which are on and around the ear, may have specific therapeutic results.  Many believe that stimulation of the ear apex pressure point can play a role in alleviating migraine and help with earaches and tension headaches.  Learn more about acupressure for headache relief. The daith point is at the smallest fold of cartilage in the ear, just above the opening to the ear toward the front.  According to the American Migraine Foundation (AMF), some people pierce the daith because of the reported relief to migraine pain.  However, the AMF adds that reports of success are purely anecdotal and that there is no research to support this theory.  Some acupressure practitioners claim that activating this pressure point may help with tension or migraine headaches. Learn more about daith piercings and migraines. Ear gate, also referred to as ermen, san jiao 21, or SJ 21, is right in front of where the earlobe starts.  Anecdotal evidence suggests that applying pressure to the ear gate can help alleviate head pains and tinnitus.  The pressure point located slightly behind the earlobe may help with tinnitus, earaches, and headaches.  However, this is anecdotal. More research is necessary to determine the possible benefits of applying pressure to the earlobe. Anecdotal evidence suggests that certain pressure points in other parts of the body may help manage symptoms or conditions affecting the ears.  Learn more about pressure points for pain relief. There are several studies that look at the effectiveness of acupressure and pressure points.  Although the studies vary in size, quality, and the condition they analyze, most find that using acupressure to treat various conditions has favorable results.  A 2015 review of studies examined data on auricular acupressure and acupressure of the ear for treating various illnesses, including pain in different parts of the body.  The researchers found that acupressure can positively affect people’s symptoms. However, it is still unclear what the exact mechanisms of acupressure are. The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH) states that activating acupuncture pressure points may play a role in decreasing the occurrence of tension headaches and fending off migraine headaches. A person interested in using acupressure should seek guidance from their doctor, who may provide information or refer them to a certified acupressure specialist for therapy and instruction. Acupressure may help alleviate ear symptoms, such as pain, ringing, or humming in the ears. However, the evidence is mostly anecdotal. More research is necessary to better understand the possible health benefits of acupressure. A person may want to consult a healthcare professional before self-administering a massage, in order to make sure they have the proper technique.  An acupressurist or massage therapist who performs acupressure may help a person identify the best spots for them and what symptoms they may be able to help with. Share this article There are several pressure points on the hands that reflexologists believe are linked to other parts of the body. Learn more about them here. Learn the location of six pressure points that relieve anxiety and how to massage them. Also, find out what the research says about the effectiveness… Some people may use ear seeds to relieve symptoms of conditions such as chronic pain. Learn more about the safety and efficacy of ear seeds here. Acupuncture may have the potential to reduce wrinkles and fine lines. Learn more about the other benefits, possible side effects, safety, results, and… OUR BRANDS