The new device allows team members to take orders, manage tabs, process payments and communicate from anywhere in real-time. Restaurant commerce platform GoTab has launched Pocket point-of-sale (POS), a pocket-sized ordering and payment device for servers on the go. The company explained that its Pocket POS is compact and allows team members to take orders, manage tabs, process payments and communicate with the front- and back-of-house from anywhere in real-time. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 GoTab co-founder and CEO Tim McLaughlin said: “Restaurants shouldn’t have to choose between staying busy or delivering a great guest experience. “With our Pocket POS, we’re unlocking significant operational efficiencies, enabling servers to communicate with the front- and back-of-house from anywhere and equipping them with the tools needed to manage tabs tableside and meet guests where they are for a personalised, seamless dining experience. “It’s the easiest solution for servers navigating a fast-paced dinner rush while driving unmatched hospitality.” Featuring a large screen and longer battery life, the company claims that its new device maximises utility and embraces on-demand service for a guest-centric experience. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     It added that its Pocket POS comprises every feature of GoTab’s stationary POS and helps its operators mitigate errors, reduce costs and improve guest and team member experiences. McLaughlin added: “The Pocket POS was created to help restaurant staff while enhancing and simplifying every guest interaction and is especially convenient when it comes to large parties, which are traditionally great from a revenue perspective but logistically tough on servers. “Its ability to effortlessly split, move and merge guest’s tabs on the fly saves team members time and energy, which is vital in a fast-paced restaurant environment. “Complete with all of the solutions found in our traditional POS, this is one of our most versatile products yet, and its pocket size just can’t be beat.” Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the foodservice industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024