Crystal Ball Jeremy Powell assembled his fellow economic Jedis this week to discuss the progress made by the Republic against a tight labor market while they worried about the continued advances in rent, consumer goods and service prices. As inflation has softened again this month, we can only dimly hear the sound of Darth Vader’s imperial inflation march in the background as the Fed's worst fears appear to be fading. The real music to the Fed’s ears is the sounds of the restrained holiday spending. With the New Year upon us we look back on a world economy that is largely (ex-China) entering a post-Covid era. There is significant residual economic uncertainty about how hard or soft the landing will be, but the macro environment, at this moment, appears to be calmer. We have a cold European winter ahead and geopolitical risks still abound. We checked in with Morgan Slade of CloudQuant to see what his alternative data dials and gauges say about the state of the economy and where to train our sights in 2023. Gary Drenik: Welcome back Morgan—great to see you again, I love the Reindeer sweater. You’ve been active on the research circuit lately—and I saw that your forecast for CPI last month came in right on the nose this week. I’m guessing you are ready for the holidays. Morgan Slade: Thanks Gary, great to see you as well. It has been a busy month in the Alternative Data and AI space. Yes, the CPI numbers continue to track well with our models. We saw a continued decline in Core CPI this month as the year-over-year change came in at 5.96%, nearly in-line with our 1-month forecast of 5.95%. More holiday cheer—our research is pointing in the direction of a further decline when December’s Core CPI is released on Jan. 12th. We have yet to see the cost of shelter begin to retreat significantly as an input to CPI due to the stickiness of rent prices; however, historical relationships suggest we may start seeing that impact as early as May. In the meantime, consumers can take comfort in the decline in price of used automobiles, transportation services, and medical care services which are driving the CPI number lower. Drenik: Last month you brought up some mysterious behavior in the labor market. Has time brought any further clarity? Slade: We analyze job posting data from LinkUp to gain a sense of employers’ outlook on the economy and the temperature of the demand side of the labor equation. Last month we saw a significant spike in deleted job postings. At that time, it was unclear whether postings were being removed due to the positions being filled, or because companies were cancelling hiring plans to prepare for an economic downturn. Now that we can look at data through the middle of this month, we have more insight into that mystery. Drenik: So, what is the answer to the riddle? Slade: Under regular circumstances, the numbers of jobs created and deleted tend to move in tandem. Over the last month in half, this trend has reversed, with monthly averaged daily created job postings decreasing while deleted job postings are increasing. This points to the spike in deletions being the result of a hiring cool down rather than a hiring spree. Powell and company have been eagerly awaiting this reversal, as the historically low and stagnant unemployment rate of 3.7% is keeping both wages and prices elevated. The monthly average of national daily job postings (blue) and posting deletions (green) shows a ... [+] recent spike in deletions and continued decline in new postings. The divergence indicates deteriorating labor demand in the US Economy. (Source: LinkUp). Drenik: While that sounds promising for inflation, it doesn’t necessarily have great short-term implications for consumers. How have they been holding up? Slade: According to consumer survey data from Prosper Insights & Analytics, the Prosper Consumer Spending Score is down significantly this month. This points to consumers either planning to buy less or planning to cut costs elsewhere. Nearly 60% of consumers say the state of the economy is weighing on their holiday spending plans, up from 40% in December of last year. The Consumer Goods Price Survey did show a slight month-over-month decrease, so it’s possible we’re closing in on the turning point. Drenik: In the past you have mentioned that the M2 Money supply as a major contribution to inflation in asset prices. Has the Covid-quantitative easing been unwound at this point? Slade: That’s a great question Gary—we saw significant speculation in hard and crypto assets as a result of the low interest rates, and liquidity manufactured by the fed’s balance sheet. If you look at M2 and the Fed’s balance sheet, we are still in early innings of the unwinding process. It’s clear that M2 is declining along with equity and real estate prices, but it could be years before it returns to normalized levels. We expect real estate will continue to have price support that will prevent a dramatic decline at least until that happens. There is an immense amount of excess liquidity on the sidelines right now. That liquidity needs to be sopped up before the markets will reflect true prices again. Drenik: How do you expect the first half of next year to play out? Slade: Gary, according to the consumer survey from Prosper Insights & Analytics, the Confident or Very Confident respondents increased to 33.5% vs 30.5% last month. That’s good to see the consumer mood stabilize. We expect that to continue. We were at 37.2% at this time last year and in July of this year touched lows not seen since the 2008 financial crisis. With at least two quarter-point interest rate hikes ahead at the next two Fed convenes, we are going to see earnings and valuation headwinds for much of the stock and bond markets in the first half of the year. The hope for soft landing rests on reining in inflation without allowing the economy to grind to a halt. Drenik: Do you think the Fed will ease up after the second-rate hike? Slade: We think they will hold steady for as long as they can until growth sputters. It’s a nuanced situation. Interest rates will be approaching relatively healthy historical levels, but on the other hand the Fed’s balance sheet like many of us isn’t even close to its pre-pandemic self. Powell & Co are now eyeing consumer service prices as the latest hobgoblin to hound. We do see in the survey data that consumers still experience price increases in consumer services like Internet, TV, and Health Insurance. Many other categories such as dining out still show a slight increase but, there was a decrease in a number of food and energy related categories. Survey of representative sample of US responses to question of their perception of “price increases” ... [+] by select categories of goods and services shows softening in food and energy and slight increases month-over-month in consumer services and rent. Drenik:  What about holiday spending? Slade: It was a bit muted—which was the forecast. Shoppers spent less in November on holiday categories including electronics, clothing, and sporting goods. They spent more on meals at restaurants, on food and healthcare products. And all of this is having an impact on the supply side as well, with manufacturing declining for the first time since June at –0.6% Month-on-month. The good news is, the economy is adapting to the Fed policy in healthy ways, and there are reasons to be excited about next year as those adjustments continue. Drenik: Thank you Morgan, Happy holidays to you and your family. Slade: Always a pleasure Gary, Merry Christmas!