


Sept. 1 (UPI) -- Twenty-two new Starlink Internet satellites started orbiting the Earth after a successful launch by SpaceX late Thursday night from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station.
The satellites, part of the constellation being created by SpaceX to provide Internet access even in the most remote locations on the globe, were taken into space by the workhorse Falcon 9 rocket at 10:21 p.m. EDT.
Advertisement
In what has become common for SpaceX, the first stage safely returned to Earth, nailing its landing on the drone ship A Shortfall of Gravitas in the Atlantic Ocean some 8 minutes after liftoff.
The launch was SpaceX's 60th blastoff of the year, one shy of its own record of 61 set by the private space agency that was set just last year.
Officials feared that weather could play a factor in Thursday's launch with the 45th Weather Squadron at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station suggesting that there was only a 20% chance of favorable weather at the opening of the launch window as Tropical Storm Idalia moved along the East Coast.
Those odds, though, improved to 60% by the end of the window just before midnight.
Advertisement
On Aug. 27, SpaceX launched its 5,000th Starlink satellites into orbit after sending 22 into space that night. That rocket also took off from the Space Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station.
Read More
NASA's SpaceX Crew-7 successfully docks with International Space Station
NASA's TEMPO sends first North American pollution data maps 


Topics
SpaceDronesSpaceXBusinessTechnology






Latest Headlines







Science News // 1 hour ago
SpaceX sends 22 Starlink satellites into orbit using new first stage booster
 Aug. 20 (UPI) -- SpaceX debuted a new Falcon 9 first stage booster as it launched a batch of Starlink satellites on Tuesday morning.










Science News // 1 day ago
SpaceX launches 'precise' greenhouse-gas-measurement spacecraft
 Aug. 18 (UPI) -- A state-of-the-art greenhouse gas-tracking instrument has been launched into orbit and will measure methane and carbon dioxide emissions, right down to the level of individual facilities and equipment, on a global scale.










Science News // 2 days ago
Rare 'Supermoon Blue Moon' begins Monday; 1st of 4 upcoming supermoons
 Aug. 17 (UPI) -- Sky gazers across the United States and the rest of the world have a treat in store next week when a rare "Supermoon Blue Moon" will come into view, one of four on tap in the coming months.










Science News // 3 days ago
In California, SpaceX sends up Falcon 9 carrying Transporter-11 satellite mission
 Aug. 16 (UPI) -- SpaceX launched a Falcon 9 rocket with the Transporter-11 mission into low-Earth orbit Friday afternoon as scheduled from Space Launch Complex 4E at Vandenberg Space Force Base in California.










Science News // 4 days ago
Backyard stargazers find object moving 1 million mph
 Aug. 15 (UPI) -- Backyard stargazers have discovered an object moving at more than a million mph through space, an interstellar phenomenon that typically takes the resources of high-tech observatories.










Science News // 5 days ago
SpaceX launches second round of Maxar's next-gen satellites into orbit
 Aug. 15 (UPI) -- SpaceX on Thursday successfully launched into orbit two Earth-imaging satellites in its second round to build on its WorldView Legion constellation of satellites for Maxar.










Science News // 5 days ago
NASA to make final decision on stranded Boeing Starliner astronauts by end of month
 Aug. 14 (UPI) -- NASA plans to make a final decision by the end of this month on how the space agency will bring two Boeing Starliner astronauts, who are stranded on the International Space Station, back to Earth.










Science News // 6 days ago
NASA Starliner update teleconference scheduled for Wednesday
 Aug. 13 (UPI) -- NASA officials scheduled a status update for Wednesday regarding the Boeing Starliner's 10-day shakedown run that turned into a months-long stay aboard the International Space Station for two test pilots.










Science News // 6 days ago
Scientists prepared to save monarch butterfly in event of 'rapid extinction'
 Aug. 13 (UPI) -- Scientists in North Dakota announced Tuesday they are prepared to repopulate the iconic orange monarch butterfly, which has been classified an endangered species in North America, in the event "of a rapid extinction."










Science News // 6 days ago
NASA scientists hope to use Cold Atom Lab to better understand dark energy
 Aug. 13 (UPI) -- For the first time, ultra-cold atoms have been used to detect changes in the surrounding environment in space, taking a step of revolutionizing how quantum science can be used.






 Sept. 1 (UPI) -- Twenty-two new Starlink Internet satellites started orbiting the Earth after a successful launch by SpaceX late Thursday night from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station. The satellites, part of the constellation being created by SpaceX to provide Internet access even in the most remote locations on the globe, were taken into space by the workhorse Falcon 9 rocket at 10:21 p.m. EDT.
Advertisement In what has become common for SpaceX, the first stage safely returned to Earth, nailing its landing on the drone ship A Shortfall of Gravitas in the Atlantic Ocean some 8 minutes after liftoff. The launch was SpaceX's 60th blastoff of the year, one shy of its own record of 61 set by the private space agency that was set just last year. Officials feared that weather could play a factor in Thursday's launch with the 45th Weather Squadron at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station suggesting that there was only a 20% chance of favorable weather at the opening of the launch window as Tropical Storm Idalia moved along the East Coast. Those odds, though, improved to 60% by the end of the window just before midnight.
Advertisement On Aug. 27, SpaceX launched its 5,000th Starlink satellites into orbit after sending 22 into space that night. That rocket also took off from the Space Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station.