You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Expert Reviewed Updated: Jul 30, 2024, 4:14pm Wyoming saw a lot of adjustments on the back of the pandemic. For instance, the shift to remote work coincided with a huge rise in access to capital for local startups. There has also been a notable rise in business formation in Wyoming since the pandemic began. This means that now is a great time to look into Wyoming limited liability company (LLC) formation. Learn how to form an LLC in Wyoming in our simple but comprehensive guide. We’ll walk you through each step of the process and highlight important considerations. Featured Partners  1 ZenBusiness $0 + State Fees Varies By State & Package 1 ZenBusiness On ZenBusiness' Website 2 LegalZoom $0 + State Fees Varies By State & Package 2 LegalZoom On LegalZoom's Website 3 Northwest Registered Agent $39 + State Fees Varies By State & Package 3 Northwest Registered Agent On Northwest Registered Agent's Website 4 Formations $0 + State Fee Varies By State & Package 4 Formations On Formations' Website Ahead of filing your paperwork, there are some items you should take care of to ensure your LLC formation process goes well. Some steps can also benefit your brand in the long run. Before attempting to file LLC papers, you should first make sure your desired business name is available. Otherwise, you could be wasting your time and money. You can double-check using the Secretary of State’s business entity search engine. Holding a name is not required for LLC registration. However, if you’re not registering your LLC immediately, you can reserve your chosen name for 120 days to ensure it will be available when you’re ready. Submit an application for reservation and pay the $60 filing fee. In Wyoming, your LLC is required by law to have a registered agent. The agent is responsible for accepting lawsuits and official documents on behalf of your business. If necessary, you can act as your own agent. It is also possible to appoint an employee or LLC member to the role. Just be sure that you or they are a Wyoming resident who is at least 18 and has a physical address within the state. A P.O. box is an unacceptable substitute for a street address. Otherwise, it is entirely possible to hire a Wyoming registered agent service. The cost tends to be between $45 and $300 per year, though the average pricing ranges between $100 and $150. Ultimately, the quality of service will vary, so be sure to research companies to find the best agent for your Wyoming LLC. Click on the state below to get started.  
			Start Now
		
 When handing in your Articles of Organization, be sure to follow all directions. For instance, remember that your company’s name must include either the words “limited liability company” or an acceptable abbreviation such as “LLC” or “L.L.C.” Also, in addition to a physical address, you must include your business’s email address. You may file documents online; for digital filings, pay the $100 fee with a Visa or Mastercard payment. When submitting documents offline, make your check or money order payable to the “Wyoming Secretary of State.” Out-of-state entities can register to transact business in Wyoming by filing a Certificate of Authority. The form must be accompanied by a certificate of good standing and existence, dated no less than 60 days prior to filing LLC documents. The fee for out-of-state entities is $150. For paper filings, the registration process takes up to 15 days, and expedited service is not available. If you filed online, your business is active as soon as the filing process is complete. Once you set up your Wyoming LLC, there are a few extra commitments to be aware of. The following sections detail additional tasks that are key to the long-term function of your business. If you do not already have it, you should obtain an EIN through the IRS official website. Most businesses are required to have one. Sole proprietors and single-member LLCs are noteworthy exceptions, as they can use a Social Security number. Even so, EINs are a great way to protect your privacy and guard your personal information from identity theft. Every Wyoming LLC must complete an annual report and pay an annual license tax beginning with the second year of business. The fee is $60 for businesses with less than $300,000 in Wyoming assets. If your business has more than $300,000 in assets, multiply the amount of assets by 0.0002 to determine your tax. Be sure to submit everything before your registration anniversary to avoid fees or the loss of good standing. Click to get started. Ultimately, an operating agreement is a kind of roadmap that you should have handy for guiding the forward development of your Wyoming LLC. Though operating agreements aren’t legally required in Wyoming, they are still vital documents. The agreement details everything from how the business will run to which members are expected to make financial contributions. The more detailed, the better. LLC State Guides 
 An LLC balances the relative ease and flexibility of a partnership or sole proprietorship structure with the increased risk protection of a corporate structure. Like corporate shareholders, LLC owners (known as “members”) enjoy limited liability, meaning personal liability to the company includes only what members have invested and does not extend beyond it to cover corporate losses or debts. By default, members of an LLC pay taxes as a share of personal income just as owners of a sole proprietorship or general partnership would—this is often referred to as a “pass-through” tax structure. An LLC can elect to be taxed as a C corporation (C-corp) or S corporation (S-corp) if it meets certain requirements. Many small business owners choose LLCs for their simplicity and flexibility. Domestic entities pay $100 to file LLC paperwork. Meanwhile, foreign entities must pay $150. The formation process takes up to 15 days. File articles of organization if you are establishing a domestic LLC while foreign LLCs require a certificate of authority. Foreign entities must include certificates of legal existence and good standing with their formation paperwork. LLCs tend to be easy to establish and affordable to run. They also offer some liability shielding of personal assets by separating them from business funds. When determining how to start an LLC, there are several types of LLCs to choose from. Knowing the LLC structures available is essential for selecting a business model that most closely aligns with the nature of your company and how you intend for it to operate. These LLC structures include: 

 For nearly a decade, Toni Matthews-El has published business topics ranging from cloud communication software to best steps for establishing your own LLC. In addition to Forbes Advisor, she's published articles for Medical News Today, US News and World Report. Kelly Main is a Marketing Editor and Writer specializing in digital marketing, online advertising and web design and development. Before joining the team, she was a Content Producer at Fit Small Business where she served as an editor and strategist covering small business marketing content. She is a former Google Tech Entrepreneur and she holds an MSc in International Marketing from Edinburgh Napier University. Additionally, she is a Columnist at Inc. Magazine.