A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket launched the company's latest batch of Starlink internet satellites late Sunday, setting the stage for a similar mission to take flight in just a few days. At 11:58 p.m. EDT, the 230-foot rocket lifted off from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station's Launch Complex 40 with 22 of the internet-beaming satellites and flew along a southeastern trajectory. Eight-and-a-half minutes after liftoff, the 162-foot booster landed on a drone ship near the Bahamas, completing a record-breaking 16th flight to date. The booster is now SpaceX's fleet leader. Sunday's launch marked the Space Coast's 34th of the year. SpaceX has boosted nearly 5,000 internet-beaming Starlink satellites to low-Earth orbit since the first missions took flight in May 2019. More than 1.5 million customers across the globe have signed up for the service. Rocket launch schedule: Upcoming Florida launches and landings Up next on the Eastern Range is another Falcon 9 rocket also set to fly with a batch of Starlink satellites. Liftoff is currently set for a window that runs from 12:35 a.m. to 2:06 a.m. EDT Thursday, July 13. That mission will also include a drone ship landing, this time on A Shortfall of Gravitas, before the flat-packed satellites are delivered to low-Earth orbit about 340 miles above. For the latest, visit floridatoday.com/launchschedule. Contact Emre Kelly at aekelly@floridatoday.com. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram at @EmreKelly. Euclid mission: SpaceX launches European space telescope from Florida to hunt for dark matter and energy This article originally appeared on Florida Today: SpaceX launches first of two Starlink internet missions from Florida New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.