or Remember me or YOKNEAM ILLIT, ISRAEL, June 26, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Wearable Devices Ltd. (Nasdaq: WLDS, WLDSW), a technology growth company specializing in AI-powered touchless sensing wearables, today announced that it will exhibit at the XR Fair Tokyo, to be held at the Tokyo Big Sight convention and exhibition center in Tokyo, Japan, from Wednesday, June 28, 2023 through Friday June 30, 2023. XR Fair Tokyo is a Business to Business (B2B) exhibition that gathers all the services and technologies related to virtual reality, augmented reality (AR), and mixed reality. As the key technology to develop the metaverse, extended reality (XR) is quickly gaining global attention. XR Fair Tokyo is one of the premier platforms for XR companies to introduce their latest services and technologies to various industries such as entertainment, manufacturing, marketing, etc. Recently, the Company announced that its Mudra technology is compatible with the product lines of two leading AR glasses manufacturers: RealWear and Nreal. Using subtle finger gestures for point, tap, and drag and drop, the user inputs spatial commands such as pinch to select, scroll, swipe and hold, and moves the wrist to point at any area of interest. These familiar gestures translate user intent naturally and intuitively to input spatial hand interactions in relaxed and comfortable body postures. Wearable Devices offers its technology to two distinct markets: (1) the Mudra Band (“Mudra”) for Apple devices, targeting consumers, now open for pre-order and (2) the second solution, Mudra technology with Air-Touch functionality for Android, which enables commercial companies and enterprise to create custom experience for their users. “It is now well established that point, click, and drag and drop using subtle finger movements is the preferred way to input commands into face-worn computers, and the Mudra Band offers this functionality for any Bluetooth HID compatible device,” commented Asher Dahan, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Wearable Devices Ltd. “Japanese corporations and consumers are traditionally early adopters of innovative technologies that frequently become the global standard, and XR Fair Tokyo is a wonderful opportunity to showcase how the Mudra technology offers hands-free input for industrial AR glasses and provides seamless and immersive interaction for consumer AR devices.”
  
  To book a meeting with the Company’s CEO, Chief Scientific Officer or Japan General Manager, please visit https://www.wearabledevices.co.il/xrtokyo. About Wearable Devices Ltd.

   Wearable Devices Ltd. is a growth company developing AI-based neural input interface technology for the B2C and B2B markets. The Company’s flagship product, the Mudra Band for Apple Watch, integrates innovative AI-based technology and algorithms into a functional, stylish wristband that utilizes proprietary sensors to identify subtle finger and wrist movements allowing the user to “touchlessly” interact with connected devices. The Company also markets a B2B product, the Mudra Inspire, which utilizes the same technology and functions as the Mudra Band and is available to businesses on a licensing basis. Wearable Devices is committed to creating disruptive, industry leading technology that leverages AI and proprietary algorithms, software, and hardware to set the input standard for the Metaverse, one of the most rapidly expanding landscapes in the tech industry. The Company’s ordinary shares and warrants trade on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbols “WLDS” and ‘WLDSW,” respectively. For more information, please visit https://www.wearabledevices.co.il/. Forward-Looking Statement Disclaimer

   This press release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are intended to be covered by the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies and expectations, can generally be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “seek,” “intend,” “plan,” “goal,” “estimate,” “anticipate” or other comparable terms. For example, we are using forward-looking statements when we discuss benefits and advantages of our products and technology. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this press release regarding our strategies, prospects, financial condition, operations, costs, plans and objectives are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. Our actual results and financial condition may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Therefore, you should not rely on any of these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our use of proceeds from the offering; the trading of our ordinary shares or warrants and the development of a liquid trading market; our ability to successfully market our products and services; the acceptance of our products and services by customers; our continued ability to pay operating costs and ability to meet demand for our products and services; the amount and nature of competition from other security and telecom products and services; the effects of changes in the cybersecurity and telecom markets; our ability to successfully develop new products and services; our success establishing and maintaining collaborative, strategic alliance agreements, licensing and supplier arrangements; our ability to comply with applicable regulations; and the other risks and uncertainties described in our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed on March 22, 2023 and our other filings with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Investor Relations Contact Walter Frank
  
  IMS Investor Relations
  
  203.972.9200
  
wearabledevices@imsinvestorrelations.com 




  Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today