The landing of helicopters on Brevard County high school campuses stirred up more than dust on Wednesday. College football coaches are taking advantage of the final three days of NCAA recruiting before next week's National Signing Day, visiting schools including Eau Gallie and Rockledge. National championship Georgia head football coach Kirby Smart landed at Rockledge in the morning, and assistant coach Josh Woods posted a clip of the landing on his Facebook page. Smart and the Bulldogs defeated TCU in the NCAA title game in January, 65-7 in Los Angeles, the second consecutive Bulldogs championship. More Recruiting:'I'm lovin' it!' Emma Risch of Palm Bay will make history at McDonald's All-America Game Raiders four-star safety Jaylen Heyward committed to Georgia in mid-January and explained his decision in a story posted on FLORIDA TODAY. The junior won't sign until the next academic year, but in the highly competitive recruiting world, regular contact with recruits is mandatory. Florida State head coach Mike Norvell made at least three stops in Brevard, at Rockledge, Eau Gallie and Cocoa. Norvell reached Eau Gallie at 10 a.m., and Commodores coach Chris Sands posted video on his Twitter feed. He said the landing of a helicopter on the practice field just north of the school building brought eyes to schoolroom windows. "It's awesome. You start to hear the rumbles in the morning about him coming," Sands said, "and then when he comes, we try to get him to see some people on campus who would like to be involved. We have a few Florida State grads here." Commodores receiver D.L. Hardison, a sophomore, has already announced his plans to sign with the Seminoles in two years. "We have the one kid committed already, and we have three kids they are recruiting," Sands said. He said the flow of college coaches has been "pretty consistent" since he began coaching at the school. This year, Florida coach Billy Napier, Gus Malzahn of UCF, Pittsburgh coach Pat Narduzzi and Mario Cristobal of Miami have visited. UnderArmour All-America selection Robert Stafford signed with the Canes in December. Raiders coach Wayne Younger listed the same coaches when asked about recent visits to Rockledge, just as a college coach from Eastern Michigan coach walked into the weight room and introduced himself. Norvell also visited Cocoa, and Brevard Schools posted a photo of him posing with state championship coach Ryan Schneider on its Twitter feed. Schneider and his Tigers also got a visit from Ohio State coach Ryan Day. Cocoa safety Cedrick Hawkins signed with the Buckeyes in December. But it was the visit from Smart that created a wide-spread buzz. "There was a lot of excitement about him," Younger said. "Obviously, everyone saw it and knew about it. He wanted to come visit Jaylen and get a chance to check in with him."