The Los Angeles Rams didn’t make their interest in Stetson Bennett public leading up to the draft but after they selected him in the fourth round, it’s easy to see why he’s such a natural fit. Bennett has traits Sean McVay looks for in a quarterback, from his mobility to his quick release to his ability to make plays when things break down in the pocket. And even though he’s 25 years old already, Bennett should be a quick study in the NFL and show that he can step right in as the No. 2 quarterback in Los Angeles. Georgia coach Kirby Smart sees the Rams as the perfect landing spot for Bennett, explaining why during a recent interview on “The Next Round.” (h/t Sports Illustrated) “He’s talented. He’s a great athlete. He fits their scheme,” Smart said. “I think Sean liked him playing in (Todd) Monken’s system. There’s a lot of similarities there. He loves Stafford and he’s got a chance to learn under one of the best. I don’t think you could find a better fit for him.” Though Smart didn’t talk directly to McVay about Bennett, he did talk to several people from the Rams about the former Bulldogs quarterback. “Sean actually didn’t call me. I talked to several guys in their organization, but not Sean,” Smart said. Les Snead has already said the plan is for Bennett to be the backup to Stafford this season, which would allow the Rams to only carry two quarterbacks on the roster. He’ll have to earn that spot, but he’s off to a good start after throwing two perfect deep balls in practice on Wednesday. Bennett was reportedly Snead’s favorite quarterback in the draft so he was happy to get him in the fourth round. Whether he turns into anything more than a backup, however, remains to be seen. Story originally appeared on Rams Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Team USA men won their fifth straight Olympic gold medal. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday. Charles Robinson joins Frank Schwab direct from his training camp tour to go behind the scenes on the latest news around the NFL. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week.