Watch Falcon 9 launch 23 @Starlink satellites to orbit https://t.co/ljWSq9RcpO — SpaceX (@SpaceX) October 30, 2023 Update 8:40 p.m. EDT: SpaceX crews have scrubbed the scheduled Sunday night launch of a Falcon 9 rocket on a Starlink mission from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station. SpaceX is now targeting 7:20 p.m. EDT Monday as the new launch time. If more delays ensue, seven backup launch opportunities are available from 7:52 p.m. to 10:22 p.m. EDT Monday, SpaceX reports. Standing down from tonight’s Falcon 9 launch attempt, next available opportunity is 7:20 p.m. ET tomorrow night → https://t.co/bJFjLCiTbK — SpaceX (@SpaceX) October 30, 2023 Original coverage: Welcome to FLORIDA TODAY's Space Team live coverage of SpaceX's Falcon 9 Starlink 6-25 mission from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station. SpaceX is now targeting 8:17 p.m. EDT to launch a Falcon 9 rocket from Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station. Tonight's original target time was 7:45 p.m. If more delays arise, five backup launch opportunities are available from 8:36 to 10:47 p.m. EDT Sunday. The original Starlink 6-25 mission launch window was scheduled for Saturday night, but it was delayed. The Falcon 9 will deploy a batch of 23 Starlink internet satellites, which are packed inside the 230-foot rocket's payload fairing. No local sonic booms are expected. After soaring skyward along a southeastern trajectory, the rocket's first stage booster will target landing aboard a drone ship out at sea about 8½ minutes after liftoff. Check back for live FLORIDA TODAY Space Team launch coverage updates on this page, starting 90 minutes before the launch window opens. Countdown Clock Update 8:19 p.m. EDT: SpaceX has scrubbed the launch of a Falcon 9 rocket carrying 23 Starlink satellites from Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station. Update 8:13 p.m. EDT: SpaceX's live launch webcast hosted on X (formerly Twitter) is now online, and it is posted at the top of this page.  Liftoff is now scheduled in four minutes. Update 8:07 p.m. EDT: Tonight's Starlink mission would mark the record-breaking 59th orbital launch this year from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station and Kennedy Space Center. The former annual record of 57 launches, which was set last year, was shattered Oct. 21 by SpaceX's last successful Starlink mission from Launch Complex 40. On a side note, tonight's SpaceX launch attempt is occurring three days after the Department of Defense's secretive plan to launch a hypersonic missile from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station was a no-go. Update 7:57 p.m. EDT: Twenty minutes before SpaceX's scheduled 8:17 p.m. EDT Falcon 9 launch, the countdown appears to be proceeding as planned. Fueling is well underway at Launch Complex 40. As a reminder, a list of key upcoming countdown milestones. T-minus: 16 minutes: Second-stage liquid oxygen loading begins. 7 minutes: Falcon 9 begins engine chill prior to launch. 1 minute: Command flight computer begins final prelaunch checks; propellant tank pressurization to flight pressure begins. 45 seconds: SpaceX launch director verifies “go” for launch. 3 seconds: Engine controller commands engine ignition sequence to start. 0 seconds: Falcon 9 liftoff. Propellant load has begun for tonight’s launch of 23 @Starlink satellites from Florida. All systems and weather are currently go for launch — SpaceX (@SpaceX) October 29, 2023 Update 7:44 p.m. EDT: Falcon 9 fueling procedures are now underway at Launch Complex 40, SpaceX has announced — and "all systems and weather are currently go for launch." That means the Starlink 6-25 mission is now committed to lift off at 8:17 p.m. EDT, or else the launch must be postponed. Update 7:30 p.m. EDT: This will mark the eighth flight for the first-stage booster supporting the mission, SpaceX reports. Following stage separation, the booster is slated to land on the drone ship Just Read the Instructions out on the Atlantic Ocean 8 minutes, 26 seconds after liftoff. Update 7:10 p.m. EDT: Here's a behind-the-scenes rundown of SpaceX’s countdown timeline. T-minus: 38 minutes: SpaceX launch director verifies "go" for propellant load. 35 minutes: Rocket-grade kerosene and first-stage liquid oxygen loading begins. 16 minutes: Second-stage liquid oxygen loading begins. 7 minutes: Falcon 9 begins engine chill prior to launch. 1 minute: Command flight computer begins final prelaunch checks; propellant tank pressurization to flight pressure begins. 45 seconds: SpaceX launch director verifies “go” for launch. 3 seconds: Engine controller commands engine ignition sequence to start. 0 seconds: Falcon 9 liftoff. Update 6:46 p.m. EDT: Brevard County Emergency Management officials have activated the agency's launch operations support team ahead of the upcoming Falcon 9 launch. 10/29/23 6:35 PM: We have activated our launch operations support team in preparation for the #SpaceX #Falcon9 rocket launch. Window: 7:35 - 10:48 PM pic.twitter.com/nrbwbYaezw — Brevard EOC (@BrevardEOC) October 29, 2023 The Space Force's 45th Weather Squadron pegs the odds of favorable launch weather at 85%. The squadron has noted slow-moving Tropical Cyclone Tammy generated steep seas in the booster recovery zone this weekend. "Windy conditions and steep seas in the booster recovery zone (Saturday) will steadily diminish through early next week. Thus, the primary weather concerns for primary and backup launch opportunities are onshore moving cumulus clouds, with an added risk of liftoff winds for the primary launch day," the squadron's updated launch forecast said Saturday. Space Florida: Project Autobahn may bring undisclosed major aerospace company to Melbourne airport NASA's SpaceX CRS-29 mission — a cargo resupply mission to the International Space Station — is targeted for launch at 10:01 p.m. EDT Nov. 5. Quick facts: Rocket: SpaceX Falcon 9. Location: Pad 39A at Kennedy Space Center. Trajectory: Northeast. Weather: TBD. Landing: Cape Canaveral Space Force Station's Landing Zone 1. Live coverage: Starts 90 minutes before liftoff at floridatoday.com/space. About: This marks SpaceX’s 29th commercial resupply mission for NASA to the ISS. A Dragon cargo capsule will deliver new science investigations, food, supplies and equipment to the international crew. The research includes laser communications and work to understand interactions between Earth's weather and space. Thursday: DoD: Hypersonic missile test from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station does not occur For the latest schedule updates at the Cape, visit floridatoday.com/launchschedule. Rick Neale is a Space Reporter at FLORIDA TODAY (for more of his stories, click here.) Contact Neale at 321-242-3638 or rneale@floridatoday.com. Twitter/X: @RickNeale1 Space is important to us and that's why we're working to bring you top coverage of the industry and Florida launches. Journalism like this takes time and resources. Please support it with a subscription here. This article originally appeared on Florida Today: Scrub! SpaceX Starlink launch halts 30 seconds before Sunday liftoff New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.