The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) continues to peer backwards through cosmic time, revealing the processes that created the universe as we see it today. Astronomers have used the James Webb Space Telescope to stare through the dusty clouds of a distant star-forming galaxy to investigate its structure in fine detail. They discovered that the galaxy is in the midst of a starburst, an explosive surge in star formation possibly caused by a collision with another galaxy. Located at a distance of around 12 billion light-years away, the galaxy GN20 is one of the earliest active star-forming galaxies studied in detail thus far by astronomers. It also happens to be one of the most luminous dusty star-forming galaxies ever studied. Related: James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) — A complete guide GN20 is located in a region of space called a galaxy overdensity or a protocluster. In these regions, galaxies will eventually group together to form a massive collection called a galactic cluster. The early galaxy, which was seen as it was when the 13.8 billion-year-old universe was just around 1.8 billion years old, is forming stars at a rate of around 1,860 times the mass of the sun each year. Clumpy molecular gas surrounds the galaxy expanding out to a diameter of around 46,000 light-years, and this star-forming matter is flattened into a giant rotating disk. Star-forming galaxies are surrounded by dense clouds of dust and gas that collapse in over-dense patches to form stars; these also make them difficult to investigate. This is because these clouds are adept at absorbing visible light, but infrared light has a much easier time slipping through this star-forming matter. That means the JWST, which was designed to see the universe in infrared wavelengths, is ideal for peering beyond these dusty veils to see deep into these galaxies. To study GN20 and unveil its properties, astronomers led by Spanish Astrobiology Center scientist Luis Colina used observations of this galaxy made by the JWST's Mid-Infrared Instrument (MIRI) between November 23 and 24, 2022. The astronomers found that the early star-forming galaxy has a concentrated bright nucleus of densely clustered stars at its core surrounded by a diffuse envelope of gas. This inner structure of GN20 is birthing stars at a rate of about 500 times the mass of the sun each year and has been doing so for a period of around 100 million years. The observations also showed this nucleus is under 2,600 light-years in diameter, while its gaseous envelope has a diameter of around 23,000 light-years. RELATED STORIES: — James Webb Space Telescope snaps amazing photo of alien asteroid belt — James Webb Space Telescope spots huge galactic protocluster in the early universe (photo) — Why do some James Webb Space Telescope images show warped and repeated galaxies? The center of the gas is off-center in relation to GN20's dense nucleus of stars, implying that GN20 has recently undergone an encounter with another galaxy. This deformation in the gas envelope may have been the result of gravity tugging at it as the two galaxies passed each other, or it could be an artifact arising from a more permanent collision and merger between two galaxies. Interactions like this are often theorized to be the cause of intense periods of star formation in galaxies. The team behind this research concluded that GN20 will eventually become a massive galaxy resembling those found in the local universe around the Milky Way with its bout of intense star formation eventually coming to an end leaving it inactive or quiescent. A pre-print version of the team's research is currently featured on arXiv.org. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.