 If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Browse highly rated options shoppers call “super soft and warm”  Brittany VanDerBill is a writer based in Minnesota. She has been writing copy and content for businesses and publications since 2016. She began writing for Dotdash Meredith in 2021, covering a variety of topics including pets, clothing, and product guides. Her bylines include PEOPLE, Travel + Leisure, Allrecipes, Better Homes & Gardens, and more. She has also written sponsored content for The Foundry 360, Dotdash Meredith's award-winning custom content studio. When she's not writing, Brittany is devouring a good book over a glass of Cabernet Sauvignon (probably with her cat on her lap), finding amazing deals online, or plotting her next travel adventure. People / Daisy Rodriguez  There’s nothing like cozying up in a fleece jacket on a crisp, cool day.Fleece jackets come in all kinds of styles, from full-zip to hooded to button-down, so they make a solid addition to any cool-weather wardrobe. If you’re on the hunt for a fleece jacket that can be thrown on as you head out on a morning walk or run errands, Amazon has you covered.We’ve scoured Amazon’s best-selling fleece jackets and coats section and uncovered highly rated options that are all on sale, with prices starting at just $20.
 Amazon  If your heart says yes to a fleece jacket and you’re looking for a super budget-friendly option, check out this full-zip fleece from Amazon Essentials. It’s “cozy” as well as “warm and soft,” according to reviewers, and prices range between $20 and $23. It’s available in 30 colors and patterns, including classic black, navy, and burgundy, and has two side zippered pockets.
 Amazon  This Columbia fleece jacket has earned more than 42,000 five-star ratings from shoppers who have called it “reliable quality” and “so soft” in reviews. The full zip style has zippered pockets and drawstrings at the waist, which make it a little easier to keep out the cold, and it’s machine washable for easy cleaning.“It's always cold at work and this was perfect. It's comfortable, and [I] would definitely recommend [it],” one shopper shared.
 Amazon  Of course, it’s extra handy to have a hood on cool, rainy days. This hooded zip-up jacket has teddy lining and is available in 27 colors, including solid classics and colorblock combinations like pink, gray, and white.“The weight of the hoodie will be perfect for the fall and winter weather, and the [teddy] lining will keep me nice and toasty,” a five-star reviewer wrote. “It's very comfortable to wear, and I like the loose-fitting feel.”
  “This jacket is great,” one shopper wrote. “It is super comfortable and will keep me warm, which is good since I’m always cold.” They noted that they sized up so the jacket would have a bit of a looser fit. “It’s not huge but gives me a little extra length in the arms, which I personally like,” they added.
 Amazon  If a more oversized, teddy-style fleece without any zippers or buttons to contend with is what you’re in the market for, there’s this hooded option that’s under $40 thanks to an on-site coupon. The hooded jacket comes in 14 colors and has contrast edging. It’s made with “cozy” fleece, but it’s “lightweight and roomy” with “just the right warmth,” according to one review.
  Want even more comfy options? Try this hooded double-row horn buckles jacket that’s “worth the money” or this button-down jacket with a wide collar. And of course, you can’t go wrong with this “super soft and warm” fleece-lined buffalo plaid shacket.
  With cooler weather on the horizon, take this as your cue to find your new favorite fleece jacket while it’s on sale for less than $40.
 Amazon Amazon Amazon Amazon  Do you love a good deal? Sign up for PEOPLE's Shopping newsletter to stay up to date on the latest sales, plus celebrity fashion, home decor and more.
