Solvay, a leader in naturally derived ingredients for beauty care formulations, has introduced Polycare® Heat Therapy, a new functional active ingredient that protects hair from thermal damage due to repeated use of hair styling appliances operating at very high temperatures.  The non-ecotoxic, double-derivatized cationic guar active ingredient advances the global trend of bio-based and silicone-free solutions in hair care and delivers excellent thermal protection in transparent formulations. “Our new Polycare® Heat Therapy addresses the challenge of protecting hair against thermal damage caused by high-heat devices such as flat or curling irons and hair dryers,” explains Stephanie Neplaz, Global Innovation Marketing Director, Hair care, at Solvay. “As the market’s best naturally-derived performer in this segment, it helps brand owners in the industry replace incumbent silicone and other synthetic polymers, and complements our broad portfolio of bio-based beauty care ingredients.” Heat is a powerful hair styling tool, but it can also cause severe damage, such as dehydration and delipidation, brittleness, porosity, reduced surface and loss of softness. When hair is damaged by heat, restoring its healthy physical integrity and sensory qualities is difficult. Thus, it is advisable to protect it when using high-heat styling appliances by providing a thermal shield and minimizing its thermal stress to avoid further damage.  In hair care formulations, Polycare® Heat Therapy forms an invisible and imperceptible barrier on the hair surface. As a multi-functional ingredient, it adds discipline, straightening effect and softness, while also improving detangling and wet combability without build-up in multiple applications. Comprehensive testing at Solvay has demonstrated that this silicone-free solution can reduce thermally induced hair damage by up to 30%. As a result, the hair is less exposed, less damaged and more protected. Please note: World Bio Market Insights is owned and operated by World Bio Markets Ltd. Privacy Policy Follow us © World Bio Market Insights © 2023 World Bio Market Insights
