e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 Boy, have we got a good set of deals this week!We start off with a meal prep deal exclusive to Union-Tribune readers that can boost your diet and nutrition goals. If you feel like eating out, there’s a Thai lunch special and a sushi deal you won’t want to miss.U-T readers save at Lean MachineRevolutionize the way you diet and eat — and save a pretty penny at the same time — with this special discount for Union-Tribune readers from The Lean Machine Meal Prep, good on your first online order. Made from scratch and with fresh ingredients, these meals are ready to eat anytime anywhere.With fully customizable meals, you’re sure to have your dietary requirements met whether you’re in keto, primal, or paleo. Did I mention that they are also 100% gluten free?Enter any of these one-time codes at checkout: SDUT5, for 5% off your first order with minimum spend of $50; SDUT10, for 10% off your first order with minimum spend of $100; or SDUT15, for 15% off your first order with minimum spend of $150.Start eating clean at TheLeanMachineSD.com.Little Thai Kitchen lunch specialsIf you’re tired of the same old sandwich, day in and day out, liven up your lunch with a hearty special from Little Thai Kitchen.Starting at $11.99, you get to pick your meal the way you want. Choose between meat and vegetable and have it prepared in your favorite Thai dish such as Pad Thai, Red Curry, or Thai Fried Rice.

On top of that, you can choose a side to compliment your meal. Their Tom Yum shrimp soup and their steamed vegetables are among my favorites.This deal is available daily from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.Check out the full menu at littlethaisd.com.$3.50 sushi at KuraGrab your friends and enjoy the charm of a revolving sushi restaurant without breaking the bank at Kura Revolving Sushi Bar.With sushi starting at $3.50 each, how could you not say yes? You can pick from among their selection of nigiri and rolls, including their Crunchy Roll, Red Dragon Roll, garlic ponzu salmon nigiri and the albacore toro.Other prices may vary.Visit kurasushi.com to learn more.Save on auto repairs at PolycareAs Californians, our cars are basically our second set of legs, If anything happens to them, we need a reliable repair options without burning a hole in our wallets.Polycare Automotive is offering customers up to 10% off on services with their online coupons.New or returning customers get $5 off repairs of $40 and up. If you’ve need significant work, take advantage of their 10% off coupon for any repairs $450 or more.Troops can receive a 15% discount on any repair service when you show up with your military identification and coupon.Conditions may apply.Get the coupons at polycareauto.com.Brian May Maestro is The Deal Maestro. Email him at brian.maestro@sduniontribune.com. We start off with a meal prep deal exclusive to Union-Tribune readers that can boost your diet and nutrition goals. If you feel like eating out, there’s a Thai lunch special and a sushi deal you won’t want to miss. Revolutionize the way you diet and eat — and save a pretty penny at the same time — with this special discount for Union-Tribune readers from The Lean Machine Meal Prep, good on your first online order. Made from scratch and with fresh ingredients, these meals are ready to eat anytime anywhere. With fully customizable meals, you’re sure to have your dietary requirements met whether you’re in keto, primal, or paleo. Did I mention that they are also 100% gluten free? Enter any of these one-time codes at checkout: SDUT5, for 5% off your first order with minimum spend of $50; SDUT10, for 10% off your first order with minimum spend of $100; or SDUT15, for 15% off your first order with minimum spend of $150. Start eating clean at TheLeanMachineSD.com. If you’re tired of the same old sandwich, day in and day out, liven up your lunch with a hearty special from Little Thai Kitchen. Starting at $11.99, you get to pick your meal the way you want. Choose between meat and vegetable and have it prepared in your favorite Thai dish such as Pad Thai, Red Curry, or Thai Fried Rice. On top of that, you can choose a side to compliment your meal. Their Tom Yum shrimp soup and their steamed vegetables are among my favorites. This deal is available daily from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Check out the full menu at littlethaisd.com. Grab your friends and enjoy the charm of a revolving sushi restaurant without breaking the bank at Kura Revolving Sushi Bar. With sushi starting at $3.50 each, how could you not say yes? You can pick from among their selection of nigiri and rolls, including their Crunchy Roll, Red Dragon Roll, garlic ponzu salmon nigiri and the albacore toro. Other prices may vary. Visit kurasushi.com to learn more. As Californians, our cars are basically our second set of legs, If anything happens to them, we need a reliable repair options without burning a hole in our wallets. Polycare Automotive is offering customers up to 10% off on services with their online coupons. New or returning customers get $5 off repairs of $40 and up. If you’ve need significant work, take advantage of their 10% off coupon for any repairs $450 or more. Troops can receive a 15% discount on any repair service when you show up with your military identification and coupon. Conditions may apply. Get the coupons at polycareauto.com. Brian May Maestro is The Deal Maestro. Email him at brian.maestro@sduniontribune.com. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group