The Poplar Bluff R-I school district has chosen Dr. Aaron Cornman to succeed Dr. Scott Dill as R-1 superintendent when the latter retires at the end of the 2022-23 school year.  Cornman currently serves as the superintendent at East Prairie, a position he has held since 2021. “I greatly appreciate the Poplar Bluff Board of Education affording me the opportunity to serve as superintendent of schools in a district with such a rich heritage that celebrates the success of students and continually seeks to grow academic offerings for all students in the district,” Cornman said in a press release by the R-1 district. The R-1 school board chose Cornman from a field of four finalists during a special meeting held Thursday. Information on the meeting was released Sunday.  “The position of superintendent is very important to the school district,” R-I board member Roger Hanner said. “The process of selecting a superintendent is one of the hardest decisions a school board member can make and is not taken lightly. We had very strong candidates apply for the position. I’m looking forward to seeing what Dr. Cornman will achieve as the leader of our district.” Prior to leading the East Prairie school district, Cornman previously was employed for more than a decade in total as a superintendent at Hillsboro, Pierce City and Walnut Grove. “My career serving as a superintendent has spanned both small and large districts as well as rural and metropolitan. One constant remains the same: kids,” Cornman said. “The good work we do is predicated on making decisions in the best interest of the students and families we serve. Poplar Bluff is no different. I am committed to working daily with our staff, administrative team, and greater school community in offering educational opportunities that enrich the lives of students.” A native of Gideon, Cornman’s career in education began in 1999 as a fifth-grade teacher at Risco before working in special education at Malden. After several years at Malden, Cornman took a position at Advance as special education director and as elementary principal.  Cornman joined the superintendent ranks in 2007, where he has worked since, with the exception of a short sabbatical because of a serious health diagnosis his mother received. Posting a comment requires free registration: