The owners of Poplar Plaza are “optimistic” that a lease will soon be signed between them and the Shelby County Clerk’s Office for a new location, Rick Smith, director of real estate at Finard Properties, said Friday.   The current Clerk’s Office in the plaza has an expiring lease and they are expected, according to the terms of the lease, to vacate the premises at the end of this month. The Clerk’s Office has been in talks with the Poplar Plaza owners about moving to a different, larger space in the plaza, but those talks have dragged on for months, with Shelby County Mayor Lee Harris threatening to urge Clerk Wanda Halbert’s removal if she did not select a new site. But now, Finard Properties and the county are working “very hard” at an agreement to a new lease. The main piece left to be decided, Smith said, is the rental rate, since Finard has offered to build out the space for the new location. Smith said he met with an architect and a general contractor at the current Clerk’s Office Friday so they can finalize the construction costs of the new space. If they get an agreement, Finard “will go into overdrive to build this space for them,” Smith said. Finard is also willing to let the Clerk’s Office remain in its current location until the new space is built out, including if it takes longer than the end of June. Also:FBI search warrant issued at Ford family home as part of criminal investigation, officials say “We can’t let them stay till Christmas, but if we have a signed agreement anytime next month, we’ll let them stay till the new space gets built out, but we’ve got to have a signature and I’m optimistic that the county will understand the rent is impacted by the landlord’s stepping forward to accrue what is the cost of buildout," Smith said. The possible agreement comes as the county is finalizing its budget for fiscal year 2024, including the budget for the clerk. Earlier this month, Commissioner Mick Wright brought and passed a motion to cut $1.3 million from the county clerk’s personnel budget for fiscal year 2024. That would leave the clerk with a personnel budget of about $4.9 million, less than the amended fiscal year 2023 budget of $6.2 million but roughly the same as the fiscal year 2022 budget of $4.8 million. That funding could be added back to the clerk’s office before the county commission finalizes the fiscal year 2024 budget, expected to occur later this month, but Wright said he wouldn’t recommend doing so unless there is new leadership in the office. In a Wednesday email sent to Chairman Mickell Lowery and forwarded to all commissioners, special adviser Janet Hooks recommended that the funding be added back to the fiscal year 2024 budget, pointing to the importance of fully staffing the new Riverdale location. “Adequate staffing could allow for extended hours or a hybrid (drive thru only) thereof,” she wrote. Late Friday afternoon Halbert said that location, 3785 Riverdale Road, is scheduled for a "soft opening" 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Tuesday June 6 through Friday June 9. The Riverdale office was slated to open June 3, the last date given by Halbert, but was delayed because a software vendor was only approved May 15 and personnel still needed to be hired and trained, Hooks wrote in a May 17 update. Hooks included other recommendations such as installing kiosks to renew vehicle tags and the use of smart safes and check scanners. Katherine Burgess covers county government and religion. She can be reached at katherine.burgess@commercialappeal.com or followed on Twitter @kathsburgess.