HOUSTON — Since going down with a toe injury, Kevin Porter Jr. has spent his free time dribbling basketballs at home. But after sustaining a left toe contusion on Jan. 11, Porter has not participated in any on-court workouts. "I always tell myself that it sucks, but injuries are a part of the game," Porter said. "I try not to get too low or high. Controlling what I can control has kept me in the right head space." Porter sustained the injury during the Houston Rockets' loss to the Sacramento Kings inside the Golden 1 Center on Jan. 11.  He collided with teammate Jae'Sean Tate and Kings forward Malik Monk late in the first quarter. Porter described the injury as a "freakish accident" while stating that he doesn't believe Monk is a dirty player.   He finished the game with five points, three assists and three rebounds in 10 minutes. And since being sidelined, Porter said the Rockets have approached his pending return as "one day at a time."   Since leading the team to a 15-point victory over the Chicago Bulls on Dec. 26, Porter was playing the best basketball of his career.  He scored a season-best 36 points (14-22 FG, 6-12 3PT) in a 133-118 win over the Bulls inside the United Center. And in the eight games that followed, Porter averaged 22.8 points on 49.2 percent shooting, 42.3 percent from deep, 6.4 assists and 5.9 rebounds. Although disappointed by the injury, Porter has used the extra time off to study more game film. Porter's goal is to improve his on-court contributions in an attempt to help the Rockets win more games. It's his way of turning a negative into a positive. "My body is usually pretty good at bouncing back from injuries," Porter said. "I thought I would have been back faster than this. But I stay ready. I'll be ready when it is time." Coach Stephen Silas said Porter saw the doctor before practice on Tuesday, but there is no further update about his return. You can follow Coty M. Davis on Twitter at @CotyDavis_24 Want the latest in news and insider information on the Houston Rockets? Click here Follow Inside the Rockets on Facebook here Make sure to subscribe to our weekly podcast Bleav In The Rockets today! Click here To Listen. Follow Inside the Rockets on Twitter @InsideRocketsFN