American treasure Billy Porter stopped by the Jennifer Hudson show shortly after receiving his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. The two old friends chatted and sang with audience members in a holiday show full of joy. Porter’s memory of the first time he spoke to Hudson, however, has lit up social media. It was also when he stopped watching “American Idol.” Porter, who has frequently spoken about being bullied, vividly remembered the show’s host, Simon Cowell, denigrating Hudson live on television. He was so angry then, he picked up the phone and made a call – and that’s when he got a surprise. Porter called the “American Idol” music director and ended up on the phone with Hudson, herself. He then got to tell her how incredible he thought she was. The pair relived the moment together on Hudson’s show. Subscribe to our newsletter to stay ahead of the latest LGBTQ+ political news and insights.   Don't forget to share:  Reader contributions help keep LGBTQ Nation free, so that queer people get the news they need, with stories that mainstream media often leaves out. Can you contribute today? Cancel anytime · Proudly LGBTQ+ owned and operated The couple was confronted by an angry Christian woman over their wedding plans in North Carolina. “You’re talking out of your ass,” the singer-songwriter and actress said of her famous dad. Love wins at Paignton Zoo! Curtis and Arthur, a gay flamingo couple, have hatched an adorable chick. Most feel more hopeful now that Kamala Harris is the Democratic candidate. PLUS: Lady Gaga reveals the story behind one of her most iconic songs! Its story is based on something he and his family experience regularly. She says she was ordered to call retailers selling her merch and assure them that she’s not “crazy.” Just gay. The “Broad City” co-creator and star (who uses she/they pronouns) said, “I’m moving through the world in a way that’s truer [now].” Subscribe to our newsletter to stay ahead of the latest LGBTQ+ political news and insights.