AdNews Newsletter Nine has secured Memo Hayek for the role of chief information and technology officer (CITO). Hayek, commencing in the role on March 27, will report to the chief digital officer and will be a member of the executive leadership team and digital leadership team.  Hayek will be responsible for the vision, strategy, planning and delivery of technology across Nine. She will work closely with chief product officer, Bec Haagsma, to deliver a competitive advantage for Nine through its consumer experiences and commercial products. Hayek has obtained more than 30 years of industry experience, most recently serving as general manager, group cyber transformation and delivery at Commonwealth Bank.  Trained as a systems programmer at Macquarie Bank, Hayek’s first 10 years were technical in a complex trading environment. Her subsequent roles in technology across organisations such as CBA, NAB, Westpac and Credit Suisse, saw her lead all parts of technology, including cyber, infrastructure, data centres, and divisional CIO, providing an exceptionally well rounded experience set for her role as Nine’s CITO.  Chief digital officer, Alex Parsons said: “Memo is an exceptional technology leader with a proven track record in driving digital transformation and innovation in large organisations. "Her passion, enthusiasm and expertise will provide a significant step forward for Nine, as technology continues to play an expanding role in our organisation’s future growth and success." Hayek said: “I am delighted to be joining Nine; an iconic Australian brand with a rich history, whilst being an innovative and progressive force that is passionate about providing exceptional customer experiences.  "It is a privilege to join the company at such an exciting time. I am looking forward to working with Alex and the whole leadership team on achieving the group’s strategy and vision through leading edge technology.”   Have something to say on this? Share your views in the comments section below. Or if you have a news story or tip-off, drop us a line at adnews@yaffa.com.au
Sign up to the AdNews newsletter, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter for breaking stories and campaigns throughout the day. Have something to say on this? Share your views in the comments section below. Or if you have a news story or tip-off, drop us a line at adnews@yaffa.com.au Sign up to the AdNews newsletter, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter for breaking stories and campaigns throughout the day. The AdNews enewsletter, brings you the latest advertising and media news direct to your inbox! Become a member and get the weekly newsletter free! We acknowledge the Traditional Custodians of country throughout Australia and their connections to land, sea and community. We pay our respect to Elders past and present and extend that respect to all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.