Rural communities in Saline County will soon have a new option for broadband internet. Nex-Tech, an information technology company, announced Tuesday that it is making progress in a project in rural Saline County to route fiber optic cables and become a local option for high-speed internet. Nex-Tech's broadband service is a step toward one of the County's goals in utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funding. Among several others, the issue of access to broadband internet for Saline County's rural residents has been a focus of the board of commissioners. At the June 6 meeting, Nex-Tech Engineering Supervisor Jeremy Rumbeck presented a map showing areas of the county that will be built out. "The project includes about 130 miles of fiber optic cable to be placed and will be passing approximately 669 structures, or homes and businesses," Rumbeck said. Last August, County Commissioners approved letters of support and dedication of grant matching funds for three firms that were applying to the State of Kansas' Capital Projects fund for projects in rural Saline County. In January, the governor announced an award to Nex-Tech. The county is currently working on an agreement with Nex-Tech for the grant matching funds, which will come back to the commission for approval at a later date. At the June 6 meeting, Nex-Tech provided a brief overview of what the project will look like and where they are in the process as of now. There is already an ongoing Nex-Tech project in the city of Salina. The new project in rural Saline County has not begun construction yet, but is beginning the engineering process. More on the city project: City Commission allows more access for fiber internet installation With the award of state funding, Nex-Tech is required to have the project complete by the end of 2024. After the engineering process, Nex-Tech expects to begin construction in the early spring of 2024. Kendrick Calfee has been a reporter with the Salina Journal since 2022, primarily covering county government and education. You can reach him at kcalfee@gannett.com or on Twitter @calfee_kc. This article originally appeared on Salina Journal: Rural Saline County residents will soon have access to NextTech fiber New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.