IO Interactive set out to make the “World of Assassination” with its most recent Hitman trilogy, and now it has taken another big step toward realizing that vision. Hitman 3 will now just include the maps from the base versions of 2016’s Hitman and Hitman 2 in one purchase starting on January 26, 2023. Existing Hitman 3 owners will get these maps for free. IO explained this transition on its website. As of January 26, Hitman 3 will seamlessly transition to Hitman: World of Assassination, which includes the latest three Hitman games in one $69.99 bundle (and is, again, also free for those who own the base version of Hitman 3). There will also be a deluxe edition upgrade for $29.99 that also comes with the DLC maps from Hitman 2, the two sniper maps, the 7 Deadly Sins DLC from Hitman 3, and six deluxe Escalations, Contracts, and challenges. The stand-alone versions of 2016’s Hitman and Hitman 2 will also no longer be purchasable, either, but they will remain downloadable for those who already have them. This is far simpler than the existing system that has all sorts of access passes for each game and platform, which can be intimidating or confusing for users. While it was possible to import prior purchases into Hitman 3, it was a complicated system. IO cited this as a reason to move everything under one simplified roof, saying it wanted the “experience for new players to be straightforward and concrete.” This also applies to existing owners, too, since players who have parts of the deluxe edition can pay only $10 to complete their set. For example, if one player has the Hitman 2 DLC maps, they don’t need to spend the full $29.99 for the 7 Deadly Sins and challenges; those remaining two parts will just be $10. Changing the presentation is also being made with its upcoming Freelancer mode in mind. This roguelike mode is still in the works, and IO has been holding tests for it in recent months. It is launching the same day as the Hitman convergence: January 26. The post Hitman 3 Will Now Include First 2 Entries, Free For Existing Owners appeared first on ComingSoon.net - Movie Trailers, TV & Streaming News, and More. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.