Piper Sandler analyst Michael Lavery maintained a Buy rating on Post Holdings (POST – Research Report) today and set a price target of $115.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $84.68. Lavery covers the Consumer Defensive sector, focusing on stocks such as Celsius Holdings, Kellogg, and B&G Foods. According to TipRanks, Lavery has an average return of 4.4% and a 50.50% success rate on recommended stocks.  Currently, the analyst consensus on Post Holdings is a Strong Buy with an average price target of $105.60. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> POST market cap is currently $5.25B and has a P/E ratio of 17.70.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 63 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of POST in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.  Post Holdings (POST) Company Description: Post Holdings, Inc. is a consumer packaged goods holding company, which engages in operating of centre-of-the-store, refrigerated, foodservice, food ingredient, active nutrition, and private brand food categories. It operates through the following segments: Post Consumer Brands, Weetabix, Refrigerated Food, Active Nutrition, and Foodservice. The Post Consumer Brands segment manufactures, markets, and sells branded and private label RTE cereal and hot cereal products. The Weetabix segment focuses in the marketing and distribution of branded and private label RTE cereal products. The Refrigerated Food segment produces and/or distributes egg products, sausage, side dishes, cheese, and other refrigerated products to retail and foodservice customers. The Active Nutrition segment markets and distributes ready-to-drink beverages, bars, powders, and other nutritional supplements. The Foodservice segment includes egg and potato products. The company was founded by Charles William Post in 1895 and is headquartered in St. Louis, MO.
		   Read More on POST: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks