This article originally appeared on Outside Is it too much of a stretch to say that Italy is the capital of carbo-loading? As a lifelong runner, I've always loved big plates of pasta before races. When I recently went to Tuscany for a month during grape harvest season, I tried my best to avoid pasta and pizza as my main food groups - at times unsuccessfully. I was volunteering on a vineyard to help with winemaking, and it felt more like I was living there, not on vacation. I often cooked for myself and tried to discover new, nutritious pre- and post-run dishes, and discovered five unique foods that were perfect for fueling-up before a run or for replenishing the body afterwards, all while being incredibly delicious. Hummus's Italian cousin, "crema di ceci" is simple but delicious. This blend of chickpeas, salt, onion, and sage can be spread on fresh bread, amped up with sundried tomatoes, or eaten with a spoon (my preference!). Quick, portable, easy to make at home - it's basically a perfect companion for my runs in Tuscany.  What the science says: "Chickpeas are high-carbohydrate foods - always great for endurance sports - but they're special because they have a low glycemic index, meaning that they don't cause an immediate spike and subsequent crash during metabolism like most simple carbs," says Amber Smith, a Registered Dietitian based in Chicago. "This is a great food to fuel up with, as long as the runner doesn't have any fiber intolerances and can handle large amounts of fiber before long runs."  Recipe: Ingredients: 1 cup boiled chickpeas (or pre-cooked) 1/2 cup water Pinch of onion powder Pinch of salt To make: 1. In a high-powered blender, combine all ingredients. Refrigerate until ready to eat. If we're going to talk about pre- or post-run foods in Italy, I feel an obligation to include at least something from the pasta family. This unique dish is a twist on ravioli: imagine little clouds of ricotta, spinach, pecorino and a dusting of flour - in essence, it's the filling of ravioli, but without the heavy dough.  What the science says: Smith says that the spinach in gnudi makes it a good option for replacing electrolytes lost in sweat, due to the amount of sodium and calcium it contains.  Recipe: Ingredients: 12 oz. ricotta, liquid drained 12 oz. steamed spinach, liquid drained 1/2 cup + 1 Tbsp. pecorino, grated 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 1 egg To make: 1. Mix all ingredients except the 1 Tbsp. of pecorino, then cover and refrigerate for 1 hour.  2. Sprinkle a parchment-covered baking sheet with flour, then make 1 Tbsp. balls of the mixture and place on the sheet. Refrigerate for 1 more hour.  3. In a wide pan, cook the gnudi in boiling water, then remove and add to a bowl. Sprinkle the remaining pecorino on top.  While talking to the other volunteers on the vineyard, I kept hearing about this thing called "cecina." On a day off, I made the trek to Pisa to finally find one. This crispy, salty chickpea pancake was squeezed between two slices of fresh focaccia, and it . . . was . . . heavenly.  What the science says: Along with the benefits of being high in carbohydrates, as Smith states, there are even more benefits of chickpeas for runners. "Chickpeas are an extremely nutrient-dense food, providing a significant amount of potassium, phosphorus and magnesium per serving," says DJ Mazzoni, Registered Dietitian and Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist. "Since they provide a blend of macronutrients (fat, protein, and carbs), they make an ideal fuel-up food."  Recipe: Ingredients: 5 Tbsp. + 1 Tbsp. olive oil 2 cups chickpea flour 3 cups water Sea salt To make: 1. In a bowl, add the chickpea flour and salt, then gradually whisk in the water and 5 tbsp olive oil until smooth.  2. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it sit for two hours.  3. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees.  4. Oil a large roasting pan with the remaining 1 Tbsp. olive oil, then pour the mixture in a thin layer and bake for 20 minutes or until the top is slightly brown. 5. Sprinkle with additional sea salt, then slice and eat, or put between focaccia as a sandwich.  Why is lasagna in quotes, you ask? Because this dish doesn't quite have a name, but visually it looks a lot like lasagna. While working in the winery kitchen, I saw the chef peel a small fresh pumpkin with a potato peeler, then put it through a meat slicer. I was shocked, but the result was perfectly even layers of fresh pumpkin. I was tasked with alternating layers of pumpkin with fresh bechamel sauce. It was the most delicious recovery food I've ever had after my run. What the science says: Although pumpkin doesn't pack a big punch from a macronutrient standpoint, it does contain significant amounts of potassium, which is beneficial for runners, due to the electrolytes lost in sweat, says Smith. "Pumpkin is a great recovery food for this reason."  Recipe: Ingredients: 2 small pumpkins 2 cups bechamel sauce 2 Tbsp. pecorino, grated To make: 1. Peel, cut and then evenly slice the pumpkin using a mandoline (or meat slicer, if you have access to one!)  2. Grease and flour a springform pan, then add a layer of pumpkin, covering the whole bottom of the pan.  3. Add a thin layer of bechamel sauce to cover the first layer of pumpkin, then add another layer of pumpkin and another layer of sauce, repeating until you run out of ingredients. Sprinkle the pecorino on top.  4. Bake at 375 for 45 mins to 1 hour, or until the top is slightly brown.<  I had never thought to roast potatoes with fresh lemons until I saw the winery chef do it. Infusing the bright acidity of lemons while baking the potatoes, plus the addition of sage and rosemary, takes these potatoes to the next level. It sounds so simple, but it's so unique.  What the science says: "Potatoes are a healthy form of carbs that can provide energy before a run. They're very nutrient-dense, containing the minerals potassium and magnesium, along with vitamins B6, C, B9, B3, and more." Mazzoni recommends steaming or baking potatoes rather than frying them to maximize nutrient return.  Recipe: Ingredients: 3 yellow skinned potatoes, cut into bite-size pieces 2 lemons, quartered 2 Tbsp. olive oil 2 sprigs sage 2 sprigs rosemary Sea salt To make: 1. Preheat the oven to 375F. In a large bowl, combine the potatoes, olive oil, and a big pinch of salt. Toss to coat the potatoes with the olive oil. 2. Spread the potatoes on a greased roasting pan and space out the sage, rosemary, and lemons on top.  3. Bake for 40 minutes (tossing halfway) or until the potatoes are slightly brown. 4. Either remove the lemons before serving, or keep them in with the potatoes - just make sure not to eat them!  Italy is proof that simple food can be both nutritious and delicious. The next time you're looking to change up the pre- or post-run menu at home, you might consider doing as the Romans do (or in this case, the Tuscans), and try one of these unique Italian dishes. This article was first published by Trail Runner. For exclusive access to all of our fitness, gear, adventure, and travel stories, plus discounts on trips, events, and gear, sign up for  Outside+ today. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.