  Mon 19 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters Ian Poulter and the Ryder Cup are virtually synonymous, although not quite so much so that he can transfer it to wherever he lays his hat. No player is bigger than the Ryder Cup, something Poulter is learning the hard way. A player at seven of the USA vs Europe showdowns, Poulter is unbeaten in singles and has overall won 15 matches and lost just eight. Nicknamed “the Postman”, he has rarely failed to deliver. But the Englishman will only be present in Rome next month if he buys a ticket, having resigned from the European Tour to join LIV Golf. The 47-year-old has been one of the Saudi-backed tour’s biggest proponents, even claiming that the series’s team element (he plays for the Majesticks GC) had echoes of the Ryder Cup. “There’s a team vibe [in LIV Golf], which all of us guys that have been fortunate enough to play on LIV absolutely thrive on,” Poulter said this week. “It’s become a real sort of community type feeling amongst all the players and all the team members, the team staff, so it gives like a mini Ryder Cup feel into every single team that plays.” Poulter was speaking at Close House, home course of his team-mate Lee Westwood, where this week he is playing the International Series England. It flies under the radar of the golf world, even though it is a historic moment as the first Asian Tour event ever sanctioned on British soil. Poulter was keen to evangelise about LIV Golf, which offers a place in its ranks to the player who tops the money list from the Asian Tour’s International Series, as well as to the top three at the November qualifier. “LIV is a great product. It’s different. It’s three days, it’s not four days,” Poulter added. “And the opportunity is obviously for International Series players and the Asian players to be able to earn a really good living, compete against 48 incredible golfers, playing a very international schedule… so I will imagine there’s going be a lot of nerves, and there’s going be a lot of pressure on some of these guys to be able to perform at the highest level, so it’s going to put them in good stead if they are fortunate enough to pick out one of those four spots.” Some Ryder Cup veterans will probably be choking on their cornflakes reading Poulter talk about the pressure of playing on LIV in the same breath as the prestigious tournament which arguably made him famous. But he clearly still yearns for the Ryder Cup. It is no coincidence that the phrase passes his lips, even unprompted, just about every time he speaks publicly. When asked more directly about it at a GQ event last month, unsurprisingly the Postman delivered. “Having played seven, and been vice-captain at one of those, I have such a passion and a love for the Ryder Cup,” said Poulter. "It's just amazing what this event does to this man"Poulter delivers. Again! pic.twitter.com/Jm8R2AMMlU “I’m comfortable that I did a good job. I earned a lot of points for Team Europe, and we brought the trophy home five times. “Hopefully, going forward, I can be part of a team at some stage. Maybe not playing, but if I can help to captain or vice-captain – or just be there for the young guys that need a bit of support, because they’re big, stressful weeks. They’re very demanding.” The reality is that Poulter has, for now at least, opted out of “big, stressful” weeks of golf for LIV’s three-day events and guaranteed prize money, much as he might kid himself that he is facing off against “48 incredible golfers”: for every Brooks Koepka or Bryson DeChambeau, there is a world No 400 Graeme McDowell or never-played-PGA-Tour Andy Ogletree. Poulter also insists that the personal tensions between the mutineers and the loyalists have cooled, if they ever existed – “a lot of media-driven angst,” he called it. But he seems to be providing an alternative truth there too, going by Rory McIlroy’s latest Phil Mickelson barb. Asked about allegations, which Mickelson denies vehemently, that the American tried to bet $400,000 on Team USA in a Ryder Cup which he was playing, McIlroy replied: “At least he can bet on the Ryder Cup this year because he won’t be a part of it.” All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.