
  A POSTMAN diagnosed with a brain tumour in 2002 raised more than £6,000 after taking on a skydive in Cornwall. 
 
  Falmouth man Jonathan Plummer was diagnosed with a germ cell brain tumour when he was 20 years old after he’d drunk 10 litres of water a day for two years. Doctors initially thought he had diabetes, but eventually, a routine eye test revealed a mass which led to his diagnosis of a brain tumour on his pituitary gland.
 
  Sadly, surgery wasn’t an option, so Jonathan was placed on steroids which caused him to gain around five stone in weight.
 
Jonathan before taking to the skies   (Image: Brain Tumour Research)
  Jonathan said: “I was always very active and played rugby and cricket weekly which is something I’ve never been able to return to. I took up running and swimming as non-contact exercise and have regained control of my weight.”
 
  With his weight under control, Jonathan decided to take on a skydive to raise money for the Brain Tumour Research charity. His skydive took place over Perranporth in August and more than £6,000 was raised.
 
  “My skydive was a fantastic experience when it finally went ahead after delays because of the weather. It happened at sunset, and I had wonderful views over the Cornish coast.”
 
Helston & St Keverne YFC's ploughing match raises £5,843
 
  On Thursday (October 5), Jonathan and a group of other supporters were invited to the Brain Tumour Research Centre of Excellence at the University of Plymouth where they heard presentations from Dr Karen Noble, director of research, policy, and innovation at Brain Tumour Research and from lead investigator at Plymouth, Professor David Parkinson.
 
Flying high at sunset   (Image: Brain Tumour Research)Mel Tiley, community development manager at Brain Tumour Research, said: “We are grateful to Jonathan for his support.
 
  “His story reminds us that brain tumours are indiscriminate and can affect anyone at any age. We cannot allow this desperate situation to continue. Brain Tumour Research is determined to change outcomes for brain tumour patients and ultimately find a cure.”
 
Jonathan at the Wall of Hope at Brain Tumour Research Centre   (Image: Brain Tumour Research)
  Brain Tumour Research funds sustainable research at dedicated centres in the UK. It also campaigns for the Government and the larger cancer charities to invest more in research into brain tumours in order to speed up new treatments for patients and, ultimately, to find a cure.
 
  The charity is the driving force behind the call for a national annual spend of £35 million in order to improve survival rates and patient outcomes in line with other cancers such as breast cancer and leukaemia and is also campaigning for greater repurposing of drugs.
 
  To find out more about Sponsoring a Day of Research go to www.braintumourresearch.org/fundraise/sponsor-a-day
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.