Sign up to the free MyBury newsletter to get the best stories direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up to the free MyBury newsletter to get the best stories direct to your inbox We have more newsletters A woman has been handed a community order after her dog bit a postman and dragged him around like a ‘rag doll’. The postman, who’d been working in the profession for over 20 years, delivered some post at Gemma Woods’ home in Bury when he heard a dog barking aggressively. Suddenly, he heard a loud bang and saw the Staffy-Cross charging at him before it bit his lower leg, knocking him to the ground. Neighbours described the dog moving him around ‘like a rag doll’, Minshull Street Crown Court heard. READ MORE:  Couple killed girl, 12, in horror crash then fled as she lay dying - their cowardice didn't end there  Eventually, a man came out of the house and took the dog inside. Woods then came outside and tearfully apologised. Despite the injuries to his leg, which were treated through surgery, the postman has made a full recovery. Woods pleaded guilty to being an owner in charge of a dog dangerously out of control causing injury. She was handed a community order and has to pay a £50 fine. Betsy Hindle, prosecuting, said that on April 22 last year at around 10am, Mark Fox was completing his round on Ribble Drive when he made his delivery at Woods’ home. He could hear the dog and noticed the 5ft fence outside the house was broken. “He then heard a loud bang and saw the dog coming towards him,” Ms Hindle said. “The dog came up to him and bit him on the lower leg causing him to fall backwards and the dog remained on his leg.” Mr Fox tried to remove the dog by kicking out and wiggling his leg, to no success. A man then came out of the house, initially saying the injury was caused by Mr Fox falling backwards. The postman said it was clearly a bite from the dog before calling the emergency services. Whilst on the phone Woods came out of the house ‘hysterically crying’ and repeatedly apologised to Mr Fox.  She was later arrested and said in her interview that the dog was a Staffy-Cross, and became emotional because she ‘knew what was going to happen to it’. She added that she knew the gate was broken and the dog managed to get out whilst she had gone to the toilet. In a statement, Mr Fox said the incident hadn’t altered his view on dogs but he was concerned if that dog escaped from the house that it could cause harm to other people, including children or animals. He had to take time off work but did not lose out financially, the prosecutor said. Woods was said to have no previous convictions. The dog, which wasn’t named in court, has remained with her and there have been no further reported incidents. Michael Lea, mitigating for Woods, said his client was disabled and had limited movement in her legs. “She is extremely regretful and remorseful about what happened,” he said. “She was very emotional the first time she heard anything to do with the dog being put down.” He said Woods had taken steps to make her home more secure including fixing the broken gate, installing two padlocks and buying a Ring doorbell. Mr Lea added that the dog has not been out of the house without a muzzle or a lead since the incident in April. Sentencing, the judge, Recorder Michael Blakey said: “He indicated his fear that if this escalated again that the dog would attack others. Since this offence, you have taken steps to stop this from happening again.” Woods, of Ribble Drive, Bury, was sentenced to a 12 month community order, 12 days of rehabilitation activity requirements and ordered to pay a £50 fine over the course of ten weeks. No orders were made to destroy the dog. Read more of today's top stories here READ NEXT: 