Paul Savage, a postman, 'wonderful' dad and husband was found beaten to death in Flintshire, Wales, in a pool of blood on February 4, 2003. Police have now issued a fresh plea and a £20k reward for information 20 years after his brutal murder On a cold February morning in 2003 at 7.30am, a postman who had been partway through his delivery rounds was found dying in a pool of blood on a snowy driveway after been brutally beaten in Flintshire, Wales. Paul Savage, 30, was lying on the ground outside a house on Clayton Road in the market town Mold by a homeowner who had come out to go to his car. The dad-of-one had been repeatedly coshed around the head - so violently that the base of his skull had been crushed. The resident dialled for help, and Paul was taken to Wrexham Maelor Hospital, but his injuries were too severe. He passed away just before 11am, having not regained consciousness after the vicious attack. Police have now issued a fresh plea for information in the case, which happened 20 years ago today. Yesterday, North Wales Police issued the following statement: "Tomorrow marks 20 years since the murder of Paul Savage who was killed while working on his round as a postman in Mold on February 4, 2003. "Despite extensive police investigations and a cash reward being offered, no one has ever been convicted of his murder. "In support of the investigation and to help bring the case to a conclusion, the charity Crimestoppers, independent of the police, has today renewed a cash reward offer of £20,000 for information that leads to the conviction of those responsible for Paul Savage’s murder." Detective Inspector Myfanwy Kirkwood said: "We are thinking of Paul’s family today, who have still not had the closure that they deserve, and justice has not been brought for Paul’s death. "We believe that there is someone, or some people out there with vital information that would help us to bring this investigation to a positive conclusion. "I understand that people may feel reluctant to come forward after so many years, but I give reassurance that any information received will be treated confidentially and we are only interested in securing information that will assist in this investigation. "No unsolved case is ever closed, and anyone with any new and substantial evidence to provide is asked to come forward." Gary Murray from the charity Crimestoppers added: "Every day we hear from people who tell us how difficult it is to speak up about crime, especially if it’s about people who you may be close to via family and friends. "This is a terribly sad case and our charity is keen to support the police by offering up to £20,000 for information we receive anonymously that leads to a conviction. "Remember, that with Crimestoppers, we never ask for or store any of your personal details such as your name or contact number. All we ask if that you tell us what you know so that we can pass that on for you and allow justice for Paul and his loving family. "If you have information, please visit Crimestoppers-uk.org and fill in our anonymous online form, or call freephone 0800 555 111 anytime. When you are ready to tell us what you know, we will be here for you. "Anyone with information about the case can also contact us via our website, or by calling 101." Despite thousands of statements being taken over the years and a reconstruction of the murder on BBC’s Crimewatch programme, the attacker, or attackers were never found.  Twenty years on from Paul's murder, we take a closer look at what happened that day, the investigation, and the police's main theory about what could have happened. Paul Savage, 30, had moved to Gwernaffield, near Mold in Wales, from Sale, near Manchester, with his wife Charlotte and their young daughter Regan. While living in the north-west, Paul had run a budget shop called Give Us a Quid, while his wife, who he had married in 1995, took a beauty therapy course. Their lives dramatically changed after Paul was arrested and jailed for nine months for possessing cannabis worth more than £1million, with intent to supply, in 2001. After coming out of prison and returning to Sale, Paul started suffering from depression and sought a fresh start. They moved to north Wales and he became a postman, which he was incredibly excited about. Charlotte told the inquest after his death: "He was absolutely made up with this job. He could not believe his luck. "It boosted him all together and he cut down his drinking, eating and smoking and went on a fitness drive." His wife would later descibe him as a wonderful and very funny husband, and adding at the inquest after his death: "He loved his time with his daughter and she loved her time with him." Months after moving to Wales, on the morning of February 4, 2003, Paul got up for the job he loved a little later than usual, his wife told the inquest. His alarm went at 4am as usual, but he got out of bed an hour later "in a bit of a panic". Charlotte was later woken again by the phone ringing at about 7.40am, and assumed it would be Paul checking she was up to take their daughter to school.  But she was shocked to hear that it was a post office colleague saying her husband had had an accident at work. Paul had been found unconscious next to his bicycle near a primary school at 7.30am. He had suffered several head injuries, and his mailbag was lying next to him, but appeared to be untouched. The father-of-one sadly died from his injuries a few hours later. Witnesses said they had seen two young men wearing hoods near the scene. They were described as being aged between 18 and 20, but they were never found. A week after Paul’s death the murder weapon, a wooden bannister rail, was discovered nearby. Later, Home Office pathologist Dr Paul Johnston confirmed the cause of death was non-accidental, blunt trauma to the head. Coroner Mr Hughes told the inquest: "He had actually been attacked, and brutally attacked at that." Police initially thought that Paul had been the victim of a robbery or unprovoked attack – but this theory was later dismissed. After probing into his past, they assumed it may have not been some random tragedy. An investigation found that he had a number of previous criminal convictions. Paul's criminal history led police to consider whether he could have been the victim of a gangland hit or grudge attack. In 2005 police said they knew the motive of the murder, but weren’t prepared to release any further details. Police heavily relied on the public in finding out more details in the days and weeks after Paul's murder. Following this line of inquiry, police arrested five people, but none of these resulted in anything related to Paul’s death, and they were released without charge. Initially, Royal Mail offered a £25,000 reward for anyone who had information that could lead to solving the crime. In 2008 police added £75,000 to that, bringing it to £100,000. In 2008 senior investigating officer Det Ch Insp Wayne Jones said he believed people in the area had potentially useful evidence, but that they had remained "tight-lipped, out of misguided loyalty, or fear of repercussions." He also said that the attack had been "cowardly" and that the investigation "will not close until it is resolved". Horrified locals did all they could to assist the police, but Paul's killer, or killers, were never found. In 2018, police announced they would be reviewing the forensic evidence in the hope that the advances in DNA could help bring forward vital clues. Paul's mum June White welcomed the news, saying: "Somebody out there knows who killed my son and what happened.  "I just ask what kind of mother or grandmother can harbour their son who has left a wife without a husband and a little girl without her daddy? What kind of sister, cousin or friend can live with themselves? How can they? How can they sleep at night? "I sometimes wonder do the people who did this to my Paul have children of their own now? How would they like to get a knock on their door saying their child had been killed? "Somebody knows who murdered my son. I will never give up. I won’t."  At the time North Wales Police announced that his murder had "never been closer" to a conclusion, however, no arrests have been made since.  DI Christopher Bell of North Wales Police told BBC One’s Crimewatch Roadshow Live: "The difficulty in this case has been has been gaining the confidence and trust of the members of the Mold area. "We know from a number of witness that they have vital information and through fear of reprisals or the court process they are reluctant to come forward. "The attack took place half way up Clayton Road in Mold. Mr Savage placed his bike outside a gatepost and we know that is where he was viciously struck and left for dead. "We know from witness accounts that we have two people in dark clothing walking up from the Queens Park area. A key witness has seen two people matching the description walking away – I have no doubt they are connected. "From the murder weapon we know there are paint fragments which have been matched fragments on the hat of Mr Savage. Over the last few years there have been huge strides made with DNA. We are re-examining that now and we have never been closer." In February 2022, his mum told The Leader: "When I think about it, I wonder where all those years have gone because to me it only seems like it happened lately. "Each week I think I will give [North Wales Police] a ring to find out what's happening, but then I think no. I'll do it tomorrow, then next week. And the weeks go by. I am tired, I am drained and it's holding me back." Get email updates with the day's biggest stories