In a report released on June 28, Arun Viswanathan from RBC Capital maintained a Hold rating on Eastman Chemical (EMN – Research Report), with a price target of $83.00. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $83.72. Viswanathan covers the Basic Materials sector, focusing on stocks such as PPG Industries, Chemours Company, and Albemarle. According to TipRanks, Viswanathan has an average return of 4.7% and a 56.77% success rate on recommended stocks.  The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Eastman Chemical with a $94.31 average price target, implying a 12.65% upside from current levels. In a report released on June 21, Goldman Sachs also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $88.00 price target. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> EMN market cap is currently $9.88B and has a P/E ratio of 14.77.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Eastman Chemical Co. engages in the provision of specialty chemicals. It operates through the following segments: Additives and Functional Products, Advanced Materials, Chemical Intermediates and Fibers. The Additives and Functional Products segment includes chemicals for products in the transportation, consumables, building and construction, animal nutrition, crop protection, energy, personal and home care, and other markets. The Advanced Materials segment produces and markets its polymers, films, and plastics with differentiated performance properties for value-added end uses in transportation, consumables, building and construction, durable goods, and health and wellness markets. The Chemical Intermediates segment consists of large scale and vertical integration from the cellulose and acetyl, olefins, and alkylamines streams to support operating segments with advantaged cost positions. The Fiber segment offers cellulose acetate tow for use in filtration media, primarily cigarette filters. The company was founded by George Eastman in 1920 and is headquartered in Kingsport, TN.  Read More on EMN: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks