Celanese (CE – Research Report) received a Buy rating and a $149.00 price target from KeyBanc analyst Aleksey Yefremov yesterday. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $126.35. According to TipRanks, Yefremov is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 9.0% and a 55.20% success rate. Yefremov covers the Basic Materials sector, focusing on stocks such as LyondellBasell, Westlake Chemical, and PPG Industries. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Celanese with a $132.44 average price target, a 4.82% upside from current levels. In a report released on August 28, Alembic Global also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $150.00 price target. See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> CE market cap is currently $13.75B and has a P/E ratio of 11.09.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Celanese Corp. engages in the provision of technology and specialty materials businesses. It operates through the following segments: Engineered Materials, Acetate Tow, Acetyl Chain and Other Activities .The Engineered Materials segment includes the engineered materials business, food ingredients business and certain strategic affiliates. The Acetate Tow segment serves consumer-driven applications and is a global producer and supplier of acetate tow and acetate flake, primarily used in filter products applications. The Acetyl Chain segment includes the integrated chain of intermediate chemistry, emulsion polymers and ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) polymers businesses, based on similar products, production processes, classes of customers and selling and distribution practices as well as economic similarities over a normal business cycle and The Other Activities segment primarily consists of corporate center costs, including administrative activities such as finance, information technology and human resource functions, interest income and expense associated with financing activities. The company was founded by Camille Dreyfus and Henri Dreyfus in 1956 and is headquartered in Irving, TX.  Read More on CE: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks