Editor's note: The following story is the first in a series of articles outlining ways locals can save money or access needed resources and help. To suggest a topic for a "Poconos need to know" article, email the editor at afontones@gannett.com.  Regional electricity providers like PPL Electric Utilities and Met-Ed (a First Energy company) have raised their rates at least once since 2022. The Energy Information Administration reported that the average rate in Pennsylvania for residential customers was 17.87 cents per kWh in December 2022, an increase of 26% from the start of the year. According to the Public Utilities Commission, all Pennsylvania-regulated electric utility companies adjusted their PTC rates on Dec. 1, 2022, for residential, non-shopping customers. The PTC averages 40-60% of a customer's total utility bill. The PUC reported the following changes:  Met-Ed, up from 9.397 cents to 10.303 cents per kWh (10%) PPL, up from 12.366 cents to 14.612 cents per kWh (18%) PPL Electric Utilities, which provides electricity to more than 1 million people in Pennsylvania, announced it would not charge late fees in January and February, and would not cut off power through March. The move came after PPL resolved a technical issue that "resulted in a significant number of bills that were based on estimated electricity usage." "This issue involved bills sent from December 20 through January 9," the company said in a statement. "Estimates based on historical usage may have been higher or lower than actual usage." Impacted customers have either already received a corrected bill with actual usage, or an adjustment on bills from the subsequent billing period "to ensure you only pay for the electricity you used." In February, the company released an op-ed acknowledging the rising cost of electricity prices for their customers. "When our company experienced a technical issue in December that temporarily prevented our billing system from accessing meter data, creating confusion among our customers about their bills, the cost of electricity was thrust into the spotlight," the column reads. PPL urged customers to consider shopping for a new electricity supplier (the company doesn't generate electricity, it delivers it). "Bottom line: If you are currently paying more than PPL Electric’s Price to Compare of 14.6 cents per kilowatt-hour, you’re paying more than you need to," PPL stated in the op-ed. A closer look:Inflation is driving up utility costs in the Poconos. Locals pay the price Pennsylvania residents, no matter which utility they contract with, can shop for a different electricity supplier to save money on their bills. PPL purchases electricity on the open market in accordance to the PUC's approved processes. According to PPL, 60% of their customers rely on the company to buy electricity for them at the lowest rate possible. Nearly 1.5 million Pennsylvanians switched suppliers in January alone. When it comes to regional utilities: 1,025 (19.7%) Pike County Light and Power customers, 124,388 (21.3%) Met-Ed customers and a whopping 553,631 (39%) PPL customers made the swap to a new supplier. The PUC runs PAPowerSwitch.com, a comparison shopping website that allows customers to select their own supplier. Head to the website, enter your zip code, and see what your options are. Click "see full results" to see potential suppliers. For example, in the zip code 18360 (Stroudsburg), PPL customers that pay 14.6 cents per kWh could contract with new suppliers such as American Power & Gas of Pennsylvania, LLC, which had an offer as low as 7.5 cents per kWh on the website Thursday, March 2. The Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) helps Pennsylvanians living on low incomes pay winter heating bills in the form of a cash grant. Crisis grants are also available to households in immediate danger of being without heat. Grant payments range from $300-1,000, and are based on household size, income and fuel type. The grant does not have to be repaid. You can apply online for LIHEAP, or learn more by going to dhs.pa.gov, compass.state.pa.us, or calling the LIHEAP hotline Monday through Friday at 1-866-857-7095. Monroe County renters can apply for the Emergency Rental Assistance Program for help with utilities. Go to bit.ly/3ybNjsh, call 570-243-6677, or email erap@monroecountypa.gov for more information. In Pike County, renters can apply for the program via the Pike County Human Services office. Call 570-296-3434 or email humanservice@pikepa.org to learn more. Wayne County renters can email ERAP@WayneCountyPA.gov or call 570-253-6758. Ashley Catherine Fontones is the managing editor at Pocono Record (Stroudsburg) and Tri-County Independent (Honesdale).  This article originally appeared on Pocono Record: How to save money on electricity if you live in the Poconos New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.