Martin had served in the role in an interim capacity since Sept. 1 ALLENTOWN, Pa., Oct. 23, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- PPL Corporation (NYSE: PPL) announced today that 20-year PPL veteran Christine M. Martin has been appointed PPL Electric Utilities president, effective today. Martin had been named interim PPL Electric Utilities president Sept. 1 following the departure of Stephanie R. Raymond.  PPL Electric Utilities is one of several regulated utilities in the PPL family of companies. PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.5 million homes and businesses in 29 counties across eastern and central Pennsylvania. "Christine is an excellent fit to lead PPL Electric Utilities," said PPL Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Fran Sullivan. "She is passionate about our vision to be the best utility company in the U.S., has a proven history of building strong relationships with a wide variety of stakeholders, and joins a talented team focused on creating the utilities of the future and making a positive impact in the communities we serve."
		  Martin, who joined PPL in 2003, is a native of Pennsylvania and brings extensive experience in public affairs and stakeholder engagement to her new role. Prior to her interim role as PPL Electric Utilities president, she served as PPL's senior vice president of Public Affairs and chief sustainability officer. Before that, she served as vice president of Public Affairs and vice president of State Government Relations. "I'm incredibly excited about PPL Electric Utilities' future and the opportunities we have to improve service for our customers, continue to lead in the smart grid space, build on our proven track record of top-tier reliability, help drive economic growth in eastern and central Pennsylvania, and partner with others to ensure a safe, reliable, affordable and equitable clean energy future," said Martin. Before joining PPL, Martin served as deputy secretary for water management in Pennsylvania's Department of Environmental Protection, where she was responsible for statewide water resources management and policy. She also served as senior policy manager for environmental, infrastructure, energy and regulatory issues for Governors Tom Ridge and Mark Schweiker. About PPL PPL Corporation (NYSE: PPL), headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a leading U.S. energy company focused on providing electricity and natural gas safely, reliably and affordably to more than 3.5 million customers in the U.S. PPL's high-performing, award-winning utilities are addressing energy challenges head-on by building smarter, more resilient and more dynamic power grids and advancing sustainable energy solutions. For more information, visit www.pplweb.com. Note to Editors: Visit our media website at www.pplnewsroom.com for additional news about PPL Corporation.
     View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ppl-corporation-appoints-christine-m-martin-ppl-electric-utilities-president-301964747.html
  SOURCE  PPL Corporation; PPL Electric Utilities Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks