Pennsylvania electricity providers are adjusting their default rates on Thursday, June 1, for customers who do not shop around among the companies’ competitors. In the Lehigh Valley, FirstEnergy Corp.’s Met-Ed is raising its default rate — also known as the Price to Compare — by 2.5%, from 9.991 to 10.24 cents per kilowatt-hour (kWh). PPL Electric Utilities is lowering its default rate by 17%, from 14.612 to 12.126 cents per kWh. The Price to Compare comprises, on average, about 40% to 60% of a customer’s total utility bill, in addition to distribution and other charges, according to the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. Met-Ed and PPL Electric Utilities do not generate their own electricity but purchase electricity on behalf of customers who choose not to shop for a competitive rate. The Public Utility Commission’s papowerswitch.com website allows customers to learn more about shopping for different rates and to see the offers suppliers have in each community, searchable by ZIP code. Lehigh Valley electricity customers faced steep increases last year, amid what the U.S. Energy Information Administration described as “volatile” wholesale electricity prices. Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to lehighvalleylive.com. Kurt Bresswein may be reached at kbresswein@lehighvalleylive.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices