PPL Electric Utilities is under investigation after charging customers what the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission called “unusually high” energy bills. The PUC said Tuesday it will investigate what caused some PPL customers’ electric bills to exceed average — and expected — sums, and PPL’s accuracy and billing practices. “The Commission continues to encourage consumers to contact PPL with concerns about the size and accuracy of their bills, and work with the utility to explore options for corrected bills, payment options and financial assistance options,” the commission said in a statement. The PUC is advising customers who do not believe that PPL responded adequately to their concerns to contact the state agency’s Bureau of Consumer Services at 800-692-7380. Last month, PPL said it had fixed a “technical system issue” that temporarily prevented the Allentown-based electricity distribution company from accessing customer usage data. The issue allegedly caused the company to send estimated bills, based on customers’ past usage, to some customers instead. The company reportedly told customers that differences between estimated bills due in January and February would be resolved on a following bill, but customers were still shocked when they received bills much higher than their average usage suggested they should receive or their personal budgets could accommodate. While the practice of temporarily charging estimated prices is allowed by the PUC, which regulates utilities and looks into complaints from customers, the agency said the investigation would ensure “safe and reliable utility service at reasonable rates.” Customers’ shock was likely compounded by PPL’s most recent price increase, which took effect Dec. 1. The increase raised the default rate it charges customers to 14.61 cents per kilowatt-hour, up about 18% from 12.36 cents — with PPL saying it will add about $22 to the average customer’s monthly bill. December’s rate increase was the third in a little more than a year, according to a report by lehighvalleylive.com sister site pennlive.com. The president of PPL apologized to customers on Tuesday, saying the electricity provider has “fallen short of [our] standard in both our billing and responsiveness to customers,” pennlive.com reported. Our journalism needs your support. Please subscribe today to lehighvalleylive.com. Glenn Epps can be reached at gepps@lehighvalleylive.com or glenn_epps_on Twitter. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices