MONDAY UPDATE: As of Monday morning, PPL Electric Utilities had no additional outages in either Lehigh County or Northampton County, according to the company’s latest numbers. Both Lehigh and Northampton County Met-Ed customers were experiencing some power outages on the day after Christmas, according to the company’s outage figures. In Lehigh County, Lynn Township reported 24 of the county’s total 29 customers without electricity. The other five were reported in Weisenberg Township. Northampton County had 80 Met-Ed customers without power, the bulk of which were in the City of Easton, with 31, and Williams Township, with 14. Other municipalities that had five or more outages included Forks Township, Plainfield Township and Palmer Township. Across the Delaware River in New Jersey, Warren County had only 16 outages on Monday morning, according to Jersey Central Power & Light — eight of which were customers in Harmony Township. Hunterdon County still had 196 outages caused by severe weather. A total of 19 municipalities had some customers in the dark according to the company’s figures on Monday, led by Delaware Township’s 41, Readington Township’s 26, Kingwood Township’s 22 and Raritan Township’s 20. CHRISTMAS DAY MID-AFTERNOON UPDATE: Just after 3 p.m., PPL Electric Utilities had no more outages in Lehigh County, but 41 PPL customers — including 30 in Plainfield Township — didn’t have power in Northampton County, outage site figures show. Met-Ed was down to 226 customers without electricity in Northampton County, headed by Moore Township at 100, outage figures said. Upper Mount Bethel Township, which had been a problem over the past two days, was down to just six customers out, Met-Ed said. Warren County was down to 74 JCP&L customers without power, with Independence Township at 26 the only municipality in double figures. Hunterdon County remained the region’s hardest hit with 669 customers without electricity. Readington Township led the way with 152 customers without power, the FirstEnergy outage site said. INITIAL REPORTING: More than 1,600 customers remained without electricity Sunday morning in Lehigh, Northampton, Warren and Hunterdon counties, according to power company outage sites. The number is down from more than 6,700 on Saturday morning. Allentown-based PPL Electric Utilities had restored most of its customers, with just 40 still out early Sunday in Lehigh County and 35 in Northampton County, its outage site said. But Ohio-based FirstEnergy — parent company for local operations Met-Ed and JCP&L — was still battling to bring back power to its customers in the area after Friday’s flash freeze and high winds. Met-Ed at one point had 54,000 customers out across its regional coverage area, but locally, it was down by Sunday morning to 565 in Northampton County and 40 in Lehigh County. Rural Upper Mount Bethel Township in Northampton County had a majority of the issues, with 320 customers out, followed by also rural Moore Township with 100, Met-Ed’s outage site said. JCP&L outages in Warren County were narrowed to 126, with Independence Township (26) and Knowlton Township (22) leading the way. But there were still significant issues in Hunterdon County with 808 customers out, headed by Readington Township at 155 and Kingwood Township at 101, the outage site said. Met-Ed told residents to be cautious on Sunday if they venture out into the still cold weather. “Use caution if you must go outdoors today,” Met-Ed warned is a Sunday morning tweet. “Downed or low-hanging power lines could be hidden in storm debris, snow or fallen trees. If you see a downed or low-hanging wire, assume it is energized and dangerous. Stay far away and report it ASAP to 9-1-1.” And for those still without power — restoration times remain 11 pm. Monday in the Lehigh Valley — Met-Ed said the issues might be close to home. “As local power lines are repaired and put back in service, damage to individual customer service wires may become apparent,” the power company tweeted. “If your neighbor’s power is on and yours is not, the problem may be isolated to your individual service. If this happens, let us know.” In those cases, Met-Ed said to call (888) 544-4877 or text OUT to 544487. Thank you for relying on us to provide the local news you can trust. Please consider supporting lehighvalleylive.com with a subscription. Tony Rhodin can be reached at arhodin@lehighvalleylive.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices