In a report released today, David Arcaro from Morgan Stanley maintained a Buy rating on PPL (PPL – Research Report), with a price target of $33.00. The company’s shares opened today at $29.23. Arcaro covers the Utilities sector, focusing on stocks such as NextEra Energy, Eversource Energy, and Consolidated Edison. According to TipRanks, Arcaro has an average return of -4.5% and a 36.92% success rate on recommended stocks.  In addition to Morgan Stanley, PPL also received a Buy from RBC Capital’s Shelby Tucker in a report issued on January 17. However, on January 12, Mizuho Securities maintained a Hold rating on PPL (NYSE: PPL). See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> Based on PPL’s latest earnings release for the quarter ending September 30, the company reported a quarterly revenue of $2.13 billion and a net profit of $174 million. In comparison, last year the company earned a revenue of $1.51 billion and had a net profit of $207 million
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. PPL Corp. is a utility holding company, which engages in the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity. It operates through the following segments: U.K. Regulated, Kentucky Regulated, and Pennsylvania Regulated. The U.K. Regulated segment includes regulated electricity distribution operations of Western Power Distribution. The Kentucky Regulated segment comprises of LKE’s regulated electricity generation, transmission, and distribution operations of Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company; as well as regulated distribution and sale of natural gas of Louisville Gas and Electric Company. The Pennsylvania Regulated segment consists of regulated electricity transmission and distribution operations of PPL Electric Utilities Corporation. The company was founded in 1994 and is headquartered in Allentown, PA.  Read More on PPL: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks