Centric Software® is a Product Lifecycle Management solutions company and a Category Award Winner for Business Expansion, Innovation and Product Launches in the 2023 Just Food Excellence Awards Centric Software® is a Silicon Valley-based software company that provides its flagship Centric Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) platform, Centric PLM™, to brands, retailers and producers of all sizes across numerous sectors including food & beverage. The company is a Category Award Winner for Business Expansion, Innovation and Product Launches following the launch of its new PLM software updates, and the impressive growth of its client base within the food & beverage sector across several different markets. Centric Software is known for customer-driven innovations, incorporating them into two to three major releases annually. These enhancements are then available to all users. The company has added different functionalities for food & beverage over the past year including data package templates; importing recipes quickly and accurately from an outside source; importing nutrient data; and improved supplier collaboration where users can see all responses in one place. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 The latest release v7.8, builds even more flexibility into product hierarchies. Items can be moved in and out of these hierarchies, which can also be replicated for similar products. Pulling it all together, the Finished Product level allows everything to be included such as ingredients, raw materials, packaging and on up to the creation of assortments and variety packs. Also new in v7.8 are enhancements to the ‘mass replace’ function: ‘mass add’ and ‘mass delete’ capabilities. Other notable features include: Supplier Support Request, allowing users to generate supplier requests at both the Finished Product level or Raw Materials level; greater integration with Microsoft Teams to save users time and reduce the chances of errors caused by switching between platforms; artwork and packaging approval. Centric Software also has partnerships with CAD design solutions such as Solidworks, ADOBE and Rhino. Download our full 50+ page Awards Report, which contains all Excellence and Category Winners, Featured Winner Profiles and the Country Winner Breakdown. These functionalities are clearly proving to be useful to the industry as Centric has secured a range of new clients and seen impressive growth since launching its food & beverage business unit. Customers include multinationals like Ferrero and Land O’Lakes, through to smaller companies and startups like Wicked Foods and MeEat Food Tech. The company’s reach is global and clients can be found in countries as diverse as the US, Italy, Indonesia, the Netherlands and China. In the latter, it is already the chosen platform of LIHOO, Teway Food and Starpro. Silicon Valley based Centric Software provides an innovative product concept to launch platform for manufacturers, brands and retailers of all sizes in the food and beverage industry, food service and grocery retail sectors. Centric Software works closely with customers to achieve more efficient project management and safer product development, execute a competitive retail and product strategy, increase agility, speed time to market and get closer to consumers, resulting in maximized revenues and margins.  Centric solutions feature specific tools for food and beverage teams to launch new products, renew existing products and localize products for international markets. These include recipe formulation with automated calculations (costs, nutrition values, etc), specifications management, regulatory compliance checks, supplier collaboration, ingredient, allergen and nutrition declarations, artwork proofing and timeline and workflow management, driving the efficient creation of safe product portfolios.  All solutions are highly configurable and built hand-in-hand with market-leading companies:   Centric Software proudly maintains a 99% customer retention rate and a 100% go-live rate. Awarded for excellence by Just Food 3 times, by Frost & Sullivan several times and the recipient of many other regional accolades, Centric Software is proud to provide the best solution, backed by the best team and to partner with the best customers.  For more information, please visit www.centricsoftware.com.   655 Campbell Technology Parkway, Suite 200, Campbell, CA 95008 United States Tel: +1 408 574 7802 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 The Just Drinks 10th annual event returns with an exciting programme. Highlights include: sustainability growth innovation managing the cost-of-living crisis... 
		Global Food Industry News | Market Research and Reports - Just Food 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024