FC Dallas Foundation – STEAM FC is one of the 2023 grant recipients. The FC Dallas Foundation, Frisco Independent School District, and the National Soccer Hall of Fame formally launched STEAM FC powered by NEC in 2019. [File photo: FC Dallas Foundation screenshot] Irving-based NEC Foundation of America, the charitable giving fund of the NEC Corporation of America, has announced its 2023 grant recipients. With the grants, the foundation is dedicating more than $500,000 to Dallas-area schools and non-profit programs. Since 1991, the NEC Foundation of America’s mission has been “to contribute to the creation of social value and help advance human potential through technology and innovative giving programs.” This year’s grantees include both new and long-standing community partners, chosen based on “measurable community impact as well as demonstrated dedication to the foundation’s core pillars of education, health and human services, environmental stewardship and community wellbeing.” This year’s grant recipients are: “NEC understands its responsibility to support organizations on the front lines of caring for the communities we work and live in each day,” Ken Wilson, VP of Strategic Planning for NEC and VP of the  NEC Foundation of America, said in a statement. “Our 2023 grant recipients exemplify the immense dedication it takes to keep our communities thriving. We’re proud of the work they’ve done, and we look forward to supporting the continuation of that work through the foundation this year.” NEC Foundation goes way back with many of this year’s recipients, having long provided funding, donations, internships, and volunteer support. It has worked with Herbert Marcus Elementary School’s Catch Up & Read program to give students the reading foundation they need to succeed in school and life. The foundation co-founded the STEAM FC educational field trip program alongside the FC Dallas Foundation. And it has provided funding, internships, and upgraded technology for the Young Women’s Preparatory Network and Irma Lerma Rangel Young Women’s Leadership School. Lynn McBee, CEO of the Young Women’s Preparatory Network, says NEC’s “generous financial contributions” have enabled her network’s students “to plan careers in STEM fields at a rate that is four times higher than the national average.” “Their support provides these young women with hands-on learning experiences, access to cutting-edge tools, relevant internships and mentoring and highly trained teachers, all of which are essential for pursuing STEM degrees with confidence,” McBee said in a statement. “Thanks to NEC’s investment in our mission, our previously underserved students become highly qualified college graduates who are ready to make a positive impact on the world. Their partnership changes the world.” NEC Foundation said its newest recipient is the Dallas Education Foundation, whose executive director, Mita Havlick, more than welcomed the partnership. “We are beyond grateful and thrilled to partner with NEC Foundation,” Havlick said in a statement. “This donation to advance literacy is a continuation of the company’s long-term support of the students of Dallas ISD, and we know that NEC Foundation’s investment in this program will have direct impact by creating a positive connection between students and reading material, cultivating a love of learning, and promoting parent engagement.” This year’s round of funding has concluded, NEC said, but it aims to engage with new potential community partners during its next round of funding this fall. For more information, you can visit NECFoundation.org or reach out to the foundation directly at [email protected].  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   North Texas has plenty to see, hear, and watch. Here are our editors' picks. Plus, you'll find more selections to "save the date." Welcome to the pulse of North Texas, where creativity and innovation converge to shape the future of business and beyond. The Dallas Foundation's 2022 Field of Interest grants aim to assist 51 organizations embracing a wide range of issues—including the arts, critical needs, children and families, animal welfare, and more. Here's the full list of recipients. Peruse Dallas Innovates' special once-a-year magazines. Each edition is a keeper. Don't miss your chance to get our biggest-ever Dallas Innovates magazine. Request a complimentary copy of the once-a-year limited edition now. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.