The US Navy could use experimental “lightning carriers” in a possible conflict with China over Taiwan, Business Insider reported on Wednesday. The lightning carrier concept involves using converted amphibious assault ships (LHAs) carrying Lockheed Martin F-35B “Lightning II” stealth jets. It was tested last summer by the US Navy and US Marines Corps using the America-class warship USS Tripoli. US Vice Admiral Karl Thomas, the commander of the US Navy 7th Fleet, in October said that the concept is part of efforts to increase the firepower of the fleet’s ships, Business Insider reported. Photo: Screen grab from the Twitter account of the US Navy Thomas made the remarks during an event hosted by think tanks the US Naval Institute and the Center for Strategic and International Studies. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) has been expanding its capabilities to match its US counterpart, and Beijing might invade Taiwan within the decade if it achieves superiority, US officials have said. An amphibious assault ship — which typically carries helicopters, vehicles and a battalion of marines — can be configured into a “lightning carrier” with up to 20 F-35B jets stored onboard, Thomas said. The F-35B is the short-takeoff and vertical-landing variant of the fifth-generation F-35 joint strike fighter designed to utilize stealth and with advanced sensors to defeat opposing aviation and air defense systems. “I will note that [an] LHA with 14 F-35Bs is much more capable than either of the PRC’s [People’s Republic of China] current carriers, both from a sortie-creation perspective as well as just a sheer capability,” Thomas was quoted as saying. “There is no comparison between a J-15 and an F-35B,” Thomas said, referring to the PLAN’s main carrier-based strike fighter. Lightning carriers carry fewer jets than fleet aircraft carriers, which can feature more than 50 jets, but are significantly cheaper and more versatile, as the configuration enables ships to switch between naval aviation and amphibious assault platform, he said. “One day you can have F-35Bs on the flight deck. The next day you can have MV-22s and you can be putting marines at the shore, and so it just is a very versatile instrument,” he said. The US Navy is continuing to experiment with integrating lightning carriers with existing naval forces and formations, the report said. 

                                                                                The Kaohsiung Museum of Fine Arts yesterday apologized for forbidding children from copying paintings by freehand drawing, saying it welcomes visitors to make sketches of paintings on drawing tablets or sketchpads.
The museum issued the remark after a museumgoer nicknamed “Mickeyelk Gesner” on Thursday posted on Facebook that her son had been sketching a painting by Pablo Picasso on a tablet computer at the exhibition “Capturing the Moment” on Wednesday when a museum worker told him to stop drawing.
“The staff told us, ‘Only taking photos is allowed. No copying. This is a rule,’” she quoted the worker as saying.
Physician Lee Chia-yan                                     

                                                                                A magnitude 5.7 earthquake struck off the coast of Yilan County at 5:06pm yesterday, the Central Weather Administration (CWA) said.
The earthquake occurred offshore, 38.3km south-southeast of Yilan County Hall, at a depth of 9km, CWA data showed.
The quake’s intensity, which gauges the actual effect of a seismic event, was highest in parts of Yilan County, where it measured a “weak 5” on Taiwan’s 7-tier intensity scale.
The temblor recorded an intensity of 4 in parts of Hualien, Taoyuan and New Taipei, and 3 in parts of Taichung, Nantou, Taipei, Hsinchu and Miaoli, CWA data showed.
There were no immediate reports of damage                                     

                                                                                China’s travel booking platform ctrip.com has removed the Evergreen Laurel Hotel in Shanghai from its listings after the chain’s Paris venue banned the Chinese national flag during the 2024 Summer Olympics, sparking an Internet furor.
The story — which had garnered 110 million views on Sina Weibo — had since been removed from the platform’s list of most popular posts.
On Monday, a Chinese influencer known as Instructor Zhang (張教官) accused the Evergreen Laurel Hotel in Paris of refusing his request for the Chinese flag to be displayed at the venue in a video uploaded to TikTok.
A person purported to be a                                     
HUGE UPGRADE: 
                                        Once Terminal 3 is completed, the airport’s passenger service capacity would expand to 82 million travelers per year from 37 million, an official said                                        The north concourse of Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport’s Terminal 3 is scheduled to begin operations in the middle of next year, Taoyuan International Airport Corp (TIAC) said yesterday.
The Terminal 3 project was launched as the number of air travelers accessing the nation’s largest international airport each year has already exceeded the combined capacity of terminals 1 and 2.
The two existing terminals were designed to be accessed by 37 million air travelers per year. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, about 48.36 million accessed the airport in 2019.
The airport operator yesterday organized a field trip for reporters to see Terminal 3 construction                                    