Download the Lamudi App  The LERIS PRC Online portal aims to speed up the payment of candidates for different licensure exams, registration, and license renewal. 
Although registration is required, you can still use LERIS PRC online services without an account. 
Downloadable forms such as the board exam application form and PRC Certificate of Good Standing application form are also available in the LERIS PRC portal. Table of Contents LERIS (Licensure Examination & Registration Information System) serves as Philippine Regulatory Commission’s official online portal. The LERIS PRC Online portal aims to speed up the payment of candidates for different licensure exams, registration, and license renewal. Although PRC Online Services are accessible twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven days a week, service interruptions may occur. These can be due to set maintenance windows, specified service intervals, computer, communications, electrical, or network failures, and other factors beyond PRC’s control.  If you wish to apply for the board exam or renew your PRC ID, you can do so in the comfort of your home. If you have recently taken the board exam, such as the real estate broker licensure exam, and want to view your ratings, you can also use the LERIS PRC Online portal.   Complete the sign-up form to establish your User ID and password. You are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of the password and account. In addition, you are liable for all activities under your password or account. The email address you give will also function as your User ID. If your password, account, or any other security breach is used without your permission, you must: Users must keep their User ID and Password private to guarantee that nobody else may access their information.  To activate your account, an email will be sent to your registered email address. Copy the OTP, enter your OTP, and then select “Verify.” A pop-up notification will show after successfully validating your email.  In exchange for using the LERIS PRC Online Service, you must: Registrants must avoid the following activities when using the LERIS PRC Online Portal: If you don’t want to register, you can still use LERIS PRC online services without an account. To use the portal without an account, you’ll need the following:  After settling your account and requirements, you can now use LERIS PRC’s online services. Here are the available LERIS PRC online services: After processing or issuing the Notice of Admission, you can apply for various licensure exams online. Here is a step-by-step guide for the board exam application: The same process applies to Special Professional Licensure Examinations (SPLBE) online applicants. All you need to do is go to the Exam Application (SPLBE) page.  The examination/application fee payment may still be used only until the next examination schedule if the examination applicant fails to meet all conditions during the allowed period of application. Application processing and payment must be completed by the deadline or earlier. After the deadline, no application shall be accepted. Failure to show up for the examination will result in the loss of the payment. The LERIS PRC portal also allows registered professionals to renew their PRC ID online. Use the login information registered in the previous process to access your account.  Here are the steps on renewing your PRC ID online: You can also verify your ratings and registration via the LERIS PRC online service. If you recently took the real estate licensure exam and want to check your ratings, you can use the online portal. Verifying your PRC board exam rating online and your registration via name or PRC license number is quick and doesn’t require registration.  You can go to the Verification page in the LERIS portal and select what you want to verify. You can then proceed by filling in the required information, such as your complete name, license number, date of examination, and application number.  Downloadable forms such as the board exam application form and PRC Certificate of Good Standing application form are also available in the LERIS PRC portal. You can also find announcements on licensure exam schedules on the PRC website.  Although signing up for an account to use the LERIS PRC online portal isn’t mandatory, having an account makes your online service more seamless. Having an account is also more convenient when renewing your license as you no longer need to fill in the required information since your data is already in the LERIS portal. For more tips and advice, check out our previous journals here.  

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  
 © 2019 Lamudi Philippines Inc. All rights reserved. Material may not be published or reproduced in any form without prior written permission. We at Lamudi are committed to giving you the best experience. For any questions, suggestions, comments, or issues, kindly contact us. FACEBOOK MESSENGER: https://www.messenger.com/t/LamudiPhilippines EMAIL: wecare@lamudi.com.ph OFFICE: 5F & 6F, Keyland Valero Building, 114 Valero St., Salcedo Village, Bgy. Bel-Air Makati City, 1209, PH