Latest Nottingham Forest news as Steve Cooper's Reds prepare for crucial summer transfer window Get Reds transfer latest, team news, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get Reds transfer latest, team news, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Nottingham Forest have announced their retained list following the end of the 2022/23 season. Six players leave the Reds at the end of their contracts. Lyle Taylor, Cafu, Jesse Lingard and Andre Ayew all depart as free agents, with the exits of midfielder Jack Colback and goalkeeper Jordan Smith having already been announced. Meanwhile, loanees Dean Henderson, Keylor Navas and Renan Lodi return to their parent clubs. Whether it is a final farewell for all of them remains to be seen, however. READ MORE: Forest confirm exit of club stalwart amid Steve Cooper praise READ MORE: Forest confirm activation of contract clause ahead of key transfer window News of the retained list comes after confirmation that a clause in Serge Aurier’s contract has been triggered following Premier League survival being secured. His deal will now run until summer 2024. Additionally, Forest’s obligation to buy Chris Wood from Newcastle United came into effect when the striker made his third appearance for Steve Cooper’s side. His loan will therefore officially become a permanent move this summer. It means the Reds’ squad for the 2023/24 campaign is already starting to take very tentative shape. Head coach Cooper has said he anticipates a “more normal” amount of signings this year, compared to the 29 brought in across the past two transfer windows. "I think there will be more normal numbers,” the Welshman said before the final game against Crystal Palace. “There will be a natural process of assessment at the end of the season of where you think you're at and how you improve.” Forest have also announced six academy players are to depart. They are Billy Fewster, Alex Gibson-Hammond, Ryan Hammond, Nicky Hogarth, Adnan Kanurić and Lewis Salmon. The retained list is as follows: Free transfer: André Ayew, Cafú, Jack Colback, Billy Fewster, Alex Gibson-Hammond, Ryan Hammond, Nicky Hogarth, Adnan Kanurić, Jesse Lingard, Lewis Salmon, Jordan Smith, Lyle Taylor.  Contract option exercised: Serge Aurier.  Aged 24 or over under contract: Harry Arter, Taiwo Awoniyi, Willy Boly, Josh Bowler, Steve Cook, Felipe, Emmanuel Dennis, Mohamed Dräger, Remo Freuler, Gustavo Scarpa, Wayne Hennessey, Ethan Horvath, Cheikhou Kouyaté, Richie Laryea, Orel Mangala, Scott McKenna, Moussa Niakhaté, Lewis O'Brien, Omar Richards, Jonjo Shelvey, Sam Surridge, Harry Toffolo, Hwang Ui-Jo, Joe Worrall, Ryan Yates.  Brian Clough is a true Nottingham Forest legend. Two European Cups, a league title, two European Super Cups, four League Cups and close to two decades of cherished memories - Cloughie really was unique.  To mark 30 years since he left the City Ground, the Nottingham Post have produced a special edition celebrating his trophy-laden time with Forest.   It includes interviews with former Reds players, stunning images from our picture archives, columnists, and plenty more.  You really don't want to miss it! The souvenir edition will hit the shops on April 19th, but you can PRE-ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! If you don't live in the area, don't worry - we have you covered. We will post UK and worldwide. All the info you need is HERE.  Aged under 24 under contract: Brandon Aguilera, Fin Back, Giulian Biancone, Connor Brown, Aaron Donnelly, Danilo, Tyrese Fornah, Morgan Gibbs-White, Ben Hammond, Riley Harbottle, Brennan Johnson, Pharrell Johnson, Ateef Konaté, Julian Larsson, Loïc Mbe Soh, Jamie McDonnell, Alex Mighten, Braian Ojeda, Detlef Esapa Osong, Jonathan Panzo, George Shelvey, Dale Taylor, Neco Williams.  Aged under 24 offered contract: James Clarridge, Oliver Hammond.  Scholarship year one under contract: Zach Abbott, Kevin Adueni, Danny Anisjko, Tony Gbopo, Georgios Lemonakis, Henry Lister, Elijah Morgan, Theo Robinson, Faruq Smith, Joel Thompson, Archie Whitehall, Keehan Willows. READ NEXT The transfer challenge facing Forest amid hint being dropped Forest news and transfers LIVE as Reds plot summer business Forest announcement sparks ‘beautiful’ reaction as summer business starts Forest and the Clough years - get your 48-page special edition 