Latest Nottingham Forest news brings reaction from pundit Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink after the club's defeat to Manchester United Get Reds transfer latest, team news, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get Reds transfer latest, team news, match updates and analysis delivered straight to your inbox We have more newsletters  Former Chelsea striker Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink has warned Nottingham Forest face a “very hard” task to stay in the Premier League after their defeat to Manchester United.   Keylor Navas and Felipe were among the players to  impress for the Reds, who made a positive start to the game. However, Antony gave Man United the lead just after the half-hour mark, with Diogo Dalot doubling the away side’s advantage after the break, just as  Forest  were hoping to gain control at the City Ground.  Steve Cooper ’s side were left to rue their missed chances and saw two penalty appeals waved away as they attempted to earn a statement result on Sunday. Defeat leaves the Reds in the bottom three on goal difference and continue their 10-game winless run. Former Forest coach Hasselbaink believes the team will struggle to leapfrog another side in their bid for survival.  READ MORE:  Match of the Day pundits send Nottingham Forest ‘alarm’ and give Man Utd handball verdict   READ MORE:  Forest vow made as honest verdict delivered on 'really poor run'   “After today how they played, I think it’s going to be very hard,” Hasselbaink told Sky Sports, when asked about Forest’s survival hopes. “I believe they need three more wins for them to have a chance. “They have to play the big [teams], they have to get something out of their bag, they have to go somewhere and get a result for them to sustain themselves in the Premier League. The Brentford game, the Southampton game, they’re going to be ever so important. You need to get six points from there. “Liverpool away is going to be difficult - it’s not impossible. Yes [they’re more likely to win points at home] but here is not going to be enough. You need to get something from away [matches] as well.” Next up for Forest is a trip to Liverpool on Saturday, with the club also set to host Brighton and travel to Brentford to round-off April. The team’s final home game is against Arsenal on the penultimate weekend of the season before a final day showdown at Crystal Palace.  Brian Clough is a true Nottingham Forest legend. Two European Cups, a league title, two European Super Cups, four League Cups and close to two decades of cherished memories - Cloughie really was unique.  To mark 30 years since he left the City Ground, the Nottingham Post have produced a special edition celebrating his trophy-laden time with Forest.   It includes interviews with former Reds players, stunning images from our picture archives, columnists, and plenty more.  You really don't want to miss it! The souvenir edition will hit the shops on April 19th, but you can PRE-ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! If you don't live in the area, don't worry - we have you covered. We will post UK and worldwide. All the info you need is HERE. READ NEXT:   Serge Aurier drops injury hint in Nottingham Forest message     Cooper makes Nottingham Forest admission after Man United defeat     Roy Keane responds to Steve Cooper complaint in Nottingham Forest defeat vs Man Utd     Cooper blasts 'really, really bad error' in Nottingham Forest defeat     Bruno Fernandes reveals Keylor Navas conversation following Nottingham Forest defeat vs Man Utd   