By Tom Collomosse For Mailonline   Published:  04:12 EDT, 5 July 2023   |  Updated:  19:58 EDT, 5 July 2023      26 View  comments  Brentford are among the clubs who believe Brennan Johnson can be prised from Nottingham Forest this summer despite having a £30million enquiry knocked back. Forest’s homegrown winger was one of the stars of their Premier League survival last term but ended the season on the bench and Mail Sport understands the club may be willing to cash in on the 22-year-old, who also has admirers at Aston Villa. Yet even to consider selling Johnson, it is thought Forest would have to be presented with an offer in the region of £50m. Playing both wide and through the middle, Johnson impressed in his first season of top-level football, scoring eight goals and providing three assists as Forest secured their Premier League status with a game to spare. He was also part of Wales’ World Cup squad and is an international regular. Like a number of top-flight clubs, Forest have one eye on making sure they stay within spending rules and player sales is the easiest way to guarantee they do. As a player developed in the academy, any fee generated for Johnson would represent pure profit. Nottingham Forest's Brennan Johnson is attracting interest but the club want £50m for him The 22-year-old scored eight Premier League goals this season as Forest scrambled to survival Boss Steve Cooper plans to build his team around another young star, England Under-21 attacker Morgan Gibbs-White, while much is expected of Brazilian midfielder Danilo in his first full season in the English game. Brentford moved for Johnson in January 2022 and then sounded out Forest again last month, only to be knocked back swiftly. There is also believed to be interest from Spain in Johnson although the asking price would rule out the majority of La Liga clubs. Johnson featured in Wales' ill-fated World Cup campaign in Qatar, crashing out of Group B Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group