Professional footballers, including Jamie Vardy, have been warned about the use of snus in the game with clubs even highlighting its negative health impact Top stars are causing a “high level of concern” with the growing use of snus throughout football. The Professional Footballers’ Association are backing a 12 month study into the growing use of the smokeless nicotine product throughout all levels of the game. Premier League stars have been pictured rubbing the gum-style on their upper lip while sitting on the substitutes’ bench and former England striker Jamie Vardy was even pictured with a tin of Snus during Euro 2016. It is designed to be a stimulant but also be a replacement for cigarettes while substitutes often use it before coming on. But there are clear health warnings as it has been linked to heart conditions, oral disease and decreased performance.  Many Premier League clubs have even produced presentations to players to warn them of the negative impact and urge them to stop using it. The PFA are now asking members to take part in the study which is being led by Loughborough University who will interview players as well as also producing surveys. Dr Daniel Read, lead researcher from the Institute for Sport Business, Loughborough University London, said: “There is a high level of concern in the football community about players using Snus and the potential impact this may have on their welfare. “Through this project with the PFA, we hope to learn more from the players’ perspective to better support their physical and mental wellbeing.” Dr Michael Bennett, the PFA’s Director of Player Wellbeing, said: “Through our conversations with players and their clubs we are aware that there is a rise in the use of snus in the game. We want to use research like this to better understand that trend, the motivations of players and how aware they are of the risks. “We can then use that knowledge to play our part in ensuring members are aware of the negative impacts that can be associated with Snus use.” The first findings of the study will be presented by the end of the year. Join our new WhatsApp community! Click this link  to receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you’re curious, you can read our  Privacy Notice.  Get the FREE Mirror Football newsletter with the day's key headlines and transfer news straight into your inbox