 According to data sourced from the National Institutes of Health, approximately 30.7% of adults in the U.S. are overweight; CDC reports that the obesity prevalence skyrocketed from 30.5% to 41.9 in 2020.  Knowing that millions of adults in America want to lose excess weight and body fat, Eddy Rosell Fitness offers its services to help those that are serious about finally losing the fat. The company is founded and helmed by Eddy Rosell, a nutrition and fitness coach with a biochemistry degree on a mission to “help others navigate their fat loss journey” with predictable, sustainable results.  As a young adult, Eddy struggled with weight issues and pursued answers to this problem anywhere he could find reliable health and nutrition information. He devoted years of studying to biochemistry and uncovered the “science behind health and fitness”. After overcoming these challenges and losing 125 pounds himself, Eddy decided to begin helping others who today face similar health issues, and thus Eddy Rosell Fitness was born.  Unlike contemporary weight loss training programs and coaches that promise overnight fat loss results, Eddy bases his methods on evolving science and evidence-based protocols, underscoring that quick success may feel gratifying, but sustainable, long-term results are what ultimately lead to a healthier life.   Eddy Rosell’s evidence-based approach blends nutrition, stress management, sleep quality, food tracking, and fitness coaching in perfect harmony. By combining the right nutrition, fitness  and behavioral elements that affect the overall health of individuals, Eddy manages to deliver consistent results to his clients.  The founder of Eddy Rosell Fitness is its first success story. Eddy implements the methods and techniques he used on himself while coaching others and strives to ingrain a mindset focused on unlocking healthier habits and behaviors that will last a lifetime. According to Eddy, America is “getting fatter and unhealthier every year,” and his coaching method seeks to reverse that: “Whether it’s losing some body fat, getting stronger, or improving overall health, I’ve been through it myself and I’m most fulfilled when helping others avoid the setbacks and finally make positive changes in their health and fat loss goals,” Eddy said.  More information about Eddy Rosell Fitness is available on the company’s official website. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.