DREAM TEAM'S fantasy game will be better than ever this coming season. We’ve revolutionised the scoring system for 2023/24 and there’s a significant change Dream Team gaffers should focus on when selecting their goalkeeper for the campaign ahead. CLICK HERE TO PLAY DREAM TEAM 2023/24 NOW - FREE TO PLAY, AVAILABLE WORLDWIDE, MORE WINNERS THAN EVER BEFORE! Clean sheets remain the primary currency with custodians earning five points each time they shut out their opponents (provided they play at least 60 minutes of the fixture). Keepers will also be punished with a minus point for every goal they concede after the first in any given game. The big difference this season is the introduction of a point earned for every two saves registered, with saves being defined by stats boffins OPTA. This is a notable factor as previously Dream Team bosses would be content with backing a keeper sat comfortably behind a solid defence but, going forward, it may be the case that selecting an individual who is required to make their fair share saves is a better strategy. To analyse how the new scoring methodology may impact Dream Team’s goalkeepers, let’s take a look at the five players who would have benefited most last season had the new system been implemented. DREAM TEAM GOALKEEPERS WOULD HAVE BENEFITED MOST FROM THE NEW SCORING SYSTEM LAST SEASON The first thing to note is that David de Gea, who finished as Dream Team’s outright top goalkeeper in 2022/23, would have earned an additional 118 points via the new scoring system! In fact, no player in any position would have benefited more than the Spaniard, who made 101 saves in the Premier League last term plus many more in all competitions. But with De Gea having left Old Trafford, it will be interesting to see whether Andre Onana (£4m) can fill the void. What Dream Team managers should take away from Aaron Ramsdale and Alisson’spoint spikes is that goalkeepers who combine regular clean sheets with high save numbers will benefit most from the new process. Jordan Pickford’s appearance in this list is notable because Everton finished 17th in the league last season and, generally, the success of defensive assets are deeply linked to their team’s fortunes. The new scoring system recognises the fact some keepers may be impressive individually even if the team they represent is struggling as a whole. In 2022/23, David Raya (£4m) registered the most saves (154) in the top flight with Bernd Leno and Pickford completing the podium - these are the type of stats gaffers should take notice of when building their team ahead of the new season. CLICK HERE TO PLAY DREAM TEAM 2023/24 NOW - FREE TO PLAY, AVAILABLE WORLDWIDE, MORE WINNERS THAN EVER BEFORE! ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/