The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 While it’s easy to fall in love with the classic look of asphalt shingles and wooden shakes, metal roofing has a long list of hard-to-ignore perks. Metal roofing prices range from $8,500 to $68,000 including both materials and labor for the average-sized roof. Sure, you’ll pay a bit more for metal roofing compared to other roof replacement costs, but with a lifespan of up to 100 years, it could be worth the investment in the long run. 
Key Takeaways 
 Trust The Experienced Roofers For Your Home And Business If you need to reroof your home or office or if you need a new roof itself, choose the top-rated roofing services for reliable work and optimal results.  Metal roofing cost an average of $13,200 to install on a 1,700-square-foot roof. It is important to note that more than two-thirds of the price often goes toward materials alone. You’ll pay anywhere from $1 to $25 per square foot for metal roofing materials plus another $2 to $14 per square foot for labor. It is always important to choose a type of roofing tailored to your local climate. Some types of metal will stand up better against corrosion, heat reflection and damage from impact. While roofing pros often break the price down by square feet, metal roof materials are often sold in “squares”—or 100 square feet. Steel roofs are incredibly versatile and cost between $5 and $17 per square foot for labor and materials, or between $500 and $1,700 per roofing square. The wide price range accounts for everything from simple corrugated sheets of steel to galvanized steel that comes in shingles and tiles. Higher-end steel roofing features specialized coatings that alter the look and durability of the metal. Coming in at $8 to $18 per square foot, stainless steel roofing lives in a category of its own. The unmatched metal can stay strong for up to 100 years against storm damage, rust or corrosion. You may need to update its faded patina over time, but stainless steel is becoming increasingly popular for residential buildings. Many modern tin roofs are actually a combination of steel saturated with a tin coating. You’ll pay between $10 and $23 per square foot for tin roofing materials including the cost of installation. However, not only is a tin roof not very common anymore, but it is also prone to rust and corrosion, so be sure to consider the long-term cost of roof repairs. Homeowners looking to make an eco-friendly upgrade will love the recyclable aluminum roofing options. Aluminum is also an expert at reflecting the sun, potentially lowering your AC bills. Including labor, installing aluminum roofs will cost between $8 and $18 per square foot. These roofs also last up to 50 years without major repairs. Copper roofing materials top the price charts, coming in between $20 and $40 per square foot or $2,000 and $4,000 per roofing square. A 1,700-square-foot roof could cost up to $68,000 between labor and materials. However, copper roofing will last over a century, resist corrosion and maintain its beauty as the patina changes in the sun. Zinc roofing is an equally fascinating metal that maintains a protective patina and coating against damage. Roofing prices for zinc can range from $16 to $25 per square foot when you include installation. However, you will pay far less on maintenance over the years, even in harsh conditions. Using your home's equity is an easy way to fund your new roof! Get prequalified in minutes by clicking on your state. Installation plays a significant role in metal roofing prices. Let’s break down how labor prices can sway your estimate. As we mentioned earlier, you’ll pay between $2 and $14 per square foot for metal roof installation, or between $3,400 and $23,800 for a 1,700-square-foot roof. The cost will depend on several primary factors, including: The final price tag of your metal roof heavily depends on if you need new underlayment as well. The synthetic or felt layer sits between the metal sheets or shingles and the roof’s framing. Add between $2 and $4 per square foot for the cost of underlayment installation and materials. The pitch and shape of your roof will play a role in your professional estimate. Take a moment to think about the slope of your roof and how difficult it may be to access and stand on when installing the metal sheets. Steeper roofs are more difficult and will take longer to cover, increasing your bottom line. While there’s no set price based on slope alone, the complex shape of some roofs can increase the price. Traditional gable, dutch and hipped roofs typically cost between $4 and $30 per square foot to cover while Mansard and roofs with dormer windows can push up to $40 per square foot. There are many reasons to consider metal roofing, but versatility is one of its top perks. You can shift your roofing price based on the style of material, its thickness and how much of your roof needs repairing. The shape and style of your roofing material will affect the cost of materials and the price to install it. Think of it this way: securing bundles of shingles will take longer than attaching large corrugated sheets, but you may not get the look you desire. Here’s what to expect for metal roofing costs by style for both labor and materials: The gauge, or thickness, of metal roofing material typically ranges between 22 and 29. The lower the number, the thicker the metal roofing material. The thickest gauge of 22 will often cost between $10 and $25 per square foot whereas thinner gauges—more commonly used on sheds and other storage areas—can cost as little as $2 per square foot. Labor prices for replacing your whole roof jump up to $4 to $16 per square foot. The extra cost factors in the price to remove your room, haul away old materials, secure underlayment and address structural issues they find in the process. You’ll also pay design fees for determining the best roof replacement material. You could pay up to $1,000 extra for construction permits to repair or replace a roof. The price of permits comes down to where you live and local laws. Your roofing contractor will have experience pulling these permits so you don’t have to worry about researching them yourself. Spending a bit more upfront on your roof often means you’ll spend less in the long run. It also provides peace of mind when the next storm hits. Here are some of the top benefits of metal roofing: Whether the cost of metal roofing is truly worth it for you will take a little math. After estimating the cost of your own roof—calculating material, labor and design-specific costs—consider the following cost-saving opportunities: Compare Quotes From Top-rated Roof Repair & Replacement Pros Free, No-commitment Estimates You can save thousands of dollars—if not tens of thousands of dollars—by installing metal roofing yourself. However, installing any type of roofing is a highly advanced DIY job and not always advisable even if you’re handy atop a high ladder. All in all, it’s not your best bet. Some companies will only grant a warranty on their roofing material if you hire a licensed professional. Also, attempting the installation yourself could lead to storm damage, leaks and all the costs that come along with a faulty roof. To arrive at the average costs in this article, two material providers and six cost databases were surveyed on national and local levels. All averaged figures were correct at the time of publication and may be subject to change.” While metal roofing itself will heat up in the sun, it will not heat up the inside of your home. In fact, metal roofing is so good at reflecting heat, that it will more likely keep your home cooler than other roofing materials. Metal roofing will not sound louder in the rain than other materials in most cases. The underlayment materials, framing and insulation dampen the sound on any roof, metal ones included. You are only more likely to experience volume issues in buildings with thin corrugated aluminum roofs without proper insulation. Compared to other popular roofing materials, such as when it’s put head to head with asphalt shingles, metal roofing does have its drawbacks. Primarily, you’ll pay more for metal roofing installation and it’s not often a DIYable job. Metal roofs are also heavier than asphalt or wood shingles, so it’s important to know the load-bearing capacity of the building. A metal roof will not have an effect on cell service if the reception is strong in your area. Some users have seen slight issues if they already only had one or two bars in their region. However, most commercial buildings are constructed with steel and often have steel roofs, so it is not a concern in cell service overall. 
				Christin Perry is a freelance writer whose work has appeared in numerous outlets, including WeddingWire, The Knot, Parents and Verywell Family. When she's not working, Christin enjoys reading, gardening and hanging out with her husband and four young kids. She also loves to do small home improvement projects any chance she gets.
			 
				Sami Allen is an editor with a decade of experience in editorial and who is currently the managing editor at Forbes Home. She got her start in lifestyle writing and editing at Oprah Magazine and more recently sharpened her home repair and design skills at websites like The Spruce and HomeAdvisor.
			