Greenville, March  29, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Greenville, South Carolina -  Roofers LLC, a roofing company based in Greenvile, SC, is happy to announce appointing Ethan Ledford as CEO to help manage their Greenville location. He will be ensuring that the roofing company will be keeping its commitment to offer the best roofing services to Greenville and neighboring areas. They offer residential roofing, commercial roofing, and emergency repair services. They are a full-service residential roofing company offering new roof installation, roof maintenance, roof repair, and full roof replacement. They also provide commercial roofing services that include re-roofing, roof maintenance, roof repair, and roof system installation. And during times of emergency when the unexpected happens, they provide quick response to stop any leaks that may cause further damage to the home or business. A spokesperson for Roofers LLC says, "Our roofing professionals are experienced & certified, we use only the best long-lasting material available, and we offer the best customer service you can ask for. Whatever you need, we can handle your roofing project! Doesn't matter if your residential or commercial roof needs to be repaired, maintained or replaced… Our roofing specialists have the experience and ability to get your job done on budget and on schedule." Roofers LLC is proud to state that they have been receiving highly positive reviews from their customers. For instance, in a recent review, MD Rice gave them five stars and said, "Excellent service from beginning to end. Our roof had storm damage. Kenny came out, did inspection and met with insurance adjuster. Replacement was approved. The crew that did work were professional, showed up on time and finished in a timely manner. The property was immaculate when they left. Parker was very accommodating and a pleasure to work with. Great experience! Thanks to you all." Those who are interested can also view them on Homeadvisor. One of their priority services is emergency roof repair services for both residential and commercial buildings. They understand that when a roof is damaged by a storm or some other disaster, such as strong winds, hail, or tornado, fast response is required to stop any leaks because leaks tend to worsen over time in addition to causing more damage inside the home or commercial building. Expert roof repair has be performed rapidly to ensure that damages to the home or business can be minimized, or if possible, prevented altogether. For emergency roof repair, they can provide solutions for: damaged flashing; worn-out sealant; punctures; damaged vent boot; damaged or missing shingle; corroded vertical slits; and broken plumbing vent boots. For those who are not sure if their roof requires repair, they can book a free roof inspection. One of their roofing experts will thoroughly inspect the property and come up with the best possible solution. Meanwhile, they can also provide assistance with the financing needs of customers. They can help customers get approvals for all types of credit, ensure that the application is fast and easy, and customers can get approved in less than 5 minutes through various partners listed on their website. Founded in 1983, Roofers LLC is a licensed general contractor aimed at becoming the most respected and most reliable roofing company in South Carolina. They are premier roofing contractor as evidenced by their overall rating of 5.0 out of 5 stars on Google. They want to point out four factors that make them stand out among their competitors, which are: quality, integrity, dedication, and superior products. They treat each home or business that requires their roofing services as if it were their own, thus clients can rest assured that they will receive the best quality services. They are a fully bonded, insured and licensed roofing company to ensure the peace of mind of clients. Their team of professional roofers are completely dedicated to surpassing customer expectations regarding their residential or commercial roofing project. And lastly, they will only use the best roofing materials to ensure the roof protects the home for a long time.  Those who are interested in the roofing services of Roofers LLC can connect with them through their website, visit their main office at 1427 Laurens Rd L, Greenville, SC 29607 or contact them on the phone at (864) 740-1691 or through email. They are open from 7:00 am to 7:00 pm, from Monday to Friday. ### For more information about Roofers LLC, contact the company here:Roofers LLCDiego Dante(864) 740-1691diego@roofersllc.com31 Boland Ct #146Greenville, SC 29615 © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.