The Comcast NBCUniversal SportsTech accelerator program has added the Premier League as a strategic advisor. The English soccer league joins a group of ten existing program advisors comprised of sports properties owned by or that have relationships with Comcast, including NBC Sports, NASCAR, WWE, USA Swimming and the PGA Tour. The SportsTech program pairs those advisors with an annual class of ten startups with the goal of co-developing tech solutions. SportsTech head and Comcast VP/Startup Partnerships Jenna Kurath said the Premier League has long been on her wish list, especially because roughly one-third of the accelerator’s startup applicants are international. The league has recently been shadowing broadcast partner Sky Sports, another program advisor, to determine how it can best unlock value through the SportsTech platform. “Their main priority is really that fan experience, especially as they are building more brand equity in the U.S. and in other markets,” said Kurath. “It’s continuing to elevate the level of competition and making sure that fans have a unique way to feel like they’re front and center in that experience.” The SportsTech accelerator is in the midst of its third annual iteration, which this year was expanded to a six-month timeframe, and the Premier League will be part of the selection process for the program’s 2024 cohort. Kurath said over 900 companies have already applied. Venu Sports on hold; NASCAR shifts gear on the Clash and the USL Super League launches to solid crowds and reception Shareable URL copied to clipboard! https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Daily/Morning-Buzz/2023/06/28/sportstech-adds-premier-league.aspx Sorry, something went wrong with the copy but here is the link for you. https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Daily/Morning-Buzz/2023/06/28/sportstech-adds-premier-league.aspx Register for a free SBJ account to unlock one extra article per month.  © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved.The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. © 2024 Leaders Group. All rights reserved. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Leaders Group. Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ weekly content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: Already a subscriber? Click below to sign in. Upgrade your subscription to get all the news you need: Adding SBJ daily content will give you the comprehensive view of sports business with: