RAFAEL BENITEZ has already snubbed offers from Premier League clubs. But despite so far turning teams down, the Spaniard is eager to work at another top-flight England side. Benitez, 63, has been out of work since being sacked by Everton in January 2022. But he appears to be getting the itch to return to the game. Speaking to the Telegraph, the former Liverpool, Chelsea and Newcastle manager revealed: "I have had several possibilities this season. "But the conditions that I think are necessary were not there and I preferred to wait for another option. "I have also had proposals from outside, but our preference has always been the Premier League." After leaving Liverpool in 2010, Benitez had a short stint in charge of then-European champions Inter Milan. Following nearly two years out of the game he returned to the Premier League with Chelsea, winning the Europa League. On his West London stint, he added: "It's not lost on anyone that [Roman] Abramovich's Chelsea were the strongest team in the Premier League when I arrived at Liverpool. BETTING SPECIAL - BEST FOOTBALL BETTING SITES IN THE UK "We competed with them and beat them in the Champions League several times, those games had a lot of tension and it's not easy for a fan to forget the emotional part. "Fortunately, we more than fulfilled our objectives of qualifying directly for the Champions League and, on top of that we also won the Europa League. I think everyone now sees it as a success." Benitez went on to manage Napoli and Real Madrid, before returning to England with Newcastle. After a tumultuous three-year stint at St James' Park that included relegation and a promotion, the experienced boss walked away at the end of his contract. A move to the Chinese Super League with Dalian Professional in 2019 appeared to signal the end for Benitez in the English top flight. But he returned in 2021 for an unpopular six-month stint with Everton. Benitez was recently in talks with Leicester before the Foxes appointed Dean Smith. While Leeds were also believed to be interested after parting with Jesse Marsch. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/