Teams have a new concern when it comes to gaining UCI points: a new rule that limits wildcard invitations that Grand Tours such as the Tour de France can extend to the top 50 teams on the UCI World Rankings. This season was the first year that teams were relegated from the WorldTour for dropping outside the top 18 in the three-year Team Rankings. Lotto-Dstny and Israel-Premier Tech dropped down to ProTeam status involuntarily, while Alpecin-Deceuninck and Arkéa-Samsic were elevated to the WorldTour. In 2024, Grand Tour organisers can only select from the top 50 teams, and in 2025 the range shrinks to the top 40, finally settling on the top 30 teams in 2026. The Grand Tours are required to invite all WorldTour teams and the two top ProTeams of the previous year's World Ranking. Those teams were Lotto-Dstny and TotalEnergies, but Israel-Premier Tech were extended wildcard invitations to all three Grand Tours. UCI rules do not require Grand Tour organisers to invite demoted teams, but other WorldTour stage races are obliged to include those teams in the year following their demotion. Read more UCI WorldTour rankings watch – Intermarché set out on top  Israel-Premier Tech, Lotto-Soudal relegated from WorldTour, UCI confirms  New year, new rules – Here's what the UCI has changed for 2023 The new rule will stop races like the Vuelta a España from favouring low-ranked domestic teams. Burgos-BH were 62nd in the 2022 rankings and earned a wildcard ahead of other higher-ranked teams like Uno-X. Caja Rural-Seguros-RGA were 32nd and also won an invitation to the Spanish Grand Tour. A new rule also covers teams who have newly gained a ProTeam licence. The ranking of new teams will be calculated on the points scored by the best 20 riders. This is in contrast to the point calculations for existing teams whose points are calculated on riders who were on the team in the previous season. Riders points do not transfer along with them to new teams. The rules do not appear to account for double counting of a rider who might transfer from an existing WorldTeam or ProTeam to a new ProTeam. With these new rules, every point will count not just for teams aiming for the WorldTour in the next three-year cycle but for any team with Grand Tour ambitions. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.