Notifications can be managed in browser preferences. Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile Liverpool striker Darwin Nunez netted a brilliant goal as his side romped to a 3-1 Premier League win over a dogged West Ham United side at Anfield on Sunday, deftly steering home a volley on the hour mark. The visitors got off to a flying start when Tomas Soucek forced a brilliant save from Alisson with a downward header in the seventh minute, and two minutes later Michail Antonio headed a Soucek cross wide with the goal at his mercy. But the Hammers were left to rue those early misses when Mohamed Salah was felled by Nayef Aguerd in the 15th minute for a stonewall penalty, and the Egyptian attacker stepped up to smash home the resulting spot kick to give Liverpool the lead. That kick-started the home side, but West Ham still managed to level before the break when Jarrod Bowen dived at the feet of Virgil van Dijk to score with a superb low header for his fourth goal of the season. The goal was eerily similar to the James Ward-Prowse strike that put them ahead against Manchester City a week ago, but once again it wasn’t enough to get them anything from the game. After spurning a number of decent chances, Nunez finally got on the scoresheet when he latched on to a beautiful lofted pass from Alexis Mac Allister, much to the delight of the Anfield crowd. That goal took the wind out of the Hammers’ sails and substitute Diogo Jota was able to hook home a third goal from Virgil van Dijk’s knockdown in the 85th minute, four minutes after coming off the bench. The win leaves Liverpool in second spot in the table on 16 points, two behind leaders Manchester City, while West Ham are seventh on 10 points. That's all for today, goodbye! That's Liverpool's sixth win on the bounce in all competitions, and it lifts them up to second in the table. Next up for them is Leicester City in the EFL Cup. West Ham suffer back-to-back 3-1 defeats in the league and will be hoping to bounce back against Lincoln City in the EFL Cup. Liverpool's unbeaten start to the season continues with a 3-1 win over West Ham. They took the lead from the penalty spot through Salah, but it was against the run of play after the Hammers missed two early chances. The visitors pulled level just before the break though as Bowen scored a wonderful diving header. The second half belonged to Liverpool though, and Nunez fired them ahead with a sweetly hit volley before Jota rounded things off late on as he poked in Van Dijk's knockdown from close range. FULL-TIME: LIVERPOOL 3-1 WEST HAM. West Ham have won a late free-kick that Ward-Prowse floats deep into the box. He's looking for Fornals, but Van Dijk hooks it away. The referee originally played the advantage, but now pulls it back for a Liverpool free-kick. Robertson clips it to Van Dijk at the far post, and he nods it down to Gakpo. His header is straight at Areola. It's a brilliant driving run from Jota down the left, and he chooses to go it alone as he cuts inside. He steps around Zouma before firing a shot on goal, but Coufal gets in the way of it. Substitution Alexis Mac Allister Wataru Endo Substitution Lucas Tolentino Coelho de Lima Daniel William John Ings Assist Virgil van Dijk Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies Darwin Nunez celebrates scoring Liverpool’s second goal against West Ham (Peter Byrne/PA) PA Wire Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today. Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Log in New to The Independent? Or if you would prefer: 