Featured Article Comment At Andreessen Horowitz’s recent American Dynamism summit, Hadrian founder and CEO Chris Power painted a picture of the country in peril. “I’m here to talk to you about an existential risk to the future of the Republic and how Hadrian is trying to solve it,” he began. His words – a mix of rationalism and Marcus Aurelius – were not out of place at the event, which brought together a blend of investors, founders, policymakers and other Washington officials to discuss issues facing the country. A notable number of talks were related to defense and national security, in line with the American Dynamism team’s investment portfolio, which includes bets on defense tech startups like Hadrian, Anduril and Shield AI. Just a few years ago, many investors thought that cutting a check for a defense-first startup was a proposition that simply didn’t make sense. The tides have clearly shifted: a16z is one of many firms that’s taken a stronger interest in defense and national security. PitchBook data supports this warming to defense tech. From January to October last year, VC-backed firms injected $7 billion into aerospace and defense companies, a massive growth that stands in sharp contrast to the relative sluggishness in other sectors. Some deals in recent months include Anduril’s $1.4 billion Series E; Shield AI’s $225 million Series E; and Vannevar Labs’ $75 million Series B. There are many reasons for this uptick in interest in defense tech, but driving all of them is a new, realist vision that’s spread among some technologists and venture capitalists. It sees global antagonisms threatening the stability of Pax Americana; it sees the United States rotting from the inside out due to bloat and lethargy. As a result, the Silicon Valley mentality has returned to its defense roots, embracing the role that venture-funded startups can play in maintaining America’s military dominance and technological supremacy around the world. “If you believe in democracy, democracy demands a sword,” a16z general partner David Ulevitch said in a recent interview with TechCrunch. And Silicon Valley will be where it is forged. Defense and venture are old bedfellows; Silicon Valley’s roots are defined by close approximation and collaboration with the U.S. Department of Defense. But as the contemporary instantiation of “Silicon Valley” formed out of the dot-com boom in the early ’00s, investors focused mostly on industries like consumer and SaaS, which can generate steep returns for LPs. In comparison to these sectors, which are capex light and have a lower barrier to entry, defense startups had a lot to contend with: the market monopolization of well-funded major contractors like Raytheon Technologies and Lockheed Martin, behemoths that seemed to crush competition, as well as the difficulties and expense of hardware. Much has changed in the past few years, however, and a small group of investors is rethinking the value of defense startups. The U.S. government has never been more willing to work with startups to speed technological development and adoption, a willingness that’s been driven in part by growing tensions with Russia and China. Startups like True Anomaly, which is led by a team of U.S. Air Force veterans, is developing technology with the government in mind from the outset. “[True Anomaly] exists to provide the means by which the US and its Allies compete in the space domain, to pursue adversaries wherever they fly, and to provide the tools of accountability: build, orbit, pursue, adapt, repeat,” company CEO Even Rogers tweeted last year. One of True Anomaly’s investors is Space.VC, a seed-stage fund operating out of Austin, Texas. As the name suggests, the fund focuses on the space sector, and True Anomaly is one of many companies it’s chosen to invest in that has a strong or even overt emphasis on defense. Jonathan Lacoste, Space.VC’s founder, told TechCrunch that the fund has a lot of companies in its portfolio that are actively involved in wartime engagements and would continue to be if more global conflict occurred. He said that the fund doesn’t “invest in companies that need conflict to make money,” but “at the same time, we recognize that the U.S. government has a really, really difficult technology race on its hands that, the more I learn about it, the more I’m genuinely scared about the gap that exists between us and some of our geopolitical adversaries.” Those adversaries, China in particular, have been developing and implementing new technologies at an extremely fast rate. Keeping pace with that speed of development is part of the motivation behind the DOD’s interest in working with startups, said Andrew Penn, space industry analyst and principal at the consulting firm Oliver Wyman. The changing nature of war itself can also explain some of the shift toward venture-backed companies. The role satellite imagery and Starlink continue to play in Russia’s war with Ukraine is a recent example. But it seems all but certain that war will get even more high tech — in some ways, perhaps, more bloodless: defined not by the number of warfighters on a battlefield but the strength of each side’s automation, AI, cybersecurity and space-based technologies. DFJ Growth, a venture firm that invested in Vannevar’s Series B, suggested that the “enemies of the future” will be very different from those that defined America’s 20-year war on terror. Along these lines, Alexandr Wang, CEO of Scale AI, elaborated a future of war in which “AI-powered targeting and autonomous drones will define warfare.” America, Wang writes on his Substack, is falling badly behind on AI. Like Power, he uses existential language to make his point: “We must recognize that our current operating model will result in ruin.” It’s not a stretch to imagine that some of these startups will eventually make, or contribute to, weapons. If Hadrian truly wants to revitalize America’s defense industrial base, that will presumably include building armament components. Last year, Anduril debuted a new “loitering munition capability” for its drone platform, a type of single-use weapon that “loiters” in an area before identifying and attacking a target. But the kill chain is long and opaque. In many defense tech deals, VCs are ultimately considering how proximal to the kill they are comfortable with being. Some investors take a more formalized approach to this issue, weaving their ethics into their governance. London-based Seraphim Space has developed an internal tool it uses to determine whether a potential investment could be involved in weapons or anything that has a purely military application. If a startup’s technology has both military and commercial applications, Seraphim works with the startup to develop what Seraphim COO Sarah Shackleton called “negative covenants”: agreements that allow Seraphim to sell its block of shares should the company decide to take its technology in a different direction. “You can’t really invest into space without really having some exposure to the defense and intelligence market,” Mark Boggett, Seraphim CEO, told TechCrunch. “But we’re making a very clean line of what is acceptable and what isn’t acceptable to us.” “Everybody has their own moral compass, an ethical compass,” Ulevitch said. “My view is, we want to have the best technology to be able to always make the best decisions and take the best course of action with the least risk to innocent people possible. That pursuit is a noble pursuit.” When the government is the customer (some things to keep in mind)  Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that it’s Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in The Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government, and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Powered by WordPress VIP