A PREMIER League star was chased by debt collectors after refusing to pay for a £25,000 set of dental veneers, it has been claimed. The “playboy” top flight star walked out of a posh Harley Street dental clinic with gleaming gnashers honed from custom-made porcelain moulds. But the well-known player - who has not been identified - believed he would be receiving the treatment free thanks to his fame and ignored pleas to pay up. The top London dentist was left with no option but to call in specialist debt collectors to chase up the bill and the star paid up only after court action was launched. His case was revealed yesterday as the most extreme of a raft of dental bill dodging cases reported amid Britain’s snowballing theft epidemic. A national debt collection agency revealed yesterday that requests to chase up dental customers who refuse to pay has rocketed 20 per cent in recent months. Chris Spencer, from Frontline Collections, said of the case: “He was a Premier League footballer but it ended up going through the court process and eventually we got him to pay. “He was kind of all over the place and it was well known he was a bit of a playboy.  "I think he has calmed down now.” DO you know the name of the bill dodging star? Call us on 020 7782 4100 or email exclusive@the-sun.co.uk ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/