 We’ve all been there. You know how to spell it…just not how to say it. And that’s the case for many hundreds of place names across the UK.  A study by Preply - a private language tutor firm - revealed a rundown of the most mispronounced UK place names. One has not a single vowel - and that’s Ynysybwl in Wales.  But an expert language tutor came to the rescue to avoid blushes next time you’re heading there in an Uber.   READ MORE:    Only those with 20/20 vision are able to spot the wolf in less than 30 seconds    Amy Pritchett, student success manager at Preply, shares her advice on pronouncing place names correctly. She said: “Break up the words into small sounds. Don’t get overwhelmed. Look at each syllable and try to say it alone before putting the sounds together to form the word. "Look at local signs, when entering the place some signs have the pronunciation alongside the place name.  “Google. The internet is your best friend when trying to learn new words or names. You can easily find videos or sound clips of how to say each word. "Ask the locals. Local residents will hopefully know how to pronounce their place name. They will be able to advise you on how to pronounce it because probably other people have asked too. Watch travel documentaries.  “Watching shows like Travelling Man or other Youtube videos can help you learn place names. Whether they are in the UK or abroad, you can easily pick up some pronunciation tips.” She added: "When you are not in the position to use Google, your best shot is just to give it a go and laugh it off if you get it wrong."   Don't miss...     The 'run-down' UK town full of empty shops where landlords 'just don't care'  [LATEST]     The UK seaside town whose 58-letter name you definitely can’t pronounce  [LATEST]     The beautiful English city so small it’s hardly big enough to be a town  [LATEST]  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy Here is the whole rundown if the 10 most mispronounced place names in the UK that was featured in WalesOnline: Cholmondeley (Cheshire)  Chum-lee is the right way to say this village with a total population of a little over a hundred. Bicester (Oxfordshire)  Many pronounce it as By-cester - but the correct way to say this town is Bi-stuh. Frome (Somerset)  It's not pronounced From - it's actually pronounced Froom. Godmanchester (Cambridgeshire)  Many pronouncing it as God-manchester - and that's understandable. The town is actually pronounced as God-muhn-cheh-stuh. Omagh (Northern Ireland)  This one is Oh-ma: easy.  Ynysybwl (Wales)  Ynysybwl is a village in Cwm Clydach in Wales. An-is-abull is the correct way to pronounce it. Quernmore (Lancashire)  Quernmore is a village in the City of Lancaster in Lancashire - the correct pronunciation being Kwor-mer.  Woolfardisworthy (Devon)  Woolfardisworthy is a village and civil parish in the Torridge district in the English county of Devon - and it's pronounced Woolzery.  Ballachulish (Scotland)  Ballachulish, a Scottish village, goes by the correct pronunciation Ball-a-hoolish. Beauchief (Sheffield) Located in Sheffield it is one of the UK's most mispronounced place names. The correct pronunciation is Bee-chiff. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?