A new study by language learning platform Preply found the Glasgwegian accent a tough one for others to understand easily, closely followed by Newcastle and Liverpool. We've all been told at least once in our lives that someone, who isn't from Scotland, can't understand us with many giving us a baffled look. Now according to a new study the Glaswegian accent is officially a tough one to understand.  A survey of two thousand UK adults, conducted by language learning platform Preply, has revealed that our city comes out on top with the majority of those living in the UK, who took part in the survey, finding our accent the 'most perplexing' with almost two-in-five people (39.46 per cent) agreeing.  READ MORE: Lewis Capaldi is raw and emotional in new documentary which open doors for taboo discussions   This was closely followed by Newcastle (20.43 per cent), Liverpool (18.14 per cent ) and Birmingham (10.83 per cent ). Bristol, however, was found to be the easiest UK accent to understand with just 3.53 per cent voting it difficult to understand.  As well as being voted the 'most perplexing', it was also found to be one of the most 'untrustworthy accent's with 10.79 per cent of people thinking this. However in better news, 5.02 per cent of those surveyed said that they found the Glasgow accent 'intelligent sounding'. Get all the latest Glasgow news and headlines sent straight to your inbox twice a day by signing up to our free newsletter. From breaking news to the latest on the coronavirus crisis in Scotland, we''ll have you covered. The morning newsletter arrives every day before 9am and the evening newsletter, manually curated by the team, is sent between 4pm and 5pm, giving you a round up of the most important stories we've covered that day. To sign up, visit this link.  City   Percentage  Glasgow 39.46% Newcastle 20.43% Liverpool 18.14% Birmingham 10.83% Cardiff 8.15% London 5.37% Manchester 5.02% Leeds 3.88% Bristol 3.53% Do you agree with this and is there an accent you would put at the top spot instead of Glasgow? Let us know in the comments! READ NEXT:  Warning as 1,000 ATM cash machines set to introduce charges for withdrawing money   Glasgow Tesco, Asda, Morrisons and Sainsbury's shoppers issued Easter egg reminder   Glaswegians issued DWP cost of living payment dates as Scots urged to check eligibility   Samuel L Jackson dines in Glasgow restaurant as actor films in Scotland for latest movie   Outlander season 7 final air date and how to watch the show as it splits into two 