The characters of “Succession” are known to use some sharp words and colorful language, and there was quite a bit of it in the series finale. Analyzing the scripts from the final episode of 50 of the highest-rated TV finales on IMDB, language tutoring company Preply set out to find out which shows had the most curse-filled finales. Sunday’s final episode of “Succession,” perhaps unsurprisingly, landed at the top of the list with 235 curse words in all. That’s almost double the finale for “The Wire,” which landed in second place with 127 swear words in its final episode. Here’s where some other show finales ranked on swear words, according to the study: 1. “With Open Eyes,” the “Succession” finale – 235 curse words (or 2.67 per minute) 2. “The Wire” finale – 127 curse words 3. “Orange is the New Black” finale – 88 curse words 4. “The Thick of It” finale – 87 curse words 5. “Peeky Blinders” finale – 71 curse words “Veep and “The Sopranos” also made the list, with 52 and 51 curse words in the final episodes, respectively. The Emmy-winning “Succession” ended on Sunday after four seasons and saw the Roy children losing out on the sale of their father’s company to GoJo. (HBO, like CNN, is a unit of Warner Bros. Discovery.) For more CNN news and newsletters create an account at CNN.com New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.