Preply, which connects language learners to resources, ranked cities based on friendliness. Its "community-spirit index" used six variables, including visitor return rates and safety. Sydney, Australia, and Toronto, Canada, were tied as the friendliest cities in the world. If you're planning to visit a new place this summer, one thing you might want to consider is whether or not it's friendly to out-of-towners. Preply, a service that connects people with resources for learning a new language, created a "community-spirit index," which ranks cities based on how welcoming they are when it comes to non-locals. "A strong sense of community can make newcomers feel right at home, helping them navigate the challenges of adjusting to a new environment, make new connections, and build meaningful relationships," Preply's report said. Preply developed a ranking of the 20 most friendly cities in the world by analyzing six factors: visitor return rates, safety, friendliness of hospitality staff, LGBTQ+ equality, overall happiness, and English-speaking proficiency. On the last factor, Preply explained, "English is the most commonly spoken language in the world, so we looked at each city's English-speaking proficiency score to determine the ease of communication there." Here's the top 20, ranked. 20. Tel Aviv, Israel Tel Aviv was named the 20th most friendly city in the world in part because of its impressive overall happiness rating, which is determined by its residents, of 7.46 out of 10 — the second-highest happiness score among the top 20 cities. 19. Barcelona, Spain This Spanish city ranked high for LGBTQ+ equality, according to Preply's report. 18. Madrid, Spain With a high LGBTQ+ equality score and 13% of accommodation reviews surveyed by Preply mentioning the word "friendly," Madrid is considered one of the friendliest cities in the world. 17. Prague, Czech Republic Prague had a high safety rating of 75.41 out of 100, as well as a strong overall happiness score. 16. Singapore Singapore has a safety score of 66.57 and a happiness score of 6.49 out of 10, but it scored low on LGBTQ+ equality, with just 50 out of 100. 15. Berlin, Germany In addition to the fact that 15 percent of reviews of Berlin mention the word "friendly," it has a high LGBTQ+ equality score of 84 out of 100 and a 7.03 out of 10 happiness rating. 14. Paris, France Despite a low safety rating of 42.91 out of 100, Paris was ranked the 14th friendliest cities in part due to its LGBTQ+ equality score of 78 and overall happiness score of 6.64. 13. Lisbon, Portugal Although Lisbon's happiness score is just 5.66 out of 10, its high safety rating of 70.43 and the fact that 15% of reviews of the city mentioned the word "friendly" are two reasons it's on the list. 12. Auckland, New Zealand While its safety score is only 51.57, Auckland's LGBTQ+ equality score of 78 and happiness score of 7.23 make it one of the world's friendliest cities, according to Preply. 11. Amsterdam, Netherlands The numbers that stand out when it comes to Amsterdam are its LGBTQ+ equality and happiness ratings of 85 out of 100 and 7.41 out of 10, respectively. 10. Copenhagen, Denmark With a 73.55 safety score, an 86 when it comes to LGBTQ+ equality, and a happiness rating of 7.53 out of 10, Preply considers Copenhagen the 10th friendliest city in the world. 9. Dublin, Ireland Dublin's happiness score is 7.1, and it's relatively LGBTQ+ friendly, with an equality score of 73. 8. San Francisco, USA Not only does the West Coast city have a visitor return rate of 15%, it's known for being LGBTQ+ friendly and has an equality score of 82 to prove it. 7. Melbourne, Australia The world's 7th friendliest city has a LGBTQ+ equality rating of 84 and a happiness rating of 7.30 on Preply's report. 6. Montreal, Canada Montreal's visitor return rate is 15 percent. Its rating of 68.39 out of 100 when it comes to safety, as well as its score of 90 in terms of LGBTQ+ equality makes it one of the friendliest cities in the world. 5. New York City, USA With 15% of reviews mentioning the word "friendly" and a happiness rating of 6.96, and an LGBTQ+ equality score of 82, New York City was ranked as the 5th friendliest city.   4. Manchester, UK While Manchester's safety index is 45.09, its score for LGBTQ+ equality is an impressive 88 out of 100. Close to 15 percent of the city's reviews mentioned the word "friendly," and its visitor return rate is 12 percent. 3. Edinburgh, Scotland With a high friendliness score of 7.78 and a safety-index score of 68.92, Edinburgh ranks No. 3 on Preply's list. 1. Sydney, Australia Sydney was tied for the friendliest city in the world. When it comes to safety, Sydney had a high score of 65.87 out of 100. Plus, members of the LGBTQ+ community are likely to feel welcome in Sydney, as the city earned itself an 84 out of 100 in LGBTQ+ equality. It also scored 7.13 out of 10 for happiness and has a 16 percent visitor return rate. 1. Toronto, Canada With a visitor return rate of 15%, Toronto has proven to be a hit with non-locals. The city's happiness score was a 7.03 out of 10, and its LGBTQ+ equality score was 90 out of 100, making it not only a popular place, but an inclusive one too. Read the original article on Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.