State elections officials on Wednesday fined the Democratic Party of Oregon $35,000 for failing to disclose in a timely manner that a $500,000 donation came from an FTX executive. On Thursday, the party said it would appeal the fine.Mark Graves/The Oregonian Oregon elections officials have fined the Democratic Party of Oregon $35,000 for failing to disclose in a timely manner the true identity of the cryptocurrency executive who gave the party $500,000. A lawyer for the party told election officials Thursday that they will fight the penalty, placing blame for the misreported donation on the “false representations” of the donor. It was the largest ever donation accepted by the Democratic Party of Oregon, according to state records. Nonetheless, party director Brad Martin told The Oregonian/OregonLive in November that party leaders accepted the cash without knowing much about its origin and were unaware that it was actually from Nishad Singh, director of engineering for the cryptocurrency exchange FTX, not the Las Vegas cryptocurrency payment processor Prime Trust that the party originally identified as the donor. The Democratic Party of Oregon amended its disclosure of the contribution to list Singh as the donor on Oct. 31, four days after The Oregonian/OregonLive contacted the party and Prime Trust to ask what interest a Las Vegas cryptocurrency processor had in Oregon elections. The amended report was filed 20 days after the disclosure deadline on Oct. 11. The party used at least some of the money to pay for political mailers attacking Republican candidate for governor Christine Drazan, according to spending disclosures on the mailers. Democrat Tina Kotek, who won the election for governor, was also listed as funding the mailers through her political action committee. A mailer by the Democratic Party of Oregon attacking Republican candidate Christine Drazan lists the Las Vegas cryptocurrency startup Prime Trust as a donor. After The Oregonian/OregonLive asked the Democratic Party of Oregon about Prime Trust, the party said it actually received $500,000 from Nishad Singh, director of engineering for the cryptocurrency exchange FTX, not Prime Trust. Democrats hold all of Oregon’s statewide elected jobs, including Secretary of State where the Elections Division oversees compliance with state campaign finance laws. Secretary of State Shemia Fagan said in an emailed statement Thursday that “no one should be surprised” that elections officials working for her issued the proposed penalty, the largest fine issued by the division since Fagan took office.. “I promised Oregonians that I would do this job impartially and apply the rules fairly to everyone. That’s exactly what I have done and will continue to do.” Elections Division director Molly Woon said in an emailed statement that “Oregon law is very clear on how fines are incurred for late campaign finance filings.” Woon, whom Fagan appointed to the elections job after forcing out her previous hand-picked elections director last year, was the communications director and deputy director of the Democratic Party of Oregon for three years until she went to work as Fagan’s strategic projects director and senior adviser in 2021. Despite Woon’s professional history with the Democratic Party, she has not recused herself from involvement with the case. The Democratic Party of Oregon has not returned the $500,000 and Martin declined to comment Thursday on whether it plans to do so in the future. Oregon’s penalty for a late campaign finance contribution or expenditure is 0.5% of the transaction amount, multiplied by the number of business days that it was filed late. The penalty is capped at 10% of the transaction amount. By the time Oregon Democrats accepted the donation on Oct. 4, news reports had documented other instances of Prime Trust being incorrectly reported as the donor for large contributions that actually came from FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried and Singh. Politico reported in April that a federal super PAC that supported Oregon Democratic congressional candidate Carrick Flynn incorrectly told the Federal Elections Commission that it received $14 million from Prime Trust, when in fact the money came from Bankman-Fried and Singh. The high level of spending on that congressional race, and revelations that much of the money came from cryptocurrency executives, dominated Oregon political news during the 2022 primary. Nonetheless, attorney Dayna Underhill, who is representing the Democratic Party of Oregon, wrote to the state elections investigator Thursday that its initial misidentification of payment processor Prime Trust as the $500,000 donor “was solely caused and made necessary by Nishad Singh’s false representations to the party concerning the source of the contribution.” The elections Division is investigating whether Singh or the Democratic Party of Oregon made or accepted a campaign contribution under a “false name.” To do so is a Class C felony under Oregon statute. Following their investigation, elections staff will decide whether the case should be forwarded to Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum, a Democrat, for prosecution. In December, the U.S. charged Bankman-Fried with defrauding customers and investors by diverting their money to pay expenses and debts at his cryptocurrency hedge fund, Alameda Research, and to purchase real estate and make large political donations. — Hillary Borrud; hborrud@oregonian.com Our journalism needs your support. Please become a subscriber today at OregonLive.com/subscribe If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices