Biognosys and Bruker Form Partnership for Advanced Proteomics CRO Services for Global Biopharma and Biomarker Customers   SCHLIEREN, Switzerland and BILLERICA, Mass., Jan. 04, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Biognosys AG and Bruker Corporation (Nasdaq: BRKR) today announced a strategic partnership, in which Bruker has made a majority-ownership investment in Biognosys. Financial details were not disclosed. J.P.Morgan acted as exclusive financial advisor to Biognosys. Several of Biognosys’ earlier investors have sold their shares to Bruker in a secondary transaction, and Bruker will make new primary investments in Biognosys. Co-Founder and CEO Dr. Oliver Rinner and his leadership team will continue to manage Biognosys as a world-leading proteomics and proteogenomics CRO services and proteomics software company. Going forward, Biognosys’ biomarker and biopharma customers will benefit from additional services and footprint in the US. Biognosys will access Bruker’s leading 4D proteomics timsTOF technology for deeper, unbiased high-precision proteomics that is not impaired by epitope cross-reactivity - all with higher throughput and excellent reproducibility. Biognosys mass spectrometry-based proteomics solutions help CRO services and proteomics software customers in uncovering connections between genome, transcriptome, and phenotype to explore the static and dynamic nature of disease biology. In particular, the Biognosys TrueTarget™, TrueDiscovery™, and TrueSignature™ research service solutions provide deep, peptide-level proteome insights for drug discovery and development: The Bruker-Biognosys collaboration is expected to create unique synergies between Biognosys’ versatile portfolio of proprietary proteomics services, software and kits, and Bruker’s pioneering timsTOF platform. As a result of the strategic partnership, Biognosys plans to open its first advanced proteomics CRO services laboratory in the United States. Dr. Oliver Rinner, CEO and Co-Founder of Biognosys, commented: “We are pleased to partner with Bruker to leverage our unique synergies to enable customers to explore the depth of the proteome from early research to clinical development. We have worked closely with Bruker to support dia-PASEF® high-throughput, deeper proteomics methods within our Spectronaut® software. Biognosys remains committed to maintaining Spectronaut® as a high-performance vendor-agnostic proteomics software. We plan to establish our US CRO lab in Massachusetts using the timsTOF platform, so that our customers can benefit from multiple MS technologies.” Dr. Rohan Thakur, President of the Bruker Life-Science Mass Spectrometry division, said: “We are delighted to partner with Biognosys to expand our CRO business in the US. We have many common biomarker and biopharma customers, and even more potential customers may prefer a proteomics CRO services expert like Biognosys for rapid, highest quality and flexible insertion of proteomics into their biomarker or biopharma discovery and development. With the rapid scientific acceptance of dia-PASEF workflows, our partnership offers a unique combination of proteomics applications and data-science expertise, which can benefit more biopharma and diagnostics companies in using unbiased proteomics for decision-making.” Professor emeritus and proteomics pioneer, Dr. Ruedi Aebersold, added: “For over a decade, ETH spin-off Biognosys has translated novel proteomics methods pioneered in our research group into robust, high-performance workflows for large-scale basic and translational research. I am delighted that this new partnership between Biognosys and Bruker will further accelerate access to high performance proteomics. It will also provide opportunities to develop next-generation technology and methods to determine unexplored but functionally relevant dimensions of the proteome, such as the modulation of proteoform composition, and protein interaction networks as a function of cellular state.” About Biognosys AG At Biognosys, we believe that deep proteome insights hold the key to breakthrough discoveries that can dramatically improve human health. We enable life science researchers, biomarker and drug hunters to look at the proteome from every angle with our versatile portfolio of proprietary next-generation proteomics services, software, and kits, including the TrueDiscovery™, TrueTarget™, and TrueSignature™ platforms and flagship proteomics software Spectronaut®. These solutions provide a multi-dimensional view of protein expression, function, and structure in all biological species and sample types. Biognosys’ unique, patented technologies utilize high-resolution mass spectrometry to quantify thousands of proteins across thousands of samples with industry-leading precision, depth, and throughput. Through advanced data analytics, Biognosys translates data into actionable insights for biomarker and biopharma R&D, development and translational research. For more information, visit www.biognosys.com. Media Contacts              Yves Serroen Oliver Rinner, PhD Biognosys AG Biognosys AG Head of Marketing and Communications Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder T: +41 (0) 79 571 09 21 T: +41 (0) 44 738 20 47 E: yves.serroen@biognosys.com E: oliver.rinner@biognosys.com     About Bruker Corporation (Nasdaq: BRKR) Bruker is enabling scientists to make breakthrough discoveries and develop new applications that improve the quality of human life. Bruker’s high performance scientific instruments and high value analytical and diagnostic solutions enable scientists to explore life and materials at molecular, cellular, and microscopic levels. In close cooperation with our customers, Bruker is enabling innovation, improved productivity, and customer success in life science molecular and cell biology research, in applied and pharma applications, in microscopy and nanoanalysis, as well as in industrial applications. Bruker offers differentiated, high-value life science and diagnostics systems and solutions in preclinical imaging, clinical phenomics research, proteomics and multiomics, spatial and single-cell biology, functional structural and condensate biology, as well as in clinical microbiology and molecular diagnostics. Please visit www.bruker.com. 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.