Did someone say 62% off?  Women's Health may earn commission from the links on this page, but we only feature products we believe in. Why Trust Us? October is one of my fave months—it's spooky szn, the leaves start to change, and the air gets crisper. Plus, there's the yearly tradition of carving pumpkins with friends. And guess what? Things just got a whole lot better. October is also home to Amazon's newest sale, Prime Big Deal Days, which started yesterday and spans through today. It's the brand's second biggest sale of the year right next to the OG Prime Day. Keep reading for everything you need to know about October's Prime Day, from what to shop to who can participate, plus our 21 favorite picks for the best deals to shop today. SHOP THE BEST OCTOBER PRIME DAY DEALS  Like Prime Day, which last hit in July 2023, Prime Big Deal Days is Amazon's second biggest sale of the year, and it is filled with discounts across all categories including home, fashion, tech, and more.  Prime Big Deal Days began yesterday, October 10 at 3 a.m. ET and continues through today, October 11 at 12 a.m. The deals during Prime Big Deal Days are only available for those who have an Amazon Prime account. However, if you're not a Prime member yet, you can opt in to a 30-day free trial. The subscription only costs $15 per month (plus tax), but it grants you access to free two-day shipping and Amazon Prime Video. Prime Day and Prime Big Deal Days are basically the same thing, but Prime Day falls during the summer and Prime Big Deal Days hits mid-fall. You can rest assured that both events have major sales across every category.  Based on our search, most of the same products that were discounted during the original Prime Day are also on sale during Prime Day 2.0. So, if there were items on your shopping list from July that you missed out on, it's time to shop some great deals during Big Deal Days. Additionally, we've put together a list of 21 products that are currently on sale, and they'll likely see even further discounts as the day goes on. Shop Amazon's Deals Shaving every time you shower gets old fast, so remove your hairs for good with this handheld laser hair removal device. Trust, within a few sessions, you'll notice a major reduction in hair growth and eventually you can stop shaving altogether. This also happens to be one of the best at-home laser hair removal devices we've tested. Read more: Prime Day Laser Hair Removal Deals One of the best prime day sneaker deals we're seeing: ASICS, which is taking up to 60% off some of its older (but still mighty!) running shoes.  Read more: ASICS October Prime Day Sale If you're in the market for some new AirPods, now's the time to buy. Amazon has a blockbuster deal on the latest AirPods, which hasn't been this cheap in almost a year, according to camelcamelcamel.com. Read more: Apple Prime Day Deals A few WH editors have robot vacuums, and literally everyone swears by them. Simply turn it on before you leave your house, and you'll come home to squeaky clean floors. How easy does that sound? Jennifer Garner loves these supportive sneaks, and so will you. If one of your goals is to run more, or you just want comfy shoes to walk around in, these will keep your feet feeling good for miles and miles. Every once in a while, a mattress refresh is essential. Opt for this one from Zinus, which combines a cool cover, gel memory foam, uplifting body and edge support, and a durable base foam to provide that *perf* medium firm feel. Read more: Best Prime Day Mattress Deals Get your steps in without even leaving your home with this foldable walking pad. It's sturdy and has a solid speed range, allowing you to run up to 7.6 mph and walk up to 3.8 mph. Read more: Best Prime Day Treadmill Deals Come fall and winter, you can never have too many leggings. Right now Prime Day has some major steals on some of our favorite tights, including this high-waisted option from Skechers, which feels like a second skin and provide ample coverage on its own, or as a base layer when it gets *really* cold. I deem microwaves as an absolute essential in the kitchen. So, if your apartment didn't come with one, buy one at a discount  for an automatic upgrade. You'd be hard-pressed to find a WH editor who isn't wearing an Apple Watch. It's great at tracking our steps and heart rate, but it even tracks blood oxygen levels, our cycles, and monitors our sleep. There's no better time to scoop up a pair of these trendy AirPods Max than during Prime Big Deal Days. These (along with the OG Apple Aipods) typically go on sale every year, so if you've been on the fence about buying some, now's the time to go for it. There's arguably nothing worse than a dull knife, but this 15-piece knife set from Cuisinart guarantees a satisfying slice with every cut or chop. Plus, it comes with a knife sharpener if you ever find one starts to dull down. Moving into a new place or haven't found the time to buy a new TV? Make your life easier and order this one on Amazon. It has such a clear, vibrant picture and it's controlled by Alexa, so you can legit tell it what to do without even touching a remote.  Checking the peephole to see who's at your door is a thing of the past. These outdoor Blink cameras are a breeze to install and come with motion detection, providing you with peace of mind as you sleep, knowing your home is safe and secure. This might be dramatic, but I don't think I could live without my Nespresso. It brews the perfect cup of coffee every morning, without fail, and there are so many different flavors and strengths to chose from. The options are truly endless. As winter approaches, make sure you're ready with this portable personal heater. Place it next to your bed, by the couch, or even in the bathroom to stay warm and cozy in every room, whenever you need it. I've been seeing these spin scrubbers all over my TikTok For You Page, and they seem to work like magic, instantly cleaning your shower without the need to bend down and scrub by hand. If you're a fan of cleaning and want a handy device to make the task even easier, this is a must-have. Spending a lot of time in the kitchen? Well, you deserve the best pots and pans. While these are on the pricier side due to their super high quality, the generous 37 percent discount brings the price down to a more affordable range. Whether you struggle with back pain or not, you need a standing desk in your life. This one has a digital display handset with four memory presents for easy adjustment and an electric lift system, which lifts the desk from 28 to 45 inches. No matter what skin concern you struggle with, this LED mask tackles basically everything from redness, to aging, to acne. And all you need to do is put it on, choose your preferred setting, sit back, and relax.im so  Lily Wohlner is the Associate E-Commerce Editor of Women’s Health. An expert in recommending the best products to add-to-cart, she knows what it takes for a product to receive a solid five stars (especially when it comes to beauty!). Starting her career as a freelance makeup artist, Lily has since moved to the editorial world, where she has generated content for brands including Oribe, NewBeauty, Dermstore, SkinStore, and LOOKFANTASTIC. When she’s not zenning out with a pore-clearing mask, the Lower East Side dweller is cheffing up a new recipe with her roommate or thrifting for the perfect pair of blue jeans. Follow her on Instagram.  7 Best Scrunchies, Tested By Hairstylists The 5 Best Aerobic Steppers For Your Home Gym  8 Best Facial Toners Of 2024, Tested By Experts 7 Best Water Flossers, Per Dentists And Editors The 12 Best Hair Growth Oils Hailee Steinfeld's Pre-Aging Skincare Routine The 6 Best Swim Shorts, Tested By Editors The 8 Best Yoga Towels In 2024, Per Yoga Experts 7 Best Home Waxing Kits, Tested By Beauty Experts Stylist-Approved Hair Brushes For Every Hair Type Best Moisture-Wicking Underwear To Keep You Dry 8 Best Tennis Shoes, Tested By Tennis Experts A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazins, Inc. All Rights Reserved.