Why Sign In? Subscribers, sign in to access exclusive content. Unlimited Members, sign in to enjoy sitewide access. News & Reviews News Wire CSX activates third train inspection portal near Waycross, Ga. 
The portals provide detailed scans of trains moving at track speed

 The portals provide detailed scans of trains moving at track speed Get the newest photos, videos, stories, and more from Trains.com brands. Sign-up for email today! JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — CSX Transportation has activated its third train inspection portal, the railroad said today (Tuesday, Feb. 28). The three inspection portals — which use advanced imaging and analysis technology — are all located on lines that radiate out from CSX’s yard at Waycross, Ga. “CSX strategically positioned the three TIPs near Waycross as it is a hump yard and one of our busiest yards by volume,” spokeswoman Cindy Schild says. “The latest TIP … has 20 dynamic high speed cameras watching up to 20 trains each day. Using this machine vision technology helps us see potential problems before they occur, catching some that would be hard to see with a human eye. We will continue to explore advancing innovative technological approaches to help keep our network and communities where we operate safe.” The newest portal is northeast of the Waycross terminal. The first portal opened in 2019 southeast of Waycross, and the second was added on the Fitzgerald Subdivision northwest of Waycross. The portals produce ultra-high resolution 360-degree scans of trains passing through at track speed. Machine vision technology identifies defects and automatically flags cars that need repairs.  Glad to see a siding so they can set BO cars right there. Seeing how some of these are going to be remote, such as this one, and I’m sure CSX has looked into this, but what about physical security?  There are too many people out there who are more than willing to go out of their way to vandalize something like this, to make their “mark”.  I mean, hell, you have people shooting at power transformer stations. Even with that in mind, great idea! A recap of the success of the two initial TIP sites would be helpful and enlightening. Next headline, “CSX engineers discover they glow at night from constant irradiation” Actually, if their detection rate is very high, I would be putting these things all over their network. CSX PR department is hard at work. But the class 1 lobbyists are all working overtime now. 

                                            Canada’s labor minister to meet with CN, CPKC, union                                        
 

                                            Metro-North’s Waterbury Branch remains closed by flood damage                                        
 

                                            Arizona fire that destroyed homes blamed on BNSF track work                                        
 

                                            News & Products for the week of August 19th 2024                                        
 Members enjoy 15% off any purchase in our store. Join Today! Steam by the Numbers
 

                                    Steam by the Numbers answers many questions about steam locomotive evolution, explaining the reasons why so many wheel arrangements were developed.
 Trains Across America 2025 Calendar
 

                                    Trains' Trains Across America Calendar is back for 2025!
 Canadian National Snowburst Puzzle
 

                                    Bam! That had been a 3-foot-tall drift across the Moose Range Road grade crossing near Sycamore, Ill.
 Locomotive Complete Special Issue Archive DVD-ROM
 

                                    Get 17 years of Locomotive special issues with the Locomotive Complete Special Issue DVD-ROM!
  Get updates and special offers via email from Trains.com brands!
 Get updates and special offers via email from Trains.com brands!