Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Fortnite fans can unlock tons of cosmetics for free as part of the Rainbow Royale event, but the items won't be available for too long, so gamers must act before they're gone. Fortnite's Battle Royale game mode has been around for nearly six years, and throughout this time, thousands of cosmetic items have been released. Gamers can fill up their lockers by making purchases in the Item Shop, acquiring packs, completing the Fortnite Battle Pass, and participating in events. So, even though many cosmetics can only be purchased with V-Bucks, it's also possible to get tons of free stuff in-game.
                         Chapter 4 Season 3 is coming to an end, but before it's time to say bye for good, a few events are still live and will be available until Chapter 4 Season 4 starts. Until August 25, gamers can claim dozens of cosmetics by participating in Fortnite's Chapter 4 Season 3's Reboot Rally event and in the Break the Curse event, a Fortnite x Jujutsu Kaisen collab. On top of this, Fortnite is once again celebrating Rainbow Royale.
      RELATED: Rumor: Leaked Fortnite LEGO Crossover Could Be Massive
                     Epic Games has celebrated the LGBT community by hosting the Rainbow Royale event in Fornite in the past, and it's always been a hit. Each year that goes by, more cosmetic items are added as gifts for those who log in during this time, and the best part is that they're completely free of charge. The Fortnite Rainbow Royale event is live until August 24, and during this time, 14 different cosmetic items will be available for the total price of zero V-Bucks.
                         While a few of these items were available during previous Rainbow Royale events, two of them had never been released before. Gamers can head to the Fortnite Item Shop to claim the new Big Fan emote and the Beautiful Bow emoticon. Players that didn't have the opportunity to get any of the other years' items can get the Say It Proud lobby track, Rainbow Royale 2023 and Mazy And The Echos loading screens, Every Heart emoticon, Wild Rainbow Spray, Dip and the Take a 'Bow emotes, Prismatic Keepsakes, as well as Vibrant Heart, Vibrant Boogie, Vibrant Star, and Vibrant Llama sprays.
                         Some fans were expecting the previously leaked Harmony Lee skin to be released as part of the event, but unfortunately, that was not the case. Gamers who were hoping to get a Pride-themed Fortnite skin can acquire the Mazy skin, which will be in the Item Shop during this event. The Mazy skin costs 1,200 V-Bucks. However, players can get the entire Prismatic Pride set bundle at a discount. The bundle includes the skin, Kaleido-Crusher harvesting tool, and Roy G-Wrapped wrap, and it only costs an additional 300 V-Bucks.
      Fortnite is available now for Mobile, PC, PS4, PS5, Switch, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S.
      MORE: Franchises That Fortnite Will Likely Never Collaborate With
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Fortnite players can compete against the best of the best in an effort to earn the Ranked Doom Brella and all its different mastery colors.  The price of Until Dawn Remake leaks online and sparks debate among players regarding the cost of remakes in the gaming industry. Call of Duty fans have another way to gain early access to the upcoming Black Ops 6 beta before it officially begins on Friday, August 30. An Elden Ring fan recreates a Walking Mausoleum entirely out of LEGO, bringing one of the moving locations to life with an epic build. The survival horror game Alien: Isolation sees its largest player count spike since 2020 and over a decade after the game's original launch. The world of Cyberpunk 2077 has only been touched on, and anime is the perfect medium to give fans more of it. To get past the 20th floor of the mines in Fields of Mistria, you'll need a couple of key items, such as a Stone Loach and a Ruby.