Bengaluru, Karnataka, India – Business Wire India L&T Technology Services Limited (BSE: 540115, NSE: LTTS), a global leading pure-play engineering services company, today announced that it has been selected as a strategic engineering partner to Airbus for providing Advanced Engineering Capabilities and Digital Manufacturing Services under a multi-year contract. Under this agreement, LTTS will support Airbus in key verticals and technology areas for its ongoing Commercial and Innovation programs. The development is a major step forward in the long-standing partnership between LTTS and Airbus. LTTS is a strategic engineering supplier for Airbus globally and for its India subsidiary, providing engineering services across verticals like engineering, avionics and digital. The Company is also a part of the industry-leading 'Skywise Partner Program,' and earlier in 2022, was recognized as a Global Strategic Engineering Supplier under the Airbus EMES3 (Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering and Services Strategic Suppliers) program. As a part of the new contract award, LTTS engineers will support Airbus' Numerical Control Programming (NCP) Cluster which includes composite production, trimming & cutting, standard machining, advanced machining, drilling & riveting, control & metrology, fast shop machining and technical support. LTTS will also be driving the design and stress support for Advanced Capabilities which includes thermal analysis, vulnerability assessment, advanced failure analysis, manufacturing simulation, and modeling services. The engineering support will be executed from LTTS' offshore locations in Bengaluru, India, it's recently inaugurated near shore center in Toulouse, France, along with onsite support at Airbus locations in the UK, Germany, France, and Spain. Commenting on the occasion, Amit Chadha, CEO & Managing Director, L&T Technology Services said, "The recent selection of LTTS by Airbus is a reaffirmation of our deep domain leadership and industry-leading expertise in driving a redefinition of the global ER&D landscape. As we continue to move ahead on our objective of being counted among the largest and the best global ER&D firms, the acknowledgement and support of an industry leader like Airbus is exciting and serves to inspire us for the next milestone." LTTS' offerings for the aerospace sector cover a wide spectrum of services including aero structure & systems design, manufacturing engineering, avionics and software development, aero engine design, air traffic maintenance solutions, and airlines & MRO offerings that leverage its robust and extensive digital engineering solutions portfolio for catering to all phases of the aircraft lifecycle. About L&T Technology Services Ltd L&T Technology Services Limited (LTTS) is a listed subsidiary of Larsen & Toubro Limited focused on Engineering and R&D (ER&D) services. We offer consultancy, design, development and testing services across the product and process development life cycle. Our customer base includes 69 Fortune 500 companies and 57 of the world's top ER&D companies, across industrial products, medical devices, transportation, telecom & hi-tech, and the process industries. Headquartered in India, we have over 21,600 employees spread across 22 global design centers, 28 global sales offices and 91 innovation labs as of December 31, 2022. For more information, please visit www.LTTS.com (This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)  Email: info@devdiscourse.com Phone: +91-720-6444012, +91-7027739813, 14, 15  © Copyright 2024