Arjun Bhatnagar is cofounder and CEO of Cloaked, a consumer-first privacy startup dedicated to bringing humanity back to the internet.    The idea of stalking takes on very different meanings when we discuss it in terms of someone watching from bedroom windows and someone accessing your social media profiles multiple times each day. Why is this? Both are an innate invasion of privacy. Both can pose a danger to our physical, mental, emotional and financial health. And both cross the line from normal interaction into the land of obsession. However, we feel more inclined to act immediately when we believe that we’re in imminent physical danger than we do when facing a more abstract threat. While this makes sense, it also uses dramatic circumstances to show the very different ways that we view privacy when online and in real life. Privacy has become an abstract concept. Gone are the days when we could simply prove that a person was crossing the physical boundaries of another and take action based on the threat involved. Now, we experience a gray area where the lines of privacy become murky and blurred by the idea of publicly accessible information and intent. Because accessing so much of the digital world requires an exchange of personal information, there is a level of desensitization occurring. We hardly blink an eye when asked to provide contact information, financial information and other data just to set up a basic e-commerce account. There’s an inherent belief that brands we trust, legislation or our own installed protections will prevent the invasion of our digital privacy. The casual discrepancy between our purported beliefs around personal privacy and our behaviors is referred to as the "privacy paradox." Recent studies have shown that while the paradox exists, the reasons for it may differ from a blind diversion to our personal beliefs. Instead, people may be willing to relax their privacy ideals in the face of a—sometimes false—feeling of security. This is the same reason why phishing attempts under the guise of trusted brands yield results. When people feel safe, they share information. While the dopamine impact of scrolling through social media or gaining new likes and followers has been well-documented, the same effect can take place when we share personal information to gain access to new online accounts—or, when we apply for things like loans, credit cards, jobs, education opportunities or even club memberships online. Any time that we gain a “reward” in the form of access from an online exchange of information, we’re feeding that dopamine addiction. Keep in mind that this isn’t a blanket statement or definitive reason for our deviation from privacy ideals; it’s simply another route that demonstrates how quickly we can enter into a gray area when discussing the value we place on guarding our personal information. As innovators and brands, we have a responsibility to help pivot away from a blind reliance on sharing or using personally identifiable consumer data. Not only because we have an obligation to protect individuals from the negative impacts of sharing but also because there are simply better ways to conduct business today. To do both, we can start by designing privacy into our organizations through teams and dedicated resources. Build teams that are committed to privacy best practices and stay up to date on the latest innovations in the space. Then, be willing to allocate the necessary funds to build out tools, processes and partnerships that will help uphold a privacy-first approach across all facets of the business. Take the time to complete data security audits, asking: What information do we actually need? How are we storing this information? How are we deleting this information? Have our customers given consent for the entire lifecycle of their personal information? This can help prevent mismanagement of data and ensure steps are in place for unexpected events like a data breach. Consider rethinking how you get to know and reach customers. Instead of building user profiles that ask for personal or even unnecessary and inaccurate information, focus on getting to know them through their behaviors. This shift can help with implementing consensual marketing methodologies that support smarter marketing retargeting and personalized product updates. Also, as consumers, we need to educate ourselves on the potential risks and real dangers of sharing too much information online. We all need to understand that our right to privacy doesn’t end when we log onto the internet. Instead, we need to get into the habit of asking questions and demanding best practices from ourselves and the organizations with which we share. Doing this involves adhering to the principle of sharing the least amount of information necessary to enable important interactions, adopting privacy protection tools and learning more about how our data is captured, stored, used and sometimes sold online. We can truly start combating the automatic sharing of personal data online by first recognizing the issue. Then, by taking the time as individuals or organizations to inventory online behavior and the areas where personal information is gathered, we can start to map out actions for change. Reaching total parity between the psychological approach to privacy preservation online and in real life may feel like comparing apples to oranges. However, by developing a deeper understanding of consumer rights and personal limits, it is possible to create a more level playing field. It’s my hope that in the future, we will be able to recognize privacy as a human right regardless of where we choose to exercise it. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 