UK Edition When Penny Mordaunt presided over the accession council at the start of the King’s reign, she had to wear black. For the coronation, she can be more colourful and I hear that, with nothing suitable for a female lord president in the privy council dressing-up box, Mordaunt is paying for a new teal uniform with cape. “She has found there isn’t a single uniform for this kind of occasion for a woman,” a Westminster source said. “She is having one specially made and is paying for it herself. After the coronation, she might sell it and use the money to fund uniforms for women.” Though roles have not been confirmed, it is thought Mordaunt will carry the sword of state, as did the Marquess of Salisbury, then Lord President, in 1953. Since the sword is 4ft long and weighs 8lb, she’ll need to work on her biceps in the gym. Sir John Eliot Gardiner will be cutting it fine for the coronation. On the evening of May 5, he is conducting the Concertgebouw Orchestra in two Brahms symphonies in Amsterdam, then has to be at Westminster Abbey by 9am the next morning to lead the pre-service concert. Hope they are sympathetic at passport control. The late, great comedian Barry Humphries loved to play the louche old actor off stage, with his purple hat and foppish clothes. The author Roger Lewis tells me he once met Humphries after a show in Bristol and as they walked to dinner down an alleyway passed a Hogarthian scene of people drinking, brawling and urinating or vomiting in the doorways. “Ah,” Humphries said with a proud sweeping grandeur. “It’s my audience!” The oldest continuous business in the Isles of Scilly is to be sold after being in the same family for 119 years. Clive Mumford, the 85-year-old grandson of the founder of Mumford’s newsagents, is selling up. His most famous customer helped to silence one tourist in the 1970s who was angry about a lack of newspapers and threatened to complain to his MP when he returned from holiday. At that moment, a familiar pipe-smoker walked in. “Don’t fool about with backbench MPs, why don’t we go straight to the prime minister?” Mumford said. “Mr Wilson, could you help?” At which the complainer turned tail and fled. As head judge on Strictly Come Dancing, Len Goodman, who has died at 78, dispensed advice and encouragement to amateur hoofers for 12 years but he claimed not to have danced himself outside of a wedding since 1973. “If I get up to dance and have a shuffle people will say ‘Oh, he’s not very good’,” he said in 2016. “But then if I do it properly, they will say I’m showing off.” There comes a time in many a young actor’s life when he faces the prospect of dancing naked to the Village People in front of his mother. This is what happened to David Morrissey, who admits to apprehension when his mum came to see him in an early play called WCPC. “It was all about policemen, cottaging and toilets,” he tells My Time Capsule. In it, he had to dress up as Liza Minelli, kiss one man, “get intimate” with a different man and then all three would gyrate in their birthday suits to YMCA. Nervously, Morrissey awaited his mother’s comments at the stage door afterwards. She was worried, but not in the way he feared. “Have you been eating properly?” she asked. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.