My Account Follow us on: Powered By  See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market Invest Now Powered By  India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India Invest Now Powered By  This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner. Invest Now The government is planning to introduce a new mechanism, whereby companies and individuals accused of economic offences will be assigned a 'unique code' that will be linked to PAN or Aadhaar, according to a report. The code will be alpha-numeric, system-generated and issued once a police unit or a central probe agency feeds data related to the accused into the National Economic Offence Records (NEOR) -- a central repository which is yet to be made fully functional, the Times of India report said, citing sources who are privy to the development. The move will assist in swiftly launching a multi-agency probe against the accused firms or individuals, as against the current mechanism where one agency awaits the filing of a chargesheet or the sharing of prosecution complaint before beginning its investigation, the newspaper added. The code will be formally referred to as the 'Unique Economic Offender Code', the report noted, further stating that it would be linked to the Aadhaar if the accused is an individual, and to the Permanent Account Number (PAN) in case of a company. Also Read | Economic offences rise 19%, Mumbai tops among cities: NCRB Once implemented, the move will lead to the assignment of a unique code to all firms and persons already charged in cases of economic offences, including high-profile accused such as former Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, fugitive ex-liquor baron Vijay Mallya, and former Union finance minister P Chidambaram, among others, as per the report. The NEOR, the central repository which will store all the data, is expected to be made functional in the next four-five months, the sources privy to the development reportedly said. The project will be showcased by India at the meeting of the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force (FATF), which is likely to be held later this year, they added.
         Top TrendsAngel TaxWiproBudget newsNew Income tax slabIPO News   Copyright © e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited. You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.