It’s a once-in-a-lifetime event, and the people on King Charles’ coronation guest list are sure to be a who’s who of royalty and celebrities. Moments after the Queen’s death on September 8, 2022, Charles was proclaimed Britain’s King and Head Of State. Because the British Monarchy is a constitutional monarchy, the Sovereign is Head of State but the ability to make and pass legislation resides with an elected Parliament. On September 10, 2022, the clerk of the Privy Council declared “Charles III, by the grace of god of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of his other realms and territory, King, head of the commonwealth, defender of the faith, to whom we do acknowledge all faith and obedience with humble affection, beseeching god by whom kings and queens do reign to bless his majesty with long and happy years to reign over us. God Save the King.” More from StyleCaster Katy Perry's Plunging Gold "Firework" Gown Won King Charles' Coronation How to Watch Charles' Coronation Concert To See Katy Perry & Lionel Richie Live Who Is Finnegan Biden? Jill Biden's Granddaughter Was At The Coronation Historically, the coronation was considered a sacred ceremony between a monarch and their people in the presence of God, but Charles will do away with tradition and invite his counterparts from around the world. A source told The Mail on Sunday: “I believe the rule began because a Coronation is meant to be a monarch’s private event with God. At the Queen’s Coronation, there were no crowned monarchs, only the protectorate rulers like the Queen of Tonga. It’s been a tradition for centuries.” With that in mind, here’s who’s attending. Here’s a list of those confirmed and rumored to be attending King Charles’ coronation. Click here to read the full article.  Prince Harry will be attending but his wife, Meghan Markle, will not. According to a source quoted in Us Weekly, Charles was “sad” his daughter-in-law wouldn’t be there. “Charles is sad that Meghan will not be in attendance. Charles was hoping the coronation would be a chance to better connect and maintain healing between them,” a source said, “but is thrilled [Prince] Harry will be in attendance.” Buckingham Palace confirmed on Wednesday, April 12, 2023, that the Duke of Sussex will be at the ceremony at London’s Westminster Abbey on May 6. “Buckingham Palace is pleased to confirm that The Duke of Sussex will attend the Coronation Service at Westminster Abbey on 6th May. The Duchess of Sussex will remain in California with Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet,” they said in the statement, with later information arising that Meghan would be celebrating Archie’s fourth birthday on the same day. After the release of the Netflix documentary, tension still lies between the Sussexes and the Royal Family. Despite all the drama, King Charles still wanted his son Harry to join the momentous occasion. A source told People, in February 2023 that the King absolutely wants his youngest to attend his coronation. “It is such a momentous occasion for Charles, and he would want his son to be at the coronation to witness it. He would like to have Harry back in the family,” the source says. “If they don’t sort it out, it will always be part of the King’s reign and how he has left his family disjointed. He has had a reputation as a distant parent, and it would be awful for him for that to continue.” Why is Meghan Markle not going to King Charles’ coronation? The official reason is that she will be celebrating Archie’s fourth birthday in California with her children, which falls on the same day. However, it’s likely that she’s not attending due to all the drama that’s been happening between the Sussexes and the Royal Family. Omid Scobie—who worked with Meghan and Prince Harry for his book about them, Finding Freedom—told UK TV’s This Morning on Wednesday, May 3, 2023, that Markle was only using son Prince Archie’s fourth birthday as an excuse to stay in California, adding that he figured the royal family would be “relieved” she’s not attending, per Page Six. “I would put it down to the fact that so much of the attention then goes on someone who they would rather the attention didn’t go onto,” he claimed of the duchess. “If you look back at some of Meghan and Harry’s biggest problems, it was all down to the fact that everyone was always talking about them and the attention was on them at times when it shouldn’t have been.” He continued: “People around the Sussexes guided press … that this is very much about Archie’s fourth birthday,” he told the UK Breakfast show. “I disagree with that,” he said. “At this point, it’s become so personal,” a close friend of the former Royals told People. “Maybe what they wanted wasn’t achieved, but at the end of the day, he’s going there to support his dad.” The outlet reported that Charlies is “pleased” his son will be there, even though his wife won’t be there at all.  The source emphasized that “things are strained” between the family members but Harry  “will happily go along with whatever the plan is” and that his main concern about attending was the issue of his security, which has been addressed. A palace insider also told them what they think Harry will do once he gets back to California, “He will look back on it and think it is better to come and play his part and say, ‘I saw my father crowned,’ ” says a source close to the royal household. “And tell his children about it.” As the direct successors to the throne, Prince and Princess of Wales William and Kate will be in attendance at the coronation, as well as their three children Prince George, Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis, barring an unexpected medical emergency. The Prince of Wales, who is first in line to the British throne, will swear his loyalty to Charles on Saturday in a ceremony known as “The Homage of Royal Blood,” according to the Church of England’s coronation liturgy. William will kneel before his father, placing his hands in between Charles’ hands as he says, “I, William, Prince of Wales, pledge my loyalty to you and faith and truth I will bear unto you, as your liege man of life and limb. So help me God.” The King and Queen gave very special roles—including one to their grandson, George. “Throughout the Coronation Service on 6th May, Their Majesties will each be attended by four Pages of Honour. The Pages will form part of the procession through the Nave of Westminster Abbey,” Buckingham Palace announced. “The King’s Pages of Honour will be His Royal Highness Prince George of Wales, Lord Oliver Cholmondeley, Master Nicholas Barclay and Master Ralph Tollemache. The Queen Consort’s Pages of Honour will be Her Majesty’s grandsons, Master Gus and Master Louis Lopes and Master Freddy Parker Bowles, and Her Majesty’s great-nephew, Master Arthur Elliot. Here’s everyone we know that’s attending the momentous occasion. Details regarding Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis’ involvement have not been confirmed. Charles’ siblings Princess Anne, Prince Andrew and Prince Edward will likely attend. Anne’s husband, Vice-Admiral Sir Timothy Laurence, and Edward’s wife, Duchess Sophie—as well as their respective children—are expected to be at the coronation also. Speaking to CBC News, the Princess Royal shared that she will be the Gold-Stick-in-Waiting at her brother’s coronation — a role entrusted with the monarch’s personal safety on the big day. “I have a role as the Colonel of the Blues and Royals in the Household Cavalry regiment as Gold Stick [in Waiting]. And Gold Stick was the original close protection officer,” she told the outlet. “So that is a role I was asked if I’d like to do for this coronation, so I said yes. Not least of all, it solves my dress problem.” She said of her brother: “You know what you’re getting because he’s been practicing for a bit, and I don’t think he’ll change,” Princess Anne told Adrienne Arsenault, chief correspondent, during an interview at St. James’s Palace in London. “You know, he is committed to his own level of service, and that will remain true.” It hasn’t been confirmed whether Prince Edward will have an official role on the day, but he’s clearly getting into the spirit of things by bringing the famed coronation quiche to Buckingham Palace. “The Duke brought with him a spinach, broad beans and tarragon quiche baked in the Buckingham Palace kitchen to share with guests,” Westminster Abbey shared on Twitter. “The quiche is a recipe recommended by The King and The Queen Consort for sharing tables at #CoronationBigLunch events over the Coronation weekend.” Prince Andrew, meanwhile, who was stripped of his royal duties after his alleged relationship with sex trafficker Jeffery Epstein was revealed, would not have an official role at the coronation. Andrew’s daughters Princess Beatrice and Princess Eugenie will likely be at their father’s side, however, Charles “did not invite” Andrew’s ex-wife, Sarah Ferguson, per Us Weekly. On March 17, 2023, The Times reported that rehearsal plans for King Charles’ coronation allegedly show that only certain royals will be in it and Princess Eugenie and Beatrice won’t be part of the coronation procession. The White House announced in April 2023 that President Joe Biden would not be present but congratulated Charles on his achievement. First Lady Dr. Jill Biden will attend in her husband’s place. In a statement on April 14, 2023, pop star Katy Perry announced: “I am excited to be performing at the Coronation Concert, and helping to shine a further light on the British Asian Trust’s Children’s Protection Fund, whose work includes on-ground initiatives to fundraising, with the aim to find solutions to child trafficking.” The “All Night Long” singer, Lionel Richie, said in a statement, “To share the stage with the other performers at The Coronation Concert is a once-in-a-lifetime event and it will be an honor and a celebration.”Andrea Bocelli and the iconic British pop group Take That are also set to perform. Sandra Oh is reportedly rumored to be on the guest list for Charles’ coronation. The Killing Eve star is a recipient of Canada’s second-highest civilian honor the Order of Canada and attended Queen Elizabeth II’s funeral in 2022. Nothing has been confirmed yet but rumors are swirling that David and Victoria Beckham, aka “Posh and Becks”, would be attending the Coronation. They were at Harry and Meghan’s wedding in 2018, after all. As the daughter of Princess Anne, Zara Tindall and her husband Mike Tindall are expected to attend the event. Prince Albert II and Princess Charlene of Monaco “will definitely go” to the coronation, per Page Six. “I’m certain that it’s going to be an incredible ceremony and a very moving one,” Albert told People in January. “We’ve maintained contact since His Majesty became king, but I haven’t talked to him personally since [Queen Elizabeth II]’s funeral.” The beloved royal couple will be representing Denmark. The Swedish royal and his eldest daughter, heir to the throne, confirmed their attendance on April 11, 2023, in a statement issued to Twitter. In his role as Chief Scout, famous TV personality and survivalist Bear Grylls will attend the coronation. In an interview with The Independent, Grylls described King Charles thus: “He’s quite a walker. Pretty tough” Luxury fashion designer and daughter of Sir Paul McCartney. Legendary comedian. Legendary Australian singer-songwriter, author, and poet among other creative pursuits. Editor in chief of British Vogue. Leaders from around the world will attend. Here’s a full list of those confirmed. Emmanuel Macron, President of France Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada Mary Simon, Governor-General of Canada Andrzej Duda, President of Poland Anthony Albanese, Prime Minister of Australia David Hurley, Governor-General of Australia Chris Hipkins, Prime Minister of New Zealand Dame Cindy Kiro, Governor-General of New Zealand, and her husband, Dr Richard Davies Christopher Luxon, leader of the opposition in New Zealand Shehbaz Sharif, Prime Minister of Pakistan Frank-Walter Steinmeier, President of Germany Sergio Mattarella, President of Italy Jagdeep Dhankhar, Vice President of India Han Zheng, Vice President of China Michael Higgins, president of Ireland and his wife, Sabina Higgins Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach of Ireland Ferdinand Marcos Jr. and Louise Araneta-Marcos, President and First Lady of the Philippines Wavel Ramkalawan, president of Seychelles, and his wife, Linda Ramkalawan Mario Abdo Benítez and Silvana López Moreira, President and First Lady of Paraguay Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Union Commission Charles Michel, European Union Council President Roberta Metsola, President of the European Parliament Amina Jane Mohammed, Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations Borjana Krišto, the chair of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of Bangladesh Nikos Christodoulides, President of Cyprus Ranil Wickremesinghe, President of Sri Lanka Macky Sall, President of Senegal Dame Froyla Tzalam, Governor-General of Belize Cornelius A. Smith, Governor-General of the Bahamas and his wife, Clara Smith Philip Davis, Prime Minister of the Bahamas Michael Pintard, leader of the opposition in the Bahamas Bob Dadae, Governor-General of Papua New Guinea David Vunagi, Governor-General of Solomon Islands Võ Văn Thưởng, President of Vietnam Emmerson Mnangagwa, President of Zimbabwe Petr Pavel, President of the Czech Republic Luís Inácio Lula da Silva, President of Brazil Alexander Van der Bellen, Federal President of Austria Archbishop Joan Enric Vives i Sicília, Co-Prince of Andorra Narayan Prakash Saud, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Nepal On April 8, it was announced that more than 1,250 volunteers and young people had been invited to either attend the ceremony itself or be part of one of its surrounding events. The number is significantly less than Queen Elizabeth II’s coronation when over 8,000 people saw her take the crown in 1953. People who are not guaranteed spots at the coronation include members of Parliament and peers. Sources told The Telegraph that the people who are invited will be representatives of different faiths and community groups. Buckingham Palace also revealed 450 “COVID heroes” had been invited to attend the service in person at Westminster Abbey. Commonwealth leaders and diversity of religions will be prioritized among the congregation. The King is also said to have expressed a wish that it reflects the ethnic diversity of modern Britain. Lieutenant Colonel Anthony Mather told Daily Mail the reasoning behind the new invites, “There are about 700 peers, well they won’t all be there,” he said. “The same with MPs: they won’t all be present because he’s not being crowned for them. He’s being crowned for the people.” Invitations to King Charles’ coronation were sent out and were designed by heraldic artist and manuscript illuminator Andrew Jamieson. The invitations released by Buckingham Palace include a floral pattern and the text reads, “The Coronation of Their Majesties King Charles III and Queen Camilla,” the letter heralds. “By command of the King the Earl Marshal is directed to invite [name] to be present at the Abbey Church of Westminster on the 6th day of May 2023.” The decorations present “an ancient figure from British folklore, symbolic of spring and rebirth, to celebrate the new reign,” the palace said. It also includes two birds perched on the letter C, which is flanked by Charles and Camilla’s coats of arms. The Queen Consort’s crest has been updated to reflect her installment as a Royal Lady of the Order of the Garter last summer, courtiers said. With exclusive interviews and extensive research, King Charles delivers definitive insight into the extraordinary life of His Royal Highness, former Prince of Wales, as he takes the throne, a watershed moment in modern history and in the British monarchy. New York Times bestselling author Robert Jobson debunks the myths about the man who became king, going beyond banal, bogus media caricatures of Charles to tell his true story. Jobson—who has spent nearly thirty years chronicling the House of Windsor, and has met Charles on countless occasions—received unprecedented cooperation from Clarence House, what was the Prince’s office, in writing this illuminating biography. Our mission at STYLECASTER is to bring style to the people, and we only feature products we think you’ll love as much as we do. Please note that if you purchase something by clicking on a link within this story, we may receive a small commission from the sale. Best of StyleCaster These ‘Bachelor’ Secrets & Rules Prove What Happens Behind the Scenes Is So Much Juicier BTS's 7 Members Were Discovered in the Most Unconventional Ways The 26 Best Romantic Comedies to Watch if You Want to Know What Love Feels Like New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.