MENU Business.com aims to help business owners make informed decisions to support and grow their companies. We research and recommend products and services suitable for various business types, investing thousands of hours each year in this process. As a business, we need to generate revenue to sustain our content. We have financial relationships with some companies we cover, earning commissions when readers purchase from our partners or share information about their needs. These relationships do not dictate our advice and recommendations. Our editorial team independently evaluates and recommends products and services based on their research and expertise. Learn more about our process and partners here. The only constant in digital marketing is that it's constantly changing. Here's how to keep up. Digital marketing is helping even the smallest companies attract new business, and its future looks bright. Still, digital marketing is part of an overarching technology landscape that’s growing and changing rapidly; marketers may find it challenging to keep up with evolving trends. To avoid choosing a digital marketing strategy that’s outdated, you must stay abreast of this sector’s growth and understand how shifting practices will affect your business. We’ll explore strategies for staying current on the latest digital marketing trends to help you gain a competitive edge. They’ll also help attract higher website traffic, generate more sales leads, and successfully convert leads to customers. We’ve identified 10 ways to stay on top of shifting digital marketing trends; such methods include changes related to social media marketing, the metaverse, big data and the Internet of Things (IoT). Web-based publications dedicated to digital marketing, including Search Engine Journal, Marketing Week, eMarketer and Social Media Today, are reliable information resources that will share the latest developments in the digital marketing arena. For example: While guiding you on cutting-edge digital marketing trends, these online publications can also provide tips and advice on improving and strengthening your existing digital marketing strategies. Certified marketing courses and training programs provide a wealth of information about the latest digital marketing trends. You’ll be able to add to your general and niche marketing knowledge, expand your skill set, stay on top of new digital marketing developments, and forecast what’s ahead. As a bonus, when you add one of the best marketing certifications to your resume, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of digital marketing tools. These tools include social media platforms, Google Ads, Hootsuite, HubSpot and other customer analytics channels. Three popular online training resources to consider include the Digital Marketing Institute, the American Marketing Association and Udemy. Looking to increase your knowledge while on the move without internet or Wi-Fi? Check out your local newsstand or bookstore for print magazines like Adweek, Marketing Week or Ad Age. While print articles aren’t as ubiquitous or frequently updated as web content, these magazines provide highly researched information that can teach and inspire. Meaningful blog content is an excellent way to stay abreast of the latest digital marketing trends. Popular digital marketing blogs and top advertising blogs with marketing content can help you learn cutting-edge techniques, offer industry advice and learn from the experiences of industry experts. Some of the most well-respected industry blogs include ProBlogger, SEMrush and MarketingProfs. You never know — following these blogs may turn you into a digital marketing expert in your own right. Online professional networking platform LinkedIn is an excellent way to connect with digital marketing experts and interest groups. When you create a business profile on LinkedIn, you can follow marketing influencers and professionals, consult in-depth articles, and visit resources like the Marketing Success Hub. Social media platforms such as X (formerly Twitter), Facebook, Instagram and even TikTok can be user-friendly channels for staying updated on digital marketing trends. Use Facebook and Instagram to follow digital marketing industry leaders and receive daily updates with their thoughts and opinions on digital marketing trends and best practices. Browse X’s trending topics to search for specific hashtags or phrases, and set alerts to ensure you receive news in real time. Use Google Alerts to set up email updates regarding the trends most pertinent to you and your industry. These alerts will appear in your email inbox if you specify broad or narrow interest topics. For example, you can set up alerts for social media marketing, content writing or anything related to digital marketing. Filter these results further by region, occurrence and relevance. Similarly, you can use the Google News feature to track your industry’s trends and stay current on new digital media best practices as they emerge. Trade shows and event exhibitions provide excellent opportunities to hobnob with digital marketers, influencers and industry experts. These platforms often introduce the latest products and industry trends, so you’ll be among the first to know and experience new marketing methods and products. There is a wealth of information on digital marketing in podcasts. The nice thing is that you can listen to them while in the car or taking a walk. For information on optimizing your paid advertising, listen to PPC Rockstars Podcast (on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Podchaser and more); or you can check out Local SEO Tactics (on Apple Podcasts, iHeart, Spotify and more) or Entrepreneur on Fire (on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Fire App and more) for varied digital marketing topics. Additionally, many of the best business podcasts will include digital marketing content. The Influencer Marketing Hub website focuses on social media and influencer marketing, as the name implies. However, it also has plenty of information on other digital marketing topics, including affiliate marketing, e-commerce and video editing. It also offers deep dives into niche marketing areas. In addition to bolstering your digital marketing knowledge, try these tips to stay ahead of the curve. Digital marketing success often involves trying new tools, techniques and strategies. Don’t hesitate to experiment. However, if you’re borrowing another company’s strategy, bear in mind that what worked for them may not work for you. If something doesn’t work, find out where you went wrong and improvise accordingly. As technology changes, updating your knowledge to improve digital marketing strategies is essential. One of the easiest ways to do this is to continue your education and training. Through continuous learning, you’ll uncover the latest digital marketing possibilities and employ those strategies to stay one step ahead of your competitors. B. newsletter is your digest of bite-sized news, thought & brand leadership, and entertainment. All in one email. Our mission is to help you take your team, your business and your career to the next level. Whether you're here for product recommendations, research or career advice, we're happy you're here!