Comment Avantis Labs, a decentralized finance (DeFi) derivatives ecosystem, has raised $4 million in a seed funding round led by Pantera Capital, the company’s co-founder and CEO Sehaj Singh exclusively told TechCrunch. Founders Fund, Galaxy, Coinbase’s Base Ecosystem Fund and Modular Capital also invested in the round. The capital will be used to grow its flagship product Avantis, a perpetual-trading and market-making protocol. “We saw an opportunity to build a protocol that caters to the complex LPs,” Singh said. “They’re not your run of the mill, average Joe; they’re very complex, sophisticated, on-chain, risk managing, yield-hunting individuals. The next big step was to build a protocol that caters to their individual risk profiles.” Perpetuals are a type of derivative contract that allow traders to speculate on the price of an asset without actually owning it, meaning that they don’t have an expiration date (like futures contracts) and can be held indefinitely. Many DeFi perpetual protocols focus mainly on trading cryptocurrencies, opposed to traditional assets like forex or commodities. Across the crypto community, there has been an increased demand in recent months for more real-world assets (RWAs) to link the traditional financial market to the DeFi world and leveraged trading. But many RWAs that are available on-chain through DeFi protocols are offered to accredited institutions, not everyday traders. Avantis plans to enable forex and commodities to “be hedged and traded on-chain” without the need for tokenization, which is a slow and expensive process, Singh said. “We take the leverage trading mechanism [and] we not only expand it to real-world assets, using oracles, we also expand out the LP side of things by making it a bit more complex,” Singh said. “We like to call it the Uniswap V3 moment for LPs of these leverage protocols.” Avantis’ underlying trading engine is powered by oracles from Pyth and Chainlink, which are low latency and aim to provide traders with better prices across centralized and decentralized financial markets. The platform is being developed on Optimism Superchain, a network of chains built using the OP Stack, and uses USDC stablecoins as collateral for trades on its protocol. In the third quarter of this year, Avantis launched its private testnet phase on Base’s blockchain with initial offerings of bitcoin and ether perpetual trading. It plans to launch on Base’s mainnet by the first quarter of 2024 and roll out general access afterward. Its waitlist has about 90,000 applicants, but it started onboarding about 2,500 people this past weekend, Singh said. It will not be operating in the U.S. or any OFAC-sanctioned countries unless it can get approval to operate as an exchange under a CFTC license, he added. The protocol aims to provide institutional and retail investors the ability to trade crypto and RWAs with up to 100x leverage on its decentralized exchange. It aims to give these traders and liquidity providers better DeFi derivative-trading and market-making infrastructure as well as “capital-efficient composability that’s scalable,” the company said in a statement. Composability is a generally “untapped” area by orderbook-based derivative protocols because they have minimal trading opportunities for non-crypto asset classes. As a result, the DeFi space has been restricted to mainly crypto assets. On launching on the mainnet, Avantis will go live with bitcoin and ether and three pairs for foreign exchange: the pound, JPY and the euro. Over time, it will add more cryptocurrencies as well as “exotic forex pairs” like INR and USD, and commodities like gold, silver and crude oil, Singh said. “I really do believe that it’s possible to give access to anyone to market-make these products,” Singh said. “These are not as sophisticated as people make them out to be. It’s just that they’re very gated to market makers who are in the traditional institutional world… In order to do it, you have to make a complex engine that people can still understand and that can function well at scale.” It’s worth noting that while this platform wants to cater to different trading personas, it’s not for someone who isn’t “crypto-native and who hasn’t bought crypto in their life,” Singh said. “It’s for people who have and understand leverage trading. Someone who has an understanding of leverage is very important, [because] if you don’t understand it, you end up burning yourself.” In the long term, Avantis has a bigger roadmap to expand its protocols’ capabilities beyond perpetual trading, and plans to begin working on an options engine by mid next year. “The goal is to build a whole ecosystem of margin-based products that are fully on-chain,” Singh said. “Options [perpetuals trading] are the next big step for us.” Beyond that, the “next frontier products” for Avantis can range from “on-chain casinos” to leverage vaults, he added. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP