Luke Procter is Northamptonshire's new Championship captain after scoring 961 runs in 2022 Northamptonshire head coach John Sadler is not planning a radical change of approach from his team in this summer's County Championship. They finished sixth in Championship Division One in 2022 after two wins and seven draws in 14 games. But there is now a focus on win-at-all-costs cricket because of England's Test success under captain Ben Stokes. "It's what England want and we have to kind of tie in with what they think," Sadler told BBC Radio Northampton. "They are trying to encourage an exciting brand of cricket like England are playing at the moment, which is fantastic, and I'm sure we'll play our part in that. "We're still going to go about our business, look to play good, solid, hard-fought cricket. "I'm sure there'll be times when we can be more aggressive and times when we've got to soak up a bit of pressure. Ultimately, nothing changes too much in terms of our plans as yet. "We were in a position last year where we could have won six or seven games - two of them we got over the line, a couple we probably should have got over the line and a couple didn't go our way. "But we played some brilliant cricket last year and we want to build on that and keep progressing forward." Only five points will be available for draws this summer, instead of eight as in recent years. Vice-captain Luke McManus said: "We'll be flexible with that, but still sticking to our strengths as a team, and individually." There have been changes at the County Ground with Luke Procter appointed Championship captain, David Willey returning to the club from Yorkshire - although he is away at the Indian Premier League - and Australians Sam Whiteman, Lance Morris and Chris Tremain - the latter pair both on three match deals only.  Sadler expects Whiteman to be an important addition to their squad. "He's going to be great for us, he's going to bring experience as well as high levels of skill and his captaincy knowledge will be really good for Proc and for other guys when they need it," he said. "We're looking forward to getting him on board and I'm sure he'll bring some good value." BBC Northamptonshire News & Sport BBC Sport County Cricket Northamptonshire official site 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals Sabalenka wins first title since Australian Open Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.