UKRAINE - 2021/06/27: In this photo illustration, a Colgate-Palmolive Company logo seen displayed on ... [+] a smartphone. (Photo Illustration by Igor Golovniov/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images) We believe that Procter & Gamble stock (NYSE: PG) and Colgate-Palmolive stock  (NYSE: CL) in the consumer-defensive sector, can be avoided. Still, if one has to invest in one of these two companies, P&G is likely a better pick, in our view. Although P&G is trading at a comparatively higher valuation of 4.0x trailing revenues vs. 3.4x for Colgate-Palmolive
CL
, this gap in the valuation makes sense, given the former’s superior revenue growth, profitability, and financial position, as discussed below. If we look at stock returns, CL, with -4% returns in the last twelve months, has fared better than PG stock, down 10%, and the broader S&P500 index, down 8%. There is more to the comparison, and in the sections below, we discuss why we believe PG stock will offer better returns than CL stock in the next three years. We compare a slew of factors, such as historical revenue growth, returns, and valuation, in an interactive dashboard analysis of Colgate-Palmolive vs. Procter & Gamble
PG
: Which Stock Is A Better Bet? Parts of the analysis are summarized below. 1. P&G’s Revenue Growth Is Better   Annual Growth Forecast - CL vs. PG 2. P&G Is More Profitable   3. The Net of It All   Stock Return Forecast - CL vs. PG While PG stock may outperform CL stock in the next three years, it is helpful to see how Colgate-Palmolive’s Peers fare on metrics that matter. You will find other valuable comparisons for companies across industries at Peer Comparisons. Furthermore, the Covid-19 crisis has created many pricing discontinuities which can offer attractive trading opportunities. For example, you’ll be surprised at how counter-intuitive the stock valuation is for Citrix Systems vs. Procter & Gamble. With higher inflation and the Fed raising interest rates, among other factors, CL stock has fallen 4% in the last twelve months. Can it drop more? See how low Colgate-Palmolive stock can go by comparing its decline in previous market crashes. Here is a performance summary of all stocks in previous market crashes. What if you’re looking for a more balanced portfolio instead? Our high-quality portfolio and multi-strategy portfolio have beaten the market consistently since the end of 2016. CL & PG Returns Compared With Trefis Multi-Strategy Portfolio   Invest with Trefis Market Beating Portfolios See all Trefis Price Estimates