
Projects
 
Images
 
Products
 
Folders
 
Feed
  The objective of this competition is to select the appropriate master plan proposal for the National Museum Complex (NMC), with the aim of realizing a cultural base that is the spatial core of the Administrative City. This competition is an open international competition for all professionals and consists of two stages. In stage one (1) of the competition, conceptual land use plan of the whole project site (190,000m2) and conceptual master plan of the project area (75,000m2) of the 1st phase of the NMC project are reviewed. Entries of stage two of the competition are limited to winners of the stage one. The objective of this competition is to select the appropriate master plan proposal for the National Museum Complex (NMC), with the aim of realizing a cultural base that is the spatial core of the Administrative City. This competition is an open international competition for all professionals and consists of two stages. In stage one (1) of the competition, conceptual land use plan of the whole project site (190,000m2) and conceptual master plan of the project area (75,000m2) of the 1st phase of the NMC project are reviewed. Entries of stage two of the competition are limited to winners of the stage one. The American Institute of Architects has launched the second annual I Look Up Film Challenge, which invites architects to produce short documentaries about the impact of architecture. The 2016 Challenge kicked off with a short film on Auburn University’s design-build program known as Rural Studio. The documentary shows how the small town of Newbern, Alabama has been impacted through the program’s design and construction of a new library and fire station. Through a series of short interviews, the film shows the team's design process from early schematic design discussions through the end of construction. The American Institute of Architects has launched the second annual I Look Up Film Challenge, which invites architects to produce short documentaries about the impact of architecture. The 2016 Challenge kicked off with a short film on Auburn University’s design-build program known as Rural Studio. The documentary shows how the small town of Newbern, Alabama has been impacted through the program’s design and construction of a new library and fire station. Through a series of short interviews, the film shows the team's design process from early schematic design discussions through the end of construction. Anna Puigjaner has been selected from nearly 200 applications as the winner of the Harvard University Graduate School of Design 2016 Wheelwright Prize. The $100,000 travel grant was awarded for her proposal, Kitchenless City: Architectural Systems for Social Welfare, for which she will study “exemplars of collective housing in Russia, Brazil, Sweden, China, Korea, and India, which reflect a variety of approaches to organizing and distributing domestic spaces.” Puigjaner notes that this typology is "deeply understood as a tool for social transformations," and through her investigation, she hopes to apply new thinking to the housing dilemmas of today. The prize will fund her travel and research over the next two years. Anna Puigjaner has been selected from nearly 200 applications as the winner of the Harvard University Graduate School of Design 2016 Wheelwright Prize. The $100,000 travel grant was awarded for her proposal, Kitchenless City: Architectural Systems for Social Welfare, for which she will study “exemplars of collective housing in Russia, Brazil, Sweden, China, Korea, and India, which reflect a variety of approaches to organizing and distributing domestic spaces.” Puigjaner notes that this typology is "deeply understood as a tool for social transformations," and through her investigation, she hopes to apply new thinking to the housing dilemmas of today. The prize will fund her travel and research over the next two years. Devnya Cement AD, a member of Italcementi Group, and Varna Design Forum invite all students of architecture and design, and all young professionals up to 35 years old from all over the world to participate in the international contest for conceptual design of a small trading pavilion, to be situated in the Seaside Park in the city of Varna. The goal is to enrich the urban design of Varna through the realization of a contemporary and inspiring concept for a trading pavilion constructed with the innovative materials of Italcementi Group. The contest will finish with the announcement of a winner selected by a five-member Jury Panel. The winner will be awarded with monetary prize, visit to the "i.lab" research center in Italy and realization of their project as a real-size prototype. The overriding purpose of this proposed monument is to honor and express deep gratitude for the millions of Americans and Vietnamese who fought side-by-side to stop communist aggression and give the South Vietnamese people a chance to live in freedom. To give meaning to this difficult struggle, it is important for many of the Vietnamese people who fled their country and escaped communist persecution, to show their appreciation to those that helped them during and after the war. How is it possible to live in a society where changes occur in a fast and simultaneous way? These changes produce new family structures whose temporariness can change several times throughout the life cycle of a person. Therefore, currently there is no single housing prototype associated with a homogeneous sample of similar individuals who live in the same family structures.  Cash prizes: 20.000 € Subject: open architectural competition Target: Designers, Architects, Students, Professionals Location: Marzabotto (Bologna, Italy)   As the planet is quickening its pace towards 8 billion inhabitants and the effects of the anthropic action on the terrestrial ecosystem are becoming clear, a different environmental awareness is not an optional attitude anymore, but an urgent need that cannot be postponed. As the planet is quickening its pace towards 8 billion inhabitants and the effects of the anthropic action on the terrestrial ecosystem are becoming clear, a different environmental awareness is not an optional attitude anymore, but an urgent need that cannot be postponed. In a society that consumes and pollutes at a quicker pace than the earth can stand, we need new ideas to face pointless alarmism and misguided scepticism. DISMECO srl -- a leading company in Europe in the disposal and recycling of electrical equipment -- has been pledging for years to create a more sustainable future through a more widespread action in reusing and treating complex waste. In a society that consumes and pollutes at a quicker pace than the earth can stand, we need new ideas to face pointless alarmism and misguided scepticism. DISMECO srl -- a leading company in Europe in the disposal and recycling of electrical equipment -- has been pledging for years to create a more sustainable future through a more widespread action in reusing and treating complex waste. Strelka KB announces the launch of an Open International Competition for Tverskaya Streetscape Concept Design. The design project covers Tverskaya Street (from Pushkinskaya Square to Triumfalnaya Square) and 1st Tverskaya-Yamskaya Street in Moscow. The competition is aimed to attract young and emerging architects for the projects on the renovation of urban territories as a part of “My Street” programme. The winner will be announced on the 7th of July 2016. Competition Theme: Green – Eco - Future Building Systems and Lifestyle Competition Theme: Green – Eco - Future Building Systems and Lifestyle The design intent is to create a system/network of eco-green elevated sky gardens within a soon to be realised super high-rise residential complex, with the aim of drastically improving the living environment and lifestyle of urban dwellers. This competition seeks young architects worldwide to provide innovative ideas to break the existing typology of the super high-rise and isolated lifestyles associated with high density urban living.  The design intent is to create a system/network of eco-green elevated sky gardens within a soon to be realised super high-rise residential complex, with the aim of drastically improving the living environment and lifestyle of urban dwellers. This competition seeks young architects worldwide to provide innovative ideas to break the existing typology of the super high-rise and isolated lifestyles associated with high density urban living.  This is the fourth year of the various 'shoestring' design idea competitions. This year we are seeking innovative ideas for a flexible low cost Starter Home (a 65 sq m + home that can be built for £50k or less). The judges include a string of TV celebrities (Kevin McCloud from Grand Designs, George Clarke from Amazing Spaces and Charlie Luxton from Building the Dream, plus others). There is a £5,000 prize fund, and the top entries will be displayed at Grand Designs Live in October. The purpose of this competition is to design a stage set for a dance and music performance to be given at the Bauhaus stage in Dessau in December 2016. Since the Gropius Bauhaus was opened in 1925 Music and Dance was an important part of Bauhaus teaching complementing other disciplines such architecture painting textile or graphic design and sculpting.The most well-known exponent in the field of stage set and costume design was Oskar Schlemmer. Call for entries have opened for Taiwan's Golden Pin Design Award (GPDA) 2016–the only international huaren-focused design award in the world. As Taipei City proudly hosts the World Design Capital 2016, the gaze of the international design community is squarely on the island nation. This unique award offers designers and companies around the world the perfect opportunity to test the viability and inventiveness of their product or design project in the huge, diverse huaren (Chinese-speaking) market. Winners will receive a prestigious Golden Pin Design Mark–an indicator of innovation that they can use to market their product or design project–or a Best Design trophy, and valuable brand exposure in two languages. SEE (Santiago Emergent Ecologies) international ideas competition aims to articulate a series of concrete projects for the fringe comprised between the city of Santiago and the El Roble ecological conservation site (Sitio Proritario el Roble). The el Roble conservation site is one of the major reservoirs of biodiversity in Chile; its resources and ecosystemic relations have a direct impact on the environment and the quality of life in the Region of Santiago, and influence the potential economic development of the area. Arch Out Loud has announced the winners of their New York City Aquarium and Public Waterfront Competition, which invited students and professionals alike to design "an intertwined public aquarium and park" on an underutilized riverfront property located on the East River in Queens. Participants were asked to “redefine the aquarium typology, examining its relationship to the urban context and the public domain.”  Arch Out Loud has announced the winners of their New York City Aquarium and Public Waterfront Competition, which invited students and professionals alike to design "an intertwined public aquarium and park" on an underutilized riverfront property located on the East River in Queens. Participants were asked to “redefine the aquarium typology, examining its relationship to the urban context and the public domain.”  The call for submissions was answered by 556 participants and 178 proposals from forty counties, and included ideas that pushed the physical boundaries of the site and responded to the idea of redefining the typical aquarium typology. The call for submissions was answered by 556 participants and 178 proposals from forty counties, and included ideas that pushed the physical boundaries of the site and responded to the idea of redefining the typical aquarium typology. SCI-Arc Mexico 2016 Scholarship covers 100% of the tuition fees for the Master of Architecture- M.Arch 2 (two year) program, at the SCI-Arc campus in Los Angeles, California. Additional information on SCI-Arc's M.Arch 2 program can be found on SCI-Arc's official site. Corning Incorporated and OLEDWorks are inviting design proposals for OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) lighting applications that highlight the special features of OLED technology: thin form factors, low weight lighting elements, cool to touch, and high light quality. NineSigma is administering this competition on behalf of the sponsors, and up to five winners will be awarded cash prizes of US $10,000 each. Progetti likes to innovate and renovate, to be a source of ideas and to rethink simple and everyday objects in original and fun ways, without losing their main function. The company was among the first in Italy to come up with clocks and cuckoo clocks that combine originality and functionality thanks to collaborations with great architects and designers of international fame. Past collaborations are included in the permanent catalogs of MoMA in New York and San Francisco and have earned important international awards. The Lima Art Museum (MALI) announces the launch of an open competition for the design of its new contemporary art wing. The project will include new gallery spaces, a library, classrooms, workshops, a café, a public plaza, access to a future metro station, and a landscape proposal for the park where the museum is located. Our goal is to establish the MALI as a new civic and cultural platform in the city, as well as a referent for future competitions regarding the design of public spaces in Lima. Laka Architektura invites designers from around the world to submit their ideas of architecture that reacts. That means architecture which is able to respond and adjust dynamically to the current needs and circumstances. These circumstances are often unpredictable, but their consequences can be crucial. The architecture that reacts is the architecture that lives as a living organism, since it responds to the external stimuli and it develops because of it—to react is to live. Architects, designers, engineers, artists, urban planners are given a unique opportunity to win one of the three prizes of the Jacques Rougerie Foundation - Institut de France by creating innovative and ambitious projects. These architectural projects based on emerging developments and a prospective vision should address some core issues of mankind: greater environmental, industrial and technical responsibilities, while taking sustainable development principles into account. Are you proud of your resume? Not for what's contained in it—that part is super important, don't get us wrong—but for how it's visually presented and designed? Following the success of our business cards for architects post, we want our readers to share their innovative, eye-catching, well-formulated resumes (also called CVs, depending on where you live/work).  Are you proud of your resume? Not for what's contained in it—that part is super important, don't get us wrong—but for how it's visually presented and designed? Following the success of our business cards for architects post, we want our readers to share their innovative, eye-catching, well-formulated resumes (also called CVs, depending on where you live/work).  If you think your resume has what it takes to be featured in a top-10 list, then send it over!  If you think your resume has what it takes to be featured in a top-10 list, then send it over!  We invite architecture students, professional architects and designers to take part in the international architectural contest of ideas for Siberia “ARCH_TAIGA”. The project “ARCH_TAIGA” was created as a platform for architectural contests for students and young architects. Every year our team finds a challenging task and asks designers from all over the world to find the solution. Street as both urban form and institution of human movement, economic transaction, social intercourse and political contestation arguably stands at the core of urbanisation in Asia. It offers a stage and provides a backdrop for the workings of the city in this process, and as an outcome of an increasingly complex urban pluralism also registers and embodies in its changing architecture many conflicts and compromises. We see opportunities for collaboration for art and architecture students and NuPath. We would love to engage the students in a potential competition project of creating sculptures to the name of those who were part of NuPath. The project is to design a single sculpture or installation that could be dynamically multiplied on site. The outdoor space is located on the back green space of the building, located in 147 New Boston Street in Woburn, MA and it is currently being planned as the Outdoor Sculpture Park. With the innovative and creative ideas from art and architecture students, we can help memorialize people that were part of the NuPath family. You'll now receive updates based on what you follow! Personalize your stream and start following your favorite authors, offices and users.