Life Main menu Coverage Tools & resources Reviews Save 50% or more on life insurance Home Main menu Coverage Tools & resources Reviews You could be saving on home insurance Auto Main menu Coverage Tools & resources Reviews Shop and save on auto insurance Disability Main menu Coverage Tools & resources Reviews Your paycheck needs protection We've saved shoppers an average of $435 per year on auto insurance. Your information is kept secure. 4.6 out of 5 Your marketplace for America's top insurers By Edited by Reviewed by UpdatedMarch 29, 2024 Policygenius content follows strict guidelines for editorial accuracy and integrity. Learn about our editorial standards and  how we make money. We scored dozens of car insurance companies based on price, discounts offered, coverage options, customer experience, and financial strength to find the best insurance providers overall. The 10 best car insurance companies based on their Policygenius scores are USAA, Erie, State Farm, Auto-Owners, COUNTRY Financial, GEICO, NJM, Travelers, Amica, and Encompass We calculated our expert ratings by considering cost, availability, customer experience and satisfaction, and coverage options. Our own Policygenius agents — who have years of experience working with real car insurance shoppers — also weighed in. We assigned weights to each category based on its relative importance, then found the weighted average of these values for each company. The raw scores we assigned to each company were converted into a “z-score” and then a “t-score,” which were then standardized on a 5-point scale. To come up with our company ratings, we accumulated company data for price, financial strength, customer experience, and coverage options. We assigned a weight to each category based on research and insight from our own licensed insurance editors and operations specialists. Here’s how our ratings categories break down: Price (35%): We gave each company a score based on its average rate and available discounts. Financial strength (25%): We gave point values based on each company’s A.M. Best Financial Strength Rating, S&P credit rating, and Moody’s credit rating. Customer experience (20%): We scored companies based on how they performed on the most recent J.D. Power Auto Claims Satisfaction and Digital Experience surveys. This category also considers a company's complaint index, which is provided by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Coverage options (20%): We scored companies for the number of coverage types offered and the quality of these options. Less common endorsements earned higher scores compared to add-ons that most companies offer. How we calculated coverage cost: We determined the average costs for full-coverage car insurance from each company using rate data provided by Quadrant Information Services. These rates were from every ZIP code across every state, along with the District of Columbia. Rates were for a 30-year-old male driver with a 2017 Toyota Camry. Our sample full-coverage policy included the following limits: Bodily injury liability: $50,000 per person, $100,000 per accident Property damage liability: $50,000 per accident Uninsured/underinsured motorist: $50,000 per person, $100,000 per accident Comprehensive: $500 deductible Collision: $500 deductible Some carriers may be represented by affiliates or subsidiaries. Rates provided are a sample of costs. Your actual quotes may differ. Policygenius rating  Our proprietary rating methodology takes multiple factors into account, including customer satisfaction, cost, financial strength, and policy offerings. See the "methodology" section for more details. 5.0 AM Best rating  AM Best is a global credit rating agency that scores the financial strength of insurance companies on a scale from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor). A++ Cost  Using a mix of internal and external rate data, we grade the cost of each insurance company's premiums on a scale from least expensive ($) to most expensive ($$$$$). $ $ $ $ $ All 50 states Bundle home & auto Usage-based discount Good student discount Coverage for rideshare drivers Mobile app Offers classic car insurance Offers motorcycle insurance For eligible drivers affiliated with the military, USAA auto insurance is unmatched. USAA is known for cheap rates and consistently offering some of the best customer service in the industry. Pros Low rates Available nationwide High customer service ratings Cons Only available to military members and their families Policygenius rating  Our proprietary rating methodology takes multiple factors into account, including customer satisfaction, cost, financial strength, and policy offerings. See the "methodology" section for more details. 4.9 AM Best rating  AM Best is a global credit rating agency that scores the financial strength of insurance companies on a scale from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor). A+ Cost  Using a mix of internal and external rate data, we grade the cost of each insurance company's premiums on a scale from least expensive ($) to most expensive ($$$$$). $ $ $ $ $ Offers new car replacement Good student discount Accident forgiveness Mobile app Bundle home & auto Coverage for rideshare drivers Offers classic car insurance Offers gap coverage Offers motorcycle insurance Usage-based discount Erie’s range of available coverage options, affordable rates, and top claims service makes it our pick for the best overall car insurance company. On the downside, it’s only available in 12 states. Pros Low car insurance rates Lots of useful add-ons, like new car replacement Accident forgiveness automatically included after three years Cons Not available in every state Policygenius rating  Our proprietary rating methodology takes multiple factors into account, including customer satisfaction, cost, financial strength, and policy offerings. See the "methodology" section for more details. 4.8 AM Best rating  AM Best is a global credit rating agency that scores the financial strength of insurance companies on a scale from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor). A++ Cost  Using a mix of internal and external rate data, we grade the cost of each insurance company's premiums on a scale from least expensive ($) to most expensive ($$$$$). $ $ $ $ $ Bundle home & auto Coverage for rideshare drivers Good student discount Mobile app Usage-based discount Offers classic car insurance Offers motorcycle insurance As the largest car insurance company in the U.S., State Farm offers reliable customer service and affordable rates (including for drivers who don’t have a clean driving record). Pros Available in almost every state Low rates for teens and drivers with accidents High customer satisfaction ratings Cons Limited coverage options Policygenius rating  Our proprietary rating methodology takes multiple factors into account, including customer satisfaction, cost, financial strength, and policy offerings. See the "methodology" section for more details. 4.7 AM Best rating  AM Best is a global credit rating agency that scores the financial strength of insurance companies on a scale from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor). A++ Cost  Using a mix of internal and external rate data, we grade the cost of each insurance company's premiums on a scale from least expensive ($) to most expensive ($$$$$). $ $ $ $ $ Bundle home & auto Offers gap coverage Good student discount Mobile app Offers classic car insurance Offers motorcycle insurance Auto-Owners is known for offering cheap rates, lots of endorsements (including gap insurance), and for having solid customer service. Auto-Owners is also a standout insurance company for drivers who want to bundle their home and auto insurance. Pros Lower-than-average rates Offers gap coverage Owned by its policyholders Cons Not offered in every state Policygenius rating  Our proprietary rating methodology takes multiple factors into account, including customer satisfaction, cost, financial strength, and policy offerings. See the "methodology" section for more details. 4.7 AM Best rating  AM Best is a global credit rating agency that scores the financial strength of insurance companies on a scale from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor). A+ Cost  Using a mix of internal and external rate data, we grade the cost of each insurance company's premiums on a scale from least expensive ($) to most expensive ($$$$$). $ $ $ $ $ Mobile app Bundle home & auto Good student discount Offers classic car insurance Offers new car replacement COUNTRY Financial doesn’t offer car insurance everywhere, but it’s cheaper than average in the 19 states where it’s available. COUNTRY also receives very few complaints from its customers compared to other companies. Pros Lower-than-average rates Lots of coverage options Low number of customer complaints Cons Only available in 19 states Not rated by S&P or Moody’s Policygenius rating  Our proprietary rating methodology takes multiple factors into account, including customer satisfaction, cost, financial strength, and policy offerings. See the "methodology" section for more details. 4.7 AM Best rating  AM Best is a global credit rating agency that scores the financial strength of insurance companies on a scale from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor). A++ Cost  Using a mix of internal and external rate data, we grade the cost of each insurance company's premiums on a scale from least expensive ($) to most expensive ($$$$$). $ $ $ $ $ Offers classic car insurance Offers motorcycle insurance Usage-based discount Mobile app All 50 states Good student discount GEICO is available in every state and the District of Columbia. While GEICO doesn’t offer as many endorsements as other companies do, it has some of the cheapest car insurance rates around. Pros Available in all 50 states Easy-to-use digital tools Plenty of discounts Cons Only sells through GEICO agents Doesn’t underwrite its other products Policygenius rating  Our proprietary rating methodology takes multiple factors into account, including customer satisfaction, cost, financial strength, and policy offerings. See the "methodology" section for more details. 4.7 AM Best rating  AM Best is a global credit rating agency that scores the financial strength of insurance companies on a scale from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor). A+ Cost  Using a mix of internal and external rate data, we grade the cost of each insurance company's premiums on a scale from least expensive ($) to most expensive ($$$$$). $ $ $ $ $ Mobile app Bundle home & auto Good student discount Offers gap coverage While it’s only available in Connecticut, Maryland, New Jersey, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, NJM has fantastic car insurance rates for lots of different types of drivers, as well as exceptional customer service and claims satisfaction scores. Pros Lower-than-average rates Offers gap coverage Good customer service ratings Cons Only available in five states Policygenius rating  Our proprietary rating methodology takes multiple factors into account, including customer satisfaction, cost, financial strength, and policy offerings. See the "methodology" section for more details. 4.7 AM Best rating  AM Best is a global credit rating agency that scores the financial strength of insurance companies on a scale from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor). A++ Cost  Using a mix of internal and external rate data, we grade the cost of each insurance company's premiums on a scale from least expensive ($) to most expensive ($$$$$). $ $ $ $ $ Accident forgiveness Bundle home & auto Usage-based discount Offers gap coverage Offers new car replacement All 50 states Coverage for rideshare drivers Mobile app New homebuyer discount Travelers is a good fit for drivers looking for cheaper-than-average rates and extra coverage offerings — though it doesn’t have as high a claims satisfaction score as some competitors. Pros Offers useful add-ons like new car replacement and gap coverage Cheaper-than-average rates Receives few complaints for service Cons  Has lower satisfaction ratings than competitors Policygenius rating  Our proprietary rating methodology takes multiple factors into account, including customer satisfaction, cost, financial strength, and policy offerings. See the "methodology" section for more details. 4.6 AM Best rating  AM Best is a global credit rating agency that scores the financial strength of insurance companies on a scale from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor). A+ Cost  Using a mix of internal and external rate data, we grade the cost of each insurance company's premiums on a scale from least expensive ($) to most expensive ($$$$$). $ $ $ $ $ Offers gap coverage Offers new car replacement Bundle home & auto Mobile app New homebuyer discount Offers motorcycle insurance Amica scored well thanks in no small part to its outstanding customer service ratings. Amica also offers a range of coverage options, but it can be more expensive than competitors. Pros Outstanding customer service Wide range of coverage options, including a premium tier Affordable rates for good drivers Cons Can be pricey for drivers with spotty records Policygenius rating  Our proprietary rating methodology takes multiple factors into account, including customer satisfaction, cost, financial strength, and policy offerings. See the "methodology" section for more details. 4.6 AM Best rating  AM Best is a global credit rating agency that scores the financial strength of insurance companies on a scale from A++ (Superior) to D (Poor). A+ Cost  Using a mix of internal and external rate data, we grade the cost of each insurance company's premiums on a scale from least expensive ($) to most expensive ($$$$$). NA Bundle home & auto Accident forgiveness Offers gap coverage Offers new car replacement Encompass’s car insurance may be more expensive than average, but it offers a wide range of useful add-ons, including accident forgiveness and gap insurance. Pros Lots of coverage options Long list of discounts Good customer service Cons No online quote tool No online claims filing Not available in every state While Erie has the best overall score on our analysis of cost, coverage offerings, customer service, and claims satisfaction, that doesn’t mean it’s necessarily the best car insurance company for your specific coverage needs. The best way to find the right car insurance company for you is to shop around and compare quotes from more than one company. Best car insurance overall: Erie Best car insurance for customer service: Amica Best car insurance for customizing coverage: Travelers Best car insurance for bundling: Auto-Owners Best car insurance for families with teens: GEICO Best car insurance after an accident: State Farm Best car insurance for veterans and military families: USAA Best usage-based car insurance: Progressive Best car insurance for at-home workers: Nationwide Best car insurance for luxury vehicles: AIG Erie is our pick for best overall car insurance company because it combines extensive coverage options with top-notch customer service and affordable rates. One of Erie’s few downsides is that it’s only available in 12 states. Coverage options: Erie offers extras like gap insurance, new or better car replacement, personal item coverage, rate lock after a claim, rental car reimbursement, ridesharing coverage, and roadside assistance. Customer satisfaction ratings: Erie scored near the top of the J.D. Power Claims Satisfaction Study in 2022, but it receives slightly more complaints than average according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Price: The average cost of Erie car insurance is $98 a month or $1,181 per year, which is 29% cheaper than the national average. State availability: District of Columbia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin Amica is the best car insurance company for drivers who value top-rated customer service. Amica consistently earns top scores for customer satisfaction and gets fewer complaints than most of its competitors. Coverage options: Amica offers a range of endorsements, including gap coverage, full glass coverage, new car replacement, rental reimbursement coverage, and roadside assistance. Customer satisfaction ratings: Amica earned a score of 903 on the 2022 J.D. Power Claims Satisfaction Study, much higher than the average score of 873. Amica also receives a fewer than average number of complaints from customers, according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Price: The average cost of Amica car insurance is $144 a month or $1,723 per year, 5% more expensive than the national average. State availability: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming Travelers is our pick for the best car insurance company for drivers who want to customize their coverage. Travelers offers a wide range of car insurance coverage options that aren’t available everywhere, including add-ons for rideshare drivers and non-owners car insurance. Coverage options: You can personalize your Travelers car insurance coverage with accident forgiveness, gap insurance, new car replacement, non-owners insurance, rental reimbursement, rideshare coverage, and roadside assistance coverage. Customer satisfaction ratings: Travelers scored lower than average on the 2022 J.D. Power Claims Satisfaction and Digital Experience Studies. But Travelers receives fewer complaints than some competitors. Price: The average cost of Travelers car insurance is $132 a month or $1,586 per year, which is 3% cheaper than the national average. State availability: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming Auto-Owners is the best car insurance company for drivers who want to bundle their home and auto insurance. The cost of a combined home and auto bundle with Auto-Owners is 12% cheaper than average. Auto-Owners also offers a common loss perk that can lower (or get rid of) your auto deductible when your home and car are damaged in the same incident. Coverage options: Auto-Owners offers accident forgiveness, diminished value coverage, gap coverage, rental car coverage, trip interruption coverage, rental gap coverage, rental reimbursement coverage, roadside assistance coverage, and a waived deductible if you’re involved in a crash with someone who also has Auto-Owners car insurance. Customer satisfaction ratings: Auto-Owners scored an 865 on the 2022 J.D. Power Claim Satisfaction Study, which is about average. That said, according to the NAIC, Auto-Owners receives fewer complaints than expected. Price: The average cost of Auto-Owners car insurance is $101 a month or $1,209 per year, which is 26% cheaper than the national average. State availability: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, Wisconsin GEICO is the best car insurance company for families with a newly licensed driver or a teen with their learner’s permit, thanks to its very competitive rates for young drivers. GEICO’s mobile apps and online tools also make it a good pick for families who are looking for a way to manage their policy online. Coverage options: GEICO offers just a few coverage options besides what makes up a basic policy. These extras include mechanical breakdown coverage, rental reimbursement coverage, and roadside assistance. GEICO does not offer gap insurance. Customer satisfaction ratings: GEICO received a score of 874 on the 2022 J.D. Power Claims Satisfaction Study, which is about average. GEICO gets more complaints than average, according to the NAIC. Price: The average cost of GEICO car insurance for a family with a 16 to 21-year-old driver on their policy is $155 a month or $1,856 per year, which is 30% cheaper than average. State availability: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming State Farm is the best car insurance company for drivers with an accident or other violation on their records. That’s because State Farm’s car insurance rates remain much lower than average after an at-fault accident, speeding ticket, or a DUI. Coverage options: State Farm doesn’t offer many extra types of car insurance, but you can add rental reimbursement, rideshare coverage, and roadside assistance to a basic policy. State Farm does not offer gap insurance. Customer satisfaction ratings: State Farm earned a score of 882 on the 2022 J.D. Power Claims Satisfaction Study — higher than the industry average of 871. State Farm scores even better on the Digital Experience Study, where it’s ranked among the best for online and mobile offerings. Price: The average cost of State Farm car insurance after an accident is $117 a month or $1,574 per year, which is about half as expensive as the national average. State availability: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming We chose USAA as the best car insurance for drivers who are in the military or a part of a military family for its cheap rates and exceptional customer service. In fact, USAA has the lowest average car insurance rates of any company that we reviewed at just $87 per month for a full-coverage policy. That’s $594 cheaper than the national average. Coverage options: USAA’s car insurance coverage options include gap insurance, rental reimbursement, rideshare coverage, and roadside assistance. Customer satisfaction ratings: USAA score of 889 on the 2022 J.D. Power Claims Satisfaction Study is much higher than average, while its Digital Experience score is the second highest of any company J.D. Power reviewed. Price: The average cost of USAA car insurance is $87 a month or $1,044 per year, which is 36% cheaper than the national average. State availability: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming Progressive is the best car insurance company for drivers who qualify for a telematics or usage-based discount for staying safe on the road. If you’re unsure about Progressive’s Snapshot program, which tracks your driving and awards savings for safe behaviors behind the wheel, you can try it out for 30 days and see what you could save before you sign up. Coverage options: Progressive lets drivers personalize their car insurance with custom parts coverage, gap insurance, a lower deductible for every claim-free policy period, pet injury protection, rental car reimbursement, rideshare coverage, and roadside assistance.  Customer satisfaction ratings: Progressive scored an 861 on the 2022 J.D. Power Claims Satisfaction Study — lower than the industry average of 871. But Progressive did better on the Digital Experience Study, where it placed third best. Price: The average cost of Progressive car insurance with Snapshot is $70 a month or $840 per year, which is 53% cheaper than the national average. State availability: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming The best car insurance company for remote workers is Nationwide, since they can take advantage of its low-mileage car insurance program, SmartMiles. Nationwide’s SmartMiles, which bases your rates on how much you drive, is available in every state, comes with a 10% discount, and has a pricing structure that allows drivers to take long trips without fear of getting overcharged. Coverage options: You can add a lot of extra coverage options to your Nationwide car insurance policy, including accident forgiveness, gap insurance, rental reimbursement coverage, roadside assistance, total loss damage waiver, and a vanishing deductible for every year you go without a claim. Customer satisfaction ratings: Nationwide’s score on the 2022 J.D. Power Claims Satisfaction Study is nearly identical to the national average. Nationwide also receives fewer complaints than expected, according to the NAIC. Price: The average cost of Nationwide car insurance is $121 a month or $1,475 per year, which is 10% cheaper than the national average. State availability: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming If you have a high-value or luxury car, AIG is the best car insurance company for you. That’s because AIG has lots of experience insuring high-value property (including high-value homes and yachts), and offers a handful of speciality endorsements and very high levels of liability coverage. Coverage options: Drivers can insure their luxury or collectible cars with AIG’s $1 million liability limits, agreed value appraisement, and cash settlement options. Customer satisfaction ratings: AIG only receives a fraction of the expected complaints, according to the NAIC, indicating solid customer service. AIG wasn’t ranked by J.D. Power for claims satisfaction, though. Price: The average cost of AIG car insurance is $267 a month or $3,210 per year, 95% more expensive than the national average. State availability: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming Best car insurance overall: Erie Best car insurance for customer service: Amica Best car insurance for customizing coverage: Travelers Best car insurance for bundling: Auto-Owners Best car insurance for families with teens: GEICO Best car insurance after an accident: State Farm Best car insurance for veterans and military families: USAA Best usage-based car insurance: Progressive Best car insurance for remote workers: Nationwide Best car insurance for luxury vehicles: AIG Here’s a full list of our top car insurance company ratings, along with each company’s average rates and customer service scores (which were based on ratings from the J.D. Power Auto Claims Satisfaction Survey and NAIC Complaint Index). Policygenius rating Average premium AM Best Financial Strength Rating J.D. Power Claims Satisfaction NAIC Complaint Index USAA 5.0 out of 5 $1,044 A++ 890 1.02 Erie 4.9 out of 5 $1,181 A+ 893 1.27 State Farm 4.8 out of 5 $1,141 A++ 882 0.67 Amica 4.7 out of 5 $1,574 A+ 903 0.66 Auto-Owners 4.7 out of 5 $1,165 A++ 865 0.66 COUNTRY Financial 4.7 out of 5 $1,416 A+ NA 0.14 Encompass 4.7 out of 5 NA A+ NA 0.97 GEICO 4.7 out of 5 $1,192 A++ 874 1.07 NJM 4.7 out of 5 $1,262 A+ 896 0.06 Travelers 4.7 out of 5 $1,351 A++ 854 0.37 MAPFRE 4.6 out of 5 $1,040 A NA 0.22 Acuity 4.5 out of 5 $1,526 A+ NA 0.17 American National 4.5 out of 5 $689 A NA 0.51 Farmers 4.4 out of 5 $2,084 A 882 0.81 Progressive 4.4 out of 5 $1,780 A+ 861 0.65 Texas Farm Bureau 4.4 out of 5 $1,041 A NA 0.10 American Family 4.3 out of 5 $1,479 A 874 0.16 Nationwide 4.3 out of 5 $1,475 A+ 868 0.39 Allstate 4.2 out of 5 $2,055 A+ 889 0.73 Safeco 4.2 out of 5 $1,405 A 865 0.76 Liberty Mutual 4.1 out of 5 $1,923 A 870 1.18 Germania 4.0 out of 5 $1,341 A- NA 0.00 State Auto 3.9 out of 5 $1,987 A- NA 1.18 Wawanesa 3.8 out of 5 $959 B NA 1.04 AAA 3.7 out of 5 $2,134 A 847 0.64 National General 3.5 out of 5 $1,898 A+ 838 5.57 Mercury 3.3 out of 5 $2,577 A 830 0.71 Root 3.1 out of 5 $916 NA NA 1.79 Lemonade 2.9 out of 5 $1,967 NA NA 0.00 Companies ordered from highest to lowest Policygenius scores Compare rates and shop affordable car insurance today We don't sell your information to third parties. If you’ve narrowed your search down to a couple of companies, check out our car insurance reviews and compare companies directly. Amica vs. Safeco Amica vs. GEICO GEICO vs. Safeco Progressive vs. GEICO State Farm vs. GEICO The best car insurance company for you can depend on where you live. Some of the best-reviewed auto insurance companies (like COUNTRY, Wawanesa, and others) only offer coverage in a few states.  Your rates also depend on lots of factors, especially where you live — costs can even change depending on your city and ZIP code. We found the best company in each state for full-coverage insurance and compared it with the average rate in that state. Best company Monthly rate at best company Average statewide rate Alabama Travelers $83 $144 Alaska GEICO $77 $116 Arizona Auto-Owners $76 $133 Arkansas State Farm $80 $147 California Wawanesa $80 $153 Colorado American National $70 $154 Connecticut GEICO $68 $155 Delaware State Farm $97 $179 District of Columbia GEICO $85 $150 Florida State Farm $134 $233 Georgia Auto-Owners $88 $135 Hawaii GEICO $65 $101 Idaho American National $41 $91 Illinois Pekin $56 $111 Indiana State Farm $59 $101 Iowa State Farm $59 $97 Kansas GEICO $76 $128 Kentucky GEICO $97 $182 Louisiana State Farm $124 $211 Maine Auto-Owners $51 $91 Maryland GEICO $67 $149 Massachusetts GEICO $85 $129 Michigan GEICO $89 $202 Minnesota State Farm $80 $118 Mississippi National General $75 $139 Missouri State Farm $62 $132 Montana State Farm $71 $158 Nebraska Auto-Owners $86 $135 Nevada GEICO $96 $183 New Hampshire State Farm $56 $107 New Jersey GEICO $84 $185 New Mexico State Farm $72 $122 New York Kemper $79 $171 North Carolina Erie $62 $90 North Dakota State Farm $64 $117 Ohio State Farm $59 $84 Oklahoma State Farm $79 $143 Oregon State Farm $71 $120 Pennsylvania State Farm $81 $139 Rhode Island State Farm $79 $153 South Carolina American National $57 $168 South Dakota State Farm $93 $124 Tennessee State Farm $68 $111 Texas Farm Bureau $87 $152 Utah GEICO $82 $130 Vermont State Farm $52 $87 Virginia State Farm $70 $112 Washington PEMCO $76 $144 West Virginia State Farm $72 $135 Wisconsin GEICO $57 $92 Wyoming American National $62 $116 What are the different types of car insurance? What affects your car insurance rates? How much does car insurance cost? How to find the best car insurance rates What do people look for in the best insurance company? How to choose the best company What auto insurance discounts are available with the top companies? All of our picks for the top car insurance companies have the basic coverage that every driver needs in order to be fully protected. It’s a good idea to get familiar with the different types of car insurance coverage before you start shopping, so you know exactly what’s going into your policy. Coverage type What it does Property damage liability Covers the cost of the other party's repairs if you're at-fault in a car accident Bodily injury liability Pays for the other party's medical bills and related expenses if you cause an accident Uninsured/underinsured motorist coverage Covers the costs if you're hit by a driver without insurance, or who doesn't have enough insurance to pay for the damage Collision coverage Pays for damage to your own car after an accident, even if you were the one at-fault Comprehensive coverage Covers damage to your car not caused by a collision, like damage from extreme weather, fire or theft Personal injury protection Required in no-fault states, pays for your own medical expenses after an accident MedPay Available in at-fault states, pays for medical bills after an accident, usually up to a limited amount → Learn more about the different types of car insurance coverage Nearly every car insurance company — and all of our picks for the best companies — offers optional coverage add-ons (called endorsements) that drivers can add to a basic policy. Accident forgiveness: Sometimes offered as a loyalty perk, this keeps your rates from going up after your first at-fault accident. Classic car coverage: This is a separate kind of car insurance policy specifically designed for classic cars, which need unique coverage thanks to their speciality parts and infrequent use. Gap coverage: Gap insurance helps pay off the remainder of your lease or loan if your car is totaled (it may be required by your lessor or lender). Full glass coverage: Waives the deductible for repairs if your windows or windshield are cracked or damaged (in some states, you never pay a deductible on safety glass repairs) Mechanical breakdown protection: While it excludes normal wear and tear, mechanical breakdown protection covers the cost of repairs that aren’t normally covered by insurance, like when your engine, brakes, or suspension has issues. New or better car replacement coverage: When you have new or better car replacement and your vehicle is totaled within the first few years of its life, you’ll be paid enough to replace it with the same model, or a car that’s one model year younger. Non-owner insurance coverage: Not exactly an endorsement, this type of car insurance is for people who frequently use friends’ cars or rentals for short periods of time but don’t have a vehicle of their own. Original equipment manufacturer parts coverage: Usually available for newer vehicles, OEM coverage ensures that any repairs to your vehicle will use original parts from the manufacturer wherever possible. Custom equipment coverage: Aftermarket additions to your car, like a fancy stereo system or a custom paint job, won’t be covered by insurance unless you add a custom equipment endorsement. Rental reimbursement coverage: Covers the cost of temporary transportation, like a rental or a taxi, while your regular car is being repaired after a covered accident. Rideshare insurance coverage: Extends your regular car insurance coverage if you drive for a rideshare service like Uber or Lyft. Roadside assistance coverage: Covers emergency roadside services like towing, jumpstarts, lockout help, and transportation if you’re stranded. Although auto insurance companies charge different rates — and some are better than others for certain drivers — most of the time companies determine rates according to: Young drivers pay more for insurance because they’re more likely to have accidents and file claims.  Areas that have lots of uninsured drivers, high crime rates, and lots of traffic will see higher insurance rates. You’ll pay more for coverage if you’ve been involved in an accident, gotten a ticket, or you just got your license.  The more coverage you choose and the higher you set your limits, the more you’ll pay (but you’ll also be better protected).  A lower credit score usually means you’ll pay more for car insurance.  Your insurance will be more expensive if you’ve had any lapses in coverage or filed a lot of claims. While it’s true that companies use these factors when they calculate your car insurance, local laws where you live might keep insurance providers from using certain factors, like your gender or credit history, to determine your rates. The average driver pays  $1,638 a month for car insurance, but it’s possible to find cheaper rates, especially if you shop around.  Here’s how much a full-coverage car insurance policy costs at our top 10 car insurance companies: Average cost per month Average cost per year USAA $87 $1,044 State Farm $95 $1,141 Auto-Owners $97 $1,165 Erie $98 $1,181 GEICO $99 $1,192 NJM $105 $1,262 Travelers $113 $1,351 COUNTRY Financial $118 $1,416 Amica $131 $1,574 The easiest way to find the best car insurance rates is by comparing quotes from a few companies before you buy a policy. Shopping around, even if you already have car insurance, can keep your rates lower over time. Here are some other ways to help get better car insurance rates: Bundle your insurance: Get your auto insurance and your home, condo, or life insurance from the same company and save. Get the right amount of coverage: If you have two cars but one is old, you may not need full-coverage on both. Drive safely: Avoid accidents and violations on the road and you’ll get better rates Pay annually instead of monthly: Most car insurance companies offer a “paid in full” discount if you pay for the whole thing at the start of your policy. Sign up for usage-based discounts: Many companies offer programs where you share information about your driving through an app or in-car device and earn savings for safe driving. Make sure your insurance company has the right information: If your rates have gone up recently, check with your insurance company that it’s got accurate information about your vehicle usage and mileage, in case you’re being overcharged. Switch companies when it’s time to renew: Don’t automatically renew your car insurance before comparing quotes to see if there’s a better deal out there. A 2022 Policygenius survey asked 1,500 drivers what the most important factors were when choosing an auto insurance company. The largest percentage (27%) said that claims satisfaction scores were the number one factor in choosing car insurance. We also found that having a bad claims experience is the main reason why policyholders would decide to switch to a new policy. Behind claims satisfaction, 17% of drivers wanted the ability to bundle more than one policy. Another 17% said that cheap coverage was the most important factor when choosing a car insurance company. A mix of factors over the past few years has led to more expensive car insurance rates, and drivers are increasingly looking to switch companies to avoid the price crunch and save money. According to a 2023 J.D. Power report on car insurance shopping trends, high numbers of drivers were interested in shopping around in 2023, thanks in part to rate increases. And more drivers are looking into usage-based insurance (UBI) as a way to save money — according to J.D. Power, UBI was offered to to 22% of car-insurance shoppers and purchased 18% of the time. Read more about what Policygenius has written about the car insurance landscape: We surveyed insured drivers on whether they were worried about being able to afford their insurance and found that 40% are worried, including 55% of younger drivers. Read the full report We polled Americans on aggressive driving and found that 3 in 10 people have been victims of road rage, while 48% of people have driven aggressively themselves. Read the full report Our rankings take into account local tax incentives, EV ownership, charging stations, and electricity and insurance costs. Read the full report Compare rates and shop affordable car insurance today We don't sell your information to third parties. We connect you to some of the biggest auto insurance providers to make it easy to find your best car insurance company — whether you’re shopping for your first policy or you need to switch companies because your coverage needs have changed. While you’re looking for the best car insurance company for you, the questions that you should ask are: According to recent income data from the Census Bureau, car insurance may take up more than 2% of the typical household income. [1] But other groups like senior-aged drivers, who can live on on a fixed income, may pay an even larger part of their earnings on insurance. You can get a sense of a company’s customer service and claims fulfillment from our auto insurance guides, rankings, and reviews. Customer service is important, since it won’t matter how cheap a company is if it’s unresponsive or combative when it comes time to actually file a claim for damage. The best auto insurance company for you should offer the right amount of coverage for your needs. You may need more car insurance if you: Need to insure more than one vehicle: If you have multiple vehicles at home, you might need to find a company that’s willing to insure them all together. Have a teenage driver at home: Teen drivers are expensive to insure, so look for a company that offers usage-based car insurance or special discounts for new drivers. Have a history of accidents, tickets, or other violations: You may need high-risk or non-standard insurance if you have past violations on your record, like multiple accidents or a DUI. Drive a leased or financed vehicle: A lessor or lender will require you to get full-coverage insurance or gap coverage, and sometimes even new car replacement coverage. Our top car insurance companies include Erie, GEICO, State Farm, and Progressive. But no matter which company you choose, the best place to get car insurance is online. That’s because getting online quotes from a marketplace like Policygenius is the best way to see the most competitive car insurance rates from large and small car insurance companies, all at the same time. Compare rates and shop affordable car insurance today We don't sell your information to third parties. All the best car insurance companies have at least a few discounts available. You should compare the discounts each company offers and look out for the ones that apply to you. Accident-free discount: If you’re accident-free and have a clean record for a certain amount of time, you can earn major savings. Offered by: Amica, Auto-Owners, GEICO, Nationwide, Progressive, State Farm, Travelers, USAA Defensive driving course discount: Most car insurance companies offer discounts to drivers who complete accredited driving safety courses. Offered by: Amica, GEICO, Nationwide, State Farm, Travelers Affinity or employment discount: You may be able to get an insurance discount if a professional organization, alumni association, bank or credit union, or another group your employer partners with a specific company. Offered by: GEICO, Travelers Child of a legacy insured: Get a discount if your parents have a car insurance policy with the same company. Offered by: Amica Emergency deployment discount: Receive a discount if you’re deployed and won’t be driving. Offered by: GEICO, USAA Good student discount: Full-time students who keep up a high grade point average can qualify for lower car insurance rates. Offered by: Amica, Auto-Owners, Erie, GEICO, Nationwide, Progressive, Travelers, USAA Homeowner discount: Own a home and receive a discount on your car insurance. Offered by: Amica, Progressive, Travelers Military discount: Receive a discount if you’re a member of the military, a veteran, or a part of a military family. Offered by: GEICO, USAA* Student away-from-home: Parents or guardians get a discount if a young driver on their policy attends school more than 100 miles away from home and doesn’t have a car with them. Offered by: Amica, Auto-Owners, Progressive, Travelers Anti-theft system discount: Most insurance companies offer a range of discounts for having different types of safety and security equipment in your car. Offered by: Amica, Auto-Owners, Erie, GEICO, Nationwide, State Farm Hybrid/EV discount: Receive a lower rate for insuring an electric vehicle. Offered by: Travelers New car discount: Insure a new car and get a discounted rate. Offered by: Amica, Travelers, USAA Automatic payments discount: If you opt to pay your premiums automatically, you’ll save money. Offered by: Amica, Auto-Owners, Nationwide, Progressive Bundling discount: Bundling your car insurance policy with another type of coverage can earn you a big discount at most companies. Offered by: Amica, Auto-Owners, Erie, GEICO, Nationwide, Progressive, State Farm, Travelers, USAA Electronic billing discount: Receive an electronic statement instead of a paper bill and get a discount. Offered by: Amica, Auto-Owners, Nationwide, Progressive Loyalty discount: You can earn lower rates for renewing your policy with the same company year after year. Offered by: Amica, Travelers, USAA Multi-vehicle discount: Most companies offer a multi-car discount for insuring two or more cars on the same policy. Offered by: Amica, Auto-Owners, GEICO, Progressive, State Farm, Travelers Online quote discount: Request a quote online and get a discount on your final rate. Offered by: Auto-Owners, Progressive, Travelers Paid-in-full discount: Most companies offer a paid-in-full discount to drivers who pay their entire premium at the start of the policy.  Offered by: Amica, Auto-Owners, Erie, Progressive, Travelers If you sign up for usage-based car insurance, what you pay will depend on your driving habits. You may have to agree to sharing data about your driving with your insurance company using an app or electronic device, or you may have to log your miles manually. GEICO: DriveEasy Erie: YourTurn Nationwide: SmartRide Progressive: Snapshot State Farm: Drive Safe & Save Travelers: IntelliDrive USAA: SafePilot Compare rates and shop affordable car insurance today We don't sell your information to third parties. State Farm is the number one car insurance company in the country according to size. State Farm has more than 16% of the market share in the US and it ranks ahead of GEICO, Allstate, USAA, Progressive, and others. USAA consistently has the highest claims satisfaction rating of any car insurance company, according to J.D. Power. Besides USAA, Amica and State Farm have high claims satisfaction scores. The main types of car insurance are bodily injury and property damage liability coverage, uninsured motorist coverage, personal injury protection, and medical payments coverage. Comprehensive and collision coverage, which make up a full-coverage policy are also very common. Not necessarily. While small car insurance companies may not have the online presence or coverage options of some larger insurance companies, they may have better customer service and lower prices than larger competitors. Policygenius has near-perfect ratings on Trustpilot, BBB, and Google. Here's what our customers are saying. Amazingly easy process I had a very good experience using Policygenius. They did most [of] the heavy lifting and made everything super easy. They sent me timely reminders which were helpful. I would 100% recommend using them. Rahul,December 14th Policygenius made the process easy! Policygenius made the process easy to navigate. The representatives were helpful and attentive to my questions. They were persistent in trying to help me find the best insurance for my current life goals. Once they connected me with insurance agents, the application process was relatively quick and, again, easy to navigate. I'd recommend them to anyone! Kimberly,February 2nd This was an easy and simple process This was an easy and simple process. It was not stressful at all. All of my questions were answered. I felt seen and listened to throughout the process. If you are on the fence don’t be you will not regret the decision to use this service. Karen,April 13th Knowledgeable, Responsive and Courteous The team quickly assessed my needs, they were knowledgeable of the products, and articulated a recommendation that was the best fit. The application process was simple, and they were available at each stage of the process to ensure the application was moving along. A great experience! Mark,April 17th Rated 4.6 / 5 based on5030 reviews. See all reviews at Ready to shop for car insurance? Find the insurance you need and save by shopping from the most trusted insurers. References Policygenius uses external sources, including government data, industry studies, and reputable news organizations to supplement proprietary marketplace data and internal expertise. Learn more about how we use and vet external sources as part of oureditorial standards. Census Bureau . " ." Accessed June 10, 2022. Author Andrew Hurst Senior Editor & Licensed Auto Insurance Expert Andrew Hurst is a senior editor and a licensed auto insurance expert at Policygenius. His work has also been featured in The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, USA Today, NPR, Mic, Insurance Business Magazine, ValuePenguin, and Property Casualty 360. Editor Anna Swartz Senior Managing Editor Anna Swartz is a senior managing editor who specializes in home, auto, renters, and disability insurance at Policygenius. Previously, she was a senior staff writer at Mic and a writer at The Dodo. Her work has also appeared in Salon, HuffPost, MSN, AOL, and Heeb.  Expert reviewer Fabio Faschi, PLCS, SBCS, CLCS Licensed Property & Casualty Insurance Expert Fabio Faschi is a licensed property and casualty insurance agent. His expertise on home and auto insurance has been featured on Forbes, Consumer Affairs, Realtor.com, Apartment Therapy, SFGATE, Bankrate, and Lifehacker. Questions about this page? Email us at editorial@policygenius.com. Life Home Auto Disability Renters Other insurance Company Expertise News & research Contact Phone hours: Life insurance teamMonday-Thursday 9am-9pm ETFriday-Sunday 9am-8pm ET Home & auto insurance teamMonday-Friday 9am-6pm ET Disability insurance teamMonday-Friday 9am-6pm ET PO Box 758648Topeka, KS 66675-8648 Yes, we have to include some legalese down here. Policygenius LLC (DBA Policygenius Services LLC in NY; DBA Policygenius Insurance Services in California) (“Policygenius”), a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in New York, New York, is a licensed independent insurance broker. The information provided on this site has been developed by Policygenius for general informational and educational purposes. We do our best to ensure that this information is up-to-date and accurate. Any insurance policy premium quotes or ranges displayed are non-binding. The final insurance policy premium for any policy is determined by the underwriting insurance company following application. If you are using a screen reader and are having problems using this website, please call 1-855-695-2255 for assistance. Copyright Policygenius © 2014-2024 | NerdWallet Logo ©2014-2024 and TM, NerdWallet, Inc. All Rights Reserved.