Ann Arbor software consultancy Atomic Object is accepting applications for its Baker & Cook Fellowship for Black, Indigenous and people of color high school students in Washtenaw County who plan to pursue a post-secondary education in Computer Science are eligible for the annual $2,500 fellowship.Photo provided | Atomic Object ANN ARBOR, MI - An Ann Arbor software developer is hoping to bring diversity into technology in Washtenaw County by offering an annual fellowship for students of color who want to pursue computer science. Atomic Object is accepting applications for its Baker & Cook Fellowship, which offers an unrestricted $2,500 annually to Black, Indigenous and people of color who are high school students in Washtenaw County planning to pursue a post-secondary education in computer science. The fellowship is paid to the student each year of their college education, totaling up to $10,000 per student. It became clear after speaking with people involved in STEM education that the best use of a fellowship wouldn’t be to cover education-related expenses like tuition, but all the other expenses that come with the typical college experience to help create a better likelihood of success, Ann Arbor Managing Partner Jonah Bailey said. “What they were seeing was that (these) first-generation students weren’t struggling with tuition,” he said. “They were struggling with everything else that isn’t tuition, be it a lack of professional network or even a familial network of people who had gone through college before, having spending money and being like the rest of their friends on campus to be able to go out and have pizza on Friday nights.” The fellowship specifically offers resources to students who are racially under-represented in Atomic’s field, Bailey said. “That means that as members of the technology sector, we’re missing out on incredible riches that could and should be there,” he said. “But it also means there’s a whole sector of our society that’s missing out on the ability to create generational wealth with their work.” The intention is to help these students achieve a four-year degree, regardless of whether or not that degree ultimately ends up being in computer science, Atomic Object Accelerator Manager Dylan Goings said. Atomic Object recognized the need to make an impact locally and that the best way to do that was to allow students the ability to have a successful college career that leads to something prosperous and beneficial in the long term, Goings said. “You go into college as a freshman and there’s no guarantee that you know for sure what you want to study - that you’re not going to change direction at some point,” Goings said. “We’ve hired plenty of people directly out of college who finished with computer science degrees but didn’t start there. We don’t want to pull the rug out under somebody after they’ve gotten started if they discover that computer science isn’t for them.” In addition to funding, the Baker & Cook Fellowship provides recipients with weekly check-in meetings with a mentor from Atomic Object. Mentors can help the fellow navigate the college experience, internship applications and career planning. The fellowship is named in honor of Ann Arbor entrepreneurs Charlie Baker and Tom Cook who started the Ann Arbor Foundry. “We recognize as a small company, there’s only so much financial impact that we can make,” Goings said. “Hopefully the networking and mentorship side is just as valuable.” Atomic Object makes custom apps for the web, mobile phones, computers, and custom devices, with offices in Ann Arbor, Grand Rapids, Chicago and Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina. Applications are open on Atomic Object’s fellowship page through the end of April 2023. Fellows will be selected in May. READ MORE: Train derails in Van Buren Township, motorists told to avoid area due to road closures Historic Washtenaw County log cabin restaurant damaged in fire Controversy over pig drawing reaches Michigan school board meeting If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices