 Skip to content  Expert prevention solutions helping you manage the risks you face, big or small The world is increasingly complex, unpredictable and inter-connected, and being able to manage existing and emerging risks has never been more important. We offer customised risk management and prevention solutions and services for businesses of all shapes and sizes. We can help identify, evaluate and quantify the risks you face, to create a safer more robust business.  Read more  about Commercial motor collision? Why it’s important to let us know straight away   Read more  about A Solicitor’s Balancing Act: Personal Privacy verses Professional Integrity   Read more  about Summer update: What’s new in Aviva Risk Management Solutions?   Read more  about New International Electric Vehicle Charge Point Product    Read more  about New London Fire Brigade Policy on Automatic Fire Alarms   Read more  about Watch: What is paid-ad spoofing and how are we tackling this issue?   Read more  about AI driven data analytics– a solution for battery energy storage fires?   Read more  about Watch: Summer risk management guidance  From physical or virtual surveys to statutory inspections and advice via our helpline, access to our loss prevention standards or specialist partner network, we can help you to protect your business. Want to find out more? Here are some resources to support you through a pandemic.    Read more   From your employees to third-party contractors and customers, here’s where to find guidance on key people risks.    Read more   From buildings, equipment, and goods to construction projects, here’s where to find guidance on key property risks.   Read more   From liability to environmental and reputational risks, here’s where to find guidance on how to protect your business.   Read more   From planning and supply chains to cyber, business processes and change management, here’s where to find guidance on how to build your resilience.    Read more   From your drivers and vehicles to the use of technology and influencing behaviours, here's where to find guidance on managing your motor fleet risks.     Read more   We've created a network of Specialist Partners to complement our in-house capabilities and to enable our policyholders to benefit from a wide range of risk management solutions at preferential rates and terms. Together, we provide solutions to help with the significant challenges of modern-day risk management. These partner relationships are wholly for the benefit of our policyholders with no income to Aviva.  To access these services, contact our Specialist Partners. Access risk reports designed to help you understand and manage risks such as fire, flood, crime and geographical risk factors.  Access Portal  about Business & Property Protection Portal  Assess your supply chain risk and access advice on how to adopt resilience measures against events that could damage your business.  Access Tool  about Supply Chain Assessment Tool  Available to existing Aviva customers at no extra cost. This online service, powered by Farillio, contains a range of regularly updated business and legal guides, document builders, interactive checklists and access to a 24/7 legal advice helpline, to help you achieve your everyday business objectives and manage your exposure to legal risk.  Access Portal  about Aviva Businesslaw  Quickly navigate all our guidance here to help manage the relevant risks across your business.  Explore here  about Guidance by Risk Type  Find out more about the depth of solutions provided by our Specialist Partners.  Explore here  about Our Specialist Partner Network  Access all Aviva Risk Management news and insights.   Explore here  about Latest News and Insights  0345 366 6666  Opening times: Monday - Friday* 9:00am - 5:00pm   Email us at: riskadvice@aviva.com   * Excludes Bank Holidays. The cost of calls to 03 prefixed numbers are charged at national call rates (charges may vary dependent on your network provider) and are usually included in inclusive minute plans from landlines and mobiles. For our joint protection telephone calls may be recorded and/or monitored. 