Ahead of InfoComm 2023, LG Business announced a complete overhaul of the LG Pro Portal. With this, it aims to make it easier than ever to engage, transact and navigate the world of LG Business Solutions. Per the company, the new portal leverages years of customer feedback. It thus offers a streamlined means to manage transactions, find product information and marketing materials, track shipments and redeem member rewards. Since its inception in 2014, LG notes that its Pro Program has delivered valuable benefits and business assistance to U.S.-based member partners. Additionally, current LG Pro Partner members who attend InfoComm 2023 can sign up for the new portal at LG’s booth #1642. Per a statement, the booth is LG’s largest ever at the show (10,400 square feet). It will thus feature all of the latest displays and products from LG Business Solutions. “The LG Pro Program allows members to store information, track projects and redeem special rewards and benefits; however, the existing interface had become an obstruction to simple, fast access needed for efficient workflows,” says Anthony Jimenez, LG Business Solutions USA head of channel marketing. Jimenez then continues, “The new LG Pro Portal [helps] put everything LG Pro has to offer right at users’ fingertips; including built-in Volume Incentive Rebate (VIR) tracking that provides vital updates to aid efficient operations. We leveraged direct partner input and beta testing to deliver an improved experience and eliminate the confusion from our previous portal, which consisted of seven related websites.” All current LG Pro Program portals and functions will combine into a new, more intuitive user interface, the company says. It will thus provide simple consolidated access to: Partners not attending InfoComm 2023 will also be invited to sign up for the new LG Pro Portal via email. Posted in: News Tagged with: efficient workflows, InfoComm 2023, LG Pro Portal, Partnerships Social: Social: ABOUTCAREERSAUTHORIZED SERVICE PROVIDERSYour Privacy ChoicesTERMS OF USEPRIVACY POLICY