UPDATE: The Google Pixel 8 launches today. Follow our Google Pixel 8 event live blog for the latest news. The Google Pixel 8 leaks just keep right on coming. This week, leaked marketing images from WinFuture along with renders from noted tipster Evan Blass and MySmartPrice gave us our most comprehensive look yet at what color options we'll see with the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro. The WinFuture images showcase four colors for the Pixel 8: peach, gray, white/beige and black. Meanwhile, the Pixel 8 Pro will reportedly come in white/beige, blue and black colorways. The renders mirror these colors for the most part, though there's no sign of the white/beige Pixel 8 option. Between all the leaks, there are few surprises left for when Google officially unveils the Pixel 8 series at its Made by Google event on October 4. In the meantime, you can read about everything we’re expecting with the next-gen Pixel lineup here. According to MySmartPrice, the Pixel 8 will come in three colors: Peony, Grey and Obsidian Black. The white/beige color option shared in WinFuture's report is noticeably absent from the lineup of renders, so whether it will remain exclusive to the Pixel 8 Pro remains to be seen. With the Pixel 7a, Google launched a fourth exclusive color option: a vibrant orangey-pink hue called Coral. So far, there’s no sign Google has plans to repeat this with the Pixel 8 series. And previous rumors of a green Jade option for the vanilla Pixel 8 haven't panned out. An official-looking case leak suggests that at least 5 colorful case options will be on the way for Pixel 8. That includes Coral, Rose (pink), Charcoal (black), Hazel (gray) and Mint (green. Moving on to the Pixel 8 Pro, MySmartPrice has its colorways listed as Sky Blue, Porcelain and Obsidian Black. None of these color options are unexpected per se, but the naming conventions feel a bit uninspired compared to Google's past lineups. The Pixel 8 series is expected to get a slew of upgrades, including brighter "Actua" displays and a Video Unblur feature. Rumor has it the Pixel 8 Pro will also pack a new temperature sensor to check to see if you're running a fever, whether your coffee's still scalding or if your laptop is getting too hot. Pricing information remains up in the air, but if Google takes a page from Apple, it's likely the Pixel 8 will get a price increase, up to $699 instead of $599 like last year's phone, along with the Pixel 8 Pro. We’ll find out more on October 4 when Google unveils its new phones alongside the Pixel Watch 2. If you're interested in an official Google Pixel 8 Pro case, a leak suggests that there may be five options to choose from. They include Bay (blue), Charcoal (black), Mint (green), Porcelain (white/cream) and Coral. Google Pixel 8 Pro temperature sensor — what we know so far 7 ways Google Pixel 8 Pro could beat iPhone 15 Pro Max Google Pixel 8 Pro vs Pixel 7 Pro: Biggest rumored differences New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.