ESPN’s Adam Schefter says that Aaron Rodgers realistically has two options left, and returning to the Green Bay Packers isn’t one of them. The 2023 league year officially begins on March 15, which is the date when free agency signings can officially be announced. The quarterback market is going to be monitored heavily, but the big domino that needs to fall is Aaron Rodgers, who is still deciding about his status for the 2023 season. Even after going into a darkness retreat, Rodgers has not made up his mind as to whether he wants to return to the Green Bay Packers, play elsewhere, or retire, but says that a decision will come “soon enough.” According to one NFL insider, there are only two options remaining. During an appearance on ESPN’s SportsCenter, senior NFL insider Adam Schefter said that his sense is that Rodgers will either choose to play for a new team, which would most likely be the New York Jets, or opt to retire. In regards to the Packers, Schefter says “there continues to be more and more signs about him leaving Green Bay.” "My sense is ultimately it will come down to whether he wants to play elsewhere, which would be really the New York Jets, or whether he wants to retire. To me, those are the two most logical options and the two most likely scenarios here." -- @AdamSchefter "“We have heard the Packers talk about Jordan Love and how much belief they have in him and how much progress he’s made,” said Schefter, h/t Bleacher Report. “And I think he’s their quarterback of the future here, clearly. And they continue to wait for the decision from Aaron Rodgers, who knows that at some point in time, he’s said the Packers have had conversations about him with other teams. And that’s why I believe that it’s going to either be the New York Jets or retirement in the end. And we’ll show how this shakes out, but there’s nothing yet from Aaron Rodgers. It has to come soon.”" The Packers are in an interesting position in regards to quarterback. While Rodgers has won two NFL MVP awards in two of the past three seasons, the Packers used a 2020 first-round pick on Jordan Love, who is Rodgers’ successor. On May 1, the team has to decide whether they want to exercise his fifth-year option, or allow him to become a free agent after the 2023 season. Obviously, the fifth-year option would be the most ideal decision. When speaking with the media at the NFL Scouting Combine in Indianapolis, Ind., Packers general manager Brian Gutekunst said that Love “needs to play.” The Jets have been the most prominent landing spot for Rodgers if he were to request a trade. The team has a strong roster, but their quarterback play prevented them from making a run to the playoffs. A report from Pro Football Network’s Tony Pauline indicated that the Jets were going to go “all out” to acquire Rodgers. Not to mention, the Jets hired Nathaniel Hackett, who has a strong relationship with Rodgers during their time in Green Bay, as their new offensive coordinator. As for retirement, Rodgers openly discussed it in recent years, even dating back to the 2021 season. With the league year approaching soon, NFL fans will be waiting for an official Rodgers update. Based off Schefter’s comments, it appears a trade to the Jets or retirement are the most likely options for Rodgers. Aaron Rodgers trade suitors called Brandon Marshall after retirement post. dark. Next © 2024 Minute Media - All Rights Reserved. The content on this site is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All betting content is intended for an audience ages 21+. All advice, including picks and predictions, is based on individual commentators’ opinions and not that of Minute Media or its related brands. All picks and predictions are suggestions only. No one should expect to make money from the picks and predictions discussed on this website. For more information, please read our Legal Disclaimer. Gambling content intended for 21+. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can be accessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER.