The UK Government released further documents on Friday about the Infected Blood Compensation Scheme, which was designed to “bring redress” to the more than 30,000 people who were infected by HIV and Hepatitis C after receiving contaminated blood. The new information includes a government update, a series of recommendations to the government by the interim [...] A group of seven have been charged over a ram-raid that the UK’s Crown Prosecution Service will say had “a terrorist connection,” according to a report released on Tuesday. Two further suspects remain in custody for further investigation and have not yet been charged. The seven are due to appear at Westminister Magistrates Court. On August [...] The UK Parliament enacted the Victims and Prisoners Act on Friday. The new act bars the UK convicted murderers, who receive a sentence of life imprisonment, from marrying or entering into a civil partnership behind bars. They may still seek exemption from the Secretary of State if they find exceptional circumstances. The new law formally [...] New UK Justice Secretary Shabana Mahmood said in a speech on Friday that the fresh Labour government will temporarily release prisoners and place them under community supervision to combat overcrowding in the nation’s prisons. The government will reduce the proportion of certain custodial sentences to be served within prison walls by 10 per cent. There will [...] UK political party Reform UK leader Nigel Farage claimed Saturday that Google blocked the party’s Ad Accounts. Farage called this “election interference.” The account has since been reinstated. One advertisement was removed for a “policy violation.” It is unclear which policy they violated. Google’s advertising policies that appear most applicable are the political content and [...] UK High Court granted Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and Oxfam permission to join a legal bid to halt UK arms sales to Israel, in a decision made Thursday. The case was originally brought by Al-Haq and GLAN in December 2023. They are calling on the High Court to order the Business and Trade Secretary, [...] Scotland MSPs voted in favor of releasing many prisoners early to address overcrowding in Scottish jails, in a meeting of the Scottish Parliament on Wednesday. Approximately 550 prisoners are currently eligible for early release, according to the Scottish Parliament. This will only apply to those serving sentences under four years and not to prisoners convicted [...] The Kenyan Parliament has launched four public hearings into alleged human rights violations committed by UK troops stationed in the country, with the first two hearings taking place in Laikipia County on Tuesday. The next hearing took place Wednesday morning in Samburu County, and the last will occur on Thursday morning in Laikipia. This follows [...] A 64-year-old man, identified as Howard Michael Phillips, was charged by the Metropolitan Police with offenses under the National Security Act 2023, according to a police press report issued Wednesday. He appeared at Westminister Magistrates’ Court on Thursday to confirm his address and date of birth. Judge Daniel Sternberg denied Phillips bail and ordered him [...] The UK Parliament’s Joint Committee on Human Rights heard expert evidence on recent European Court of Human Rights judgments surrounding climate change and its relevance to human rights on Wednesday. While the meeting particularly emphasised the effects these judgments will have on the UK, the experts also discussed the contents of climate-related judgments and their [...] Afghanistan dispatch: success of new Taliban financial laws requires more engagement with international community Pakistan dispatch: Supreme Court verdict on reserved seats will be pivotal for Pakistan’s democracy Moving Forward: Prospects and Challenges for Achieving Transitional Justice in Ethiopia From Troy to Sde Teiman: The Cycle of Brutality in War ‘We’ve Been All But Erased from Public Life’: An Afghan Woman Describes Daily Struggles in Taliban-Controlled Afghanistan Interview — ‘As Long as Nuclear Weapons Exist, Their Uncontrollable Effects Mean Their Use Would Be Unlawful’: Fordham Law Professor Warns of Existential Risks Dutch leader Johan de Witt killed by mob The Grand Pensionary of Holland, Johan de Witt and his brother Cornelis de Witt were lynched on August 20, 1672, after an angry mob took the two from a prison, where Cornelis was being held on charges of treason, and killed them both. William of Orange (later William III of England & Scotland) became Stadtholder of Holland a month before the killings and remained in the position until his death in 1702.

Learn more about Johan de Witt from the Rijksmuseum. UN Security Council resolution condemned Israeli declaration of all Jerusalem as capital On August 20, 1980, the UN Security Council passed by 14-0 a resolution condemning an Israeli declaration that all of Jerusalem is its capital. The US abstained. Economic Opportunity Act signed into law On August 20, 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the Economic Opportunity Act. The bill approved $1 billion for social programs to combat poverty. It was central to President Johnson's Great Society legislation program.

Learn more about President Johnson's War on Poverty from NPR.