The CEOs of major European telecom operators recently sent a collectively signed letter to the European Parliament. The letter calls for large tech companies to help pay for rolling out and maintaining telecom network infrastructure in the EU. European telecom operators have been calling on the EU for some time for measures to ensure that – often American – Big Tech companies help pay for the (telecom) infrastructure in the EU. This is to compensate for the large amount of traffic that these companies, such as Google, Meta, Microsoft and the likes of Netflix, run over these networks. This increasing traffic causes more and more (infrastructure) costs for telecom operators who would like to receive a fair compensation, 20 CEOs of European telecom operators write in a letter to the European Parliament. The open letter has also been sent to other EU bodies, such as the European Commission. Signatories include Vodafone, Telefonica, Deutsche Telekom, BT and Telecom Italia. The CEOs of KPN and Proximus also signed the open letter. Read also: German telco networks forced to rid themselves of Huawei, despite high costs In the letter, the telecom operators argue that real regulation is now needed to secure a fair contribution from big tech companies. Currently, large tech companies are said to pay little to nothing for data transport over telecom networks, while cloud providers sometimes charge their customers 80 times as much for the onward transport of data to the cloud. The biggest culprits of increased data traffic should be addressed here in particular. The focus of any regulation should be on accountability and transparency of contributions so that European telecom operators can invest this money directly in European digital infrastructure. In particular, telecom operators want the money to be used to support the rollout of 5G networks and end-to-end fiber optic networks in the EU. Representatives of the large tech companies think the telecom operators are wrong. According to a commentary in the Financial Times, telecom operators should be happy with the big tech companies because they can grow thanks to the content and creative services they provide. Also, with the fee for big tech, the European telecom operators would want to subsidize their networks fully. Finally, the telecom companies would disadvantage their own customers by passing on a fee for network traffic in addition to subscription fees. big tech / Telco / telco network costs  "*" indicates required fields 
SAP is adding new AI applications to its customer experience (CX) app... 
SAP is still sometimes described as a tech dinosaur that does not inn... 
Work, like life, is difficult. But work is now being defined as an in... 
AMD is acquiring another company, this time server maker ZT Systems. The chip company is willing to fork over... 
HPE announces it is acquiring Morpheus Data for an undisclosed amount. A definitive agreement for the acquisi... 
Intel hasn't had the best summer so far. Disappointing quarterly results, steep share price declines and prob... 
Discover the essential strategies and imperatives to create a data an... 
Some companies thrive in times of external uncertainty. They know how... 
The IT department is currently under great pressure, partly because o... 
As the software development life cycle becomes ever more complex and ... Techzine focusses on IT professionals and business decision makers by publishing the latest IT news and background stories. The goal is to help IT professionals get acquainted with new innovative products and services, but also to offer in-depth information to help them understand products and services better. © 2024 Dolphin Publications B.V.All rights reserved.