Get alerted any time new stories match your search criteria. Create an alert to follow a developing story, keep current on a competitor, or monitor industry news. 
Overwrite Existing Alert:

 
Sign In
 Thank You! Don’t forget you can visit MyAlerts to manage your alerts at any time. MetLife, Prudential Close $29.2B in Life and Annuity Reinsurance Deals Life Health > Annuities 

By Allison Bell
 


News



May 25, 2023 at 02:34 PM



Share & Print
 MetLife and Prudential Financial have announced reinsurance deals involving a total of $29.2 billion in life insurance and annuity account value. MetLife picked Global Atlantic, an affiliate of KKR, to reinsurance a block of $14 billion in life insurance policies and a block of $5.2 billion in fixed annuities. Prudential Financial has arranged for Constellation Insurance Holdings to reinsure a block of older variable annuities with $10 billion in account value. Constellation is a Cincinnati-based company controlled by two Canadian pension plan investment managers, Caisse de Dépôt et Placement du Québec and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board. MetLife and Prudential said their reinsurance deals won´t have any noticeable effect on  customers because they’ll continue to service the policies and annuity contracts. But the deals should be good for the insurers and their shareholders. MetLife expects its deal with KKR to provide more than $3.2 billion in cash, through ceding commissions and release of excess capital. Prudential expects to receive $650 million in ceding commissions and capital release from the Constellation deal. Reinsurance is insurance for insurance companies. The original “direct writers” of products may make reinsurance deals for protection against catastrophic risk, such as the risks associated with major hurricanes, large earthquakes or severe influenza pandemics. In other cases, direct writers may use reinsurance deals to dispose of unwanted blocks of business, to share risk with outside investors, or to put business in the hands of a company that operates under different accounting, tax or insurance rules. Up Next Listen to free podcasts to get the info you need to solve business challenges! Foundation Planning Guide for Advisors The 4-Step Guide to Creating Holistic Risk Profiles The direct writer keeps ultimate responsibility for paying the benefits associated with the blocks of business involved with reinsurance arrangements. The MetLife deal with Global Atlantic covers a mix of universal life policies, variable universal life policies, fixed annuities and universal life policies with secondary guarantees. The policies and contracts are in blocks of business that MetLife’s retail business wrote before the company made the retail business a separate company, Brighthouse Financial. “As part of MetLife’s ongoing commitment to its policyholders, the company will continue to be responsible for all customer-related functions,” the company said. The deal agreement calls for MetLife Investment Management to continue to manage some of the assets associated with the blocks for five years. Prudential said the deal with Constellation covers Prudential Defined Income annuities issued by its Pruco Life Insurance Co. subsidiary. The arrangement will affect about 10% of the account value in its older, traditional variable annuities. Prudential is now focusing on the sale of fixed annuities and FlexGuard-registered index-linked annuities. The agreement with Constellation “will not result in any change of contract ownership, terms, fees or commission schedules for contracts included in the transaction,” Prudential said. “Prudential will continue to service the block and maintain its existing relationships with contract holders, broker-dealers and financial professionals.” Prudential expects to close the deal by June 30. Pictured: MetLife and Prudential’s headquarters. (Image: Bloomberg) NOT FOR REPRINT © 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved.
Request academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to
 [email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing.
 Up Next