New Delhi: The government is set to provide handholding to companies that have been selected under the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for telecom equipment, in a bid to boost the local manufacturing ecosystem.As per officials aware of the details, the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) is reaching out to all the 42 companies that have been selected under the PLI scheme to address any bottlenecks being faced by them. Telecom minister Ashwini Vaishnaw will be meeting the India CEOs of all these firms including Nokia, Samsung, Jabil (Ericsson) and Tejas in the first week of December, in order to understand how the government could further support them.

Advt





In recent years, the government has been pushing for self-reliance in the telecommunications sector, mainly due to national security concerns. The political and military face-off with China has led to Chinese firms such as Huawei and ZTE being effectively kept out from India’s 5G rollout. Stiff conditions have been imposed on others.The resolve of the government can be gauged from the fact that only Indian companies were allowed to participate in a bidding to roll out the 4G network of state-run Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. A Tata Consultancy Services-led consortium is set to build the network under a nearly Rs 27,000 crore deal. Tata Group owned-Tejas will be making radio equipment that will be put in the network.The government also wants to speed up the rollout of 5G services and will provide all the necessary support required to ramp up local manufacturing of equipment for that. Firms including Nokia, Jabil and Tejas have increased investment by more than Rs 500 crore under the telecom PLI scheme, in response to increasing demand for 5G equipment.These firms have migrated to the updated PLI scheme.As per DoT, 42 firms, including 28 medium and small enterprises, have been selected for the updated telecom PLI scheme and they have made a total investment commitment of Rs 4,115 crore. Of these companies, 17 have applied for an additional incentive of 1% under design-led manufacturing criteria. When the scheme was originally commissioned last year, 31 companies had been selected with projected investments of Rs 3,344.90 crore.

Advt





 As per telecom department officials aware of the details, these companies have also chosen to shift the year of their scheme to start from FY22-23, instead of FY21-22, thus forgoing their incentives for the year ended March as it was a precondition to shift timelines. They, however, will be availing much more benefits in the new five-year tenure of the scheme due to increased production, the officials said. By commenting, you agree to the Prohibited Content Policy By commenting, you agree to the Prohibited Content Policy 

News 

 See whats happening in Telecom sector right now 

Exclusive 

 Read and get insights from specially curated unique stories from editorial 

Leaders Speak

 Business leaders sharing their insights 

Events

 Explore and discuss challenges & trends in India's leading B2B events 

Awards 

 Recognise work that not only stood out but was also purposeful 

Webinars 

 Join leaders & experts for roundtables, conferences, panels and discussions Subscribe to our Daily Newsletter  By continuing you agree to our Privacy Policy & Terms & Conditions 
Advertise With Us
 We have various options to advertise with us including Events, Advertorials, Banners, Mailers, etc. 
Download ETTelecom App 
 Save your favourite articles with seamless reading experience 
Get updates on your preferred social platform
 Follow us for the latest news, insider access to events and more. About Us Contact Us Newsletters