NAV as of Aug 19, 2024 28.290.25% (Earn upto 0.00% Extra Returns with Direct Plan) Fund Category: Equity: Large Cap Expense Ratio:0.48% (0.87% Categoryaverage) Fund Size:Rs. 91.91 Cr (0.02% of Investment in Category) NAV as of Aug 19, 2024 28.290.25% Expense Ratio: 0.48% Fund Size: Rs. 91.91 Cr Fund Category: Equity: Large Cap Choose from Benchmarks Investment Objective - The scheme seeks to provide returns before expenses that closely correspond to the total return of the Underlying Index, subject to tracking errors. All Mutual Funds Top Tax Saving Mutual Funds Better Than Fixed Deposits Low Cost High Return Funds Best Hybrid Funds Best Large Cap Funds SIP’s starting Rs. 500 Top Performing Mid Caps Promising Multi Cap Funds Top Rated Funds Standard Deviation Standard deviation is the deviation of the fund's return around mean. Low Volatality Fund  Vs  Category Avg Beta Beta shows the portfolio risk in relation to the market. A beta of less than 1 means that the fund returns are less volatile compared to the broader market. A beta of more than 1 means that the fund returns are more volatile than the broader markets. A beta equal to 1 means that fund's volatility is in line with the broader market. High Volatality Fund  Vs  Category Avg Sharpe Ratio Sharpe ratio is a risk adjusted performance measure.  A fund with a higher Sharpe ratio is considered better than a fund with a lower Sharpe ratio. Poor risk-adjusted returns Fund  Vs  Category Avg Treynor's Ratio Treynor is a risk adjusted performance measure. A fund with a higher Treynor ratio is considered better than a fund with a lower Treynor ratio. Poor risk-adjusted returns Fund  Vs  Category Avg Jensen's Alpha Alpha shows the ability of the fund manager to outperform the market. A higher Alpha is preferred. Poor risk-adjusted returns Fund  Vs  Category Avg Mean Return Average return generated by the fund during a specified period. Poor average monthly returns Fund  Vs  Category Avg Mr. Patel is a B.Com & Chartered Accountant Prior to joining ICICI Prudential Mutual fund, he has worked with K.K.Dand & Co. Ms. Sridhar has done B.Com and M.F.M Prior to joining ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund, she has worked with ITI Mutual Fund and LIC Housing Finance Ltd Mr. Solanki has done B.Com, CA and CFA Level-III Prior to joining ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund, he has worked with GPS & Associates Start systematically with a smaller amount and earn high over a period of time. Get the best filtered funds based on our pre-defined screeners. More insights of mutual funds based on our research tools. Date Sources: Mutual Funds, ETFs, and NPS data are sourced from Value Research. All times stamps are reflecting IST (Indian Standard Time). By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Quick Links Trending Now Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Calculators IFSC Code visibility Top Definitions Top Performing MF Top Searched Companies Top Commodities Top Market Pages Top Story Listing Top Videos Top Prime Articles Top Slideshow Latest News Follow us on: