You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. 
                            Via Datalign Advisory
                         Expert Reviewed Updated: Jul 12, 2024, 12:51pm Are you seeking assistance with your financial management? If so, you’re not alone. Many Americans could benefit from financial guidance. In fact, according to the National Financial Educators Council, the average American incurs a cost of $1,500 per year due to a lack of personal finance knowledge. Choosing a good financial advisor can help you avoid these costs and focus on your goals. Financial advisors aren’t just for rich people—working with a financial advisor is a great choice for anyone who wants to get their personal finances on track and set long-term objectives. To find the ideal financial advisor for your requirements, consider following our six key steps. Related: Find A Financial Advisor In 3 minutes Before you speak to a financial advisor, decide which aspects of your financial life you need help with. When you first sit down with an advisor, you’ll want to be ready to explain your particular money management needs. Keep in mind that most financial advisors provide more than just investment advice. The best financial planner is the one who can help you chart a course for all your financial needs. This can cover investment advice for retirement plans, debt repayment, insurance product suggestions to protect yourself, your family and estate planning. Depending on where you are in life, you may not need comprehensive financial planning. People whose financial lives are relatively straightforward, like young people without families of their own or significant debt, might only need help with retirement planning. People with complex financial needs, however, may need extra assistance. They could be looking to establish college funds or trusts for their children, navigate aggressive debt payment situations or solve tricky tax problems. Not all types of financial advisors offer the same menu of services, so decide which services you need and let this guide your search. There’s no federal law that regulates who can call themselves a financial advisor or provide financial advice. While many people call themselves financial advisors, not all have your best interest at heart. That’s why you have to carefully evaluate potential financial advisors and make sure they are good for you and your money. Part of learning about the different types of advisors is understanding fiduciary duty. Some, but not all, financial advisors are bound by fiduciary duty, meaning that they are legally required to work in your financial best interest. Other people who call themselves advisors are only held to a suitability standard, meaning they only must suggest products that are suitable for you—even if they’re more expensive and earn them a higher commission. (The SEC is trying to regulate this, though, by limiting the use of “advisor” to those who hold themselves to a fiduciary standard.) Regardless of which kind of advisor you choose, you should make sure you know how they earn money. This helps you determine if their recommendations are actually better for you—or for their wallets. Here’s how to think about these five types of financial advisors:  Fee-only financial advisors earn money from the fees you pay for their services. These fees may be charged as a percentage of the assets they manage for you, as an hourly rate or as a flat rate. Almost all fee-only advisors are fiduciaries. Generally speaking, they have chosen to work under a fee-only model to reduce any potential conflicts of interest. Because their income is from clients, it’s in their best interest to make sure you end up with financial plans and financial products that work best for you. Some financial advisors make money by earning sales commissions from third parties. Among financial advisors who earn sales commissions, some may advertise themselves as “free” financial advisors who do not charge you fees for advice. Others may charge fees, meaning they derive only part of their income from third-party commissions. Either way, financial advisors who earn third-party sales commissions derive some or all of their income from selling you certain financial products. If you choose to work with a financial advisor who earns sales commissions, you need to take extra care. Commission-only advisors are not fiduciaries. They work as salespeople for investment and insurance brokerages and are only held to suitability standards. In contrast, some fee-based financial advisors are fiduciaries, though it’s important to determine if they’re always acting as fiduciaries or if they “pause” fiduciary duty when discussing certain types of products, like insurance. Related: Find A Financial Advisor In 3 minutes Keep in mind, commissions aren’t bad in and of themselves. They’re not even necessarily red flags. Some financial products are predominantly sold under a commission model. Take life insurance: A fee-based planner who receives compensation for helping you purchase a life insurance policy may still have your best interests at heart when advising on other financial products. “To be clear, there’s nothing wrong with paying the commission for life insurance,” says Karen Van Voorhis, a fee-based certified financial planner (CFP) and director of financial planning at Daniel J. Galli & Associates in Norwell, Massachusetts. “That’s how the structure of that industry works.” Purchasing financial products via financial advisors that earn commissions may be a matter of convenience, especially if someone will receive a commission regardless of where you buy the product. What’s important is understanding the difference. And if you work with a fee-based financial advisor, understand when they are acting as a fiduciary, especially when they help you purchase financial products. Get In Touch With A Pre-screened Financial Advisor In 3 Minutes Fee-based financial advisors earn money through a combination of fees and commissions. They generally will charge a percentage of the assets they manage for you in addition to earning commissions on products they recommend to you like certain investment choices, annuities or life insurance.  Registered investment advisors (RIAs) are companies that provide fiduciary financial advice. RIAs employ investment advisor representatives (IARs), who are bound by fiduciary duty. A registered investment advisor may have one or hundreds of IARs working for it. IARs may call themselves financial advisors and may be fee-only or fee-based. Some may have additional credentials, including the certified financial planner (CFP) designation. “The certified financial planner designation is really the gold standard in the financial planning industry,” says Van Voorhis. A CFP designation indicates a financial advisor has passed rigorous industry exams covering real estate, investment and insurance planning, and has years of experience in their field. Because of their wide range of expertise, CFPs are well-suited to help you plan out every aspect of your financial life. They may be particularly helpful for those with complex financial situations, including managing large outstanding debts and will, trust and estate planning. Robo-advisors offer low-cost, automated investment advice. Most specialize in helping people invest for mid- and long-term goals, like retirement, through preconstructed diversified portfolios of exchange-traded funds (ETFs). “For younger people who are really tech-savvy, a robo advisor just to manage retirement funds could be a perfect solution,” says Brian Behl, a CFP at Behl Wealth Management in Waukesha, Wisconsin. “I don’t think they’re going to get as in-depth advice on insurance and retirement and taxes.” People with complex financial needs should probably choose a conventional financial advisor, although many robo-advisors provide financial planning services a la carte or for higher-net-worth clients. “While the robo-advisors have really disrupted the industry…I do think there’s still a place for human advisors right now,” says Corbin Blackwell, a CFP at robo-advisor Betterment. Betterment, for example, allows clients to purchase individual financial advising sessions, and Personal Capital and Betterment provide regular financial planning for clients with higher account balances for a management fee. Before selecting a financial planner, clarify your financial objectives. Are you focusing on retirement planning, estate planning, investment management, tax strategies or a combination of these? – Kyle McBrien, CFP and financial planner at Betterment Services offered by financial advisors vary from advisor to advisor, but they may provide financial advice on any of the following topics: In addition to investment management and financial planning, financial advisors also offer emotional support and perspective during volatile economic times. During the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic in March of 2020, for instance, client demand for financial advisor contact increased by almost 50%. Related: Find A Financial Advisor In 3 minutes “I think that during these times, we can be a source of reason,” says Blackwell. “We can weather the storm. We’ve built this portfolio for a reason.” When choosing a financial advisor, make sure they offer the services you’re looking for in your financial and non-financial lives. Get In Touch With A Pre-screened Financial Advisor In 3 Minutes It used to be that financial advisors charged fees that were a percentage of the assets they managed for you. Today, advisors offer a wide variety of fee structures, which helps make their services accessible to clients of all levels of financial means. Ask an expert Lei Deng, CFA, CFP® Founder and financial planner at Savor Financial Rae Hartley Beck Deputy Editor of Investing and Retirement at Forbes Advisor Traditional asset-based compensation models steer financial advisors to focus on pre-retirees and retirees. However, emerging hourly and flat-fee structures are enabling advisors to also support mid-career individuals. Working with financial advisors early allows you to benefit from the compounding effect of good investments and financial habits for decades to come. Founder and financial planner at Savor Financial When I was starting out in my career, I badly needed holistic financial planning so I could know how best to plan out my lifestyle to reach my goals. I didn’t have the income or assets necessary to be an attractive client to most traditional financial advisors. Working with a newer CFP with a flexible hourly fee structure allowed me to learn how best to manage my money to achieve financial freedom. Deputy Editor of Investing and Retirement at Forbes Advisor Financial advice comes in many forms, and there are a variety of different kinds of financial professionals, so you need to do your homework. Make sure the advisor guiding your financial decisions is trustworthy and capable. There are a few good ways to find a financial advisor. Ask friends, family and peers for recommendations when trying to find a financial advisor near you. Alternatively, look for financial advisors online. Many professional financial planning associations provide free databases of financial advisors: When evaluating advisors, be sure to consider their credentials as well as research their backgrounds and fee structures. You can view disciplinary actions and complaints filed against financial advisors using FINRA’s BrokerCheck. And remember, just because someone is part of a financial planning association, that doesn’t mean they’re a fiduciary financial advisor. Once you’ve picked out an advisor, it’s time to hire them.  Each financial advisor and firm operates differently, but your experience hiring a financial advisor will most likely include these steps:  1. Contact the advisor or firm you’d like to work with. Many firms have a calendar link on their website to schedule an initial consultation call. 2. Gather some basic information before your consultation call. If you have a partner, sit down with them to determine your short-term and long-term financial goals. You don’t have to know everything you need, but a good idea of your goals will help your advisor know if they’re a good fit for you. 3. During the consultation your advisor will ask you some basic questions. A great advisor will focus on more than just numbers, but the type of lifestyle you’re looking for and how you can use money to achieve that lifestyle. Come to this consultation with your own questions and make sure that you leave the conversation knowing how your advisor is paid. 4. After your initial contact with your advisor they will send you a contract and legal documents to sign. These usually outline the scope of their practice, their fee schedule and rights and responsibilities. 5. Your advisor will send you a spreadsheet, google form, or link to software to complete with your financial information. 6. After you’ve submitted your information you’ll have follow-up conversations with your financial advisor. If you’re paying an hourly rate or retainer, this is usually due in part or in full before any follow-up conversations occur. A financial advisor can help you make decisions based on current economic conditions that you may not be aware of. In the first quarter of 2024, we’re in a high-interest rate environment with inflation cooling down but still a significant factor. A financial advisor may urge you to pay off high-interest debt, take advantage of high-yield savings accounts, and continue to invest in tax-efficient accounts so you aren’t actively losing money to inflation. When meeting a financial advisor for the first time, it’s important to obtain the answers to these questions and ensure you’re satisfied with their responses: Related: Find A Financial Advisor In 3 minutes Because of the ambiguity in the industry, you have to exercise caution to make sure you get the right financial advisor who meets your fiduciary and financial needs. That said, when you choose the right financial advisor for you, they can help you achieve your financial goals and financially protect your loved ones and their futures. So much of what I do in a life-centered approach to financial planning and wealth management is walk out life with people. I think there’s value in an ongoing relationship where somebody can help you walk through the various waypoints you’re going to come to. -Wes Brown, a CFP at CogentBlue Wealth Advisors in Knoxville, Tennessee  





























 
				Looking For A Financial Advisor?
			 Via Datalign Advisory  Financial advisors are personal finance experts who give you financial advice and manage your money. Some—but not all—are fiduciaries. A fiduciary acts only in your best financial interest.   “A financial advisor is like a coach,” says Matt Chancey, a certified financial planner (CFP) at Dempsey Lord Smith in Tampa. “It helps to have someone keep you accountable to your goals and make sure that you aren’t making any major missteps.”  A good financial investment advisor can evaluate your current situation and develop a comprehensive plan to guide you through your financial life. “You don’t know what you don’t know,” says Marianela Collado, a CFP and certified public accountant (CPA) at Tobias Financial Advisors in Plantation, Florida. “By opening your finances up, a good financial adviser can suggest a wide range of opportunities that the client probably never thought of or wouldn’t even know to ask for.” Though some people may think they don’t need a financial advisor until they’ve amassed at least $1 million, the amount of assets you hold shouldn’t be the sole determining factor. In fact, financial advisors work with clients of all tax brackets and backgrounds. Financial advisor fees can vary widely. This is due to there being different methods for a financial advisor to generate their income. Some advisors are fee-only. Other advisors are commission-based. Some advisors even work on a hybrid model between the two. It’s recommended that you research how the individual advisor you’re choosing generates their income before starting to work with them. Financial advisors become most helpful when your financial life becomes complex. That might be when you get married, have children, get divorced, are managing many competing debts, come into an unexpected windfall or are navigating end-of-life financial decisions. Rae Hartley Beck first started writing about personal finance in 2011 with a regular column in her college newspaper as a staff writer. Since then she has become a leader in the Financial Independence, Retire Early (FIRE) movement and has over 300 bylines in prominent publications including Money, Bankrate and Investopedia on all things personal finance. A former award-winning claims specialist with the Social Security Administration, Rae continues to share her expert insider knowledge with Forbes Advisor readers. Michael Adams is an investing editor. He's researched, written about and practiced investing for nearly two decades. As a writer, Michael has covered everything from stocks to cryptocurrency and ETFs for many of the world's major financial publications, including Kiplinger, U.S. News and World Report, The Motley Fool and more. Michael holds a master’s degree in philosophy from The New School for Social Research and an additional master's degree in Asian classics from St. John’s College. Investing expert Lei Deng is the founder and lead financial planner at Savor Financial. Holding both chartered financial analyst (CFA) and certified financial planner (CFP®) designations, she brings over a decade of experience to her role.  

Lei specializes in addressing the needs of small business owners and young families, especially those with immigrant backgrounds, offering tailored advice to help them navigate their financial lives. Before pursuing her financial planning career, Lei worked in investment analysis in areas including portfolio construction, asset allocation, quantitative research and investment manager research. Lei has contributed to major online publications and has appeared on local TV stations for her financial planning expertise.  

Outside of her professional life, Lei is actively involved in community service, holding board memberships at nonprofit organizations focused on social equity, Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) advocacy and school safety. She values family time, especially when it involves cooking with her husband and children, blending their Asian and Hispanic heritage into their culinary creations.