published author share on Prudential Hong Kong has launched an eshop on the AlipayHK app, which customers can purchase six selected Prudential general insurance products online anytime and anywhere. Also known as “PRUeShop”, the online sales channel is launched in Hong Kong market under a strategic partnership with AlipayHK. Six selected Prudential general insurance products, including travel, travel overseas study, home landlord, home, maid and personal accident are available for purchase on the AlipayHK app, which is governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Hong Kong. “In view of the relaxation of the quarantine requirement, Hong Kong people’s desire to travel abroad has increased significantly. Prudential has always been at the forefront of the industry in technology innovation and application. We actively embrace the latest technology and integrate digital capabilities into our business,” said Priscilla Ng, chief marketing and partnership distribution officer of Prudential Hong Kong. Customers can access the eshop by clicking “Prudential” under Applications on the AlipayHK app homepage. After that, they will be taken to Prudential’s eshop, where they can purchase the selected general insurance products and complete the transaction with AlipayHK in a seamless and easy way.  A spokesperson from Prudential told MARKETING-INTERACTIVE that the brand has always been at the forefront of the industry in technology innovation and application, and this marks the first tie-up between PRUeShop and AlipayHK. The spokesperson added that Prudential believes the strategic partnership will offer a seamless end-to-end digital experience to its customers and is responding to the market's needs. Meanwhile, Venetia Lee, general manager of Ant Group Greater China international business, said, "As a one-stop lifestyle platform, AlipayHK strives to provide users with diverse and high-quality services. Through its open platform, merchants can reach out to more potential customers with their products.” Lee added that AlipayHK has been working closely with Prudential, and the launch of Prudential mini app with AlipayHK will help users purchase insurance products.  "Coinciding with the relaxation of immigration and quarantine measures, we believe this partnership, together with AlipayHK’s cross-border payment services covering Japan, Korea and Singapore, will give Hong Kong people peace of mind on the move during their travel,” Lee said. Back in October this year, Prudential Hong Kong unveiled a brand campaign “We DO Family”, conveying the idea of building a safety net for one’s future generations to let them pursue dreams without worries. The campaign ad featured local artists Jeffrey Ngai and Kenny Wong Tak Bun, of which Ngai acts as a enthusiastic singer-songwriter wishing to release his new single, while Wong, his future grandson, transcended time from the future and helps him pursue his goals. The whole ad aimed to demonstrate intergenerational family love. Related articles: Prudential HK encourages future generations to pursue dreams with new campaign Citi's Lawrence Lam leaves firm to join Prudential HK as CEO Six brands launch Mid-Autumn Festival themed digital collectibles on AlipayComfortDelGro ties up with Alipay+ to accept mobile payments from MY and Korea   share on We break down the big and messy topics of the day so you're updated on the most important developments in Asia's marketing development – for free. MARKETING-INTERACTIVE is an online publication of Lighthouse Independent Media. ©  Lighthouse Independent Media. All rights reserved. Marketing Interactive is not responsible for the content of external sites.