 Analysts have been eager to weigh in on the Financial sector with new ratings on Prudential (PUK – Research Report), Great Ajax (AJX – Research Report) and Hagerty Inc Class A (HGTY – Research Report). Prudential (PUK) In a report released today, Blair Stewart  from Bank of America Securities maintained a Buy rating on Prudential, with a price target of p1475.00. The company’s shares closed last Tuesday at $28.67. Stewart has an average return of 32.7% when recommending Prudential.  According to TipRanks.com, Stewart is ranked #3233 out of 8331 analysts.
		  Currently, the analyst consensus on Prudential is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $20.00. See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  Great Ajax (AJX) BTIG analyst Eric Hagen  maintained a Hold rating on Great Ajax yesterday. The company’s shares closed last Tuesday at $6.85. According to TipRanks.com, Hagen ‘s ranking currently consits of 0 on a 0-5 ranking scale, with an average return of -9.3% and a 25.4% success rate. Hagen covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Kkr Real Estate Finance, Blackstone Mortgage, and BrightSpire Capital.
  Currently, the analyst consensus on Great Ajax is a Moderate Buy with an average price target of $11.25. Hagerty Inc Class A (HGTY) In a report released today, Charles Peters  from Raymond James reiterated a Hold rating on Hagerty Inc Class A. The company’s shares closed last Tuesday at $8.05, close to its 52-week low of $7.23. According to TipRanks.com, Peters is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 7.8% and a 61.8% success rate. Peters covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Skyward Specialty Insurance Group, Inc., Argo Group International Holdings, and Marsh & Mclennan Companies. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Hold analyst consensus rating for Hagerty Inc Class A.
		  TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.  Read More on PUK:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks