Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff says he doesn’t mind the activist investors circling his company, especially if they know their stuff.  But he had some dismissive words for Strive Asset Management, co-founded by 2024 Republican presidential hopeful and Woke Inc. author Vivek Ramaswamy. In an interview, Benioff described Ramaswamy as “just a politician.” “You know, anyone can be an activist,” Benioff told Barron’s. “If you do own one share of the stock, I will pick up the phone and call you and talk to you. That said, people who are using that idea for their own political agenda is not exactly my cup of tea.” "Marc is the one running his business as a politician," Ramaswamy told USA TODAY. 'Woke mind virus'? 'Corporate wokeness'? Why red America has declared war on corporate America Biden plans to veto Senate's ESG measure:What's behind the GOP backlash against ESG? Ramaswamy stepped down as executive chairman of Strive Asset Management last month when he announced his presidential run. "If he wants to be a politician, he shouldn’t use his perch as a tech CEO to do it," Ramaswamy fired back. "He should do what I did: step aside as CEO and ask people to vote for his policy agendas, rather than using his company to foist them onto everyone." This week, Anson Frericks, president of Strive Asset Management, urged Salesforce to stop using its business as a “platform for social change.” “So-called ‘stakeholder capitalism’ is nothing more than an ethos that allows its CEO to anoint himself a ‘hero’ who is ‘sav[ing] the world’ as he rubs elbows with fellow billionaires in Davos, while leaving Salesforce shareholders holding the bag,” Frericks wrote in a letter to Benioff. “It chooses politics over profits, race baiting over revenue, and virtue signaling over value, harming the millions of Americans who have invested in Salesforce to help secure their financial future and meet their retirement goals.” Salesforce did not respond to a request for comment. "Strive agrees that Salesforce employees should be treated with dignity, respect, and equality," Strive Asset Management said in a statement. "Strive does not believe that Salesforce lives up to this standard when they impose contested political ideology on employees." Strive Asset Management is part of a wave of conservative activism targeting corporations on a number of issues including ESG, the acronym for environmental, social, governance principles. Populist Republicans like Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis have leveled sharp criticism for what they call "corporate wokeness."  A watchword long embraced by the Black community, "woke" has been co-opted by GOP activists and leaders as a culture-war rallying cry against progressive activism. Conservatives across red America have mounted campaigns to stop corporations from taking public positions on everything from climate change to race. Republicans say they're fighting the unchecked influence of the liberal agenda in executive suites and boardrooms.  "ESG provides a pretext for CEOs to use shareholder assets to target issues like reducing the use of fossil fuels and restricting Second Amendment rights. It is, in effect, a way for the political left to achieve through corporate power what they cannot achieve at the ballot box," DeSantis, who is expected to see the 2024 GOP presidential nomination, wrote in his new book, "The Courage to be Free: Florida's Blueprint for American Revival." Senate Republicans, with an assist from two Democrats, voted Wednesday to block a Labor Department rule allowing retirement plans to weigh environmental, social and corporate governance factors when making investments. GOP wins House majority, sends message:'Woke' businesses, get out of politics ESG investing:What is an ESG investing score? A similar vote by House Republicans took place Tuesday. President Biden says he will veto the Senate resolution. The congressional showdown was months in the making. Conservative advocacy groups backed by right-wing donors have mounted a campaign in statehouses across the country to battle ESG, which they say is just another example of “woke” influence on big business.