Suzanne DiBianca is EVP and Chief Impact Officer at Salesforce.   The economy is not moving fast enough toward net zero as the reality of the climate crisis continues to sink in across the globe. Critical tools that we need for innovation such as AI are using massive computing power. And code and computer programming—the backbone of modern business—has a long way to go before it can be called “green.” Even something as seemingly disconnected from the environment such as building or hosting a website and designing software can have major climate consequences. According to a recent report from the science journal Patterns, the information and communication technology sector accounts for up to 3.9% of global emissions. And demand for energy in information technology is expected to only go up. Fortunately, a green revolution is already underway in the global technology stack. So far, the focus has been on reducing energy consumption in data centers and moving electrical grids away from fossil fuels. Now, coders and designers are ready for a similar push in software, crypto proof of work and AI compute power.  My company Salesforce recently surveyed over 1,000 technologists in the United States, United Kingdom and Australia to better understand the green software movement. Our research revealed that 75% of UX designers, software developers and IT operations managers want software to do less damage to the environment. Yet nearly one in two don't know how to take action. Half of these technologists admit to not knowing how to mitigate environmental harm in their work, leading to 34% acknowledging that they “rarely or never” consider carbon emissions while typing a new line of code. Reducing one’s carbon footprint can seem daunting. But stringing a series of lighter interventions together can add up to global impacts. Coders, in particular, can adopt a number of easy-to-implement changes with immediate results. Earlier this year, Salesforce launched a sustainability guide for technology that provides practical recommendations for aligning climate goals with software development. Here are some recommendations on how technologists can take part in this change. Another recent report from Salesforce revealed that the power of AI is underutilized when it comes to green code: 60% of leaders are not using automation or AI to make the software development cycle more energy efficient. At Salesforce, we’re starting to see tremendous potential in using generative AI to optimize code and are excited to release this to customers in the future. However, without the right strategy, training and deploying these models can be extremely carbon-intensive, as we noted in our Guidelines for Responsible Generative AI Development. When building a new product or website, designers are capable of creating better, faster and more sustainable user experiences. Designers can choose the most sustainable option as the default choice, making it easy and desirable for users to act sustainability. Even small changes to image size, color and type options can scale to large impacts. Developing software code that uses less energy can lead to significant emissions reductions, particularly when deployed at scale. Leaders can seek out apps that are coded to run natively in browsers which can lead to improvement in performance and a reduction in energy use. We’re all on the same team when it comes to climate action. If you use less energy today, that benefits everyone and every industry tomorrow. Thankfully, there’s a real movement behind green coding. The Green Software Foundation hosts projects and working groups. Electricity Maps is charting emissions around the globe on an open-source platform and GreenHack brings together the most committed sustainable coders in the world to share innovative solutions. More than ever, leaders need to create a big tent where everyone can take action, bring their many skills to the table and accelerate our collective sustainability journey. That starts with strong leaders willing to set the tone on sustainability. One of the biggest roadblocks in achieving a seachange in how companies build software is convincing management to commit. According to our recent report conducted alongside Green Code, 76% of leaders don’t believe sustainable software development is a “must-have.” Without commitment at the top, technologists are left to adapt in a vacuum without the skills, training or mandate to make a difference. Technologists are ingenious, creative people who are building the future of IT one line of code at a time. They optimize brilliantly for performance, security and accessibility in ways that were unimaginable just a few years ago. And with today's advances in AI it's more important than ever. Srinivas Tallapragada, President and Chief Engineering Officer at Salesforce, recently described the combination of AI, data and CRM as something of a "holy grail" given what these advancements represent for opportunity in the industry. If we equip them with the right tools and partner them with the right leadership, we can not only drive meaningful efficiencies and cost savings but also bend the emissions curve downward at the speed and scale the planet needs. Working together is the best way to make a difference. Forbes Business Development Council is an invitation-only community for sales and biz dev executives. Do I qualify? 