Get daily celeb exclusives and behind the scenes house tours direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Get daily celeb exclusives and behind the scenes house tours direct to your inbox We have more newsletters  David Beckham looks smitten in cute pictures showing the moment he met pal  Marc Anthony’s new born baby.   The former England football legend, 48, and the Grammy Award-winning singer, 54, have been close friends for years - with Marc godfather to the youngest of the Beckham’s sons,  Cruz, 18. And although the songwriter and his new wife Nadia Ferreira, 23, have been careful about sharing photos of their new son on social media, they made an exception when “uncle David” stopped by.  Posting the sweet picture of Becks and the baby to Instagram, Marc wrote: “Uncle David came to visit us. What a blessing.” The image showed David, current president of Inter Miami football club, kissing the little one’s foot as the tot lay on a luxury Givenchy blanket. Marc and Nadia welcomed their first child together in June. “God’s timing is always perfect,” the salsa artist wrote, announcing the news on Instagram in both English and Spanish. “Happy Father’s Day.”  The couple announced  Nadia was expecting on Valentine’s Day this year. Marc – who was once married to  Jennifer Lopez  – shared the happy news on Instagram with a photograph of Nadia’s baby bump.  "Best Valentine’s Gift Ever!!!" the couple wrote, before adding in Spanish: "Thank you God for this great blessing in our lives." Marc, who is already dad to six children from previous relationships, and Nadia could both be seen placing their hands on the model's bump in the photograph while showing off their wedding rings. Their baby news came just two weeks after they tied the knot in a star-studded ceremony in Miami. David and Cruz Beckham were among the guests at the lavish bash. Marc and Nadia started dating in February 2022 and announced their engagement in May that same year, before going on to exchange vows in January this year. They were married at the Pérez Art Museum in Miami, with David and Carlos Slim both taking on Best Man duties. The ceremony marked the fourth time Marc has tied the knot, following the end of his third marriage in 2017. His first wife was actress and model Dayanara Torres, who he married in May 2000 in Las Vegas. The pair divorced in 2003 and are parents to two sons, Cristian Marcus Muñiz, 22, and Ryan Adrian Muñiz, 19. In June 2004, Marc married Jennifer Lopez and in February 2008 the couple welcomed twins named Emme Maribel Muñiz and Maximilian David Muñiz. Marc and J-Lo announced their separation in 2011 and their divorce was finalised in 2014, with J-Lo retaining primary custody of their two children. Jennifer is now married to Hollywood actor Ben Affleck. Shortly after his second divorce was finalised, Marc wed model Shannon De Lima in La Romana, Dominican Republic. In 2016 the pair called time on their romance, and their divorce was finalised the following year. Marc also shares a daughter, Arianna Muñiz, and son, Chase Muñiz, with ex-girlfriend Debbie Rosado, who he dated in the 1990s. 