Sign up to our free email to get all the latest royal news and pictures We have more newsletters Sign up to our free email to get all the latest royal news and pictures We have more newsletters  Prince Harry’s army pal has revealed how “all the lads loved him” – but questioned the Duke’s decision to share his Afghanistan kill count.   Royal Marine Ben McBean appeared on  Good Morning Britain on Friday to discuss his relationship with 38 year old Harry – whose long-awaited and controversial memoir  Spare is set to be released in a matter of days.  Ben, who lost an arm and a leg to a Taliban landmine, described how the pair had met at the Defence Rehabilitation Centre at Headley Court, near Epsom, Surrey, which helps injured members of the British Armed Forces. Speaking to presenters  Ben Shephard and  Kate Garraway, the 33 year old said: “All the lads loved him. He’s a royal and he was one of the lads, he’s been out there as well. “We met at Headley Court, so everyone had been injured and we had a lot to talk about. “He’s met my whole family and I’ve always since then thought he was a really top guy.” Extracts from Harry’s autobiography Spare have already been leaked after it accidentally went on sale in Spain five days before its official release date on 10 January.  In one section,  Harry revealed he had killed 25 people while serving as an Apache helicopter pilot in Afghanistan.  But pal Ben, speaking on Good Morning Britain, questioned the Duke’s decision to share that detail. He said: “If kids asked me, ‘Have you ever killed anyone’, it might be cool to them, I don’t know, but as an adult you don’t really do it. There’s not a written rule where you can’t speak about it but if you did, it would be who was there, it’s between you guys that were there. “That’s kind of it. To bring it back and speak to civilians about it, they don’t – no offence – need to know what you were really up to out there.” Asked if sharing his kill count posed a security risk for Harry, Ben answered: “For him, he’s already got a big target on his back and it’s probably grown a bit more. But he’s in America and he’s got security.”  Leaked extracts of Spare have already revealed some explosive allegations in the book, including one that  William attacked Harry in a row over Meghan Markle.  According to a section obtained by  The Guardian, William called  Meghan, 41, "difficult, "rude" and "abrasive" during a confrontation between the two brothers at the Duke’s Nottingham Cottage home in 2019.   Harry also claimed that the Prince and  Princess of Wales  encouraged him to wear his  infamous Nazi uniform to a 2005 fancy dress party.   In the book, the Duke detailed the final words he said to  Queen Elizabeth II as he  visited her body hours after her death last year.   And he claimed his father  King Charles told his later mother  Princess Diana that 'my work is done' after she  gave birth to a 'spare' second son.   In the memoir, the Duke also  recalled the heart wrenching moment he discovered his mother Diana had died.  Harry is set to return to screens on Sunday 8 January as an interview with ITV's Tom Bradby will air, where he'll share more revelations. READ NEXT:     Click here for today's top showbiz news     