To make this website work, we log user data. By using Shephard's online services, you agree to our Privacy Policy, including cookie policy. Stay up to date with our Newsletter Or login 
22nd February 2023 - 14:00 GMT | by Harry Lye, Giovanni Rasio in Abu Dhabi
 A model of the ship was on display at PT Pal's NAVDEX 2023 stand. (Photo: Harry Lye) The UAE has bought a 163m multi-role support ship (MRSS) from PT Pal Indonesia in a deal worth around $408 million. The LPD will be built in Surabaya, with construction to start this year. Shephard understands PT Pal aims to deliver the vessel to the UAE in 2026 or 2027. The deal includes UAE content, specifically in the form of Abu Dhabi Ship Building (ADSB) RHIBs and Interceptors that will operate from the platform.   The ship offers space for three helicopters on its flight deck and can house three in its hangar. The ship is likely to carry a 76mm Already have an account? Log in Get access to this article with a Free Basic Account Access to all our premium news as a Premium News 365 Member. Corporate subscriptions available. Harry Lye was Senior Naval Reporter at Shephard Media. Harry joined the company in 2021, … Giovanni Rasio is a Senior Naval Analyst at Shephard’s Defence Insight business intelligence service. Before … Share to Gulf states are shoring up their defence industrial bases and forging deeper partnerships with traditional Western primes. Autel Robotics presented its Dragonfish series and EVO Max 4T at IDEX 2023, hoping to challenge DJI's market dominance with the latter. Lacroix forged an agreement for UAE manufacturing at the Emirati show and showcased its latest vehicle self-protection system. At the Emirati show, Saab showcased a range of vehicle self-protection and countermeasure solutions. DSIT, a subsidiary of Rafael Advanced Defence Systems, has been selected by a European shipyard to equip a NATO navy with its anti-submarine warfare solutions. The partnership between Guardiaris and KRMC aims to provide high quality training solutions to clients in the Middle East and further advance the defence industry in Saudi Arabia. Connect with us on socials 
Terms and Conditions|Privacy Policy|© 2024 Shephard Press Limited (The), All rights reserved.
 Or login Stay up to date with our Newsletter