By Raven Saunt and Lillian Gissen For Dailymail.Com   Published:  15:01 EDT, 7 September 2023   |  Updated:  10:28 EDT, 8 September 2023      1.6k View  comments  Kanye West's 'wife' Bianca Censori has been spotted in a series of latest snaps shopping and hugging pals in the street while sporting that scandalous topless outfit - despite an ongoing police investigation into the couple's 'lewd' behavior. The Australian architect, 28, has been causing quite the stir in Italy this week by stepping out alongside the rapper, 46, wearing her most indecent outfit yet - consisting of a pair of skin-tight nude pants and no shirt. She has been clutching a pillow over her breasts to shield them from public view but - despite the bizarre outfit - new photos show the lovebirds, who started dating in January, making time to shop at luxury fashion house Marni before Bianca juggled her precarious ensemble to hug designer Francesco Risso. The couple have sparked widespread outrage in recent months - which reached new heights when the pair were caught engaging in what appeared to be a risqué act during a boat ride through Venice - and DailyMail.com has since revealed that Bianca's close friends have grown 'extremely concerned' about her increasingly-strange behavior. Kanye West's 'wife' Bianca Censori has been spotted in the street while sporting that scandalous topless cushion outfit - despite an ongoing police investigation into the couple's 'lewd' behavior  New photos show the lovebirds, who started dating in January, making time to shop at luxury fashion house Marni before Bianca juggled her precarious ensemble to hug a man in the street The Australian architect, 28, has been causing quite the stir in Milan this week by stepping out alongside the rapper, 46, wearing her most indecent outfit yet Bianca was first seen holding onto the purple cushion in Florence on Tuesday - when she and Kanye enjoyed a late night dinner together, however, she appeared to be wearing a long-sleeved bodysuit for their evening meal. But when they ventured out the following morning, the Kim Kardashian lookalike had nothing but a small piece of tattered fabric wrapped around her back underneath her breasts, leaving them entirely exposed behind the pillow, suggesting that the top she had been wearing the night before had either been ripped or DIY-ed with some scissors. It seemed like the racy ensemble did not come as a result of a wardrobe malfunction however - because had it been a mishap she could have easily gone back inside the hotel to change. She completed the strange look with a pair of clear heels.  As for the Stronger artist, he opted for a pair of black sweat pants, a black shirt, and a scarf wrapped around his face. He chose not to wear any shoes during the outing, walking the streets of Italy in only a pair of socks. An onlooker told DailyMail.com that Bianca kept the pillow pressed tightly against her breasts the entire time that they dined on Tuesday evening. After heading out of their hotel on Wednesday, they were spotted getting into a car - and it seems as though the pair embarked on a three-hour road trip after popping up in Milan where they went on a shopping trip to Italian designer Francesco Risso's boutique Marni. The latest snaps taken by a local photographer caught them both embracing with the fashion icon, before heading into the store - and it looked as though they found something they liked because Kanye held onto a shopping bag as they exited afterwards. Kanye also embraced the fashion icon before heading into the store - and it looked as though the couple found something they liked because the rapper held onto a shopping bag as they exited afterwards Bianca, who has been wearing skin-tight nude pants and no shirt, has also been clutching a pillow over her breasts to shield them from public view in her latest public appearances in Milan As for the Stronger artist (pictured emerging from Marni), he opted for a pair of black sweat pants, a black shirt, and a scarf wrapped around his face. He chose not to wear any shoes during the outing, walking the streets of Italy in only a pair of socks No strangers to scandal, Kanye and Bianca have continuously raised eyebrows over their choices in clothing and, since arriving in Italy last month, Bianca's barely-there looks have continuously sparked fury from locals. She has been seen donning sheer and mesh outfits that left her breasts clearly visible, which social media users described as 'disrespectful' in a country known for its conservative Catholic heritage. Things reached new heights last week, when the two stars were caught engaging in what appeared to be a risqué act during a boat ride through Venice. The musician bared his naked buttocks to a slew of gawking tourists as he leaned against the back of the vessel, while Bianca nestled her head in his lap.  It appeared that things were getting very steamy as she faced the hitmaker and, at one point, rested her elbows on his knees, while he was then seen cradling her face as they sailed along the river.  The couple had been accompanied by a female friend, who seemed to spend much of her time up front with the boat's captain, giving the couple as much privacy as possible. Still, the pair didn't appear to mind who spotted them during the trip - given that they were surrounded by other boats filled to the brim with tourists, all of whom had a perfect view of them putting on their amorous display and quickly whipped out their phones. DailyMail.com exclusively revealed afterwards that police are investigating the couple over the compromising photos. Bianca was first seen holding onto the purple cushion in Florence on Tuesday - when she and Kanye enjoyed a late night dinner together, however, she appeared to be wearing a long-sleeved bodysuit for their evening meal  But when they ventured out the following morning, the Kim Kardashian lookalike had nothing but a small piece of tattered fabric wrapped around her back underneath her breasts, leaving them entirely exposed behind the pillow A law enforcement source said that they had identified the driver of the water taxi they were on and were expecting to question him in the next few days about what exactly went on.  'There are standards of public decorum that have to be followed by tourists and locals alike and any breaches are severely punished,' the insider dished. 'The images of [Kanye] with his trousers down while in a taxi as he and his partner crossed the lagoon were seen all over the globe. 'You could clearly see his trousers were half down and we have received complaints from people who witnessed it.  'Now we have identified the driver of the boat and we will be asking him what he saw as well.  'The images show the couple clearly in a state of intimacy and if the local prosecutor decides to press charges then we will notify the couple, most probably through the relevant embassies.  'The offence being investigated is acts contrary to public decency which is punishable by an administrative sanction.' Kanye's behavior in recent months has said to have left Bianca's friends 'extremely concerned' that she's being manipulated by the 46-year-old. The bizarre look suggested that the top she had been wearing the night before had either been ripped or DIY-ed with some scissors  It seemed like the racy ensemble did not come as a result of a wardrobe malfunction however - because had it been a mishap she could have easily gone back inside the hotel to change  'Bianca is stuck and her friends are trying to save her, but no one can because of the blockades Kayne has put up [around her],' a close pal of Bianca's told DailyMail.com.  'Everyone is extremely concerned. This isn't who she is. She is an incredibly outspoken and lively person who is never one to keep her mouth shut. But she has no one right now and it is scary.' Bianca, who was hired as the Head of Architecture for Yeezy, was first linked to Kanye back in January 2023 - just months after his divorce from ex-wife Kim was finalized.  Kanye has become well known for pushing boundaries when it comes to his choices of clothing - and he's also earned a reputation for influencing what his significant others wear.  Almost everyone that Kanye has been linked to over the years has undergone a major style transformation after they started dating the rapper - including Kim, Julia Fox, and now Bianca. 'Kanye is trying to make Bianca into a radicalized version of Kim - almost like Kim 2.0,' the source continued.  'The difference is that when Kim was with Kanye he was respected in the fashion world. He has since lost this respect.'  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group