Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 DCPI Police late Friday released a photo of the Jeep they believe belonged to the shooter. Sam Costanza/for New York Daily News Police secure the scene where two males were shot in front of the Police Athletic League on 991 Longwood Ave. in the Bronx on Jan. 19, 2023. Police late Friday released a photo of the Jeep they believe belonged to the shooter. A basketball-loving teen described by former teachers as a “good kid” died Friday after he was shot outside a South Bronx Police Athletic League facility that was hosting a game, cops said.The shooting was one of several incidents in recent days in which teens were either shooters or victims.Josue Lopez-Ortega, 15, of Laconia was fatally shot on Thursday night as he left the PAL building in Longwood, on Longwood Ave. near Fox St.
Police secure the scene where two teens were shot outside the Police Athletic League facility on Longwood Ave. in the Bronx on Thursday.“He was a nice loving boy. He left for school at noon and said ‘See you at 7:30, be safe,'” recounted his foster mother, Natalie Campbell, who raised him.She next saw Josue at Lincoln Hospital. “I was with him when he passed,” said Campbell, who was devastated by his death. She had no idea who would kill him.The shooting went down as Josue, a 16-year-old teen, and a group of other people were leaving the PAL building at around 8:50 p.m. Thursday, police said.As the group walked from the building, a Jeep passed by the scene and stopped nearby, in the vicinity of Beck St. and Longwood Ave.The shooter, who initial reports said was masked, ran across the street and fired a gun three times into the group near the PAL building, said police. Josue was hit in the head. The 16-year-old teen, whose name was not released, was blasted in the leg, cops said.

Josue fell to the pavement, while the other youth stumbled around the corner and away from the gunfire, sources said..A man working across the street heard the three shots, and realized right away that Josue was badly hurt.“He was face-down on the sidewalk in front of the PAL,” the man said. “He wasn’t moving. It was bad man, bad.”The shooter ran back to his Jeep, and fled by driving east on Longwood Ave.
Police late Friday released a photo of the Jeep they believe belonged to the shooter.Both boys were rushed to Lincoln Hospital, where Josue was in critical condition up to his death on Friday. The other teen was expected to recover.Police were still seeking the shooter on Friday night, and released pictures of the Jeep.Josue and the unidentified shooting victim once attended Middle School 302, near the Police Athletic League building. Teachers there remember both boys as good students.“Josue was a student of mine, and a classmate of my son,” said Nadine Walker, who teaches at the school. “He was a good kid. When I broke the news to my son, he was devastated. It’s disheartening to know we lost a good kid.”That the shooting happened outside the Police Athletic League’s South Bronx Center was especially upsetting to the community, said another teacher, Yolanda Fontain.“It affected not only the teachers, the kids, but the whole community,” Fontain said. “We watched them grow up.“PAL is supposed to be a safe haven for them. There is no hanging out around here. They go there. We’re not down for violence,” Fontain said. She also remembered Josue as “always a good kid.”With Emma Seiwell The shooting was one of several incidents in recent days in which teens were either shooters or victims. Josue Lopez-Ortega, 15, of Laconia was fatally shot on Thursday night as he left the PAL building in Longwood, on Longwood Ave. near Fox St. “He was a nice loving boy. He left for school at noon and said ‘See you at 7:30, be safe,'” recounted his foster mother, Natalie Campbell, who raised him. She next saw Josue at Lincoln Hospital. “I was with him when he passed,” said Campbell, who was devastated by his death. She had no idea who would kill him. The shooting went down as Josue, a 16-year-old teen, and a group of other people were leaving the PAL building at around 8:50 p.m. Thursday, police said. As the group walked from the building, a Jeep passed by the scene and stopped nearby, in the vicinity of Beck St. and Longwood Ave. The shooter, who initial reports said was masked, ran across the street and fired a gun three times into the group near the PAL building, said police. Josue was hit in the head. The 16-year-old teen, whose name was not released, was blasted in the leg, cops said. Josue fell to the pavement, while the other youth stumbled around the corner and away from the gunfire, sources said.. A man working across the street heard the three shots, and realized right away that Josue was badly hurt. “He was face-down on the sidewalk in front of the PAL,” the man said. “He wasn’t moving. It was bad man, bad.” The shooter ran back to his Jeep, and fled by driving east on Longwood Ave. Both boys were rushed to Lincoln Hospital, where Josue was in critical condition up to his death on Friday. The other teen was expected to recover. Police were still seeking the shooter on Friday night, and released pictures of the Jeep. Josue and the unidentified shooting victim once attended Middle School 302, near the Police Athletic League building. Teachers there remember both boys as good students. “Josue was a student of mine, and a classmate of my son,” said Nadine Walker, who teaches at the school. “He was a good kid. When I broke the news to my son, he was devastated. It’s disheartening to know we lost a good kid.” That the shooting happened outside the Police Athletic League’s South Bronx Center was especially upsetting to the community, said another teacher, Yolanda Fontain. “It affected not only the teachers, the kids, but the whole community,” Fontain said. “We watched them grow up. “PAL is supposed to be a safe haven for them. There is no hanging out around here. They go there. We’re not down for violence,” Fontain said. She also remembered Josue as “always a good kid.” With Emma Seiwell Copyright © 2024 New York Daily News