JavaScript offTo get the best experience on this website please use a browser with JavaScript enabled. 
Outdated browser
You are currently using an old browser. To get the best experience on this website please 
                    update your browser

 We're committed to complying with freedom of information legislation which incorporates the Freedom of Information (FOI) Act 2000 and the Environmental Information Regulations (EIR) 2004. The legislation means that you can request recorded information held by public authorities. The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) allows you to access recorded information. If you request information about the environment, it will be handled under the Environmental Regulations (EIRs). This includes things like energy, noise and waste. You do not need to tell us whether you're making an FOI or EIR request. You can find more information on the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) website. We aim to publish as much information as we can. 

Before you make a request
The information you're requesting may already be on our website. We may refuse your request if the information is already on the website.
 The information you're requesting may already be on our website. We may refuse your request if the information is already on the website. We follow the Information Commissioner's Model Publication Scheme. We'll maintain the scheme to make sure that the information it refers to is up to date. We'll publish certain categories of information in accordance with the Local Government Transparency Code. You can find more information on our transparency web pages. You can find more information in our publication scheme document. We aim to respond to requests within 20 working days, however some requests take longer to investigate. If the information that you request is sensitive, we'll need to consider whether or not it is in the public interest to disclose the information. If we need more information from you about your request, the 20 working days response time will start on the day that we receive all the information. Your request will be refused if it costs more than £450 or takes longer than 18 hours of officer time. Where possible, we may be able to help you to refine your request so that we can provide the information that you need. You can access your own personal data under the UK General Data Protection Regulation. Visit our data protection web pages to make a request. You can find information about how we process your data when you make an FOI or EIR request in our privacy notice. You can use our online form to make a freedom of information request. Make a freedom of information request You can request a review within 40 working days of receiving the information. You can email foi@stockport.gov.uk or call 0161 474 4299. You'll need to quote your reference number. We aim to respond to reviews submitted under the FOIA within 20 working days. Reviews submitted under the EIR can take up to 40 working days. If you are not happy with our internal review you can appeal to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO): Information Commissioners Office
Wycliffe House
Water Lane
Wilmslow
Cheshire
SK9 5AF Telephone: 0303 123 1113 You can also visit the ICO website. 
                            Last updated 
23 April 2024
                         
                © 2024 Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council
             
Built by the Digital Team in Stockport
