Brought to you by   According to GlobalData, geothermal power accounted for 3% of Indonesia’s total installed power generation capacity and 5% of total power generation in 2021. GlobalData uses proprietary data and analytics to provide a complete picture of this market in its Indonesia Geothermal power Analysis: Market Outlook to 2035 report. Buy the report here. Buy the Report 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             
                    Find out more
                    



 Installed capacity is forecast to increase from 2022 to 2035, at which point geothermal power is expected to account for 6% of total installed generation capacity.  For more detailed analysis of the geothermal power sector in Indonesia, buy the report here.  
                                            From 
                                            
 
                                        Blending expert knowledge with cutting-edge technology, GlobalData’s unrivalled proprietary data will enable you to decode what’s happening in your market. You can make better informed decisions and gain a future-proof advantage over your competitors. 

                                         
 Be better informed
 GlobalData, the leading provider of industry intelligence, provided the underlying data, research, and analysis used to produce this article.   GlobalData’s Power Plants database provides detailed profiles of over 170,000 active, planned and under construction power plants worldwide, while its macro indicators database provides historic and forecast power generation and generation capacity by technology as well as consumption, imports and exports for over 170 countries.  Buy the Report The gold standard of business intelligence. 

                        Find out more
                        



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Future Power Technology :  Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		Power industry news, data and in-depth articles on the global trends driving power generation, renewables and innovation 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024