Listen to Story Echoing the country's spirit ahead of Independence Day, Pakistani national Seema Haider, who crossed borders illegally to be with her Indian lover Sachin Meena hoisted the Tricolour on Sunday. Seema, who hails from Pakistan's Sindh province, joined the 'Har Ghar Tiranga' celebration at her residence in Noida along with her lawyer, AP Singh. On the occasion, the duo also clarified that Seema Haider has turned down the movie offer.  This came after a leader belonging to Raj Thackeray's Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) party has issued a warning to Seema Haider over her Bollywood debut. The threat came despite speculations that Seema Haider was busy shooting for her debut movie 'Karachi to Noida', was to be produced by a Noida-based film producer, Amit Jani.  In visuals accessed by India Today, Seema Haider, Sachin and Singh were seen chanting the slogans of "Jai Bharat Mata" and "Hindustan Zindabad".  Seema, who hails from Pakistan's Sindh province, had illegally entered India along with her four children on a bus via Nepal in May to live with Sachin, who stays in the Rabupura area of Greater Noida. In July, she even filed a mercy appeal before President Draupadi Murmu pleading that she should be allowed to live at her "matrimonial home" in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida with her children. The plea, filed by lawyer AP Singh, also seeks an oral hearing of the case from the President. SEEMA MYSTERY Seema (30) and Sachin (22) met virtually in 2019 while playing the online game PUBG. Later in 2023, Seema crossed the border -- travelling from Pakistan to Dubai to Nepal -- and entered into India. Seema Haider is also on the radar of the UP Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) and Intelligence Bureau (IB) over her possible connections with the Pakistan Army and the country's intelligence agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). According to UP ATS sources, Seema Haider was previously in touch with several other people in India through PUBG. During questioning, it was revealed that Seema Haider had contacted people mostly from Delhi-NCR through PUBG.Published By: Srishti JhaPublished On: Aug 14, 2023Must Watch 
