According to the prediction of Newzoo, the revenue generated by the global mobile game market will decline for the first time in 2022, but last year, many games around the world still achieved outstanding business results, and even maintained growth after being launched many years ago. There is no doubt that Tencent’s Honor of Kings tops the list. After breaking through US $1 billion for the first time in 2017, the game saw a slight decline in 2018, with an annual revenue of US $1.04 billion. Since then, the income of Honor of Kings has continued to grow, reaching 1.15 billion dollars in 2019, 1.5 billion dollars in 2020 and 1.76 billion dollars in 2021. Looking back to 2022, the revenue of the game hit a new high of 2.2 billion dollars. With the holding of the electronic contest and the launch of overseas versions, Honor of Kings has gained unprecedented popularity and profits.  PUBG Mobile ranked second. It is estimated that the global income in 2022 will be 1.73 billion US dollars, including 1.27 billion US dollars from China and 460 million US dollars from abroad. However, 2022 will be a difficult year for games due to the conflict between Indian sanctions and Krafton’s same IP products. The third place winner, Genshin Impact, can be said to be one of the latest top ten strong players on the list. Naturally, the commercial performance of the game is also making great strides year by year. From $407 million at the end of 2020 to $1.26 billion in 2021, and then to $1.56 billion in 2022, Genshin Impact’s income shows a healthy growth. And Chinese players once again contributed to the excellent performance of Genshin Impact. The domestic iOS version alone contributed $719 million of the $1.56 billion revenue of Genshin Impact in 2022, accounting for nearly half. Candy Crush Saga, as the leading player of Match 3 Game, will continue to perform strongly in 2022. It will not only receive 168 million downloads, a new high after 2019, but also it keeps increasing year by year, reaching 1.03 billion dollars in 2022, which is the first time that the annual revenue of this product exceeds 1 billion dollars. However, Roblox, the fifth film, is not so lucky. Compared with 958 million dollars in 2021, the revenue of Roblox in 2022 decreased by nearly 100 million dollars, only 862 million dollars. Of course, this may only be the natural impact of the decline of the epidemic dividend. After all, before the outbreak in 2019, Roblox’s annual income was only $364 million, less than half of last year’s. The same situation also occurred in Coin Master. Compared with the 9/66 million dollars in 2021, the revenue of games in 2022 decreased by 146 million dollars to only 800 million dollars. In addition to the games mentioned above, there are many other games that deserve our attention. Royal Match, which has always been in the forefront of the US market, failed to rank among the top 20 and ranked 21st with less than $428 million in revenue. Although NetEase’s Diablo: Immortal will only be online for more than half a year in 2022, it still has a revenue of $343 million. King’s second largest game is Candy Crush Soda Saga, which will earn $287 million in 2022, while the third largest game, Farm Heroes Saga, will earn only $72 million. Through a series of gaming industry development trends, we can easily see that the use of cloud game services has become the main choice of players. Through ARMVM technology, the redfinger cloud phone is like using another virtual smartphone android, which has obvious advantages over other products. As a virtual Android system, redfinger hardly needs to use the device’s data, storage and battery power. By using this platform, players can run games freely on the cloud all the time and meet the needs of multi task processing to improve the role level. Of course, these advantages are not the only ones. The games we submitted above can also be used in the redfinger cloud phone. For example, on June 2, Diablo series launched the free video game Diablo Immortal. The game is developed by Blizzard Entertainment and NetEase, and is mainly designed for mobile phones. You can easily enter the game with redfinger.  Diablo Immortal has embedded the automatic picking function, so players can switch freely in the customized menu, and then pick during automatic operation. Of course, this feature allows players to save time doing other things. In addition, players can play Diablo Immortal with redfinger cloud phone, which will save a lot of storage space for players’ mobile phones. The features of Diablo Immortal and redfinger enable players to enjoy the game while bringing more convenience. If you’re here, you understand the importance of safeguarding your valuable assets and enhancing... Imagine this: It’s the morning of your big meeting with the boss. You’ve been... Artificial Intelligence (AI) has transformed the technological landscape, driving innovations across industries. The development... In the chaotic and often unpredictable world of cryptocurrencies, three digital coins are capturing... Introduction to Blockchain PR Agency A Blockchain PR Agency is a special type of... Gone are the days when transporting cargo used to be a hassle that required... As cryptocurrency investors look ahead to 2024, MoonTaurus (MNTR) is gaining attention for its... Today live sports coverage is a major thing for every sports enthusiast; hence, missing... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming... The abaya has remained a staple in Saudi fashion even in 2024, expanding with... The cryptocurrency market is again facing turbulent times, with Bitcoin and Ethereum seeing a... Are you ready to take your career to the next level while indulging in... Singapore, August 18, 2024 – In the rapidly evolving cryptocurrency industry, LBank has established... Solana’s pricing prospects have snagged the spotlight as Brazil gears up to roll out... The fusion of technology and life sciences has become more crucial than ever in... Luiza Iiupova reveals how she went from a small village in Russia to becoming a highly successful marketing expert and CEO of... Many large businesses started as startups, but coming up with an idea, launching it, and staying on course is extremely challenging. Often,... After dedicating himself to a career as an inner-city teacher and collegiate basketball coach, Eric Allen embarked on a journey that led... Ultima Business Solutions, a leading provider of innovative technology solutions, is proud to announce a significant enhancement to its leadership team. Effective... TechBullion FinTech News and Information Copyright © 2024 TechBullion. All Rights Reserved.