[Source] Netflix has unveiled a first look at “XO, Kitty,” a “To All the Boys” spin-off that travels across nations for love.  “XO, Kitty” stars Anna Cathcart as 16-year-old Kitty Song Covey, the matchmaker for her older sister Lara Jean (Lana Condor) and Peter Kavinsky (Noah Centino) in the “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before” trilogy.  Set four years after viewers’ last encounter with the young sister, the spotlight has now moved to Kitty and her personal journey with love.  More from NextShark: Bae Suzy K-drama ‘Anna' outrages Chinese viewers with scene about counterfeit watch In pursuit of her four-year long-distance relationship with Dae (Minyeong Choi), Kitty decides to attend her mother’s previous boarding school, Korean Independent School of Seoul. “This is fate,” Kitty excitedly states upon discovering Dae also attends the school.  Taking the jump from Portland, Oregon, to Seoul, Korea, love guru Kitty faces new challenges and risks that has her doubting her simplistic take on relationships.  “‘XO, Kitty’ really is Kitty’s story and that’s a part of the reason why I really wanted to set this story in a different place,” creator, co-showrunner and author Junny Han explained to Tudum. “XO, Kitty” is Kitty’s journey and “its own thing,.” according to Han. More from NextShark: 'Shang-Chi' star Simu Liu announces his nominations for two People's Choice Awards Han described the YA romantic comedy as an opportunity for Kitty to “really explore her inner self and to offer that peek into what she’s thinking." While audiences previously fell in love with Lara Jean, “XO, Kitty” transitions viewers from that comfortable space into the larger universe of the franchise.  “She’s stepping into the fore,” co-showrunner Sascha Rothchild stated. “[She’s] picking up the baton from Lara Jean.” Directed by Jennifer Arnold, Jeff Chan, Pamela Romanowsky and Katina Medina Mora, Covey and Choi are joined by cast members Gia Kim (Yuri), Snag Heon Lee (Min Ho), Anthony Keyvan (Q) and Peter Thurmwald (Alex).  More from NextShark: AAPI immigrant representation on TV more than doubled since 2020, study reveals “XO, Kitty” will premiere globally May 18 exclusively on Netflix.   More from NextShark: K-pop boy group CRAVITY drop first English-language single ‘Boogie Woogie’ New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.