click this icon for latest updates 














  

















Published: December 15, 2022 10:41 AM IST  


 

              By India.com Lifestyle Staff 





 | Edited by  Tanya Garg 









  Cholesterol Diet: The winter months are known for binge eating because the body, which is normally at rest, desires calorie-dense foods to stay warm as a result of the reduction in body temperature. Your cholesterol levels may increase as a result of all these indulgences in delicious foods and beverages. Although high cholesterol can be passed down through the family, it’s more frequently caused by poor lifestyle choices, making it both curable and avoidable. High cholesterol can be lowered with a good diet, consistent exercise, and occasionally medicine. Nutritionist Anjali Mukerjee said, “Certain foods help you to keep your cholesterol levels in check & reduce your overall risk of heart disease.” 

 You can consume more of certain foods to lower your cholesterol. Cholesterol levels can be significantly impacted by a small number of healthy foods.  When there is a high level of circulating fat, which is brought on by inactivity, obesity, fatty diets, and alcohol consumption, high cholesterol becomes a concern. 









Also Read:  


  


High Cholesterol Diet: Almonds to Garlic, How These 4 Foods From Our Kitchen Shelf Can Reduce LDL


 
 


  


High Cholesterol: Should Ghee be Avoided For Better HDL Levels? Here's The Truth!


 
 


  


High Cholesterol Diet: These 5 Foods Are a Must Have to Reduce LDL Naturally Amid Rising Temperature - Expert Speaks


 
  
For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Health News on India.com.
                


Topics
bad cholesterolCholesterol Dietfood to keep bad cholesterol awayfoods to control bad cholesterolhigh cholesterol diethpw to keep cholesterol under controllow cholesterol diet 




More Stories













   When there is a high level of circulating fat, which is brought on by inactivity, obesity, fatty diets, and alcohol consumption, high cholesterol becomes a concern.  For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Health News on India.com.
                 What is Emotional Hangover? Signs, Symptoms And Ways to Cope Why You Should Not Wear Contact Lens While Sleeping? 5 Dos and Don'ts Frequent Muscle Cramps? 6 Warning Signs That Hint Calcium Deficiency in Women Over 30 Budget 2024: Big Relief For Cancer Patients as 3 Medicines Get Cheaper - Read Details Excessive Screen Time? 5 Tips to Keep Your Eyes Healthy Despite Long Screen Hours High Cholesterol Diet: Almonds to Garlic, How These 4 Foods From Our Kitchen Shelf Can Reduce LDL High Cholesterol: Should Ghee be Avoided For Better HDL Levels? Here's The Truth! High Cholesterol Diet: These 5 Foods Are a Must Have to Reduce LDL Naturally Amid Rising Temperature - Expert Speaks Is Butter (Makhan) Bad For Your Health? Can it Really be a Part of Your Healthy Diet? Here's All You Need to Know High Cholesterol Control: 5 Best Millet Flours to Incorporate in Your Heart-Healthy Diet By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts Cookies Policy. 