By GLORIA BAUAI FUEL supplier Puma Energy PNG Limited says there is no shortage of kerosene on the market. Country general manager and director Hulala Tokome clarified this after customers across Morobe were turned away from the Huon Gulf (Freddy’s) Puma service station in Lae as a result of no supply. “We have loads of kerosene available in Lae,” he told The National. “But as you can see from our retail sites, we’re moving a lot away from kerosene now and encouraging gas as it is cleaner, heats faster, a quicker way of cooking and cheaper. “This shortage experienced at Huon Gulf Service Station is not intentional though; we should have supply to that particular site shortly.” Staff at the service station confirmed that they were the only kerosene reseller in Lae and had been without supply since last Monday. They said the majority of the service station’s customers were from rural Morobe coming as far as Kabwum and Finschhafen. “Kerosene is hugely demanded by average Papua New Guineans; every day, we have people lining up for it for their personal use or small businesses.” Mother of two Delta Tuli, who resides at Four-Mile, said her family used a kerosene-primus stove for daily cooking. “I cannot do an outdoor fire where we live due to space and the weather,” she said. Boting Barai, a lecturer at Balob Teacher’s College, was also a frustrated customer. Barai runs a poultry business on the side and depends on a kerosene lamp to keep the chicken warm at night. “I tried using diesel but there was too much smoke fumes,” he said. “Since last Monday, I have lost three birds and if this continues, my business will make a loss.” Barai’s business depends on five litres of kerosene in a fortnight, costing him about K17. Tokome said in their efforts to promote clean energy, Puma had slashed the gas price by close to 50 per cent for this month. “There’s no issue with kerosene,” he said. “It is available but what we’re doing is to show people that cooking with gas is the cleaner way.” Should university students carry out public awareness on PNG’s economic situation?   Yes   No Vote! View results View questions  The National is the top-selling newspaper in Papua New Guinea. Headquartered in Port Moresby, it has offices in Five (5)centres: Lae, Mount Hagen, Kokopo, Madang and Goroka. We have two printing plants and the paper is simultaneously printed in the capital city of Port Moresby and the industrial city of Lae. The National is distributed five days a week from Monday to Friday.