Puma‘s 148-page 2022 sustainability report illustrates how the athleticwear company is using more non-virgin inputs. The German giant said it made seven out of 10 products from “better materials” last year as it scaled up the use of recycled materials. However, this excludes products produced by Puma Group company Stichd. The brand said it’s on track to reach its goal of making nine out of 10 products with better materials by 2025. More from Sourcing Journal Half of Fashion Companies Not Linking ESG Targets to Compensation Hong Kong's Evolution as a Fashion Sourcing and Innovation Hot Spot Crystal International Outpaces Carbon Reduction Goals These better materials include sustainably sourced cotton and viscose, which have a lower carbon footprint. In 2022, Puma used 70.4 percent more sustainable polyester, including 48 percent recycled. It used 99.8 percent more sustainable cotton (mainly from the Better Cotton Initiative) and 100 percent leather from Leather Working Group-rated tanneries. Since 2017, Puma has reduced its carbon emissions from materials by 32 percent. “Our Forever Better strategy aims to make Puma better across the entire value chain, whether it comes to materials, carbon emissions, circularity or human rights,” Anne-Laure Descours, chief sourcing officer at Puma, said. “We know there is still a lot of work to be done, but we are encouraged by the progress we made last year.” That progress included continuing to source 100 percent renewable electricity for its offices, stores and warehouses, with either renewable energy tariffs or attribute certificates, contributing to Puma’s 86 percent lower carbon emissions than its 2017 baseline. Its suppliers also increased their usage of renewable energy in the supply chain—where most of Puma’s carbon emissions originate—with its core suppliers (80 percent of Puma’s production volume) doubling their renewable energy consumption in one year. By 2025, the Rihanna collaborator wants to double this figure, again, getting those core suppliers to source a quarter of their energy needs from renewable sources. In circularity, Puma expanded upon its 2021 Puma Circular Lab initiative with its first project, Re:Suede, launching in 2022 with a first batch of 500 pairs. The chrome-free Zeology leather shoes were worn for six months by participants and sent back to Puma, with over 400 pairs sent to an industrial composting facility in the Netherlands. A life cycle assessment (LCA) found that the Re:Suede sneaker had a smaller carbon footprint (24.7 percent lower, excluding biogenic carbon) than conventional suede. In apparel, Puma developed a textile-to-textile recycling opportunity with partners in Europe dubbed Re:Jersey. To communicate the brand’s use of recycled materials, Puma launched Re:Collection in 2022, made with recycled cotton (up 3 percent since 2020) and recycled polyester (up 34 percent since 2020). To demonstrate its responsibility as a producer and to secure options for more circular material streams in the future, Puma set a target to join or offer takeback schemes in all its major markets by 2025. Last year, its footwear takeback program was introduced in Australia, complementing existing pilot schemes in Hong Kong, the United States and the participant clubs of the Re:Fibre project.   “We are convinced that many challenges we are facing today are systemic and need to be tackled at an industry level,” Descours said in the report. “There’s only one forever—let’s make it better.” Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.