Puma Golf has been a leader in golf footwear and they are making strides in 2023 early with the release of their new Ignite Elevate golf shoe. This Elevate shoe will be an addition to the already popular Ignite family by Puma. The shoe has been designed to add additional comfort, functionality and stability into the spikeless shoe. Puma has utilized Ignite Foam in the midsole which provides energy return as you walk or swing. The EXOShell design that combines engineered mesh uppers with TPU Film fused underneath aids in stability while adding waterproof performance. Puma Golf releases new Ignite Elevate golf shoe – $130. (Puma Golf) Puma’s Pwrsaddle technology uses a lightweight TPU saddle to make the shoe durable and comfortable. The new Ignite Elevate shoe also features concentric traction that helps with grip on any surface. “Our goal while designing and developing the Ignite Elevate was to provide superior performance, comfort, and styling in a spikeless shoe,” said Andrew Lawson, Senior PLM Footwear, Puma Golf. “The proven technologies we’ve applied to the design guarantees the new Ignite Elevate will raise anyone’s game.” Puma Golf releases new Ignite Elevate golf shoe- $130. (Puma Golf) Ignite Elevate is available in seven colorways in medium and wide widths. Puma Ignite Elevate - From $129.99 Story originally appeared on GolfWeek Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. With Week 1 of NFL preseason action right around the corner, Nate Tice and Matt Harmon share which NFL teams need to have a prove-it season in 2024. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. The start of the 2024 college football season is right around the corner, and to prepare for the new College Football Playoff format Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde pitch which teams could be dark horses to make it. They also analyze how favorable of a path the 5th seed in the playoff has, especially if they're afforded the opportunity to play a G5 opponent. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if there will be a 100-game winner in MLB this season, take a look at the panic meter for teams in baseball and discuss the Rays recalling top prospect Junior Caminero. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. The Atlanta Braves suffered another major injury in their lineup, with Austin Riley fracturing his right hand when he was hit by a pitch on Sunday.