Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     EV startup Lucid came out of nowhere to stir up the electric car market. The California-based luxury electric car manufacturing company created ripples that affected many major players in the market in some way or the other. The reason behind its exponential fame is not a result of expensive marketing/PR campaigns but pure numbers! Each vehicle produced in Lucid's garage boasts incredible performance figures and range.
      The Air Grand Touring is the most powerful offering from the house of Lucid. This luxury EV is equipped with a dual-motor AWD setup that delivers 1,050 horsepower. The Lucid Air Grand Touring can rocket itself from 0 to 60 MPH in 3.0 seconds. The EPA-estimated range of 516 miles is the best offered by any EV. However, let us also acknowledge the fact that the Lucid Air Grand Touring is outside the reach of the vast majority. Maybe that is why Lucid released the third Air trim called — Air Pure. The model packs enough punch to make it into one of the best EVs available today. Here are a few facts that you might want to know about it.
                         All details regarding the specs, features, and dimensions of Lucid Air sedans have been sourced from the manufacturer's official press release and website.
     The Lucid Air is a luxury rocket-ship on wheels, engineered to take you places fashionably quick.  While we sing praises about the Lucid Air's breathtaking performances and luxury, let us not forget that it is a "luxury vehicle"; which means, the price tag will match that of its standards. The Lucid Air Grand Touring is the most expensive among all costing more than $120,000. The Touring is the second most expensive vehicle in the lineup.
      Trim
  Base MSRP
                     Grand Touring
                         $125,600
                         Touring
                         $95,000
                         Pure
                         $77,400
      (Base MSRP details sourced from Lucid)
                     Lucid identified the growing fame of the Air models and decided to launch a much cheaper version that compromises not much on the performance and luxury departments as compared to the higher trims. Thus, was born the Lucid Air Pure. The Air Pure has a starting MSRP of $77,400. This price tag puts the Air Pure in the same segment as top luxury cars from Mercedes, BMW, and Audi.
                         As discussed earlier, the highly impressive performance figures are one of the key highlights of Lucid Air. This was due to the dual-motor setup and AWD powertrain. However, with the intention of cutting the cost, Lucid has equipped the Pure trim with a single motor powertrain that turns the rear wheels. The maximum output comes down to 430 horsepower and the 0-60 MPH timing goes up to 4.5 seconds.
      Powertrain
                     Single-Motor
      Maximum Output
                     430 HP
      Maximum Torque
                     N/A
      Drivetrain
                     RWD
      EPA-Estimated Range 
                     410 Miles
      0 - 60
                     4.5 seconds
      Top Speed
                     N/A
      (Performance specs sourced from Lucid)
  The EPA-estimated range is still an impressive 410 miles. But if you compare it with the higher trims, i.e., 516 miles of the Grand Touring and 425 miles of the Touring trim, the Pure might seem less appealing. But again, looking at the price tag, we should be convinced of everything the Pure is.
     There is no dearth of EVs in the market, and if we were to pick one must-have EV of the decade, we'd choose the Lucid Air over everything else.   Lucid broke the internet a couple of years ago with the announcement of the Lucid Air Grand Touring which offers the best-of-all range of 516 miles. No EV is ever closer to touching Lucid in terms of the range provided. This is possible due to the 112.0-kWh battery that the Lucid Air Grand Touring holds in its belly.
      EPA-Estimated Range 
  Lucid Air Pure RWD
                     410 miles
      Tesla Model S
                     405 miles
      Hyundai Ioniq 6
                     361 miles
      Tesla Model 3
                     358 miles
      Mercedes EQS Sedan
                     350 miles
      Tesla Model X
                     348 miles
      (Data sourced from FuelEconomy.gov)
                     The Pure trim has a smaller 92-kWh battery. You get 410 miles of range per charge, which is quite impressive compared to other vehicles that exist.
                         Apart from the performance and the range of departments, Lucid is also one of the leaders in the market when it comes to fast charging. The Lucid Air has a built-in Wunderbox that is a stupendously fast battery charger. The 900V+ architecture is the fastest EV charging system that is available today. It can recoup the Lucid Air's battery pack for the next 200 miles in about 12 minutes. While that is possible due to the Grand Touring's battery capacity, the Pure is not behind by much. You can add 200 miles to your Air Pure in about 17 minutes. It is still one of the fastest battery charging times. Moreover, it is compatible with every public charging station.
     The Lucid Air will be the new king of the EV market, and Tesla has a few things it could learn from it!  The influence of Lucid Air's build quality and design on its performance cannot be emphasized enough. Each Lucid Air trim dons a sleek and sporty design. Lucid claims the Air Pure RWD to be the most aerodynamic car currently in production, with a drag coefficient rating of 0.21. The Air Pure RWD is seemingly fast for a luxury sedan. While we are yet to hear from Lucid about the Air Pure (or any other trim's) top speed, we are aware of its ability to race from 0-60 within 4.5 seconds. This is quite impressive for a vehicle that is not a sports car but a luxury sedan. The sloping hood and rear side are a testament to the Pure's aerodynamic design.
      Gigantic display units are now a common feature when get to see across modern electric vehicles. Except from the aesthetic point of view, large touchscreens are also ideal from the utility standpoint. With missing knobs and traditional buttons, the driver needs to resort to cockpit displays to access the vehicle's core functions. These display units also display vital data like the amount of charge left, the next charging station, driving details, and many more. The Air Pure, just like its siblings, houses a massive 34-inch curved glass cockpit display with 5K resolution on the dashboard. This not only elevates the futuristic design of the car from the inside but also lets the driver manage everything effortlessly.
     The Lucid Air changed the rules of the electric car game, not only for its performance but also for its luxury details.                     With the decreased price tag, it was expected that Lucid would tone down the luxury a bit with the Pure trim. Thankfully, that is not the case. The Air Pure resonates with the luxury standards of the Lucid Air! The car is said to be more spacious and features 12-way heated front seats with memory and ultra-soft, sustainable Mojave PurLuxe leather. The chic and spacious interior is said to draw inspiration from Midcentury Modern design. Thanks to the deeper footwell, an additional 3.1 inches of space is added to the rear room. The Lucid Air Pure is a cheaper (not cheap) alternative to flaunt around the streets while reveling in absolute comfort and luxury!
                         Frunk ('Fr'ont + Tr'unk') is another feature exclusive to EVs. Just as the name suggests, a frunk is nothing but a storage space in the front. Electric vehicle manufacturers add frunks to their vehicles so that the overall storage space can be increased and can be of assistance, especially during long trips. Pickups and SUVs boast large frunks due to their colossus structure. The frunk space is often humble among sedans and other EVs. But, just as expected, all Lucid Air models, including the Pure, boast decent frunk space. Lucid claims that its luxury sedans have the largest frunk in the segment.
                         Due to the unavailability of the actual dimension, we have yet to verify the claim. The same goes for the trunk space. The Air Pure features fold-down rear seats and a robust clamshell-style decklid that facilitates a large, bi-level trunk with an extra-wide opening.
     The new Lucid Air Sapphire is one of the most luxurious electric sedans in the world. Is it fast enough to beat the venerable Tesla Model S Plaid?  Every manufacturer offers a set of ADAS features for added safety and convenience for the drivers and the passengers. Due to the emerging technology, every automaker is in a race to oust the others with their signature ADAS systems. Lucid is not an exception and is in it with the distinctive DreamDrive advanced driver-assistance system. Apart from the standard safety features like lane departure protection, automatic emergency braking, automatic park in and out, and many others, DreamDrive also features 20 on-board sensors for enhanced protection. The optional DreamDrive Pro offers further features required for additional confidence while driving.
                         The luxury electric sedan is a fast-growing segment. Increasing competition among all the luxury car makers is making way for more and more electric luxury sedans to hit the roads. Some of the popular luxury electric sedans in the U.S. today include:
                         One thing common across all these vehicles is the hefty price tag that ranges between $75,000 and $110,000. What makes them distinctive is individual standout features like acceleration, range, or horsepower. The Porsche Taycan Turbo S leads the race in the 0-60 MPH department with a timing of 2.6 seconds. On the other hand, the Tesla Model S has the longest range (405 miles). However, it is only the Lucid Air Pure that excels in all these departments. Do we need more theories to back the fact that the Lucid Air Pure is arguably the best luxury electric sedan in its segment and price range?
      Sources: Lucid
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. The Lucid Air 2023 is the ultimate combination of luxury and power: there is simply nothing like it This model has sold almost the same number of models as all other BMW electric vehicles combined so far this year. The new Roadster may still be about two years away, but it's already set to be an unrivaled segment leader. Can you have four doors and drive fast? You can if you choose one of these new sports sedans with the fastest quarter-mile times. Thanks to engine upgrades, Thornton Hundred has squeezed out 120 horsepower from the 1,200cc engine Your hunt for some of the fastest Beemer's ever produced ends here