We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Healthline only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. Pure CBD isolate offers many of CBD’s benefits without other cannabis compounds, like THC. Learn why some prefer it, and see our favorite products. If you’re interested in a CBD product that’s the least likely to have any unexpected side effects, you might consider CBD isolate. This form of CBD results from isolating CBD in the extraction process from other cannabis plant compounds, like THC, terpenes, and flavonoids. People who want to avoid consuming THC, often prefer it. Like other CBD products, you can get CBD isolate in many forms, including gummies, tinctures, capsules, creams, and more. Here are some of our favorites.  If you want to add CBD oil to your food or drink, you might prefer a flavorless option.   This oil’s formula uses isolated CBD extract and organic MCT oil, leaving out artificial flavors and sweeteners. One serving offers 25 mg of CBD isolate.   Bluebird Botanicals is a Colorado-based business with a positive reputation. The brand offers a 30-day return window if the product is not for you, which is shorter than other CBD brands offering up to 90 days. Additionally, the brand only offers refunds for purchases up to $100.   The company also offers assistance programs that give discounts to qualifying customers.   This vegan CBD oil is made with only two ingredients: organic coconut oil and pure CBD isolate.   Extract Labs points out that the formula is non-GMO and free from fillers, preservatives, and artificial colors.   Most reviews for this oil are positive, noting that it works well and has a mild flavor.   As a high potency option with more than 66 mg of CBD per dose, this product may be best for people who are already familiar with CBD.   Use code “health20” for 20% off.  These CBD capsules are non-GMO and made in the United States with organic coconut oil and gelatin mixed with pure CBD. They’re designed for day or night use.   They’re available in three potencies, though the higher potency you select, the higher the price tag (the 25 mg per capsule option is on the lowest end of our pricing guide).   A pro of these capsules is the convenience factor. You can take them on the go without having to worry about measuring drops.   The majority of reviewers are happy with the results, with some reporting a calming effect and help with their relieving pain and improving their sleep. But some say they didn’t notice any effects.   Medterra offers assistance programs for veterans, active military duty personnel, and people on long-term disability.   Use code "HEALTHLINE30" for 30% off.  CBD topicals like lotions and creams are great for applying CBD directly to muscle pain and achy joints.   This cooling cream by Soul CBD uses pure CBD and menthol to quickly ease discomfort. The ingredients also include organic coconut oil and shea butter for moisturizing.   Some reviewers vouch for the product’s speedy work, saying it provides relief quickly and without an unpleasant odor. Though, keep in mind that menthol usually has a minty scent, which may be too strong for some people.  Use code "HEALTHLINE30" for 30% off.   Taking CBD in gummy form can be less messy than measuring oil and applying a cream. Not to mention, it’s usually tastier.   At 25 mg of pure CBD per gummy, these sour bites from Soul CBD are a nice choice for people who have taken CBD before.   For those who are newer to CBD but still want to test out this vegan, gluten-free pick, a 10 mg per gummy container is also available.   Not one for sour stuff? Soul CBD also makes pure CBD gummies in other flavors that reviewers praise, including Sex on the Beach, Rocket Pop, Mystery, Pineapple Mango, Strawberry, Raspberry, Orange Cream, Piña Colada, and Passion Fruit.   “Soul CBD Gummies in Raspberry were one of the best tasting gummies I tried. They are sugar-coated, which is not a turn-off for me but might be for some people. These gummies do not have the hemp-y tinge or aftertaste that some other CBD products have. The texture was also pretty perfect: not too spongy and not too hard. “I would definitely say the effects of these gummies were mild — gentle but effective. They did the trick but did not hit me over the head. “The gummies I’ve taken in the past are typically 20 mg, so I didn’t have expectations that a single 10-mg Soul gummy would do much. However, I found that if my stress just needs a mild nudge, the 10 mg was fine. For times when I wanted a bit more, I opted for two gummies. “I feel like these gummies would be a good choice for anyone starting out with CBD gummies. They are low dose, very pleasant, and gentle.” — Rita Mauceri, Healthline senior director of commerce  “Soul CBD Gummies in Raspberry were one of the best tasting gummies I tried. They are sugar-coated, which is not a turn-off for me but might be for some people. These gummies do not have the hemp-y tinge or aftertaste that some other CBD products have. The texture was also pretty perfect: not too spongy and not too hard. “I would definitely say the effects of these gummies were mild — gentle but effective. They did the trick but did not hit me over the head. “The gummies I’ve taken in the past are typically 20 mg, so I didn’t have expectations that a single 10-mg Soul gummy would do much. However, I found that if my stress just needs a mild nudge, the 10 mg was fine. For times when I wanted a bit more, I opted for two gummies. “I feel like these gummies would be a good choice for anyone starting out with CBD gummies. They are low dose, very pleasant, and gentle.” — Rita Mauceri, Healthline senior director of commerce Use code “health20” for 20% off.  Though it’s the most expensive product on our list, this high potency pure CBD oil has over 3,000 5-star reviews from buyers — many of whom say it helps them relax and experience better sleep.   This 3,000-mg formula offers 100 mg per serving.   It may be tough to grab before it’s sold out, but a value size (2-oz bottle) of an even higher potency of 6,000 mg is also available.   For those newer to CBD, the brand also offers a more beginner-friendly formula of 500 mg per 1-oz bottle, which may also be more budget-friendly.   This unflavored oil is non-GMO, is made in the United States, and uses MCT oil as its carrier oil, which is derived from coconuts. So those with tree nut allergies will want to skip this one.  “I really liked this oil. It was effective in reducing my anxiety. “I’ve probably tested 40 to 50 CBD oils — isolate, full-spectrum, broad-spectrum, flavored, etc. This is the very first CBD oil that is truly unflavored. There’s no odor, taste, no hint of hemp or anything, which I am impressed by. “After trying the oil on its own a few times, I started incorporating it into my morning iced coffee to help abate some early day anxiety. I’ve also added this oil to hot herbal tea. I really enjoy being able to add it and forget it, with no flavor or aftertaste.  “I recommend this oil for its invisibility as well as its effectiveness. I’d select the 500- or 1,000-mg oil as a beginner, and to slowly ramp up with a half of a dropper and then a full one.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor  “I really liked this oil. It was effective in reducing my anxiety. “I’ve probably tested 40 to 50 CBD oils — isolate, full-spectrum, broad-spectrum, flavored, etc. This is the very first CBD oil that is truly unflavored. There’s no odor, taste, no hint of hemp or anything, which I am impressed by. “After trying the oil on its own a few times, I started incorporating it into my morning iced coffee to help abate some early day anxiety. I’ve also added this oil to hot herbal tea. I really enjoy being able to add it and forget it, with no flavor or aftertaste.  “I recommend this oil for its invisibility as well as its effectiveness. I’d select the 500- or 1,000-mg oil as a beginner, and to slowly ramp up with a half of a dropper and then a full one.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor  We selected these CBD isolate products based on criteria we think are good indicators of safety, quality, and transparency.  As a part of our vetting process, we consider: Read more about how we vet products and brands. Whenever possible, our editors test these vetted products personally, including some of the ones recommended in this article.  The purest form of CBD is CBD isolate. To create CBD isolate, hemp goes through a number of purifying processes to strip away other cannabinoids, flavonoids, and terpenes, leaving behind only CBD.  The other types of CBD are:  Research on CBD is still underway. There’s much more to learn, but some research suggests CBD may be able to offer several benefits.  Numerous studies have pointed to CBD’s anti-anxiety effects.  For instance, a 2019 study looked at whether CBD can enhance sleep, reduce anxiety, or do both. During the study, 72 adults who experience anxiety or sleeping issues were given CBD capsules. Approximately 79% of the participants reported reduced anxiety, while nearly 67% of people noticed better sleep within the first month. However, the quality of their sleep varied over time. A separate 2019 study indicated that CBD lowered anxiety among a pool of 37 young adults who experience social anxiety. Some animal research points to CBD’s potential to help lower inflammation. It may do this by affecting activity in the body’s endocannabinoid receptors.  Epidiolex for seizures is the only prescription CBD product approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). It can help reduce seizures caused by:  While CBD isolate may offer the above benefits, it still may not be the best option for everyone. Here are some considerations:  Research suggests that CBD’s therapeutic effects are greater when combined with other cannabis compounds, including terpenes, flavonoids, and lesser-known cannabinoids. This theory is called the entourage effect. A 2015 study on mice suggested that although CBD isolate offers some health benefits, it may be less impactful than the benefits of using full-spectrum CBD products. The study’s results also suggested that CBD isolate can help relieve swelling and pain at a specific dose, while full-spectrum CBD products offer additional effects with higher doses.  Research from 2020 on the effects of cannabinoids suggested that pairing terpenes with terpenoids may serve as a possible future treatment option for some people with mood and anxiety disorders. Some people prefer CBD isolate over full-spectrum products because they want to avoid THC. However, it’s worth mentioning that there’s always the chance that even CBD isolate products may include trace amounts of THC.  If you get drug tested, you may want to avoid CBD products entirely. There are various ways to take CBD, including CBD isolate. You can take CBD orally via: You can apply CBD topically for targeting localized pain with: You can also add CBD isolate powder to food or drinks. Some people vape CBD, though this method isn’t recommended due to safety concerns. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) advises against vaping. The FDA doesn’t guarantee the safety, effectiveness, or quality of over-the-counter CBD products. To avoid buying products that are misrepresented or mislabeled, look for an up-to-date certificate of analysis (COA) from a reputable third-party lab. You can use this to make sure that the amount of CBD and THC in the product matches what’s advertised.  It’s also important to check the contaminant testing results. These will vary by brand, but it’s best to look for results for pesticides, heavy metals, and mold — all of which you’ll want to steer clear of. It’s also a good idea to buy from a company that’s transparent about where it grows its hemp and how it makes its products. This information should be clearly available on the brand’s website.  While research suggests that CBD is generally considered safe, some people may experience side effects, including: Talk with a doctor before trying CBD, especially if you’re taking any medications. CBD may interact with some medications, including those with a grapefruit warning.  If you’re taking CBD orally, avoid taking it with a high fat meal. One 2020 study found that doing so may increase side effects. Although some research and anecdotal reports suggest that CBD is effective and beneficial on its own, other research suggests CBD’s therapeutic effects are better when mixed with other cannabis compounds, like terpenes, flavonoids, and lesser-known cannabinoids. This concept is known as the entourage effect. Although some research and anecdotal reports suggest that CBD is effective and beneficial on its own, other research suggests CBD’s therapeutic effects are better when mixed with other cannabis compounds, like terpenes, flavonoids, and lesser-known cannabinoids. This concept is known as the entourage effect. CBD, in general, is touted for its ability to help the body with sleep, anxiety, pain, and more. Pure CBD may not have as strong of a therapeutic effect thanks to an extraction process that strips out added cannabis plant compounds, which are thought to boost potential benefits. CBD, in general, is touted for its ability to help the body with sleep, anxiety, pain, and more. Pure CBD may not have as strong of a therapeutic effect thanks to an extraction process that strips out added cannabis plant compounds, which are thought to boost potential benefits. Pure CBD is CBD that’s had all additional cannabis plant substances and compounds extracted, resulting in CBD in its purest form. This means pure CBD doesn’t include THC, terpenes, or flavonoids. Pure CBD is CBD that’s had all additional cannabis plant substances and compounds extracted, resulting in CBD in its purest form. This means pure CBD doesn’t include THC, terpenes, or flavonoids. Pure CBD, or CBD isolate, may be a good choice if you’re interested in CBD but want to avoid the other compounds found in the cannabis plant, including THC. CBD isolate boasts a number of potential benefits, including relief of pain, inflammation, and anxiety. Studies do suggest, however, that some of these benefits may be more noticeable when using full-spectrum CBD products. When shopping for CBD products, be sure to choose from a reputable company, and read labeling and dosage recommendations carefully. Remember to consult with a doctor or healthcare professional before trying CBD.  Healthline has sole editorial control over this article. Potential uses for the products listed here are not health claims made by the manufacturers. The information in this article is intended to be general in nature. It’s not intended to be a substitute for medical advice from a healthcare professional. Healthline encourages you to make any treatment decisions with your healthcare professional. Is CBD legal? The 2018 Farm Bill removed hemp from the legal definition of marijuana in the Controlled Substances Act. This made some hemp-derived CBD products with less than 0.3% THC legal at the federal level. However, CBD products containing more than 0.3% THC still fall under the legal definition of marijuana, making them illegal at the federal level. Some states have legalized CBD, so be sure to check state laws, especially when traveling. Also, keep in mind that the FDA has not approved nonprescription CBD products, and some products may be inaccurately labeled.  “””””””””””””””” Share this article Research into CBG is limited but still promising. Not many CBG gummies pass our vetting for safety, but there is one brand we recommend.  Unique factors like your biology and what you eat before taking CBD gummies may speed up or slow down the time these edibles take to work. Walmart has begun stocking a handful of Charlotte’s Web CBD products at over 800 locations. Research suggests CBD may be useful in promoting liver health. Here's why.  CBD can be an effective option for treating nail fungus. Here's how it works.  CBD may impact your metabolism and lead to appetite suppression. Here's what the research says.  Whether you opt for CBD oil or CBD gummies, it’s essential to pay attention to factors like quality, safety, and transparency when selecting a product. While some studies suggest CBD can stimulate hair growth, more research is necessary to confirm how much CBD may be helpful to use and how to use it. CBD is known for being able to reduce muscle tension, but does it work for a tension headache? Let's see what the research says:  CBD does not stimulate appetite the way THC does. In fact, the majority of studies have found CBD to suppress appetite more than anything.  OUR BRANDS