We’re sorry, this feature is currently unavailable. We’re working to restore it. Please try again later. This was published 1 year ago Conductor Morris Stuart decided early that these Central Desert singers could “outrun all other choirs”. This month, they’re showing  us why he was right. By Susan Johnson Morris Stuart with members of The Central Australian Aboriginal Women’s Choir in Brisbane last weekend.Credit: Russell Shakespeare Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time. Once, when black Guyanese man Morris Stuart and his white Australian wife, Barbara, went out walking, drivers slowed down to shout racist abuse. These days, drivers are more likely to give them a thumbs up or even stop the car, so they can get out and shake hands with the couple helping to open hearts and minds to the voices of the indigenous women of Australia’s Central Desert. It’s not only white people who stop them. For Australia’s Indigenous people especially, the growing success and appreciation of The Central Australian Aboriginal Women’s Choir not only brings joy but a profound sense of achievement. Morris, the choir’s 77-year-old conductor and artistic director is aware of its symbolic power. “We were at the airport and a couple of First Nations school girls came up and said, ‘What you are doing is making us proud’.” Throughout 2018, after the Indigenous television station NTIV screened The Song Keepers, a documentary about the choir’s triumphant tour of Germany that same year, Aboriginal people stopped him wherever he went. When Morris and Barbara Stuart married in 1967, their families worried about their “mixed” marriage.Credit: Russell Shakespeare “I’d ask, ‘You from the Central Desert too?’ and they’d say, ‘No, I’m from way down Western Australia’ or ‘I’m up in the Kimberley’ or ‘I’m from Port Augusta’, or ‘Sydney’, they were from all over the place. They’d say things like, ‘Bro, just love your work. What you and these women are doing, it’s making us proud’, and they’d start crying.” Which is exactly what Morris Stuart hoped: if he wants Australia’s indigenous peoples to feel proud, he wants white Australians to feel prouder of their First Peoples. “I don’t think we should need anything to make people feel proud of our Aboriginal people, they’re human beings,” he says. “That’s more a statement of how we need to grow as a nation, but I do feel that in the context of who we are, it’s great nation-building correcting work helping people to view Aboriginal people differently.” Stuart believes white Australia is familiar with the narrative of how Aboriginal people die, but strangers to how they live. “Everyone’s an expert, based on other people’s bad stories. They haven’t even talked to them, never sat down with Aboriginal people. Being with these women is pure joy … this isn’t just about singing songs, this is about heritage, this is about the depth of culture.” And the story of how the choir came into being and the hymns they sing is yet another story white Australia does not know about their fellows. “My role is not the most important part of the story. The most important part is the story of the women who preserved this tradition, the tradition was very important in history and heritage because of the role it played, not only in terms of their Lutheran faith, but especially in terms of their culture, their language and their resilience.” The Central Australian Aboriginal Women’s Choir perform in Sydney and Melbourne this month.Credit: Russell Shakespeare It’s the story of how in 1877 German Lutheran missionaries brought hymns to the desert, establishing a mission at Hermannsburg (now also known as Ntaria), 125km south-west of Alice Springs, and where those same hymns are still sung four generations later. The missionaries recognised that song was the way knowledge and culture was passed on, so they sat down with the people and translated their hymns into Western Arrarnta language, passing on their own Christian gospel knowledge through song. A unique music was born, with the melodies of Europe and the cadences of language from the world’s oldest continuous living culture. The translated hymns spread to communities throughout the Central Deserts, to the Pitjantjatjara language and to communities as far away as Docker River, 670km west of Alice Springs. The hymns were not only sung in churches, but in men’s choirs, women’s choirs, children’s choirs, but as the missionaries and church attendance fell away and popular culture and secularism replaced them, men increasingly preferred country and western to hymns. It was the women who kept up the tradition, and it was these songs they took back to Germany during that triumphant tour 140 years later: “We brought them back, like a boomerang,” says Stuart. Hermannsburg woman Genise Williams, 35, is a third-generation member of a community choir and says being a member of The Central Australian Aboriginal Women’s Choir is a powerful, life-affirming experience. Her mother, Marion Swift, 58, and Marion’s sister, Clarabelle, 55, as well as her brothers Nick, 31, and Damien, 37, are also members (there are four male members, two of them white, but the choir insisted on keeping its female-centred name because it has been the women who have preserved the songs). “Most of the older ladies in the choir, they’ve been doing this since they were young girls, or since they were teenagers,” Williams says. “They grew up in their choirs in their communities. It’s a way for us to show the world what we’ve kept in our communities, very, very strong. You know, our culture, all of that, is strong with us, but so is this, singing in the choir.” They’d say things like, ‘Bro, just love your work. What you and these women are doing, it’s making us proud’. And now, if anyone dares suggest the songs are not traditional indigenous music, God help them, says Stuart. “I mean, they’d garrote them! This is their music.” You could say the choir is singing us their culture, waiting for us to open our ears and hearts. The choir contains 25 core members, the eldest in her late 70s. They come from six remote communities within a thousand-kilometre radius across the central desert. Members speak two languages (and sing in both), Pitjantjatjara and Arrarnta. Formed through an amalgamation of several community choirs, it was Stuart’s genius idea to join them up. He and his wife had been travelling to the central desert from their Melbourne home since the late ’90s. In 2006, Barb, a painter, talked Morris into an extended stay: he had not long retired from his job as a pastor with a Melbourne community church, Truth and Liberation Concern. In Alice Springs he taught choirs, as well as putting together a (mostly white) choir singing African freedom songs. He’s been singing in choirs himself, and running them, for years. The couple were involved in the anti-apartheid movement in 1960s London and met through a Christian youth group. Morris was in Britain attending London Bible College and Barbara had a vague plan about missionary work, but before long they were swept up with the groovy “new” Christianity, the Jesus movement, also known as the “God Squad”. But when they married in London in 1967, it was in a traditional church, with both sides of the family deeply anxious about their “mixed” marriage. So-called “inter-racial” marriages were rare, and they endured abuse hurled from passing cars. Three of their four children were born in Britain before the young family moved to Australia. As a man descended on his father’s side from African slaves, Morris was keen to learn about Aboriginal culture. “I didn’t go [to the Central Desert] as a missionary,” he says, laughing. “This is not a proselytising exercise.” He says it was the women themselves who invited him to teach them. “I felt that if I could spend time with these women, they would outrun all other choirs, and they have. You tell them something once. Once! They never forget, they sing a capella, they never sing out of tune, they never drop a note. Their audio acuity is incredible.” And what does the choir think of Stuart? Genise Williams: “All the ladies and everyone feel so comfortable to be with him, around him. He just makes us feel safe, you know, even though sometimes he’s strict. We always have fun when we’re with Morris.” The Central Australian Aboriginal Women’s Choir performs at the Sydney Opera House on December 15, Melbourne’s Hamer Hall on December 17, Brunswick Ballroom on December 19 and Carols by Candlelight, Sidney Myer Music Bowl, on December 24. A cultural guide to going out and loving your city. Sign up to our Culture Fix newsletter here. Copyright © 2024