Clear to partly cloudy. Low 74F. Winds light and variable.. Clear to partly cloudy. Low 74F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 11:48 pm Editorials represent the institutional view of the newspaper. They are written and edited by the editorial staff, which operates separately from the news department. Editorial writers are not involved in newsroom operations.  Rita Allison, then chairwoman of the S.C. House Education Committee, championed what critics called the anti-critical-race-theory bill in the House this year, but the bill died in the Senate, and neither that measure nor a similar provision already in state law actually prohibits what critics or its most vocal supporters say it does. (AP Photo/Jeffrey Collins) You can be excused if you felt like you were reading recycled news last week about the lawsuit a fringe group of S.C. House Republicans filed against the Charleston County School District. Our critique of that lawsuit might likewise feel reminiscent of part of an editorial last month about the murky meaning of what critics like to label critical race theory. The lawsuit is a cookie-cutter version of the suit the same group filed last month against Lexington District One, with different names and one additional paragraph (out of 50), about how many schools are involved. And with no exceptions we can see, it’s based on the S.C. House Freedom Caucus’ philosophical objection to the goals of a consulting company the two districts have hired rather than any clear violation of state law. The lawsuits don’t cite anything that has been taught in S.C. public schools that violates the law. In fact, these legal actions don’t cite anything that has been taught in S.C. public schools. Instead, they rely on text on the EL Education website about its education goals and on the secretly recorded and edited comments from an employee of that consulting company about what the organization wants to push on teachers. There’s no question that a lot of South Carolinians would be uncomfortable with some of EL Education's goals and values, including its belief that everyone is either a racist or an anti-racist — someone who actively fights racism by going “beyond awareness to disruption.” And if we only read the lawsuit, most of us would be uncomfortable with the race-obsessed approach that seems to pervade its teacher training and lesson plans. But a closer look suggests that most of its material has nothing to do with race and instead is about the mundane but vital process of teaching kids to read and be excited about learning. And even if you assume that the Charleston County School District is allowing the organization a free hand to impose whatever philosophy it wants on the district, and even when you focus on the cherry-picked quotes in the lawsuit, those beliefs and goals don’t seem to conflict with state law. State law very sensibly prohibits schools from directly or indirectly teaching that: “(1) one race or sex is inherently superior to another race or sex; “(2) an individual, by virtue of his race or sex, is inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously; “(3) an individual should be discriminated against or receive adverse treatment solely or partly because of his race or sex; “(4) an individual's moral standing or worth is necessarily determined by his race or sex; “(5) an individual, by virtue of his race or sex, bears responsibility for actions committed in the past by other members of the same race or sex; “(6) an individual should feel discomfort, guilt, anguish, or any other form of psychological distress on account of his race or sex; “(7) meritocracy or traits such as a hard work ethic are racist or sexist, or were created by members of a particular race to oppress members of another race; and “(8) fault, blame, or bias should be assigned to a race or sex, or to members of a race or sex because of their race or sex.” That’s it. What you’ll notice is that there’s no ban on teaching about the Holocaust or that the Civil War was fought largely over states’ rights to enslave other people, or that federal policies made it harder for black people than white people to buy houses in the 20th century or that black people still suffer from the legacy of slavery, as the law’s critics suggest. And contrary to the lawsuits’ implication, there’s no law against diversity or inclusion or a curriculum that's written primarily by people of color and featuring main characters who aren’t white. It’s not even against the law, as the lawsuit suggests, to have students supplement their reading of "To Kill a Mockingbird" with “additional texts centering the voices of Black authors and characters and explicitly naming the problematic nature of the narrative” that some consider too white-centric. In fact, we can’t find any allegations in the lawsuit that would actually violate what the plaintiffs call “Critical Race Theory-Derived Ideas” banned by law — a term not even used in state law. So from a legal perspective, there’s no point to the lawsuit. But filing the lawsuit with its cherry-picked quotes generates attention, which can outrage people who don't realize there is nothing to be outraged over. It also allows the plaintiffs to brag to their constituents about how they’re fighting the culture war and amp up pressure on their more rational legislative colleagues to pass a law that actually does ban this stuff. More insidiously, filing a lawsuit forces school districts to go to court, which can freak out a superintendent or a school board. Which can freak out principals. Which can freak out teachers, and cause them to conclude there’s too great a chance that they’ll get in trouble if they teach things that state law clearly allows them to teach but that generate harassment lawsuits. When that happens, a small minority of fringe legislators is able to effectively change our laws without actually changing them. The first lawsuit, we suggested, could provide a useful forum for a court to expose the whole debate for what it really is. The second one should just be tossed as a harassment suit. And if school officials want to reconsider their contracts with EL Learning, it needs to be because they simply don’t like some of the organization’s priorities — not because they’re afraid of lawsuits. 
Email


 
Sign Up!
 It has been the better part of a decade since the city of Charleston acquired the roughly 2-mile-long former railroad right of way that runs from the top of the peninsula southward to the former railroad buildings around Mary, Ann and John streets in hopes of making a new urban trail along t… Read moreEditorial: High time for more rapid progress on the Lowcountry Lowline South Carolina’s new chief justice never has been convinced that lawyer-legislators are a problem. The public perception of them is a different matter, particularly as prosecutors have stepped up their attack on the special privilege his predecessors have granted them: He worries that the gr… Read moreEditorial: SC lawyer-legislators' get-out-of-court-free cards are getting some limits Charleston M… Read moreEditorial: Charleston's Debby curfew surprised some. Next time should be different. Back when the private Erskine College decided to give itself the power to allocate hundreds of millions of dollars in tax money, and rescue failing charter schools from state-mandated closure, and of course keep its cut of our money, we warned that others would follow suit if the Legislature didn’t close a then-obscure loophole in S.C. law. And sure enough, the private Limestone University followed suit, becoming the state’s second self-appointed charter school authorizer. Read moreEditorial: Third SC charter school authorizer increases odds for profiteering, failure The Post and Courier
148 Williman Street
Charleston, SC 29403 Phone: 843-577-7111 News tips/online questions: newstips@postandcourier.com Delivery/subscription questions: subserve@postandcourier.com Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: 
, Post and Courier, an Evening Post Publishing Newspaper Group. All rights reserved. | Terms of Sale