Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Today, most laptops, tablets, and phones are charged through USB-C. However, it is not recommended to settle for a low-quality cable. The best USB-C cables can quickly charge a variety of devices, such as wireless earbuds, smartphones, and even the most powerful Chromebooks. These cables can also serve as an effective medium for data transfer or as a connection to Android Auto.
                         We have carefully selected the best USB-C to USB-C and USB-C to USB-A cables suitable for all compatible devices. Our selection criteria include length, durability, charging speeds, and extra features such as 90-degree ports and braided cables.
                         A USB-C to USB-C cable should work for most devices, whether you need a cable for charging or data transfer. These tend to offer charging speeds faster than USB-C to USB-A, so look here first if you need a cable that'll charge your device in a flash.
     Ugreen's USB-C cable packs premium features into an affordable package. While we would like to see faster data-transfer speeds, the inclusion of a braided cable, 100W charging speed, 90-degree port, and safe charging technology make this our best value pick. Our selection is the 6.6-foot cable, but you can upgrade to the 10-foot version for that extra reach. Anker updated its premium Prime range in 2024, and the cable has become my go-to cord for charging just about everything. With a durable, braided design it's tough enough to cart around in a backpack all day, everyday, and with support for up to 240W charging speeds there isn't much it can't keep juiced up. This is less nippy when it comes to data transfer, at 480 Mbps, but it's hard to beat for power. The Cable Matters USB-C to USB-C cable shines on multiple fronts. You can use it to charge your devices, transfer data between them quickly, or output video to a compatible display. And it does all of these things very well. This is possible because the cable supports up to 100W power delivery, USB 3.2 Gen 2 data transfer speeds (10Gbps), and DisplayPort (DP) Alt Mode. Plus, it's USB-IF certified, so you know you are getting everything the company claims. This USB-IF-certified USB-C cable from Plugable is another versatile option that can fulfill all your needs, from charging and data transfer to video output. It's also rated for USB 3.2 Gen 2, so you will get up to 10Gbps speeds while transferring your data. You also get up to 100W USB Power Delivery support. Unfortunately, according to Plugable, it won’t work with Qualcomm Quick Charge. The Anker 515 USB-C to USB-C cable is ideal for high-speed charging and lightning-quick file transfers. The cable can comfortably handle charging laptops or smartphones. Meanwhile, USB 4 compatibility gives it ultra-fast 40Gbps transfer speeds. The cable can even handle video output at resolutions as high as 8K at 60Hz. Moreover, the cable has been tested to withstand as many as 5,000 bends, ensuring years of use. The Baseus USB-C cable's unique selling point is the built-in LED display that highlights the wattage of power passing through it. This can help you identify exactly how much power your charger is pushing to your device. Beyond the LED display, the Baseus cable is perfect for fast charging and supports up to 100W of power. It also sports nylon braiding for enhanced durability; it will last a long time. Plus, the company also claims its joints can endure over 35,000 bends. The StarTech.com USB-C to USB-C Cable can do it all: fast charging, quick data transfer, and video output. If you need a single cable for all your needs, this one is certainly worth considering. Specifically, the StarTech cable is 1 meter long and capable of 60W fast charging, 10Gbps data transfer rate, and 4K video at 60fps. All these features mean the cable is considerably thicker than the regular charging cables that don't offer fast data transfer. Featuring support for up to 40Gbps data transfer speeds, 100W charging, and 8K video support, the Spigen ArcWire USB4 Cable is ready for the future. And most importantly, it's certified by USB-IF to make sure there are no unfortunate surprises. Sadly, being a USB4 cable, it's only 2.6 feet long. So if you need a longer cable, you will be better served by USB 3.2 Gen 2 cables, such as the best overall pick. This Plugable USB-C cable is genuinely future-proof, as it supports USB4 data transfer speeds of up to 40Gbps and can also deliver 240W charging. The cable is also USB-IF certified, so you know you are getting exactly what you pay for. Plus, you can use it for video output as well. You’ll also be happy to know that you get a 2-year warranty for protection against any manufacturing defects. Anker's premium 643 USB-C to USB-C cable focuses on function, look, and feel. Unlike the typical black USB cables, it's available in seven exciting colors. The cable also uses silicone to make it soft to the touch, and the interior graphene coating adds to its flexibility. In terms of function, it supports up to 100W power delivery and USB 2.0 data transfer speeds. So it's most suitable for charging. Plus, the company includes a silicone tie for tangle-free storage. This affordable USB-C cable from Uni is great for fast charging. It supports 100W charging, meaning you can use it to top up your phone, tablet, and even laptop. Other highlights include nylon braiding for durability and two length options. Unfortunately, as it's primarily meant for charging, the cable only supports USB 2.0 data transfer rates. While it'll transfer data, it won't do it very fast. Affordably priced, with a spare included in the package, the JSAUX 100W USB-C to USB-C Cable is a steal deal. The braided cable supports up to 100W charging and has a dedicated chip to negotiate the fastest possible charging speeds. Achieved an 80 percent charge? The cable will switch to trickle charging mode to extend the device's battery.                     USB-C to USB-A cables are primarily used for charging and data transfer. So if your wired charger or computer uses a USB Type-A port and your mobile device has a Type-C port, you'll want this cable.
     Whether you want a USB-C cable for high-speed data transfer or fast charging, this CableCreation USB-A to USB-C cord is a solid option. Thanks to USB 3.2 Gen 2 support, it can deliver up to 10Gbps data transfer speeds. Plus, the cable supports up to 60W charging, enough to fast charge most smartphones and tablets. And CableCreation notes that if you are having cable issues with Android Auto, this is the cable to get. If you want an excellent Qualcomm QuickCharge-compatible cable, it's hard to go wrong with Anker PowerLine II because it fully supports Qualcomm's fast charging technology. Besides, it's also great for fast data transfer due to its USB 3.2 Gen 2-rated speeds. Moreover, this Anker cable has no trouble working with Android Auto, something with which quite a few cables struggle. Featuring a PVC jacket, the cable is also durable and can last over 12,000 bends. Ninety-degree or right-angle cables are very useful in narrow spaces or when you want to use your mobile device while charging. So if you are looking for a USB-A to USB-C cable with 90-degree connectors on each end, this Ugreen cable is a good option. Thanks to the nylon braiding, it's also very durable. Sadly, as the cable only supports 18W fast charging and 480Mbps data transfer speeds, you aren't getting a high-speed cable for charging or data transfer. OtterBox’s standard USB-A to USB-C cable is a high-quality data and charging cord that can handle over 3,000 bends without issues. It comes with a Velcro tie to organize the cable and reel in any excess length. Plus, depending on your requirement, you can choose from two colors and three length options. When it comes to charging speed and data transfer rate, the cable is rated for 3 amps (or 60W) and USB 2.0 (480Mbps) speeds. Amazon's USB-C to USB-A cable is a classic example of the brand, as it has everything you want without unnecessary features.  It offers up to 10GBps data transfer speed and 15W charging; while it isn't going to charge your phone in a flash it'll do the job. At $15 we would have liked to see a braided cable for added durability but this isn't a dealbreaker. The Accell 10Gbps USB-C to USB-A Cable is fantastic for charging and data transfer. So, if you are looking to top up your phone or tablet quickly or want something for transferring photos, videos, and other files, it won't disappoint. The cable can deliver up to 60W power and is rated for USB 3.2 Gen 2 speeds, meaning a 10Gbps data transfer rate. Furthermore, the Accell cable is compatible with Android Auto. Cable Matters is known for its reliable and high-quality cables, and this USB-IF-certified USB-C to USB-A cable is no exception. Rated for USB 3.2 Gen 2, it supports up to 10Gbps data transfer speeds, which is excellent if you need the cable primarily for transferring data. Besides data transfer, you can also use it for power; it can deliver up to 15W charging. And it has a good build quality that will last a long time. This braided USB-C to USB-A Cable from Fasgear is extremely durable and supports up to 10Gbps data transfer speeds. Plus, you get 3A charging support to enjoy Qualcomm QuickCharge 3.0. So, it's an excellent option for charging and data. The cable is also available in two sizes and is compatible with Android Auto. The Belkin BoostCharge USB-C Cable has USB-IF certification to meet all electrical, mechanical, and environmental standards. The ultra-flexible cable can survive over 8000 bends and is compatible with a wide variety of smartphones and USB-C devices — both for charging and data transfers. It's the cable to go for if you need something reliable and capable of fast, standards-compliant charging. 
                      USB Type-C cables come in various flavors, so before buying one, ensure it meets all your requirements. For example, most USB-C cables will work fine if you primarily use the cable to charge your wireless earbuds. But if you want something that can handle over 60W of power or Samsung's 45W Super Fast Charging 2.0, cords rated for 5A are more suitable. Manufacturers typically mention the amperage or the supported wattage in the cable specifications or marketing material.
                         If fast data transfer speeds are a priority, checking the USB generation of a cable is essential. The oldest USB generation supported on this list is USB 2.0, which tops out at 480Mbps. For fast data transfer, you at least want USB 3.2 Gen 1 (aka USB 3.0, USB 3.1 Gen 1), but USB 3.2 Gen 2 (aka USB 3.1, USB 3.1 Gen 2), USB 3.2 Gen 2x2 (aka USB 3.2), or USB4 cables are better. USB4 is the fastest right now, but it's only useful when both devices used in the data transfer have USB4 ports.
                         Here's a quick look at different USB generations and their data transfer rates:
                         USB generation
                         Also known as
                         Transfer rate
                         USB 2.0
                         USB High-Speed
                         480Mbps
                         USB 3.2 Gen 1
                         USB 3.0, USB 3.1 Gen 1
                         5Gbps
                         USB 3.2 Gen 2
                         USB 3.1, USB 3.1 Gen 2
                         10Gbps
                         USB 3.2 Gen 2x2
                         USB 3.2
                         20Gbps
                         USB4 20 Gbps
                         USB4 Gen 2x2
                         20Gbps
                         USB4 40 Gbps
                         USB4 Gen 3x2
                         40Gbps
                         USB-C cables can also be used for video output. But you'll need a cable with DP Alt mode support for that. Most regular cables don't typically have this feature, so don't expect to buy any old cable for video output.
                         Remember that a fast-charging cable does not always offer a fast data transfer rate and vice versa. For instance, if your charger or phone doesn't support fast charging, your phone won't charge quicker just because you're using a cable that supports 60W or 100W charging. Plus, the USB ports on your phone and PC must support quick data transfer speeds to experience the full benefit of a fast USB Type-C cable.
                         Among our recommendations for USB-C to USB-C cables, it's hard to go wrong with the Cable Matters 10Gbps cable. It can do fast charging, quick data transfer, and even video output. Most importantly, it's very accessible price-wise. The Anker Prime 240W USB-C to USB-C cable is an excellent option for charging power-hungry phones, laptops, and gaming handhelds, but bear in mind that data transfer is a little sluggish.
                         Value-conscious buyers will appreciate the Ugreen USB-C cable. It includes many premium features, including a 90-degree port, braided cable, and 100W charging, without a premium price.
                         Those looking for the best USB-C to USB-A cable will appreciate CableCreation's Premium USB-A to USB-C Cable, which supports up to 60W charging and 10Gbps data transfer. The cable is also fully compatible with Android Auto. But the Anker PowerLine II offers better durability at a slightly higher price.
                         Lastly, the Ugreen 90 Degree USB-C to USB-A Cable is excellent value for money. Even though it's budget-friendly, it has 90-degree ports and nylon braiding like its USB-C to USB-C counterpart.
     Because cords are so last year Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful. Your comment has not been saved This thread is open for discussion. Be the first to post your thoughts.  Google, worried about privacy? Really? Your shiny new Pixel needs top-notch protection I actually built several, and you can too Moto wasn't first, but it might be the best Unihertz to the rescue when even Asus won't bother A fantastic deal you don't want to miss