Serious problems with the Muskegon Heights water system, including the city’s ability to safely operate it, have forced a study into alternative ways of providing water. The Muskegon Heights Water Filtration Plant is on Seminole Road in Norton Shores (Lynn Moore | MLive.com)Lynn Moore | MLive.com MUSKEGON COUNTY, MI – Serious problems with the Muskegon Heights water system, including the city’s ability to safely operate it, have forced a study into alternative ways of providing water. Deficiencies initially noted by the state more than a year ago have not been corrected and now are considered threats to the safety of the water supply, according to a letter from the state to the city obtained by MLive/The Muskegon Chronicle. They include concerns about the city’s ability to pay for, manage and have the necessary technology to operate the water plant that actually is located in the City of Norton Shores on Seminole Road. Among the water plant’s issues are deficiencies that “represent an immediate health risk to consumers of water,” according to the letter. With its back up against a wall, the Muskegon Heights City Council on Monday, June 12, agreed to an administrative consent order that requires studies of the water system. Among those studies is an analysis of alternative ways of providing the city’s residents and businesses with water that are affordable and safe. If the city didn’t sign the consent order by June 17, the state could have dictated how water will be provided to city residents in the future. Muskegon Heights Mayor Walter Watt was not immediately available for comment. The water system previously also served Norton Shores and Fruitport Township, but concerns over water rates prompted those communities to switch to city of Muskegon water in 2015 at a cost of about $15 million. The loss of those municipal customers created “added challenges” to the Muskegon Heights water system, Mike Bolf, supervisor of the surface water engineering unit at the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy (EGLE), told the Muskegon Heights City Council last month. A letter Bolf sent interim City Manager Melvin Burns in February outlines concerns about the city’s water system. They include “significant deficiencies” that can result in “contamination of the public water supply,” the letter states. “The city lacks technical, managerial and financial capacity necessary to support a water utility,” the letter states. Bolf told MLive/The Muskegon Chronicle that despite the operating deficiencies, there are no indications the  water supplied by the plant is contaminated. “The city of Muskegon Heights is currently meeting the stringent water quality standards of the Safe Drinking Water Act,” Bolf wrote in an email. Significant deficiencies cited in the letter include: -A lack of certified operators working at the plant. It has one full-time certified operator and one who works part time because they are employed by a “neighboring utility.” Two recently hired operators were not certified, according to the Feb. 17 letter. The city has a certified supervisor only through a contract with the City of Muskegon that expires July 1. -Lack of a preventative maintenance program that has resulted in inoperable equipment that, in some cases, would leave the city without back-up. For example, seven of 12 filters aren’t working properly and eight of 13 pumps are inoperable. It does not have a working chlorine analyzer to monitor disinfectant entering the water distribution system or connected to an alarm to indicate low disinfection levels, which is a “public health priority.” -Financial issues that have left lab bills unpaid, including those that detect for PFAS compliance. The city also doesn’t have five- and 20-year equipment needs plans that include how they will be paid for. “The city must be able to approve and pay routine expenses in a timely manner,” Bolf’s letter states. “The city must also ensure that their financial procedures prioritize necessary water system expenses and protection of public health.” The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency requires that significant deficiencies be corrected within 121 days of the letter’s date, or by June 17, or else be under a corrective action plan, Bolf told the city council in May. Many of the issues have been on the table for more than a year, but Bolf told the council it’s now obvious they can’t be corrected in the required time frame. A corrective action plan is part of the administrative order agreed to by the city council. It includes a “road map” for compliance, including specific deadlines that carry penalties if they’re not met, Bolf said. A two-part study is part of the order, with the first part being an “alternative study,” he said. “It can be a bit uncomfortable of a process because we’re going to be asking for an objective assessment of all the different long-term water supply options that are out there,” Bolf said. Those alternatives could include contracting with a different water system or forming a regional water authority for joint ownership of a system, Bolf said. “It is prudent at this point to look at other alternatives,” Bolf told the council. “It is possible that we can provide the same level of service, the same water quality to our residents at a lower cost doing something different that what we’re doing now?” Mayor Pro Tem Ronald Jenkins said at the May 24 meeting that he didn’t consider shutting down the water plant as an option. But he did wonder aloud if water rates would have to be increased to solve some of the issues. “That water filtration plant is our lifeline. That’s us,” Jenkins said. “We’re not going to let that go. We’re not going to be defensive and say, ‘Well what can we do?’ It’s what do we need to do to get it done? “And that’s what we’re going to do. Whatever deadlines we’ve got to meet, we’ve just have to put our foot down and make it happen.” The city has one year to complete the study, after which the results will be subject to a 45-day public comment period followed by a council vote on what approach to providing water to take, which includes keeping the city’s own water plant. The second part of the study is to conduct an assessment of the city’s technical, managerial and financial resources to support the chosen water supply option, Bolf said. If the study determines there are not sufficient resources, a different option will have to be selected, he said. Grant funding may be available to pay for the studies, which will require “experienced firms” to complete them, he said. EGLE does not have any specific requirements for water rates or any authority to control them like the public service commission has for other utilities, Bolf told MLive. Bolf, whose office is in Marquette, traveled more than 400 miles to attend the Muskegon Heights City Council meeting on May 24 and answer questions about the administrative consent order. But the council at that time was not prepared to sign onto the administrative consent order, with some members saying they still needed to review the information. That prompted a scolding from Watt, who said it was a “sad derelict of duty” by council members who had the info on the consent order since May 5. “We received this on the Fifth of May and here we are, we can’t make a decision because we haven’t read it,” Watt said. “We need to start reading the information that’s given to us by the city manager. We’ve complained about not getting information and when we do get information, we don’t read it. And that’s just sad.” Want more Muskegon area news? Bookmark the local Muskegon news page or sign up for the free “3@3 Muskegon” daily newsletter. Also on MLive Where to celebrate Juneteenth 2023 in Muskegon County ‘Fight the Blight’ with community cleanup in Muskegon Heights Muskegon sewage discount for fairlife helps protect Grand River, aids expansion Muskegon Heights community turns out to celebrate first home construction in 17 years If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices