Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 How drip irrigation lets you save water and timeIf you’re tired of high water bills and unhappy plants, switching to a drip irrigation system could be a win-win for both you and your yard. Drip irrigation saves water and time by delivering water directly to your plants’ roots, resulting in less evaporation and more nutrients for your plants. All you have to do is turn the water on — and if you choose a drip irrigation kit with a timer, you may not even have to do that. Avoid overwatering and save money with these drip irrigation kits.Drip irrigation basicsDrip irrigation systems are great for flower beds, vegetable gardens, containers and more. Basically, anywhere that’s not a grassy lawn can benefit from the ease and reliability of drip irrigation.The process of planning a drip irrigation system requires a bit of math. You’ll need to understand your flow rate, usually  measured in gallons per hour (GPH) in order to install the correct emitters. This can be done by measuring how long it takes your spigot to fill a  measurable container, then dividing the container’s gallons filled by the time in seconds it took to fill. Multiply that result by 60 for gallons per minute (GPM), then again by 60 for GPH.It’s also important to draw out your irrigation plan to ensure your kit includes the right amount of tubing and accessories. First, map out your landscaping and decide where spot watering devices or other emitters should be placed. Measure the distance from your hose bib to the furthest plant to determine the length of tubing you’ll need.What to look for in a drip irrigation kitYour drip kit should include black or brown tubing, ideally UV-resistant so it will last longer. If the kit doesn’t include enough tubing for your planned system, check to make sure it can be expanded to accommodate more tubing.

Good kits come with two types of fittings, elbow and tee, to change the system’s direction and reach more plants. If your tubing runs along the ground, stakes can hold it in place, while clamps or other fasteners keep your system attached to hanging plants. Risers may also be included to help your system water your plants from above.The part of the drip system that discharges water is called the emitter. There are three different kinds of emitters, each suited to different plants’ watering needs:Misters deliver a fine spray of water.Drippers provide a small and steady stream.Bubblers aim multiple small streams in different directions.In case of any errors during setup, make sure your kit comes with plugs to stop up holes made by mistake. Plugs will also let you move and rearrange emitters without having to cut new tubing.While many drip irrigation kits come with timers, you may prefer a smart irrigation system that works with devices such as Alexa to manage your watering schedule. These controllers let you monitor and schedule watering from your smartphone for even more convenience.Finally, pressure regulators lower your home’s water pressure so it matches the irrigation system’s, while backflow preventers keep irrigation water from contaminating your clean water supply..Best drip irrigation kitsIf you have hanging plants and containers that need water, this feature-packed kit offers enough tubing to make sure everything gets the water it needs. It comes with several types of fittings and strong clamps to keep your system in place.Available at AmazonThis kit includes enough durable tubing to cover up to 250 square feet of challenging landscape. Its micro-bubbler emitters can help save more than 70% more water compared to traditional sprinkler heads.Available at AmazonThis versatile system comes with several types of emitters and fixtures, allowing users to individually tailor the system to specific plants. It includes more than 160 pieces and 50 feet of 1/4-inch tubing.Available at AmazonCover up to 160 square feet with 1/2-inch or 14-inch tubing with this kit. It comes with three types of emitters and the connectors allow for up to 16 connections along more than 200 feet of tubing.Available at AmazonCarpathen Drip Irrigation KitEven if you’re not particularly handy, this irrigation system is easy to set up. It comes with two sizes of tubing (50 feet each) plus 30 interchangeable emitters, couplers, splitters and more.Available at AmazonBest irrigation system toolsEasily cut tubing lengths and punch holes for connectors with this 2-in-1 tool. The spring-loaded design and ergonomic grip help make the task more comfortable, and its bright color makes it easy to spot.Sold by Amazon and Home DepotHook this smart timer up to your hose bib and it can evaluate onsite soil and weather conditions to automatically water your plants the right amount. It can be controlled over WiFi or Bluetooth and its built-in flow meter helps track water usage.Available at Amazon and Home DepotThis device works with your smart home and local weather data to give plants the amount of water they need, when they need it. Manage your irrigation system through the app for maximum control.Available at Amazon and Home DepotThis easy-to-use tool can measure soil moisture, pH, sunlight and more with high accuracy. Simply move the switch to the test you want, stick the probes in the soil and in 10 minutes, you’ll have useful data about your soil quality.Available at AmazonRain Bird FHT Backflow PreventerMost areas require a backflow preventer, or anti-siphon device, which prevents water used in the drip system from re-entering the potable water supply. This one is made from durable UV- and chemical-resistant materials and includes a stainless steel mesh filter to catch debris.Available at Home DepotWant to shop the best products at the best prices? Check out Daily Deals from BestReviews.Sign up here to receive the BestReviews weekly newsletter for useful advice on new products and noteworthy deals.Laura Duerr writes for BestReviews. BestReviews has helped millions of consumers simplify their purchasing decisions, saving them time and money.BestReviews spends thousands of hours researching, analyzing and testing products to recommend the best picks for most consumers. BestReviews and its newspaper partners may earn a commission if you purchase a product through one of our links.Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. If you’re tired of high water bills and unhappy plants, switching to a drip irrigation system could be a win-win for both you and your yard. Drip irrigation saves water and time by delivering water directly to your plants’ roots, resulting in less evaporation and more nutrients for your plants. All you have to do is turn the water on — and if you choose a drip irrigation kit with a timer, you may not even have to do that. Avoid overwatering and save money with these drip irrigation kits. Drip irrigation basics Drip irrigation systems are great for flower beds, vegetable gardens, containers and more. Basically, anywhere that’s not a grassy lawn can benefit from the ease and reliability of drip irrigation. The process of planning a drip irrigation system requires a bit of math. You’ll need to understand your flow rate, usually  measured in gallons per hour (GPH) in order to install the correct emitters. This can be done by measuring how long it takes your spigot to fill a  measurable container, then dividing the container’s gallons filled by the time in seconds it took to fill. Multiply that result by 60 for gallons per minute (GPM), then again by 60 for GPH. It’s also important to draw out your irrigation plan to ensure your kit includes the right amount of tubing and accessories. First, map out your landscaping and decide where spot watering devices or other emitters should be placed. Measure the distance from your hose bib to the furthest plant to determine the length of tubing you’ll need. What to look for in a drip irrigation kit Your drip kit should include black or brown tubing, ideally UV-resistant so it will last longer. If the kit doesn’t include enough tubing for your planned system, check to make sure it can be expanded to accommodate more tubing. Good kits come with two types of fittings, elbow and tee, to change the system’s direction and reach more plants. If your tubing runs along the ground, stakes can hold it in place, while clamps or other fasteners keep your system attached to hanging plants. Risers may also be included to help your system water your plants from above. The part of the drip system that discharges water is called the emitter. There are three different kinds of emitters, each suited to different plants’ watering needs: Misters deliver a fine spray of water. Drippers provide a small and steady stream. Bubblers aim multiple small streams in different directions. In case of any errors during setup, make sure your kit comes with plugs to stop up holes made by mistake. Plugs will also let you move and rearrange emitters without having to cut new tubing. While many drip irrigation kits come with timers, you may prefer a smart irrigation system that works with devices such as Alexa to manage your watering schedule. These controllers let you monitor and schedule watering from your smartphone for even more convenience. Finally, pressure regulators lower your home’s water pressure so it matches the irrigation system’s, while backflow preventers keep irrigation water from contaminating your clean water supply.. Best drip irrigation kits If you have hanging plants and containers that need water, this feature-packed kit offers enough tubing to make sure everything gets the water it needs. It comes with several types of fittings and strong clamps to keep your system in place. Available at Amazon This kit includes enough durable tubing to cover up to 250 square feet of challenging landscape. Its micro-bubbler emitters can help save more than 70% more water compared to traditional sprinkler heads. Available at Amazon This versatile system comes with several types of emitters and fixtures, allowing users to individually tailor the system to specific plants. It includes more than 160 pieces and 50 feet of 1/4-inch tubing. Available at Amazon Cover up to 160 square feet with 1/2-inch or 14-inch tubing with this kit. It comes with three types of emitters and the connectors allow for up to 16 connections along more than 200 feet of tubing. Available at Amazon Carpathen Drip Irrigation Kit Even if you’re not particularly handy, this irrigation system is easy to set up. It comes with two sizes of tubing (50 feet each) plus 30 interchangeable emitters, couplers, splitters and more. Available at Amazon Best irrigation system tools Easily cut tubing lengths and punch holes for connectors with this 2-in-1 tool. The spring-loaded design and ergonomic grip help make the task more comfortable, and its bright color makes it easy to spot. Sold by Amazon and Home Depot Hook this smart timer up to your hose bib and it can evaluate onsite soil and weather conditions to automatically water your plants the right amount. It can be controlled over WiFi or Bluetooth and its built-in flow meter helps track water usage. Available at Amazon and Home Depot This device works with your smart home and local weather data to give plants the amount of water they need, when they need it. Manage your irrigation system through the app for maximum control. Available at Amazon and Home Depot This easy-to-use tool can measure soil moisture, pH, sunlight and more with high accuracy. Simply move the switch to the test you want, stick the probes in the soil and in 10 minutes, you’ll have useful data about your soil quality. Available at Amazon Rain Bird FHT Backflow Preventer Most areas require a backflow preventer, or anti-siphon device, which prevents water used in the drip system from re-entering the potable water supply. This one is made from durable UV- and chemical-resistant materials and includes a stainless steel mesh filter to catch debris. Available at Home Depot Want to shop the best products at the best prices? Check out Daily Deals from BestReviews. Sign up here to receive the BestReviews weekly newsletter for useful advice on new products and noteworthy deals. Laura Duerr writes for BestReviews. BestReviews has helped millions of consumers simplify their purchasing decisions, saving them time and money. BestReviews spends thousands of hours researching, analyzing and testing products to recommend the best picks for most consumers. BestReviews and its newspaper partners may earn a commission if you purchase a product through one of our links. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. Copyright © 2024 Orlando Sentinel