Checked for accuracy by our qualified fact-checkers and verifiers. Find out more about fact-checking at CHOICE. When you're deciding on a new hot water system, one of the key decisions is whether it should be powered by electricity, gas or the sun. Even in the case of solar hot water, there's still usually a decision between a gas or electric booster element. Electricity and gas each have their pros and cons for hot water systems, in terms of running costs, efficiency, installation and environmental impact. We'll take you through the key points to help you make the right choice for your home. For many Australian homes, the answer comes down strongly in favour of an electric or solar system, but instantaneous gas systems still have some advantages in certain situations. On this page: There are three types of electric hot water system. Electric hot water systems can work well if paired with a solar PV system and a timer or 'diverter' to make maximum use of cheap solar electricity. But be aware that you may need a significant amount of solar power to run one of these hot water systems as well as the rest of your home. 
Read more: 

                    How to buy the best hot water system
                
 There are two types of gas hot water system. We'll help you narrow down your choices. A solar hot water system has rooftop panels that collect heat from the sun and use it to heat water. The water is stored in a tank, either at rooftop next to the panels, or elsewhere in the home. Solar hot water systems usually also have a booster element for days that are sunless, colder or when all the hot water has been used up. The booster may be an electric element or a gas burner. While solar hot water systems are usually very cheap to run, they can get expensive if the collector panels fail in some way, or the household hot water usage is too much for the system to handle. In these cases the booster will kick in more often than expected, and you may find out the hard way (via an energy bill) that your hot water has mainly been heated by electricity or gas, rather than the sun. It pays to keep an eye on the system and to keep it well maintained. Our solar hot water buying guide explains these systems in more detail. 
Read more: 

                    Four steps to get started with solar
                
 These are indicative costs only and don't include installation. The cost of running a hot water system depends not just on the electricity or gas being used, but on the type of technology being used – such as electric resistance, heat pump, or solar – and whether it's a storage tank or an instantaneous system. Sustainability Victoria has calculated the typical running costs and greenhouse gas emissions for the various types of hot water systems. The running costs are based on gas prices as of February 2023, and we expect these will be adjusted soon based on recent gas price rises. Electricity prices are as of July 2023, but may also rise further depending on the market.  The table below summarises the running costs calculated by Sustainability Victoria for a typical Melbourne home of 2–3 people using 90–120L of hot water per day, using a standard version of each type of hot water system. Gas costs are based on natural (reticulated) gas – using LPG cylinders is generally more expensive. Check the Sustainability Victoria site for the full details of how the costs are calculated. Note that the actual running costs and greenhouse gas emissions could be quite different for your home. For example, households in other states can have different energy prices, and the electricity may come from a different mix of sources, which could change the amount of greenhouse gas emissions. Type of system Annual energy cost 10-year greenhouse gas emissions Heat pump (peak tariff) $245–300 3.6 – 4.4 tonnes Heat pump (off-peak) $190–230 3.6 – 4.3 tonnes Solar (gas boosted) $125–165 1.9 – 2.6 tonnes Solar (electric boosted, peak tariff) $265–365 3.9 – 5.4 tonnes Solar (electric boosted, off-peak) $235–315 4.4 – 5.9 tonnes Electric storage (peak tariff) $730–915 10.8 – 13.5 tonnes Electric storage (off-peak) $625–760 11.8 – 14.4 tonnes Electric instant (peak tariff) $650–850 9.6 – 12.7 tonnes Gas storage $470–555 8.0 – 9.5 tonnes Gas instant $305–400 5.0 – 6.6 tonnes Typical running costs and emissions for a Melbourne household of 2–3 people.  There is a growing movement to switch away from gas appliances to electric equivalents, such as replacing a gas cooktop with an induction cooktop. There are a few reasons why this is happening. As mentioned earlier, there are significant environmental and health concerns around using gas in the home. Electricity can be generated very cheaply if you have solar panels, and in the long term, grid electricity is expected to become cheaper and cleaner. But gas can only be bought from gas suppliers, and there are many market factors that are creating uncertainty about its long term price. There's evidence that gas hot water systems will become the most expensive option by 2030. Disconnecting gas altogether from your property also removes the need to pay the daily gas supply charge. So if you've switched from a gas cooktop to induction, it may also be worth looking into replacing the gas hot water system with a heat pump (for example) at some point. Don't forget that one of the best ways to save on the cost of hot water (both in the money and environmental senses) is to just use less of it. Take shorter showers, install water-efficient showerheads (and toilets), and use your dishwasher rather than hand wash in the sink. 
Read more: 

                    Switching from gas to induction: Things to consider
                
 Stock images: Getty, unless otherwise stated. To share your thoughts or ask a question, visit the CHOICE Community forum. 

 CHOICE Community

 


Donate

 Stay informed. Get the latest product reviews, money-saving tips and more. Read our privacy policy 
                    We at CHOICE acknowledge the traditional custodians of this land on which we work, and pay our respects to the First Nations people of this country. CHOICE supports the First Nations people's Uluru Statement from the Heart.
                 In our role as a consumer advocate, CHOICE may publish opinions of the general insurance market, with the intention of improving general insurance for Australian consumers. In addition, ACA Insight Pty Ltd (AFSL 550139) (ACA Insight), owned by CHOICE, provides any general advice on general insurance products. This advice does not take into account your objectives, financial situation or needs. Consider the appropriateness of the advice before acting on it. Read the Product Disclosure Statement relating to any insurance product before making a decision to buy it.