| May 5, 2023 Prime Gaming offers many bonuses, including free games every month. Here is every free game in May 2023. Prime Gaming is one of the best ways to receive additional in-game content for free. Every month, the offering changes, but it usually includes in-game content like skins, loot boxes, and more. However, the membership also grants access to games for free. Each week, Prime Gaming adds new games to the free rotation. There are two ways to enjoy these games, one is through the Amazon Game App, available for PC. The other option is Amazon Luna, a cloud gaming platform operated by Amazon, available for Amazon Fire TV, iOS, Android, PC, and Mac. In May 2023, the games available for free on the Amazon Game App include Star Wars: Rogue Squadron 3D, Super Sidekicks, Samurai Shodown IV, and Metal Slug. To access these games, players should go to Prime Gaming’s site and claim the games. The website will prompt them to download the Amazon Game App. From there, players must install it, access it with their credentials, and enjoy the games. Players who own Amazon Luna can access a different library of free games. In May, some of the titles available for free are Lego DC Super-Villains, Resident Evil 2, and Overcooked! The Amazon Luna membership is paid separately, and it costs $9.99 per month for access to the games. The platform comes with a special controller. If you are interested in free in-game content, Prime Gaming offers different rewards on a variety of games, including: To access this content, you must link your game account to your Prime Gaming account. Once added, go to Prime Gaming’s website and claim the content. All in-game offerings renew monthly. 1 The best fightsticks to buy in 2023 2 A month-long review of the Cloud III gaming headset from HyperX 3 The absolute best gaming CPUs to buy in 2023 The King Of Curses might get dethroned soon. | Aug 19, 2024 Game Of The Year after critical concerns is impressive! | Aug 19, 2024 Here’s everything Psyduck can reportedly do. | Aug 16, 2024