Skyesports Champs 2024 Jul 23 - Jul 28 BLAST Premier Fall Groups Jul 29 - Aug 4 ALGS Split 2 Playoffs Aug 1 - Sep 1 IEM Cologne 2024 Aug 7 - Aug 18 BLAST Fall Showdown Aug 21 - Aug 25 BetBoom Dacha Belgrade #2 Aug 25 - Sep 1 The International 2024 Sep 4 - Sep 15 Brandon Moore Valorant News The new VALORANT Intergrade bundle is in your shop and is on the cheaper side when it comes to skin sets in the FPS. Once again, ValorLeaks shared an upcoming VALORANT bundle that turned out to be true. This one is the VALORANT Intergrade bundle. It's blue theme looks good on the weapons chosen for the collection. It doesn't come with a Vandal or Phantom, however, so that may turn off some potential buyers. Regardless of that, if you're an avid collector of VALORANT skins, you'll want to get your hands on this one. It isn't as pricey as some other bundles and the melee Intergrade Blade is definitely worth the points you'll spend. The VALORANT Intergrade bundle has four weapons and a melee. Those are: There are no accessories in this bundle. That means no associated Gun Buddy, Player Card, or Title. There are also no upgrades to these weapons. You won't find any variant colors or special effects. The VALORANT Intergrade bundle comes as is. The bundle is in your shop now, at the time of writing. It will stay there until Wednesday, October 4, 2023. The time it leaves the shop is 5 p.m. EST. That gives you two weeks after its addition to the game to decide if you want to add it to your arsenal of skins. Because the VALORANT Intergrade bundle has no upgrades or effects, it isn't very costly. You can get your hands on the entire bundle of weapon skins for 3,500 VALORANT Points. Of course, you can always buy any of the items separately if you just want one. If that's the route you'll take, each weapon itself costs the same amount of VP. All four are 875 VP a piece. The melee costs a bit more on its own, but is considered "free" if you buy the bundle. By itself, the Intergrade Blade will set you back 1,750 VP.  Valorant News VALORANT bundles tend to leak ahead of time, and the Neptune 2.0 is the most recent rumored addition to the first-person shooter. Brandon Moore Stay tuned to esports.gg for more esports news and VALORANT coverage.