The Color Purple streaming release date is highly anticipated, and viewers are wondering when they can start streaming the musical coming-of-age film by Black is King’s Blitz Bazuwale. Fans are interested in seeing The Color Purple as the film will be based on the stage musical of the same name. Here’s when the film could be coming out on streaming. The Color Purple has a theatrical release date of December 25, 2023. Thus, viewers can expect the musical drama film to hit streaming services by February 2024.  The February 2024 speculated streaming release date for the musical drama is because Warner Bros. Pictures, which holds the distribution rights to Blitz Bazuwale’s latest film, puts its theatrical films on streaming platforms 30-45 days after their theatrical release. The film’s story is set in the early 1900s and will focus on an African American woman’s struggles in the southern United States. Blitz Bazuwale, who helmed the films The Burial of Kojo and Black Is King, will direct The Color Purple. The cast includes Fantasia Barrino as Celie, Taraji P. Henson as Shug Avery, Danielle Brooks as Sofia, Colman Domingo as Mister, and Corey Hawkins as Harpo, among other cast members. The Color Purple will eventually be available to watch via streaming on Max. This is because the movie’s distribution rights are held by Warner Bros. Pictures, which owns the Max streaming platform. Current Max subscribers should be able to watch the film when it drops on the platform. An ad-supported subscription to Max costs $10 a month/$100 a year, an ad-free Max subscription costs $16 a month/$150 a year, and an Ultimate ad-free plan costs $20 a month/$200 a year. The film’s official synopsis reads: “The extraordinary sisterhood of three women who share one unbreakable bond.” For more The Color Purple content, check out the trailer for the film. Also, find out which musician is making an acting debut in the film. The post The Color Purple (2023) Streaming Release Date Rumors appeared first on ComingSoon.net - Movie Trailers, TV & Streaming News, and More. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.