The first known squirrelpox outbreak in Scotland occurred in 2007 near Lockerbie and since then the disease has arisen in various red squirrel populations across the south of the country. Now a new crackdown to control the spread is in its "early days" - and still finding fatalities.  By Jenness Mitchell, Scotland news reporter  Thursday 26 January 2023 14:43, UK An emergency response launched to stem a suspected squirrelpox outbreak continues in Dumfries and Galloway, after another dead red was found. Saving Scotland's Red Squirrels (SSRS) took action earlier this month after receiving multiple reports of potential cases in Johnsfield, near Lockerbie. The group had said at least 10 red squirrels had been found dead because of the outbreak. However, the group has now confirmed another red squirrel death, taking the confirmed total of fatalities to 11. SSRS teams have been carrying out grey squirrel control in the area, in a bid to stop the spread putting the rare reds at more risk. An SSRS spokesperson said: "Our staff and volunteers have been working actively in Johnsfield and the wider area for the last 10 days. "They have carried out grey squirrel control successfully in the area, and spotted several healthy red squirrels displaying active mating behaviour. "This is good news, but sadly one more additional dead red has been found, and it is still early days." Read more from Sky News:UK's highest railway to reopen after four year closureSafety fears over transgender rapist's prison placeBurst water pipe cut off 250,000 customers The virus is carried by grey squirrels but is lethal only to reds. Symptoms include weeping lesions, which prevent the red squirrel from eating, drinking or moving. As a result, it is usually fatal within two weeks and an outbreak can cause local numbers to crash. The first known squirrelpox outbreak in Scotland occurred in 2007 near Lockerbie and since then the disease has arisen in various red squirrel populations across the south of the country. However, despite outbreaks in various areas over the years, targeted grey squirrel control work has been credited for allowing red squirrel populations to successfully recover. 'This work is incredibly important' To curb any potential spread of the virus, SSRS is urging those in the region to remove all wildlife feeders for the next few weeks and to report any sightings or deaths. The SSRS spokesperson added: "We are incredibly grateful to all our staff and volunteers for their continuous determined efforts to stem the outbreak. "This work is incredibly important for the protection and conservation of red squirrels in southern Scotland."