Broadway + NYC Broadway Off-Broadway Off-Off Broadway Cabaret Dance Opera Classical Music United States  Eastern  Central  Western St. Louis St. Louis Maine Chicago Maine Washington, DC West End  WEST END UK Regional International Canada Australia / New Zealand Europe Asia Latin America Africa / Middle East Entertainment TV/Movies Music “Undone” is available now to stream and download on all digital platforms. POPULAR Anything-but-pop band Lurid Purple Flowers have released their latest single, "Undone," a track fueled by turbocharged orchestrations and dizzying song structure that emulates the feeling of uncertainty of questioning whether your surroundings are real. A blistering fusion of post-punk artistry, alt-rock energy, progressive jam band-leaning riffage, and sporadic shoegazing psychedelic rock, "Undone" is available now to stream and download on all digital platforms. "Undone" is the first release from Lurid Purple Flowers since the release of their prolific EP No Sympathy in September of 2022. Like No Sympathy and the EP that proceeded it, Mania, which both focused on addiction, identity, personal balance, and well-being, "Undone" makes an effort to normalize mental health conversations by zooming in on the effects that panic attacks can have on the individual experiencing them. The current lineup of Lurid Purple Flowers, featuring CA Newcomb on lead vocals and guitar, Ben Caito on bass, and Nick White on drums, has quickly gained recognition in the music industry. In 2022, the band received a Boston Music Award nomination after both their EPs, No Sympathy and Mania, cracked the NACC Top 200 charts and received airplay on over 25 college radio stations nationwide. "Undone" echoes the energetic Lurid Purple Flowers' live sound that has helped them quickly build a reputation in the Boston music scene and nationally, fueled by Newcomb's guttural growl and bombastic shredding, Caito's flowing and funky bass riffs, and White's chaotic and non-traditional drum structures create a voluminous cadence. Driven by only their own creative compass, the band are unapologetic in their blueprint, which is a blistering blend of each member's personality and influence. "Undone" is available now to stream and download on all digital platforms. Listen to the new single here: Apple TV+ has debuted the trailer for the highly anticipated documentary event 'K-Pop Idols,' set to premiere globally on August 30, 2024. This six-part series offers fans an unprecedented backstage pass to the world’s biggest musical phenomenon, providing an intimate look at the intense reality of K-pop stardom with beloved artists Jessi, CRAVITY, and BLACKSWAN.
 The music sensation Number_i recently announced that their debut album titled No.I (pronounced ‘Number One’) will be released on September 23. In advance of the album release, the group has dropped their latest single, the hard-hitting “INZM.' Listen to the single now! Skyrocketing country artist Tucker Wetmore has officially been invited to make his Grand Ole Opry debut on Tuesday, Sept. 10, 2024. Wetmore shared the exciting news on social media in a heartwarming clip captured in his hometown of Kalama, Wash. T.I. and Kirk Franklin have delivered an introspective single “Thank God” with Young Dro and Sunday Service. This single follows up “LLOGCLAY” by T.I. and NBA YoungBoy released in May, which is an ode to his big brother and manager Clay Evans who unfortunately passed away last year. Videos Sign up for announcements, and exclusive discounts on tickets to your favorite shows!  © 2024 - Copyright Wisdom Digital Media, all rights reserved. Privacy Policy 