Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Teena Jose
          

            Nov 30, 2022
          
 
          Share         
    Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.   
    You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   Delhi-NCR headquartered new-age home furniture and home décor brand Cinnamon Homes has raised an undisclosed amount of angel funding from multiple angel investors in its maiden fundraising round. The funding round was jointly led by Rahul Dash (co-founder of Purplle), an unicorn start-up in beauty space, and Chetan Jajoria (vice president at Deutsche Bank). The funds raised will be utilized by Cinnamon Homes towards bolstering its marketing and product development efforts as well as for driving immediate business growth and expansion in the Delhi-NCR region. "We at Cinnamon Homes are delighted to announce our first round of investment and support from various reputable angels. This fundraise will help us in moving closer towards our short-term goal of strengthening our presence in NCR over the short term, as well as our long-term goal of expanding our brand's experience centres to all major metros in India along with consolidating our online presence through our website," said Anand Suman, founder and CEO, Cinnamon Homes. Cinnamon Homes is a subtle premium new-age brand of furniture, art and home décor that has been specially curated for the aspiring Indian citizens who have a penchant for making their homes look beautiful and classy and/or are looking for superlative, elegant and artsy solutions for renovating their homes. The company will continue to continuing to invest a lot into designing its collections keeping the entire home in mind, and also doing customization to suit its clients' or customers' requirements whenever necessary, according to a statement. "Cinnamon Homes as a brand has great potential, as now is right on time when the customers are getting increasingly conscious about how gorgeous their homes would look. I foresee Cinnamon homes satisfying these aspirations very well in the months and years to come. And so, I am glad to associate with the brand to support and help them scale nationally," said Rahul Dash, co-founder and COO, Purplle. News Desk Reporter with Entrepreneur India 
          Taking your business idea from "what if" to "wow" requires trusting your instincts and embracing the failures. 
         
          Arsha Jones, founder and CEO of Capital City Mambo Sauce, wanted to satisfy a very specific craving — and it led to a seven-figure business.
         
          Founded in 1963, Mumbai-based Ebco offers a diverse portfolio of over 4,500 SKUs, including bed and wardrobe fittings, kitchen systems, office furniture fittings, window and door hardware, and furniture lights.
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          As an investor in both OpenAI and xAI, I continuously ask myself the ethical ramifications of this new technology, how intelligent it is and whether it is the best path forward for humanity.
         
           Over next three years, 81% CX leaders believe that Artificial Intelligence will change CX for the better 
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
