Here to save you money We fight for better deals for you, and work hard with hundreds of insurance companies to keep prices low. We also tell you when the best time is to get a quote for more chances to save! Different to other comparison websites We're not just a comparison website - we stand up for you. And as the first ever comparison site we've learnt a lot over the years. We speak to our customers regularly to find ways to improve. Helping you make better decisions We provide you with as much information as we can, as clearly as possible. We know what's important is different for everyone, so we give you tools to choose and make the right decision for you. Big on trust You can trust us to keep an eye on the insurance providers we work with to make sure they're keeping up their end of the deal and providing you with a good service. We never want to let you down. "So easy to use saved myself £100 a year on car insurance with some extras. Very happy 😊" 

Julie
 - Confused.com customer (April 2024)
 "Not as confusing as you would think. Got my car insurance sorted in under 30mins and saved £200. Well done Confused.com. Definitely gonna tell my friends and family. Nice one 👍" 

Colin
 - Confused.com customer (April 2024)
 "Very very happy with my quote. Not only saved me money but got a better and cheaper insurance from a different company, so thank you so much Confused.com for finding it for me." 

Susan
 - Confused.com customer (March 2024)
 "Basically Confused.com does all the work for you. All you have to do is choose which car insurance will suit you best. Having been quoted £735 by my present insurer, I am now paying £307 for the same thing. Result!" 

Antje
 - Confused.com customer (March 2024)
 "First time I have used Confused.com and I am really pleased with how easy the process was to set up my car insurance, the results of the different quotes and the easy of summarising them. And also very happy with my rewards. Would definitely use again." 

Alison
 - Confused.com customer (February 2024)
 
Confused.com scores a 4.3 out of 5 rating based on 7135 reviews
as of 17/04/2024
 
 We talk you through what you can expect to be covered as part of your travel insurance for your holiday in the UK. We look at what Covid insurance could cover you for and the entry requirements for popular travel destinations like Spain and France. Does travel insurance cover you for missed flights or connections? Read our guide to find out what travel insurance can cover. Flying can be stressful if you have young children. Our tips can help you prepare for your flight, reduce stress and look forward to your holiday. Our motoring expert Louise discusses 5 motor insurance trends for 2024 and beyond. Our travel insurance expert Alvaro Iturmendi considers how AI technology could improve travel insurance. Car Van Motorbike Commercial Motor tools & tips Home Life Travel Pet Business Energy Broadband Mobile Car finance Personal finance Mortgages Business finance heading Finance tools & tips  Car buying & selling Breakdown cover Garage 
Rewards - Single annual policy. New and former Paramount+ subscribers only who sign up at ParamountPlus.com. Subscription required. Auto-renews unless cancelled. 18+. Just Eat website account required, geographical exclusions apply. The year-round reward is provided by Greggs, and consists of one regular hot drink per month for a year, only available via the Confused.com app.
T&Cs apply.
 How we make money 
Depending on the product or service you choose we'll get a variable or fixed fee from our partners. Whatever you do on our site, it's always free for you to use.
 
The amount we receive has no bearing on the prices you pay or the order of your results. The companies offering these products or services also don't - and legally can't - inflate prices based on how much they pay us.
 If you've got an opinion, we want to hear it Our customer research community was created to gather your thoughts on Confused.com. It’s packed with forums, quick polls, and focus groups, and by taking part in the research, you could win prizes or even get paid. Part of a family of brands Empowering people to make confident financial decisions. Services you can trust Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority Our customers say Excellent 
Confused.com scores a 4.3 out of 5 rating based on 7135 reviews
as of 17/04/2024
 © Copyright 2008 - 2024 Confused.com. All rights reserved. An RVU Company 
Confused.com, 2nd Floor, Greyfriars House, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff, CF10 3AL, United Kingdom

Confused.com is a trading name of Inspop.com Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (Firm reference no. 310635)
 Download our app to help manage your car dates, running costs and insurance Save money and get organised with our app. Never miss a date with insurance, tax & MOT reminders. Plus get a quick quote in just a few taps. Scan the QR code to get started. 
We use cookies, some of which are essential to make our website work. For us to use our non-essential cookies, we need your consent. You can consent by accepting all or alternatively, manage your cookies at any time. For more information, read our
cookie policy.
 Non-essential cookies allow us to enhance your customer experience through testing and personalisation. They also allow us to present you with tailored advertising on social media.