A nationwide group of local broadcasters are asking the government to revisit federal laws so that television stations like this one can continue to provide you, the viewer, all the important local coverage you’ve come to depend on. But not everyone is on board. A coalition of TV networks and streaming companies is telling the Federal Communications Commission that any change to the rules could pass price hikes on to viewers. At issue is local channels wanting to negotiate directly to distribute content over streaming live TV. It’s a battle over control of how these streaming deals get done, where the money goes, and how and where you get your local news and programming. There’s no debating TV viewing habits have changed over the past 10 years. Back in 2014, there were less than 200,000 subscribers getting live TV digitally at home, according to research group Moffet Nathanson. It’s the last time the F.C.C. debated rules around whether streaming services should be required to negotiate directly with local stations to carry those channels. That’s what cable and satellite companies are required to do. Now nearly 17 million homes subscribe to live streaming services. Local broadcasters say the government needs to fix a loophole and allow those same negotiations with live digital TV providers like YouTube TVor Hulu live TV. Local broadcasters say those negotiations are dominated by the national TV networks. Mike Meara is with the Coalition for Local News, a group made up of 600 local broadcast stations, including our parent company Cox Media Group. They believe getting cut out of negotiations on live streaming TV is going to impact your local news station’s ability to keep you safe and informed. Protecting communities with local severe weather alerts and major breaking news coverage are top priorities. “The primary goal is to protect local journalism and localism in our markets,” said Meara. “So if this is threatened, resources get threatened, coverage gets threatened, and the consumer loses out in the local market,” he said. But a group of entertainment and streaming providers called the Preserve Viewer Choice Coalition says that’s not the case. They don’t want the F.C.C. to revisit or change the rules. “The only possible result you could see is increased costs for consumers and substantially less choice,” said Bryce Harlow, with Preserve Viewer Choice Coalition. They say more government regulations will hurt viewers. “The viewer experience online is one that they uniformly enjoy, so there’s no reason to change that,” said Harlow. Congress is also weighing in. Some lawmakers are pushing the F.C.C. to update the rules. “Make sure local broadcasters get fair value for the content they’re providing as we change over to a streaming media landscape,” said Democratic Senator Maria Cantwell from Washington. But at a hearing in June, the F.C.C. Commissioner said it’s on Congress to update laws from the 1980′s. “I think it’s fair to assume that none of us in this room were contemplating the kind of streaming services we have today when Congress passed those laws,” said Chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel. In full transparency, our parent company Cox Media Group is a part of the Coalition for Local News. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.