NEW DELHI (AP) — Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has replaced the name India with a Sanskrit word in dinner invitations sent to guests attending this week's Group of 20 summit, in a move that reflects his Hindu nationalist party’s efforts to eliminate what it sees as colonial-era names. Indian President Droupadi Murmu is referred to as “President of Bharat” instead of “President of India” in the invitation sent to G20 attendees. The nation of more than 1.4 billion people is officially known by two names, India and Bharat, but the former is most commonly used, both domestically and internationally. Bharat is an ancient Sanskrit word which many historians believe dates back to early Hindu texts. The word also means India in Hindi. The change in nomenclature is backed by officials of Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party. They argue that the name India was introduced by British colonials and is a “symbol of slavery.” The British ruled India for about 200 years until the country gained independence in 1947. “Another blow to slavery mentality,” the top elected official of Uttarakhand state, Pushkar Singh Dhami, said on X, formerly known as Twitter. Dhami, who is a leader of Modi's governing party, shared the dinner invitation sent to G20 guests in his post. Modi’s party has long tried to erase names related to India’s Mughal and colonial past. In 2015, New Delhi’s famous Aurangzeb Road, named after a Mughal king, was changed to Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Road after protests from Modi’s party leaders. Last year, the government also renamed a colonial-era avenue in the heart of New Delhi that is used for ceremonial military parades. Modi’s government says the name changes are an effort to reclaim India’s Hindu past. India’s opposition parties, however, criticized the move. “While there is no constitutional objection to calling India “Bharat,” which is one of the country’s two official names, I hope the government will not be so foolish as to completely dispense with “India,” which has incalculable brand value built up over centuries,” opposition lawmaker Shashi Tharoor said on X. Tharoor said Indians should “continue to use both words rather than relinquish our claim to a name redolent of history, a name that is recognized around the world.” Disputes over “India” versus “Bharat” have gained ground since opposition parties in July announced a new alliance — called INDIA — to unseat Modi and defeat his party ahead of national elections in 2024. The acronym stands for Indian National Developmental Inclusive Alliance. Since then, some officials in Modi’s party have demanded that the country be called Bharat instead of India. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.