




AAATrade Team

AAATrade


 Today’s instrument is the PVH Corp, a global apparel company, whose stock is traded in NYSE exchange under the ticker PVH. Looking at the PVH’s chart, we can see that on the 28 th of March, the price had boosted up from the price of around $74 to the resistance level of around $90.40 due to the previous night’s announcement on the better-than-expected quarterly earnings. After that “long run” it was corrected to the lastly traded price of around $86.20. Today we could expect it to further correct towards its support level at around $84, though at the same time, to keep above that level with the potential to make another upward run.  
                    Trading is risky. Information presented herein is not to be construed as a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any Financial Instrument or to participate in any trading strategy.

We also offer CFD products. 72.13% of retail CFD accounts lose money. CFDs trading is risky and your entire capital might be at risk. Information presented herein is not to be construed as a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any Financial Instrument or to participate in any trading strategy.
                 AUD/USD erases gains to reverse from monthly highs, heading toward 0.6700 in the Asian session on Tuesday. Chinese central bank's inaction coupled with the RBA's less hawkish Minutes check the pair's upside. Markets turn wary amid China woes and ahead of Fedspeak.  USD/JPY is reversing a dip below 146.00 in the Asian trading hours on Tuesday. The pair recovers ground above 146.00 but the further upside appears limited amid a weaker US Dollar and a cautious market mood. Fedspeak is next in focus.  Gold price hovers around $2,500 during the early Asian session on Tuesday. The rising expectation of the interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve in September and further US dollar weakness are likely to underpin the precious metal in the near term. The crypto community reacted to a report on Monday alleging that Kamala Harris will likely nominate Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler as Treasury Secretary if elected. The report accompanies the Democratic National Convention, which began today. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq are riding high, notching their eighth consecutive positive session as stocks continue their winning streak. Investors are pouring back into equities with a renewed sense of ‘full recovery’ confidence, betting big on a ‘Goldilocks’ scenario for the US economy. Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement. Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer. Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts. Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and omissions may occur. Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, clients or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.