Top stories last week on Just Style included fairer prices in Bangladesh  apparel sourcing, a case study on PVH's  sourcing strategies and H&M's new green collection. Here are last week’s top trending stories on Just Style: At the Bangladesh Business Summit 2023, members of the Bangladesh apparel industry called on fashion buyers to offer fairer prices given the quality and product diversity it now has to offer, according to local news reports. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 US sportswear giant Nike is facing increased scrutiny from its shareholders as it remains silent over concerns around forced labour and worker wellbeing in its supply chain. An analysis of PVH’s publicly released factory lists reveals the changes to its sourcing strategy from 2021 to 2022 and provides valuable insights into the evolving sourcing practices of US fashion companies. The International Organic Accreditation Service (IOAS) recently suspended certifications rights of Control Union (CU) India for organic cotton after appeal efforts fell through. Two yarn spinning mills in Pakistan have been assessed as per the Yarn Ethically and Sustainably Sourced (YESS) standards, an initiative to drive “modern slavery” out of cotton production. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     H&M has presented its latest Innovation Stories collection which promotes sustainable materials, technologies and production processes. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Just Style : Just Style Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		Apparel sourcing and textile industry news & analysis 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024