Dotdash Meredith and Yahoo Inc. may earn commission or revenue on some items through the links below. These handheld devices will help you defuzz at home People / Kristin Kempa Razor bumps, strawberry skin, and semi-permanent underarm shadow? Forget about the side effects of shaving and the pain of waxing — at-home laser hair removal makes it easy to achieve smooth, lasting results from the comfort and privacy of your own home.  Amazon Prime Day 2024 is officially underway, and we're taking this chance to grab some of our favorite laser hair removal devices while they're on sale. Take advantage of these deals on our winners before time runs out: Ulike Laser Hair Removal Device is 40% off with Prime Jovs Venus Pro II is 33% off with Prime Nood The Flasher 2.0 is 10% off (and has a $10 coupon)  However, these devices require more frequent and consistent use to achieve the same results, explains Dr. Kim Nichols, MD, a board-certified dermatologist and founder of NicholsMD. Professional sessions are usually every six to eight weeks, while at-home devices can be used as directed up to twice a week.   Most at-home devices rely on Intense Pulsed Light (IPL), which is a less powerful laser than what is used professionally.  While at-home laser hair removal devices can help to minimize hair growth at a fraction of the cost of in-office treatment, some devices are more reliable and deliver more consistent results than others. Our PEOPLE Tested team tried out 13 at-home laser hair removal devices, and those that scored highest across our tests are included on this list. We narrowed down our top picks based on efficiency, ease of use, comfort, and overall value.  $199 at Amazon.com    $200 at Target.com   Five intensity levels for a customized experience Wide, easy-to-read digital display Treatments take less than 10 minutes Reasonably priced Flashes aren't unlimited like other options we tested Ingrown hairs and stubble-induced shadows are a thing of the past since we’ve been hooked on Nood The Flasher 2.0. With five intensity levels and a fully digital display, it’s easy and painless to use over large areas and even on sensitive skin or on hormonal-based hair growth, like PCOS. The new and improved model features a wider treatment window and a higher intensity bulb, meaning we were able to achieve rapid body treatments in just 10 minutes with fewer flashes (our armpits only took five minutes!). While the larger size may feel a bit bulky in smaller hands and the brighter flash can be visually startling at first (and may be triggering for those with epilepsy), it was still comfortable to use and was worth it for how much faster we could run through treatments. It’s also one of the most budget-friendly options on our list, and while you won't get unlimited flashes, we’d highly recommend it as an effective and affordable alternative to the other picks on this list. Intensity Levels: 5 | Flashes: 600,000 | Suitable For: Full body and face  $299 at Amazon.com    $299 at Ulike.com   Five intensity levels and cooling technology Unlimited number of flashes; no need to refill a cartridge Several add-ons, including a razor, case, and protective glasses Highest setting caused slight discomfort (may not be suitable for sensitive skin) Worried about the warm or tingling sensations that certain at-home laser hair removal devices emit? This handset from Ulike has got you covered. Available in dark green and white, this remote-shaped wand boasts proprietary Sapphire Ice Cooling Technology, which we found kept the glass window ice-cold to the touch and greatly helped to minimize discomfort by cooling down the skin as we used it. It features five intensity levels, and only on the fifth, most intense level did we experience slight discomfort akin to snapping a rubber band against our skin. We love that this comes with plenty of extras like a razor, a case for the razor, protective glasses to wear during use (to help reduce the possibility of migraines from the light flashes), and a travel case. We found the lightweight device easy to hold and maneuver but noted that it’s a bit thick for smaller hands, and since it’s not cordless, the wire occasionally had to be moved out of the way. Overall, this rarely impacted the smoothness of our ability to use this wand all around our body and on the lower half of our face. Intensity Levels: 5 | Flashes: Unlimited | Suitable For: Full body and face  $360 at Amazon.com    $300 at Jovs.com   Ergonomic design makes it easy to maneuver Head rotates to achieve the ideal angle, helpful when using on our backs Cooling sensation helped minimize discomfort during testing One of the more expensive options on this list From the first moment we laid eyes on the Jovs Venus Pros II Hair Remover, we could tell that it was different. Unlike the majority of remote or egg-shaped devices on the market, this comes in an ergonomic L-shaped design, with a 330-degree rotating head to help you find the ideal angle — a detail that came in ultra handy for us when testing this on our backs. It’s loaded up with features that we found useful, like a cooling system that provided a refreshing sensation and minimized discomfort during the application, a skin rejuvenation mode to fade hyperpigmentation, and an auto-flash mode that allowed us to cover large areas in a shorter period of time. This is more of an investment purchase than most of the others on this list, but we found that the additional features (plus the included razor and safety glasses) were worth it. Plus, you can occasionally find it on sale, so it's worth grabbing when you do. Intensity Levels: 6 | Flashes: Unlimited | Suitable For: Full body and face  $119 at Amazon.com   Small frame makes it easy to use on the face and bikini line Gentle mode designed for sensitive skin Built-in UV protection No complaints here! We loved how easy this model was to set up and how quickly we were able to zip through treating our legs (in just six minutes!) by using the convenient glide method, which auto-flashes as you steadily move the device along your legs. This is going to be a mainstay in our carry-on thanks to the handy velvet traveling pouch that you can store everything in — plus, it’s a convenient handheld size that takes up minimal packing room, even with the power adapter and cord. We appreciated that there’s built-in UV protection thanks to a three-millimeter glass filter, plus there’s a Gentle Mode for sensitive skin (like the face and bikini area), although we found it comfortable and pain-free to use on Power Mode, which operates at a higher intensity level. The precision head and lightweight design were also handy for covering smaller areas, like our upper lip. After five sessions of weekly use, we noticed much less hair coming in along our legs, although our hair thickness remained about the same. Intensity Levels: 2 | Flashes: Unlimited | Suitable For: Full body and face  $449 at Nordstrom.com    $449 at Bloomingdales.com   Comes ready to use Precision adaptor makes it easy to target smaller areas Easy to handle and maneuver Not super user-friendly At-home devices, like trusty epilators, that are effective and approved for use with light or red hair are few and far between. We found this model from Iluminage to be the strongest contender after testing it on light hair and noticing the hair growing back slower and sparser after just six sessions of weekly use. There’s no need to charge the device beforehand — simply just plug the base into the wall and attach it to either the epilator cartridge or precision adapter and go. As recommended, we used the epilator first to remove lighter hair before treatment, but found this step to be difficult even after reading the instructions. However, this didn’t affect the efficacy of the device on the whole, we just may not recommend it to beginners. On the other hand, we found that the precision adaptor was great for targeting smaller areas and underarms. While the device is easy to grip and maneuver, we wish the wall plug-in was longer; you’ll have to set up somewhere very close to an outlet for this to work. This is the most expensive pick on our list, but for those with light hair or particularly fair skin tones, it may be worth the investment: It’s been clinically proven, FDA-cleared, and it is still significantly less of an investment of time and money than in-office treatment. Intensity Levels: 3 | Flashes: 300,000 | Suitable For: Full body (except bikini area) and face  See at Roseskinco.com   Noticed a significant reduction in hair growth with consistent use Three modes (stamp, glide, and auto) for efficient hair removal One of the cheapest options we tested Curved device can be difficult to grip at certain angles The Lumi makes at-home laser hair removal more straightforward than any other option we tried: Just plug it in, press the power button, and select which of the three modes (stamp, glide, or auto) you’d like to use, based on which body part you’re targeting. We found stamp mode, which delivers a pulse every time you click, to be super effective in more precise areas, like our bikini line and armpits. Glide and auto don’t require repeated clicks, so those were our go-to for larger areas, like our arms and legs (which are the two places where we saw the most noticeable dip in hair growth). The compact device easily fit in our palms, but we wished there were ridges or indents for an easier grip, as the rounded shape proved difficult to hold at times. We also love that there’s a quick and handy quiz on their website to figure out if the Lumi will be effective for you (TL;DR: It is better suited for light skin to medium brown skin and dark blonde to black hair; it isn’t great for super fair or dark skin, or hair that’s light, red, or gray.) This is another wallet-friendly option that showed us promising results after twice-weekly use over three months. Intensity Levels: 6 | Flashes: 900,000 | Suitable For: Full body and face People / Daniela Galvez Related: The 8 Best Facial Hair Removers of 2024, Tested and Reviewed At-home laser hair removal devices will require more sessions over time but ultimately cost significantly less than professional laser hair removal sessions. The price of in-office sessions will depend on the body parts targeted, your geographic region, and the number of sessions required, but typically falls into the range of $100 to $800 per session. According to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, the average session cost as of 2024 was $582. That price is similar to the cost of a one-time investment in an at-home laser hair removal device, which will run you anywhere from $190 to $430 on average. Most of the devices on this list include unlimited flashes, meaning they’ll last you indefinitely. Based upon your needs, consider what features you require and note that those will up the cost of the device slightly (like cooling features (which the Ulike Sapphire AIR+ features), or a variety of intensity levels, like the RoseSkinCo. Lumi), but that the device’s price will ultimately still be comparable to one professional session. Lighter hair colors — like blonde, red, and gray — have less pigmentation in the follicle, making it difficult for at-home devices to work on them effectively, as the devices require contrast between skin and hair color to target the follicle. This also applies to darker skin tones, which have less contrast between the melanin in the skin and the follicle. Be sure to read a range of customer reviews and consider consulting your dermatologist before using a new at-home laser hair removal device if you have light hair or dark skin. Depending on the area you plan to use the laser hair removal device on, you’ll want to take into account its size and maneuverability. If you’re looking to target facial hair, you may want to opt for a smaller, more precise device, like the Smoothskin Pure Mini, whereas if you plan to use it on your legs, back, or other large areas, you’ll want to find an option that has a wider window to help speed up the process. People / Taylor Calta We tested 13 at-home laser hair removal devices from leading brands in order to narrow down a list of our top recommendations for safe and effective use at home. Long-Term Testing: Each laser hair removal device was used consistently in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions over several weeks, during which time we took detailed notes on everything from the ease of setup and use to levels of comfort and efficacy. Evaluation: During and after consistent use of each laser hair removal device, we evaluated the learning curve of using the devices, if and how the shape of them impacted ease of use and maneuverability, how long it took to use per session, if there was a reduction in the speed or thickness with which our hair grew back after use, and if the device functioned the same at the end of the testing period as it had in the beginning. Rating: At the end of our 12-week testing period, we rated each at-home laser hair removal device on a scale of one to five, with one being the poorest performing and five being the best. The devices with the highest average scores made this list and earned the PEOPLE Tested seal of approval. Are at-home laser hair removal devices safe? “Laser hair removal is safe to perform on all skin types,” explains Dr. Nichols, who explains that it’s important to look for devices that have already performed clinical trials and to consult before and after photos. Generally speaking, most at-home laser hair removal devices are not meant for use with darker skin tones or very light hair colors, as they can’t pick up on the contrast in pigmentation and could cause hyperpigmentation or scarring. Be sure to consult your dermatologist before using a new product if you fall into one of these categories — you may be better off considering a professional session, which has access to more advanced and sensitive lasers.   While the at-home laser hair. removal devices are safe, Dr. Nichols warns of taking your time as you learn to use them, noting that since there’s no physician oversight at home to prevent burns or other negative side effects, it’s crucial to proceed with caution as you get comfortable with the device. Does hair grow back after using an at-home laser hair removal device? Yes, just like with the use of a dermaplaning device, an epilating device, an at-home wax, or a hair removal cream, the hair will continue to grow back after using at-home laser hair removal devices. It’s important to note that these aren’t get-hairless-quick schemes. The devices will only work if you use them as often and as consistently as directed, and even then, they won’t leave you permanently hairless. They are designed to minimize the amount and size of hair follicles, which in turn reduces the amount of hair that grows and the rate at which it fills in. Are at-home laser hair removal devices worth it? If you’re looking to reduce the amount of hair you have or make it finer, then at-home laser hair removal devices are worth it. They’re significantly more affordable than professional sessions and can be performed in a matter of minutes, making them much less of a time commitment.   “However, those with lighter hair (white, blonde, and red tones), may not receive as effective a treatment,” warns Dr. Nichols (this goes for those with darker skin as well). This is because of how laser hair removal works, she explains, elaborating that lasers function by emitting a light that is attracted to the melanin pigment in hair and then destroys the follicle. “Without pigmentation, the laser can't easily find the hair follicle,” she says. If you have light hair and are looking for the best at-home laser hair removal device, we found that the Iluminage Touch was effective on light hair.  While newer devices are increasingly able to accommodate a wider range of skin tones and hair colors, they traditionally have required a strong contrast between skin and hair color to pick up on the pigmentation. How do at-home laser hair removal devices work? At-home laser hair removal devices work by emitting a beam of light that is attracted to the pigment in a hair follicle, where it then heats up and destroys the follicle, effectively reducing and delaying hair growth. Sophie Dodd is a PEOPLE contributor who has been writing for the site since 2018. She covers travel and lifestyle, with a focus on home goods and beauty products (namely, skincare). For this story, Sophie did a deep dive into the results of our at-home laser hair removal device test and used her expertise as a commerce and lifestyle writer to research the top-ranked products. She also received advice from Dr. Kim Nichols, MD, a board-certified dermatologist and founder of NicholsMD, on the key features to keep in mind when shopping for at-home laser hair removal devices.  Dr. Kim Nichols is a board-certified celebrity dermatologist, cosmetic surgeon, and founder of NicholsMD. Her practice offers several kinds of laser hair removal services, from back to torso, legs, and more.  We created the PEOPLE Tested seal of approval to help you find the very best products for your life. We use our unique methodology to test products in three labs across the country and with our network of home testers to determine their effectiveness, durability, ease of use, and so much more. Based on the results, we rate and recommend products so you can find the right one for your needs. But we don’t stop there: We also regularly re-review the categories in which we’ve awarded the PEOPLE Tested seal of approval — because the best product of today might not be the best of tomorrow. And by the way, companies can never buy our recommendation: Their products must earn it, fair and square. In short, PEOPLE Tested provides recommendations you can trust — every day, every purchase.  For more People news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on People. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.