News and resources on digital currencies, crypto assets and crypto exchanges worldwide. This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. Laser Digital Holdings AG, in cooperation with Nomura Holdings, Inc., is delighted to announce its debut of the ‘Nomura & Laser Digital Botanical Garden’ in The Sandbox metaverse. 
30 October 2023
Be the first to comment
 This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. The experience, which has launched as part of The Sandbox Fall Event, showcases the combined resources and talent at Nomura’s Digital Company and Laser Digital, to accelerate the bank’s innovations in the digital asset sector.The Nomura-Laser Digital experience takes place in a Japanese botanical garden, symbolizing the bank’s cultural heritage and sustainability values. Through twenty quests, you will be able to meet avatars of senior Nomura and Laser Digital management and complete tasks such as cultivating your own bonsai tree. QR codes displayed throughout the garden allow visitors to learn more about Nomura, Laser Digital and their strategic investments and innovations in digital assets. See a teaser of the experience here.The Sandbox, a virtual world represented by NFTs on the Ethereum blockchain and the Polygon blockchain, was founded in 2011. Since then, over 4.7 million accounts have been created. “The Sandbox enables renowned financial and digital asset institutions such as Nomura to experiment creatively and appeal to a broader audience,” said Sebastien Borget, COO and Co-Founder of The Sandbox. “We’re pleased to see Nomura and Laser Digital step into Web3 and take users on a spiritual, immersive journey where they will experience digital innovation through a combination of architecture, Japanese culture and quests.”Hajime Ikeda, Head of Digital Company, Nomura, commented: “Nomura has been actively engaged in business development of digital assets. The Sandbox experience is part of our commitment to working with Laser Digital to explore the transformative potential of blockchain and Web 3 in financial services products such as NFTs, Defi and DAOs.”Jez Mohideen, CEO, Laser Digital, added: “Since our launch last year as Nomura’s digital asset subsidiary, we have been keen to explore the potential of the metaverse. We are excited to experience the new interactions this project enables and we look forward to continued partnership with the Digital Company to further Nomura’s progress into the digital asset sector.” The ‘Nomura & Laser Digital Botanical Garden’ was developed by Cédric Bensoussan and the creative artists of his team at Metaverse Studio Paris.  Welcome to Finextra. We use cookies to help us to deliver our services. You may change your preferences at our Cookie Centre. Please read our Privacy Policy. © Finextra Research 2024 Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Centre