From: Prairies Economic Development Canada
 Over $12.2 million through PrairiesCan will help Edmonton area businesses scale-up operations and enter new markets Over $12.2 million through PrairiesCan will help 11 innovative companies across Edmonton to scale-up operations and enter new markets August 25, 2023 – Edmonton, Alberta – PrairiesCan The Edmonton region is home to a skilled workforce, one of North America’s fastest growing technology sectors and some of Canada’s most innovative, high-growth companies that are strengthening our economy. The federal government is committed to supporting Edmonton’s leading-edge companies to continue growing and creating quality jobs that Canadians can count on. Today, the Honourable Randy Boissonnault, Minister of Employment, Workforce Development and Official Languages, on behalf of the Honourable Dan Vandal, Minister for PrairiesCan, announced a federal investment of more than $12.2 million for 11 companies across sectors ranging from clean technology and healthcare to quantum computing and artificial intelligence.  Examples of local companies receiving support include: Today’s investments are expected to help support the creation of 475 jobs. Federal funding is repayable and is provided through the Business Scale-up and Productivity (BSP) program and the Jobs and Growth Fund (JGF). PrairiesCan administers these federal programs in Alberta. “Today’s investments will help some of the Edmonton region’s most innovative companies to grow their manufacturing capacity, launch new products and expand to new markets. This is good for Alberta businesses, helps strengthen and diversify Alberta’s economy, and lays the foundation for quality jobs that Albertans can rely on.”–The Honourable Dan Vandal, Minister for PrairiesCan “The Edmonton metro region is an economic powerhouse. Whether in renewable technology and healthcare, quantum computing and artificial intelligence, or the energy sector, the companies we’re investing in will be key to our economic prosperity for years to come. Today’s investments are about supporting local, innovative businesses that are creating jobs and building an economy that works for everyone.”–The Honourable Randy Boissonnault, Minister of Employment, Workforce Development and Official Languages  “Edmonton is booming, achieving 96% growth in ecosystem value in the past year through the power of collaboration. These 11 remarkable companies receiving PrairiesCan funding today are key contributors in positioning Edmonton as an inclusive global innovation capital, delivering solutions to the world’s toughest challenges, and enhancing international competitiveness. Having supported a number of these high-growth startups through Edmonton Unlimited, we are now excited to see their flourishing operations, hot new jobs, and technological breakthroughs.”–Catherine Warren, CEO, Edmonton Unlimited “Support from the PrairiesCan BSP program is crucial to Boreal Laser’s growth plan. The funding will be used to invest in the people, products, and processes necessary to enable Boreal Laser to “Cross the Chasm” from niche to mainstream gas detection markets.”–Dr. Hamish Adam, Director, Boreal Laser PrairiesCan funding for 11 Edmonton and area companies is being provided through the Business Scale-up and Productivity program, as well as the Jobs and Growth Fund. The Business Scale-up and Productivity program supports high-growth businesses that are scaling up and producing innovative goods, services, or technologies. Funding is interest-free and repayable. The Jobs and Growth Fund helps job creators and the organizations that support them future proof their businesses, build resiliency, and prepare for growth. Funding is interest-free and repayable. Kyle Allen Press Secretary and Communications Advisor Office of the Minister of Northern Affairs, Minister responsible for Prairies Economic Development Canada, and Minister responsible for the Canadian Northern Economic Development AgencyKyle.Allen@rcaanc-cirnac.gc.ca Rohit SandhuCommunications Manager Prairies Economic Development Canadarohit.sandhu@prairiescan.gc.ca Follow PrairiesCan on Twitter and LinkedIn Toll-Free Number: 1-888-338-9378 TTY (telecommunications device for the hearing impaired): 1-877-303-3388