Every Wednesday and Friday, TechNode’s Briefing newsletter delivers a roundup of the most important news in China tech, straight to your inbox. Every Wednesday and Friday, TechNode’s Briefing newsletter delivers a roundup of the most important news in China tech, straight to your inbox. 

By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy. 
 Thank you for registering! An account was already registered with this email.Please check your inbox for an authentication link. Your support helps TechNode continue to provide credible, on-the-ground journalism and industry insights about the Chinese tech industry. 
			Your contribution is appreciated.		 TechNode 
					Latest news and trends about tech in China				 Every Wednesday and Friday, TechNode’s Briefing newsletter delivers a roundup of the most important news in China tech, straight to your inbox. Renowned computer scientist and venture capitalist Kai-Fu Lee on Monday unveiled his new artificial intelligence startup, 01.AI (Lingyi Wanwu in Chinese), providing long-awaited details about his plans to “build an AI 2.0 platform and applications”. In an official announcement shared on theWeChat account of Lee’s VC firm Sinovation Ventures, the Beijing-based company said it had chosen “the most difficult path” of developing its own large language model (LLM). Why it matters: In the lengthy official post, Lee wrote that he believes AI-powered LLMs present a “historical opportunity” that China cannot miss. Lee hopes the startup will develop a domestically-grown model capable of producing products similar to OpenAI’s ChatGPT.  Sinovation Ventures quoted Lee as saying China will see a variety of high-quality and creative applications once the country has truly native, high-quality LLMs, much like the era of mobile internet.  Details: 01.AI details its model training strategy in seven major modules, including pre-training, post-training, AI infrastructure, and multi-model technology. The firm hopes to equip each module with top-notch technical experts to build an LLM with greater capabilities. Context: The vast success of OpenAI’s ChatGPT has prompted Chinese tech majors, startups, and research institutions to join the race to create something similar. Data from a state-backed scientific institution shows that China had at least 79 LLMs with parameters exceeding 1 billion as of late May. With a small team, TechNode provides timely news and thoughtfully researched articles for worldwide readers interested in learning more about the Chinese tech industry. 
			Your contribution is appreciated.		 
							Cheyenne Dong is a tech reporter now based in Shanghai. She covers e-commerce and retail, AI, and blockchain. Connect with her via e-mail: cheyenne.dong[a]technode.com.															
								More by Cheyenne Dong								
 沪ICP备14046707号-4 
							We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!						 
							Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email.						 
							Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
							Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password.						 
Sign in with your email
 
Lost your password?
 
Try a different email
 
Send another code
 
Sign in with a password
 

																By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy.																	
