Dublin, June 19, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- The "Microcontroller Market: Global Industry Trends, Share, Size, Growth, Opportunity and Forecast 2023-2028" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering. The global microcontroller market size reached US$ 24.2 Billion in 2022. Looking forward, the publisher expects the market to reach US$ 41.5 Billion by 2028, exhibiting a CAGR of 9.41% during 2022-2028. A microcontroller is a small-sized, self-contained microcomputer that is designed to perform a dedicated task and execute one specific application. It has an integrated circuit that consists of a programmable input and output peripherals such as timers, counters, memory (RAM, ROM and EPROM), along with various serial ports on a single chip. Having low power requirements, microcontrollers are widely used in passengers cars and commercial vehicles; in consumer electronics such as cellphones, microwave ovens, cameras, and washing machines; office machines such as scanners, photocopiers, and printers, security systems, ATMs, etc. A more technologically advanced version of microcontrollers is used in aircrafts, marine vessels, medical life support systems and robots to perform critical tasks.Microcontroller Market Trends:The thriving healthcare sector, along with the increasing usage of consumer electronics, is one of the key factors driving the market growth. In the healthcare sector, microcontrollers are extensively used in devices such as spirometers and heart rate monitors. They aid in minimizing the costs of medical devices and provide accurate information. Furthermore, growing geriatric population and increasing prevalence of health disorders are expected to drive the demand for medical devices, which, in turn, is expected to impact the market for microcontrollers positively. In the consumer electronics sector, there is a need for devices with greater speed and higher functionality, which is expected to significantly drive product demand. Additionally, the proliferation of smart grid systems has also enhanced the requirement of microcontrollers across the globe. These systems consist of the remote-control facility and digital communication that requires microcontrollers to function. Moreover, the efficient functioning of automobiles is enabled by microcontrollers. Several advanced features such as head-up display (HUD), advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS), and movie and sound systems require microcontrollers for their efficient operation.Key Market Segmentation:The publisher provides an analysis of the key trends in each sub-segment of the global microcontroller market report, along with forecasts at the global and regional level from 2023-2028. Our report has categorized the market based on product type, architecture, memory and application.Breakup by Product Type: Breakup by Architecture: Breakup by Memory: Breakup by Application: Breakup by Region: Key Questions Answered in This Report: Key Topics Covered: 1 Preface2 Scope and Methodology3 Executive Summary4 Introduction5 Global Microcontroller Market6 Market Breakup by Product Type7 Market Breakup by Architecture8 Market Breakup by Memory9 Market Breakup by Application10 Market Breakup by Region11 SWOT Analysis12 Value Chain Analysis13 Porter's Five Forces Analysis14 Price Analysis15 Competitive LandscapeFor more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/a8z0ei About ResearchAndMarkets.comResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends. Media Contact: Research and MarketsLaura Wood, Senior Managerpress@researchandmarkets.com For E.S.T Office Hours Call +1-917-300-0470For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call +1-800-526-8630For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900 U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716 Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/539438/Research_and_Markets_Logo.jpg  View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/microcontroller-market-global-market-report-2023-thriving-healthcare-sector-along-with-increasing-usage-of-consumer-electronics-boosts-growth-301854028.html SOURCE  Research and Markets © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.