Photo: SKYX Founder and Executive Chairman Rani Kohen Alongside the Awards Won at the SKYX Booth at the 2023 Consumer Electronics Show SKYX Platforms Corp. SKYX announced that the SkyPlug Smart won a total of five prestigious awards from leading technology publications, including the previously announced CES Smart Home Innovation Award, as part of its worldwide debut at the 2023 Consumer Electronics Show (CES). The SkyPlug Smart for ceiling installation of light fixtures and ceiling fans won the Residential Systems CES award, the Gearbrain Editor's Choice Award, the Techlicious 2023 Top Pick Award, the Twice 2023 CES Picks Award as well as the CES Smart Home Innovation Award. As SKYX is in the process of launching its products, these new tech awards come in addition to the company's recent approvals and recognitions from leading U.S. building safety and standardization organizations such as the NEC (National Electrical Code), ANSI / NEMA (American National Standards Institute / National Electrical Manufactures Association) and AIA (American Institute of Architects). "I am truly honored that the SkyPlug Smart for Ceilings was such a resounding success at the 2023 Consumer Electronics Show, marking a successful worldwide launch," said Rani Kohen, Founder and Executive Chairman of SKYX Platforms Corp. "The strong reception by industry participants and trade media provides me with a high level of confidence in the direction of our company as we seek to revolutionize the industry and create safer buildings for all. "I would like to personally thank each of our employees for their hard work and dedication, without whom this level of recognition would not be possible. As we embark on our commercialization journey in 2023, I look forward to continued successes as we strive to create sustainable, long-term value for my fellow shareholders," concluded Kohen.   This post contains sponsored advertising content. This content is for informational purposes only and not intended to be investing advice.
 © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.