


Aug. 25 (UPI) -- India made history as the first country to land near the south pole of the Moon with its Chandrayaan-3 lander on Wednesday. This also makes it the first country to land on the Moon since China in 2020.

India is one of several countries -- including the U.S. with its Artemis program -- endeavoring to land on the Moon. The south pole of the Moon is of particular interest, as its surface, marked by craters, trenches and pockets of ancient ice, hasn't been visited until now. 
Advertisement
The Conversation U.S. asked international affairs expert Mariel Borowitz about this moon landing's implications for both science and the global community.
Why are countries like India looking to go to the Moon?
Countries are interested in going to the Moon because it can inspire people, test the limits of human technical capabilities and allow us to discover more about our solar system.
Advertisement
The Moon has a historical and cultural significance that really seems to resonate with people -- anyone in the world can look up at the night sky, see the Moon and understand how amazing it is that a spacecraft built by humans is roaming around the surface.
The Moon also presents a unique opportunity to engage in both international cooperation and competition in a peaceful, but highly visible, way.
The fact that so many nations - the United States, Russia, China, India, Israel - and even commercial entities are interested in landing on the Moon means that there are many opportunities to forge new partnerships.
These partnerships can allow nations to do more in space by pooling resources, and they encourage more peaceful cooperation here on Earth by connecting individual researchers and organizations.
There are some people who also believe that exploration of the Moon can provide economic benefits. In the near term, this might include the emergence of startup companies working on space technology and contributing to these missions. India has seen a surge in space startups recently.
Eventually, the Moon may provide economic benefits based on the natural resources that can be found there, such as water, helium-3 and rare Earth elements.
Advertisement
Are we seeing new global interest in space?

Over the last few decades, we've seen a significant increase in the number of nations involved in space activity. This is very apparent when it comes to satellites that collect imagery or data about the Earth, for example. More than 60 nations have been involved in these types of satellite missions. Now we're seeing this trend expand to space exploration, and particularly the Moon.
In some ways, the interest in the Moon is driven by similar goals as in the first space race in the 1960s -- demonstrating technological capabilities and inspiring young people and the general public. However, this time it's not just two superpowers competing in a race. Now we have many participants, and while there is still a competitive element, there is also an opportunity for cooperation and forging new international partnerships to explore space.
Also, with all these new actors and the technical advances of the last 60 years, there is the potential to engage in more sustainable exploration. This could include building Moon bases, developing ways to use lunar resources and eventually engaging in economic activities on the Moon based on natural resources or tourism.
Advertisement
How does India's mission compare with Moon missions in other countries?

India's accomplishment is the first of its kind and very exciting, but it's worth noting that it's one of seven missions currently operating on and around the Moon.
In addition to India's Chandrayaan-3 rover near the south pole, there is also South Korea's Pathfinder Lunar Orbiter, which is studying the Moon's surface to identify future landing sites; the NASA-funded CAPSTONE spacecraft, which was developed by a space startup company; and NASA's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter. The CAPSTONE craft is studying the stability of a unique orbit around the Moon, and the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter is collecting data about the Moon and mapping sites for future missions.
Also, while India's Chandrayaan-2 rover crashed, the accompanying orbiter is still operational. China's Chang'e-4 and Chang'e-5 landers are still operating on the Moon as well.
Other nations and commercial entities are working to join in. Russia's Luna-25 mission crashed into the Moon three days before the Chandrayaan-3 landed, but the fact that Russia developed the rover and got so close is still a significant achievement.
The same could be said for the lunar lander built by the private Japanese space company ispace. The lander crashed into the Moon in April 2023.
Advertisement
Why choose to explore the south pole of the Moon?

The south pole of the Moon is the area where nations are focused for future exploration. All of NASA's 13 candidate landing locations for the Artemis program are located near the south pole.
This area offers the greatest potential to find water ice, which could be used to support astronauts and to make rocket fuel. It also has peaks that are in constant or near-constant sunlight, which creates excellent opportunities for generating power to support lunar activities.
Mariel Borowitz is an associate professor of international affairs at Georgia Institute of Technology. This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license. Read the original article. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.
Read More
Number of Americans walking off jobs is historically low despite waves of strikes
Ukraine needs a miracle to avoid unthinkable outcome
Pacific coral reef shows some ability to cope with ocean warming 


Topics
SpaceGoogle






Latest Headlines







Voices // 16 hours ago
Politicians working past 65 reflects U.S. society
  Why don't more politicians retire? President Joe Biden's decision to step down offers a chance to collectively consider when Americans should retire.










Voices // 3 days ago
Complicated app settings pose threat to user privacy
  Default privacy settings in Venmo and other popular mobile apps might seem like a convenience, but they pose a potential risk to your privacy.










Voices // 5 days ago
Time is ripe for a new approach: Human rights up front in support of a free and unified Korea
 Aug. 14 (UPI) -- Given recent policy changes in North Korea, it is the proverbial inflection point that requires examination of new policy options and strategy that can drive change or transformation on the Korean peninsula.










Voices // 4 days ago
How real-time crime centers are transforming policing
  Real-time crime centers are rapidly expanding nationwide and likely to become commonplace in policing soon.










Voices // 5 days ago
The extraordinary makeover of Kamala Harris
 Aug. 14 (UPI) -- How did presidential hopeful Kamala Harris reverse widespread negative perceptions and bad press to become the darling of the media?










Voices // 6 days ago
What Elon Musk's endorsement of Donald Trump might mean for U.S. space policy
  If Donald Trump is elected president again, how might his relationship with SpaceX founder Elon Musk influence U.S. space policy?










Voices // 1 week ago
Americans respond more to 'climate change' than other terms
  Americans are more familiar with -- and more concerned about -- climate change and global warming than they are about 'climate crisis,' 'climate emergency' or 'climate justice,' a new survey shows.










Voices // 1 week ago
Pronatalism won't solve our social, economic problems
  Manipulating fertility is an inefficient means of solving social, economic and environmental problems that are almost always better addressed more directly through regulation and redistribution.










Voices // 1 week ago
How police violence causes grief, worry and coping for Black parents
  From Michael Brown to Sonya Massey, police violence against Black Americans causes racial grief for Black parents.










Voices // 1 week ago
August: The bleakest of months?
 Aug. 7 (UPI) -- The conflict between Israel, Hamas, Hezbollah and Iran is at risk of escalation to a wider war. Following Haniyeh's assassination, is an Iranian rush to justice similar to the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution of 1964 possible?






 Aug. 25 (UPI) -- India made history as the first country to land near the south pole of the Moon with its Chandrayaan-3 lander on Wednesday. This also makes it the first country to land on the Moon since China in 2020.
 India is one of several countries -- including the U.S. with its Artemis program -- endeavoring to land on the Moon. The south pole of the Moon is of particular interest, as its surface, marked by craters, trenches and pockets of ancient ice, hasn't been visited until now. 
Advertisement The Conversation U.S. asked international affairs expert Mariel Borowitz about this moon landing's implications for both science and the global community. Why are countries like India looking to go to the Moon? Countries are interested in going to the Moon because it can inspire people, test the limits of human technical capabilities and allow us to discover more about our solar system.
Advertisement The Moon has a historical and cultural significance that really seems to resonate with people -- anyone in the world can look up at the night sky, see the Moon and understand how amazing it is that a spacecraft built by humans is roaming around the surface. The Moon also presents a unique opportunity to engage in both international cooperation and competition in a peaceful, but highly visible, way. The fact that so many nations - the United States, Russia, China, India, Israel - and even commercial entities are interested in landing on the Moon means that there are many opportunities to forge new partnerships. These partnerships can allow nations to do more in space by pooling resources, and they encourage more peaceful cooperation here on Earth by connecting individual researchers and organizations. There are some people who also believe that exploration of the Moon can provide economic benefits. In the near term, this might include the emergence of startup companies working on space technology and contributing to these missions. India has seen a surge in space startups recently. Eventually, the Moon may provide economic benefits based on the natural resources that can be found there, such as water, helium-3 and rare Earth elements.
Advertisement Are we seeing new global interest in space?
 Over the last few decades, we've seen a significant increase in the number of nations involved in space activity. This is very apparent when it comes to satellites that collect imagery or data about the Earth, for example. More than 60 nations have been involved in these types of satellite missions. Now we're seeing this trend expand to space exploration, and particularly the Moon. In some ways, the interest in the Moon is driven by similar goals as in the first space race in the 1960s -- demonstrating technological capabilities and inspiring young people and the general public. However, this time it's not just two superpowers competing in a race. Now we have many participants, and while there is still a competitive element, there is also an opportunity for cooperation and forging new international partnerships to explore space. Also, with all these new actors and the technical advances of the last 60 years, there is the potential to engage in more sustainable exploration. This could include building Moon bases, developing ways to use lunar resources and eventually engaging in economic activities on the Moon based on natural resources or tourism.
Advertisement How does India's mission compare with Moon missions in other countries?
 India's accomplishment is the first of its kind and very exciting, but it's worth noting that it's one of seven missions currently operating on and around the Moon. In addition to India's Chandrayaan-3 rover near the south pole, there is also South Korea's Pathfinder Lunar Orbiter, which is studying the Moon's surface to identify future landing sites; the NASA-funded CAPSTONE spacecraft, which was developed by a space startup company; and NASA's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter. The CAPSTONE craft is studying the stability of a unique orbit around the Moon, and the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter is collecting data about the Moon and mapping sites for future missions. Also, while India's Chandrayaan-2 rover crashed, the accompanying orbiter is still operational. China's Chang'e-4 and Chang'e-5 landers are still operating on the Moon as well. Other nations and commercial entities are working to join in. Russia's Luna-25 mission crashed into the Moon three days before the Chandrayaan-3 landed, but the fact that Russia developed the rover and got so close is still a significant achievement. The same could be said for the lunar lander built by the private Japanese space company ispace. The lander crashed into the Moon in April 2023.
Advertisement Why choose to explore the south pole of the Moon?
 The south pole of the Moon is the area where nations are focused for future exploration. All of NASA's 13 candidate landing locations for the Artemis program are located near the south pole. This area offers the greatest potential to find water ice, which could be used to support astronauts and to make rocket fuel. It also has peaks that are in constant or near-constant sunlight, which creates excellent opportunities for generating power to support lunar activities. Mariel Borowitz is an associate professor of international affairs at Georgia Institute of Technology. This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license. Read the original article. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.