
			The Chandrayaan-3 mission has reopened questions over who has the rights to exploit our lunar neighbour, and its water
		 India has just fired the starting gun on the race for resources on the Moon. Not since Roald Amundsen wired Captain Scott to inform him he was: “At Madeira. Going South”, has there been such a frenzy to reach a south pole. While the Antarctic wasteland proved fatal for Scott, the Moon’s southern polar region holds the key for sustaining life for future astronauts, because it likely contains vast amounts of frozen water. Controlling such a resource – which could also be converted into rocket fuel – will be vital for establishing Moon bases, a key goal of many space agencies in the next decade. Nasa plans to send a rover to the south pole next year with US-based company Astrobotic Technology to measure water ahead of landing astronauts there in 2025 in the Artemis III mission. China has also committed to sending astronauts there by the end of the decade, while Russia attempted a soft landing last week, which ended in failure. So, it is somewhat surprising that it is relative newcomer India that got there first, giving the country an unexpected head start in the hunt for water and other resources. Its solar-powered rover, named Pragyan, will trundle across the polar region for the next fortnight searching for ice. Rajinikanth, the Indian actor, summed up what many were feeling, tweeting: “While superpowers like the US, Russia, and China watch in aghast amazement, India stuns the world with this humongous achievement.” The UK Space Agency (UKSA) said the Indian success was evidence the world was living in a “new space age” where new countries and companies were setting their sights on the Moon and beyond. “This current crop of missions are focused on new areas of opportunity – there are important scientific discoveries to be made about the presence of water on the lunar surface, which could support humans to live and work there for extended periods of time,” Professor Anu Ojha OBE, championing space director at the UK Space Agency. But the Chandrayaan-3 mission also raises important questions about who owns the Moon, or any other space resource, and who should be allowed to exploit it. Several countries including the US, Japan, Luxembourg and the United Arab Emirates have passed legislation granting companies and agencies the right to anything they extract on the lunar surface. Earlier this year, the private Japanese company iSpace was due to carry out the first business transaction on the Moon – selling Moon dust to Nasa – but the spacecraft crashed on landing. Some states, including Russia, are uncomfortable with what they see as a land grab by individual countries, and have called for international regulations to reign in the “Wild West” economies that are emerging. It does not help that current space law is vague about the exploitation of resources. The UN’s 1966 Outer Space Treaty states that “outer space is not subject to national appropriation by claim of sovereignty, by means of use or occupation, or by any other means”. In addition, its 1979 Moon Treaty called for “the orderly and safe use of the natural lunar resources with an equitable sharing by all state parties in the benefits derived from those resources”. Nasa’s Artemis Accords, signed by 21 countries including Britain, the US and Japan, but not Russia, endorsed the ability to extract and use space resources. But the accords also called for the Outer Space Treaty to be upheld, making for a puzzling and contradictory situation. It is also unclear who would police any space misdemeanours, what the possible punishments might be, and if anything would even be enforceable off-world. What is clear, is that all eyes are now turned skywards and whoever wins the great ‘water rush’ of the next decade is likely to control the Moon for far longer. Bill Nelson, the administrator of Nasa has already warned that if China gets taikonauts to the region first, the country may seek to claim the south pole. In 2021 a Chinese lunar engineer, Ye Peijian, said it was “entirely possible” the country could have “boots on the moon” by the end of the decade. Now India has also thrown its hat into an already crowded ring. Speaking after the successful landing on Wednesday, Narendra Modi, India’s prime minister, said: “The sky is not the limit. This is a victory cry of a new India.” It is possible that India may face an ethical dilemma of spending millions to mine water on the Moon while struggling to provide water for hundreds of millions of its citizens back on Earth. In a curious synchronicity, the current head of the Indian Space Research Organisation is Sreedhara Somnath, whose name translates to Lord of the Moon. Whether this will prove to be a harbinger of Indian lunar supremacy remains to be seen.