Brought to you by  Focal Energy Solar India PVt. Ltd (NSM- Phase II – Batch I) Solar PV Park is an 11.1MW solar PV power project. It is located in Madhya Pradesh, India. According to GlobalData, who tracks and profiles over 170,000 power plants worldwide,  the project is currently active. It has been developed in a single phase. Post completion of construction, the project got commissioned in 2015. Buy the profile here. Focal Energy Solar India PVt. Ltd (NSM- Phase II – Batch I) Solar PV Park is an 11.1MW solar PV power project. It is located in Madhya Pradesh, India. According to GlobalData, who tracks and profiles over 170,000 power plants worldwide,  the project is currently active. It has been developed in a single phase. Post completion of construction, the project got commissioned in 2015. Buy the profile here. Buy the Profile 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             
                    Find out more
                    



 DescriptionThe project was developed by Focal Energy Holdings and SunEdison Energy India. The project is currently owned by TerraForm Power with a stake of 49% and Focal Energy Holdings.Focal Energy Solar India PVt. Ltd (NSM- Phase II - Batch I) Solar PV Park is a ground-mounted solar project.The project generates 19,444.709MWh electricity thereby offsetting 7,700t of carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) a year. Development statusThe project got commissioned in 2015. Power purchase agreementThe power generated from the project is sold to Solar Energy Corporation of India under a power purchase agreement. The power is sold at the rate of $0.087kWh for a period of 25 years. Contractors involvedBELECTRIC Photovoltaic India was selected to render engineering procurement construction services for the solar PV power project.Solar Frontier was selected as the supplier of PV modules for the project.The inverters were procured from SMA Solar Technology for the project. For more details on Focal Energy Solar India PVt. Ltd (NSM- Phase II - Batch I) Solar PV Park, buy the profile here. 
                                This content was updated on 10 July 2024                                 
                                            From 
                                            
 
                                        Blending expert knowledge with cutting-edge technology, GlobalData’s unrivalled proprietary data will enable you to decode what’s happening in your market. You can make better informed decisions and gain a future-proof advantage over your competitors. 

                                         
 Be better informed
 GlobalData, the leading provider of industry intelligence, provided the underlying research used to produce this article. This information is drawn from GlobalData’s Power Intelligence Center, which provides detailed profiles of over 170,000 active, planned and under construction power plants worldwide from announcement through to operation across all technologies and countries worldwide. Buy the Profile The gold standard of business intelligence. 

                        Find out more
                        



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Future Power Technology :  Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		Power industry news, data and in-depth articles on the global trends driving power generation, renewables and innovation 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024