Share News: When I moved to the Dallas area in 2005, Forney was a tiny town with maybe two exits and a giant jackrabbit stationed just down the road from the town’s true claim to fame: a petite replica of the Statue of Liberty. Over the past 17 years, the Kaufman County town has morphed into a somewhat populous bedroom community and now has four exits, a Starbucks, and one of the hottest ZIP codes in all of America. According to new numbers from iBuyer Opendoor, the 75126 ZIP code of Forney, Texas, saw more homes go under contract within 90 days of listing than any other area. The town has seen a population explosion in recent years thanks to tons of new development, its small-town feel, and its proximity to Dallas. Those factors and many others helped Forney rise in Opendoor’s rankings from its mid-year No. 8 position to No. 5. Aubrey’s 76227 ZIP code, sandwiched between Lewisville Lake and Lake Ray Roberts, came in at No. 13. “It is no surprise these Dallas-Fort Worth ZIPs continue to gain traction and momentum, with Forney ranking No. 5 and Aubrey nearly making the top 10 hottest ZIP Codes in the U.S.,” said Chelsea Goyer, National Head of Brokerage at Opendoor. “Not only is there an uptick in job availability from the tech boom in Dallas, but the small-town environment of these neighborhoods and easy access to the vibrancy of a big city is what buyers are looking for.” The 15-mile-wide town is growing at quite a clip with a population of 23,871 as of the 2020 census. According to the Forney Economic Development Corporation, the average household income in the area is $96,045 while the price of a median new home in the area is $297,081. With more than 5,000 average new home starts in the town, it’s no wonder that the median age of Forney is 33. Aubrey, however, is still on the come-up. The Denton County town has a population of 5,006 according to the 2020 census numbers, a median household income of $64,777, and a median-priced home will set you back $212,100. Joanna England is the former long-time executive editor and a founding editor at CandysDirt.com. We just moved from the growing Frisco tx to forney tx for the country feel and gorgeous neighbors having goats and another with bison on their properties. It’s an amazing feeling to live out here. Away from the hustle and bustle and only minutes from town.  Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ   © 2024 CandysDirt.com | All rights reserved
Site Design by KateOGroup, LLC