By Niomi Harris For Mailonline   Published:  09:41 EDT, 6 April 2023   |  Updated:  09:47 EDT, 6 April 2023      43 View  comments  Chloe Ferry certainly looked on fine form on Thursday as she flaunted her curves while arriving for work at her salon in Newcastle.  The former Geordie Shore star, 27, looked sensational in a figure-hugging brown zip-up top and skintight matching leggings as she strolled down the street. Chloe's form-fitting top was zipped down to show a hint of her ample cleavage while it also highlighted her very narrow waist. The stunner teamed her casual outfit with a pair of black and brown trainers while she stored her essentials in a brown handbag. Chloe left her brunette locks loose for the outing while he features were highlighted with a neutral palette of make-up. Looking good: Chloe Ferry certainly looked on fine form on Thursday as she flaunted her curves while arriving for work at her salon in Newcastle Work it: Chloe happily displayed her jaw-dropping curves in her clingy leggings The Celebs Go Dating star looked in her element as she posed up a storm on the street before heading inside.   It comes after Chloe struggled to contain her ample cleavage as she slipped into a brown balconette bra in a slew of sexy Instagram snaps.  Taking to her social media platform on Wednesday, the TV personality sent temperatures soaring as she posed up a storm for the camera.  Chloe showed off her svelte waist and underboob in the racy lingerie which she teamed with high-waisted jeans.  The reality star wore her brown locks in soft waves and amped up the glamour with a bronzed tan and a full face of make-up.  Paying reference to the figure-hugging denim trousers, Chloe wrote in the caption: 'Swipe for [peach] emoji'.  Fans took to the comments to rave over her sizzling look.  One wrote: 'Gorgeous girl inside and out', while another added: 'Unreal'.  Stunner: Chloe's form-fitting top was zipped down to show a hint of her ample cleavage while it also highlighted her very narrow waist Lovely: Chloe left her brunette locks loose for the outing while he features were highlighted with a neutral palette of make-up Beaming: Chloe flashed a dazzling smile as she strode down the street Great mood: The Geordie Shore favourite was clearly in a good mood as he headed to her salon Keeping in touch: The star clutched n to her mobile phone as she headed to work Catching the eye: She was sure to turn heads in her skintight ensemble Fabulous: The Celebs Go Dating star looked in her element as she posed up a storm on the street before heading inside A third chimed: 'Magnificent'.  Earlier this week, Chloe sported a revealing pink string bikini with a love-heart print detail for the snap. Featuring a halter-neck top and matching bottoms with a string-tied bow at each side, the swimwear showed off her bronzed figure. Eye-popping: It comes after Chloe struggled to contain her ample cleavage as she slipped into a brown balconette bra in a slew of sexy Instagram snaps  Wow: Taking to her social media platform on Wednesday, the TV personality sent temperatures soaring as she posed up a storm for the camera Toned: Earlier this week, Chloe sported a revealing pink string bikini with a love-heart print detail for the snap Gazing to the camera, the former Geordie Shore star also gave a glimpse at the quote tattoo on her thigh. Her brunette locks were sleekly left down in a straight style, with a creamy blonde money piece falling to frame her face. Chloe opted for a very full palette of makeup for the snap, with a bronzed base, fluttering false lashes and glossy lip.  Taking to the caption, she dubbed herself a 'baddie' while sharing the post with her 3.8M followers.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group