
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- EIN Presswire)  
CHICAGO, UNITED STATES, July 6, 2023/einpresswire.com / -- Global quantum cryptography and Network market size is estimated to witness a rise in revenue from US$ 698.31 million in 2022 to US$ 8,136 million by 2031, growing at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of around 33% during the forecast period from 2023 to 2031.

Sample of This Strategic Report@-  

Solutions for quantum cryptography are becoming more widely used, especially in industries, such as finance, healthcare, and defense. While the development of quantum computing technology is likely to play an increasingly significant role in the market, the rise of quantum-based computing and communication technologies is opening up new potential for businesses and governments to improve security and reliability.

With numerous transactions taking place every day, banks and other financial institutions need to protect communication with their customers. These transmissions must be secure and adhere to security standards including integrity, secrecy, and authentication. Since quantum key distribution (QKD) uses quantum mechanics to encrypt and transfer data, this may adopt quantum cryptography and network.

The increase in cybersecurity funding, the rising demand for next-generation security solutions for cloud and IoT technologies, and the development of next-generation wireless network technologies are likely to drive the growth of the global market. These factors are expected to be accompanied by an increase in cyberattack incidents and an acceleration of digitalization. For instance, In June 2023, Google spend US$ 20 million to establish and grow 20 cybersecurity clinics at American institutions. According to data on cybersecurity, there are 2,200 cyberattacks per day, with one occurring around every 39 seconds. In the U.S., the average data breach cost is US$ 9.44 million, and by 2023, cybercrime will cost US$ 8 trillion.

Solution Component to Hold 62% of Market Revenue Share

With over 62% of the revenue share, the solution segment is anticipated to dominate the quantum cryptography and network market. This is due to the rise in the adoption of quantum cryptography technologies by governments and defense organizations in response to the rising demand for secure communication and data transport. 

Network Security to Capture Over 71.3% of Market Revenue

The network security segment is likely to generate over 71.30% revenue share. The use of quantum cryptography and network solutions is rising owing to the growing demand for secure data transit across networks and communication. Additionally, the expansion of the segment is rising to the increase in server virtualization, expanded use of cloud computing services, heightened BYOD usage in workplaces, and surge in IoT application usage.

Quantum Key Distribution Network to Capture 66% of Market Revenue Share

The quantum key distribution will attain a revenue share of more than 66%. As a result, quantum key distribution systems can offer impenetrable security for the transport of sensitive data. A crucial use of quantum cryptography is quantum key distribution, which enables two parties to communicate securely across a public network without worrying about being intercepted or eavesdropped.

Large Enterprises are the Major End-User of Quantum Cryptography

Large enterprise is likely to capture over 72% of the revenue share. As a result, developing and implementing quantum cryptography and network solutions is expensive, making it challenging for smaller businesses to use the technology. Large corporations have the technological know-how and financial resources needed to invest in and maintain quantum network technologies.

Asia Pacific to Attain a Revenue Opportunity of 2,567 Million by 2031

Due to the expanding use of quantum technologies and the rising demand for secure communication and data transfer, the Asia Pacific region is experiencing rapid market expansion. By 2031, the region is expected to earn US$ 2,567 million in revenue, about 14 times more than in 2022. 

The region's two largest economies, China and India, are setting the pace for the adoption of quantum networks and cryptography. Intending to dominate the market, the Chinese government has made considerable expenditures in the advancement of quantum technology. Several top firms in the quantum computing and network solutions market, including Alibaba and Huawei, are based in the nation.

In a similar vein, the Indian government established the National Mission on Quantum Technologies and Applications (NM-QTA) in order to encourage the adoption of quantum technologies in the Asia Pacific quantum cryptography and network market. The mission aims to advance quantum technologies in India with a particular emphasis on computing, communication, and cryptography.

In order to develop and implement quantum cryptography and network solutions, new projects are also being initiated in the Asia Pacific region. For instance, the Chinese Academy of Sciences is creating a quantum communication satellite network to enable secure communication for governmental organizations and financial institutions. Similar to this, the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) is creating the Quantum Experiments Using Satellite Technology (QUEST) quantum communication satellite to offer secure connectivity for the Indian government.

Leading Six Key Players to Generate 40.55% Market Revenue Share

With many businesses offering several products to satisfy the rising demand for secure communication and data transfer, the global market is extremely competitive. The market is characterized by monopolistic competition, and the six largest firms collectively own close to 40.55% of the market. With a market share of nearly 13%, IBM dominates the market. Google is second with 7.46%, and Intel is third with 6.28%. Among the other significant market participants are Toshiba, Microsoft, and D-Wave.

Access to More Full Detailed Report@-  

IBM has a significant market share due to its quantum roadmap, which produces ever-larger and better chips. The company's objectives include developing workforces, accelerating national and international R&D, and creating national quantum ecosystems. According to reports, IBM has a near-global monopoly on the market, and its products are found in significant quantum computers.

The competition between the players is likely to increase owing to the anticipated significant growth of the global quantum cryptography and network market in the upcoming years, with businesses expanding their geographic borders by purchasing small brands and domestic companies to increase their market share.

List of Prominent Players

.Amazon
.Crypta Labs
.IBM Corporation
.D-Wave
.Intel
.Isara and Post-Quantum
.Google LLC
.Magiq Technologies
.Microsoft
.Nucrypt
.Qasky
.Quantum Computing Inc (QCI)
.Quantum Xchange
.Quantumctek
.Qubitekk
.QuintessenceLabs
.Rigetti Computing
.Toshiba
.Xanadu
.Other Prominent Players

Segmentation Outline

The global quantum cryptography and network market segmentation focuses on Component, Security Type, Network Type, Cryptography Encryption Types, Cryptography Encryption Algorithms, Enterprise Size, and Region.

By Component
.Solutions
.Services
By Security Type
.Network security
.Application Security
By Network Type
.Quantum Key Distribution
.Quantum Teleportation
.Others
By Cryptography Encryption Types
.Symmetric
.Asymmetric
By Cryptography Encryption Algorithms
.Triple Data Encryption Standard (DES)
.RSA Encryption
.Advanced Encryption Standards (AES)
.Hash algorithm
By Enterprise Size
.Small and Medium Enterprises
.Large Enterprises
.By End User
.BFSI
.IT and Telecom
.Retail
.Media and Entertainment
.Government and Public Sector
.Manufacturing
.Healthcare
.Others
By Region
.North America
oThe U.S.
oCanada
oMexico
.Europe
.Western Europe
The UK
Germany
France
Italy
Spain
.Rest of Western Europe
Eastern Europe
Poland
Russia
.Rest of Eastern Europe
Asia Pacific
.China
.India
.Japan
.Australia & New Zealand
.South Korea
.ASEAN
.Rest of Asia Pacific
Middle East & Africa (MEA)
.Saudi Arabia
.South Africa
.UAE
.Rest of MEA
South America
.Argentina
.Brazil
.Rest of South America

Download Request Sample Copy of Strategic Report@-  

About Astute Analytica:

Astute Analytica is a global analytics and advisory company that has built a solid reputation in a short period, thanks to the tangible outcomes we have delivered to our clients. We pride ourselves in generating unparalleled, in-depth, and uncannily accurate estimates and projections for our very demanding clients spread across different verticals. We have a long list of satisfied and repeat clients from a wide spectrum including technology, healthcare, chemicals, semiconductors, FMCG, and many more. These happy customers come to us from all across the globe.

They are able to make well-calibrated decisions and leverage highly lucrative opportunities while surmounting the fierce challenges all because we analyze for them the complex business environment, segment-wise existing and emerging possibilities, technology formations, growth estimates, and even the strategic choices available. In short, a complete package. All this is possible because we have a highly qualified, competent, and experienced team of professionals comprising business analysts, economists, consultants, and technology experts. In our list of priorities, you-our patron-come at the top. You can be sure of the best cost-effective, value-added package from us, should you decide to engage with us.Aamir Beg
Astute Analytica
+1 888-429-6757
email us here 
Visit us on social media:
twitter 
linkedin  MENAFN06072023003118003196ID1106564949  Aamir Beg
Astute Analytica
+1 888-429-6757
email us here 
Visit us on social media:
twitter 
linkedin  MENAFN06072023003118003196ID1106564949 MENAFN06072023003118003196ID1106564949 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN