 Global Cloud Xchange, the Bermudian-based network service provider powering global connectivity for new media providers, telecom carriers and enterprises, has signed a strategic agreement with Cambridge Management Consulting. The company said the strategic engagement will expand GCX's reach to offer and deliver its global product and service offerings across various wholesale and enterprise markets using Cambridge MC's key telecom master agents. "For a number of years, the global agent channel has asked us about the opportunity to offer GCX's products," said David Bruce, head of Europe, US and APAC, Global Cloud Xchange. "Today, we're delighted to respond to their interests. Through this collaboration with Cambridge MC, and to support our ambitious growth plans, GCX gains access to a much wider ecosystem of resellers and partners that can offer GCX's portfolio of products and services globally." Tim Passingham, the founder and chairman of Cambridge Management Consulting, said: "Cambridge MC's network of industry executives exist to solve the key sales and marketing pain points of global telecom operators. "Our exceptional consultants are highly experienced and knowledgeable in helping companies scale their organisations through effective channel partnership programmes. From concept through to execution, we help organisations like GCX accelerate and expand their reach to the market." GCX Holdings Limited (Bermuda), operating as Global Cloud Xchange, offers network services that power digital transformation for enterprises, new media providers and telecoms carriers. It covers all aspects of cloud-centric connectivity from managed SD-WAN and hybrid networks to direct Cloud connections and 100 Gps+ waves. GCX provides connectivity throughout Europe, the Middle East, Asia and North America via the vast GCX subsea network — the world's largest private submarine cable network — with extensions available into more than 200 countries worldwide. Cambridge MC has offices in London, Paris and Tel Aviv, and more than 120 consultants in 18 countries. You must be Registered or Signed in to post comment or to vote.    Would you support a smoking ban?  View Results 
View all Obituaries Place an obituary
