Vince Berk is the Chief Strategist at Quantum Xchange, a post-quantum crypto-agility provider. Ph.D. in AI/ML, founder of FlowTraq.   The business of running a healthcare, manufacturing or utility company has nothing to do with running a computer network, but in today's digital-first world, secure network services are critical to protecting data and intellectual property. With nearly 80% of U.S. employees either working from home or via a hybrid model with part of their week in an office, the network is the lifeblood of any organization and data its DNA. Many CIOs are moving from managing their own network to buying connectivity, managed Wi-Fi, capacity and even security and access control from expert service providers that offer networking as a service (NaaS). Effectively outsourcing the building, maintenance, upgrading and operating of the network to a trusted and experienced service provider. As every organization is unique, these providers are differentiating themselves in how well they can create a customized offering to suit each specific need. For instance, connecting an electric utility grid with many small sites requires a different network than connecting a factory manufacturing facility to backend headquarters and data centers. Retailers must provide a secure network for their cash-register machines to comply with PCI-DSS compliance requirements. And just as connectivity requirements differ from business to business, so do security requirements. Hospitals, for example, must comply with HIPAA standards designed to protect sensitive patient data. This introduces a different and nuanced set of requirements for their security. Yet there’s one area of network security that NaaS providers may be overlooking: cryptographic agility, also referred to as crypto-agility. Encryption standards are at the very core of every communication across every network the world over. The security industry has been relying on basically the same RSA encryption standards developed in the 1970s. It’s been a pretty good run. However, it seems likely that RSA is on its last legs. The U.S. government is pushing ahead with plans to develop a new, quantum-resistant cryptographic standard, based on new mathematical algorithms. Yet as soon as quantum computers hit their stride, even a new standard is at risk of being broken far more quickly than anyone wants to believe. Further encryption evolution is necessary and expected. The opportunity for NaaS vendors is to deploy crypto agility now as part of a strategic plan to establish a future-proof infrastructure that can easily keep pace with changing business requirements, regulatory mandates and customer demands well into the era of quantum computing. A crypto-diverse and agile management system can support any number of encryption algorithms. That means that NaaS providers can be nimble enough to not only create bespoke encryption solutions based on each customer’s requirements but also to be able to quickly and easily plug in new cryptography in the event of a break. Take, for example, the defeat of a cryptographic algorithm like RSA or one of the new quantum-safe algorithms is announced, it would immediately expose all financial data to decryption if intercepted. Crypto-agile NaaS providers could immediately change out the cryptographic standard on all customer networks to avoid exposure of customer financial data. The first new encryption algorithms since 1977 will soon be ready, but there will be more to come, as cybercriminals tap quantum advances to speed up hacking. By taking a flexible approach to its cryptographic infrastructure, NaaS providers can prepare the playing field for what their customers will be asking for, if they’re not already doing so. To do that, they should: • Drive cryptography through policy, so that customer-specific desires can more easily be mapped to implemention. • Consider uptime and downtime and proactively deploy solutions to minimize customer impact. • Evaluate risk models across every attack surface so they can identify how crypto agility can make the most customer impact. For networking product managers and solutions architects who are designing tomorrow’s managed connectivity offering, it’s time to build a new foundation of security to prepare for post-quantum cryptography and to lay the groundwork for network operations that will withstand the threats ahead—whatever they may be. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 