TORONTO, ON / ACCESSWIRE / July 10, 2023 / 01 Communique Laboratory Inc. ONEOONEF (the "Company") one of the first-to-market, enterprise level cybersecurity providers for the quantum computing era, is pleased to announce its new technology partnership with Keyfactor, the identity-first security solution for modern enterprises. The partnership will foster the development and joint marketing of quantum-safe X.509 certificates for the Enterprise Certification Authority solution, EJBCA as well as cybersecurity solutions for global businesses, organizations, and governments to help them achieve cyber resilience. "We are thrilled to join forces with 01 Communique to provide cutting-edge cybersecurity solutions for the post-quantum era. By integrating IronCAP™'s patent-protected cryptographic technology combined with post-quantum cryptography (PQC) algorithms selected by NIST for standardization, we are enhancing the way businesses safeguard their sensitive data. Together, we empower vendors and businesses with quantum-safe solutions that not only address current cybersecurity risks but also anticipate and mitigate the challenges of tomorrow," said Rodney Weaver, Business Development Manager at Keyfactor. This partnership marks a significant step towards a secure digital landscape, ensuring peace of mind for organizations and individuals in the face of evolving cyber threats. "Cybercrime is at its peak now and the rapid development in quantum computing intensifies the existing cybersecurity threats by rendering current encryption systems obsolete. We are excited to be partnering with Keyfactor to pioneer the development of quantum-safe X.509 certificates for EJBCA as well as qualified, quantum-safe solutions to protect valuable digital assets from the threats posed by quantum computing," said Andrew Cheung, President and CEO of 01 Communique. "The threat of quantum computing to the world of cybersecurity has arrived. We must prepare and start migrating our current encryption systems to become quantum-safe now." IronCAP™'s combined NIST-approved post-quantum cryptography algorithms and its patent-protected cryptographic technology are designed to operate on current computer systems to safeguard against cyber threats in the post-quantum world of computing. 01 Communique believes this partnership will empower vendors/businesses with quantum-safe solutions to seamlessly tackle cybersecurity risks today and into the future. About Keyfactor Keyfactor brings digital trust to the hyper-connected world with identity-first security for every machine and human. By simplifying PKI, automating certificate lifecycle management, and securing every device, workload, and thing, Keyfactor helps organizations move fast to establish digital trust at scale - and then maintain it. In a zero-trust world, every machine needs an identity and every identity must be managed. For more, visit keyfactor.com or follow @keyfactor. About 01 Communique Established in 1992, 01 Communique ONEOONEF has always been at the forefront of technology. The Company's cyber security business unit focuses on post-quantum cybersecurity with the development of its IronCAP™ product line. IronCAP™'s technologies are patent-protected in the U.S.A. by its patents #11,669,833 and #11,271,715. The Company's remote access business unit provides its customers with a suite of secure remote access services and products under its I'm InTouch and I'm OnCall product offerings. The remote access offerings are protected in the U.S.A. by its patents #6,928,479 / #6,938,076 / #8,234,701; in Canada by its patents #2,309,398 / #2,524,039 and in Japan by its patent #4,875,094. For more information, visit the Company's web site at www.ironcap.ca and www.01com.com. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements Certain statements in this news release may constitute "forward-looking" statements which involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. When used in this news release, such statements use such words as "may", "will", "expect", "believe", "anticipate", "plan", "intend", "are confident" and other similar terminology. Such statements include statements regarding the business prospects of IronCAP™ and IronCAP X™, the future of quantum computers and their impact on the Company's product offering, the functionality of the Company's products and the intended product lines for the Company's technology. These statements reflect current expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date of this news release. Forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, should not be read as guarantees of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of whether or not such results will be achieved. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the matters discussed in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, a delay in the anticipated adoption of quantum computers and a corresponding delay in Q-Day, the ability for the Company to generate sales, and gain adoption of, IronCAP™ and IronCAP X™, the ability of the Company to raise financing to pursue its business plan, competing products that provide a superior product, competitors with greater resources and the factors discussed under "Risk and Uncertainties" in the company's Management`s Discussion and Analysis document filed on SEDAR. Although the forward-looking statements contained in this news release are based upon what management of the Company believes are reasonable assumptions, the company cannot assure investors that actual results will be consistent with these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this news release, and the company assumes no obligation to update or revise them to reflect new events or circumstances. Neither TSX Venture Exchange ("TSX-V") nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release. INVESTOR CONTACT: Brian StringerChief Financial Officer01 Communique(905) 795-2888 x204Brian.stringer@01com.com SOURCE: 01 Communique Laboratory, Inc. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.