The Home of the Security Bloggers Network Home » Security Bloggers Network » Patch Tuesday Update – August 2023 Microsoft announced fixes for 86 new CVEs this month, including 6 Microsoft-rated critical vulnerabilities. This month there were 2 new zero-day vulnerabilities disclosed; also, there were 2 updates to previously reported exploitable vulnerabilities (ADV230001 and CVE-2023-36884). Additionally, there were 2 new advisories and 5 other updates to previously released CVEs and advisories. *** This is a Security Bloggers Network syndicated blog from Blog – Balbix authored by Bill Niester. Read the original post at: https://www.balbix.com/blog/patch-tuesday-update-august-2023/    Application Security Check Up





Step 1 of 8


12%


Do you develop your own software in your organization?(Required)


Yes



No



Not sure








What portion of your cyber risk is Application Security (AppSec)? (Select one)(Required)


We over-focus on AppSec



We focus on AppSec to match the risk



We under-focus on AppSec



 




What are the biggest challenges you face implementing a robust AppSec strategy? (Select all that apply)


Lack of budget



Insufficient skilled personnel



Complexity of integrating security into the development lifecycle



Resistance from development teams



Keeping up with evolving security threats



Lack of executive buy-in



Other (please specify)



Other



 




Which DevSecOps practices are widely used for actively developed projects (not legacy) (Select all that apply):(Required)

Automated unit and functional tests for quality run in the pipeline with merge blocking


Automated application security testing (AST) in development and (SAST/IAST) runs in the pipeline


Automated AST tools to find vulnerabilities in the code you import (SCA) run in the pipeline


Merge blocking at current policy level for AST checks


Secrets management so no secrets stored in source code repositories



 




How do you assess and mitigate risk of For NON actively developed products (legacy) (Select all that apply):

In-production scans using DAST products like Qualys, Nessus, etc.


Periodic penetration testing


Periodic running of AST tools


Manual code reviews by security specialists


Use of third-party security assessment services


No assessment or mitigation effort is happening



 




How do you resolve the security issues found? (Select all that apply):(Required)

In-production scans using DAST products like Qualys, Nessus, etc.


Periodic penetration testing


Periodic running of AST tools


Manual code reviews by security specialists


Use of third-party security assessment services


No assessment or mitigation effort is happening



 




Which best describes security training for your developers? (Select all that apply)(Required)

Monthly


Quarterly


Annually


As part of onboarding


Just-in-time via integration with AST tools when a vulnerability is found


No formal training provided



 




How do you determine your level of investment in AppSec? (Select all that apply)(Required)

Perceived risk and threat landscape


Industry benchmarks and standards


Historical spending patterns / budget constraints


Recommendations from third-parties


We do not have a formal process

  









Δ



  Step 1 of 8
 Δ