NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT A passer-by heckled prime minister Rishi Sunak during a trip to Morecambe, asking if he could borrow some money to pay his energy bills.  Mr Sunak was visiting the seaside resort town in Lancashire today, when a member of the public shouted: ‘Lend us 20 quid for my heating bill, Rishi.’  The request for help went unanswered, though it was unclear whether Mr Sunak heard. Mr Sunak and his Indian heiress wife, Akshata Murty, are worth an estimated £730 million – roughly double the wealth of King Charles. Household energy bills increased by 54% in April last year, triggering a cost of living crisis across the country. The government later intervened to limit prices in October.  Mr Sunak was in Morecambe to see the proposed site of the Eden Project North, after announcing £50 million for the project from the Government’s levelling up fund.  The prime minister praised the ‘huge buzz’ in the seaside town, after meeting those involved in the project with Levelling Up secretary Michael Gove.  Mr Sunak was shown plans for the attraction, before a question and answer session with people from local organisations.  He was grilled about the NHS crisis, transport and tourism, though was also thanked for the investment.  ‘I’ve just come back from the site where we’re looking at what’s going to be created. It is going to be spectacular, absolutely amazing,’ he said. ‘We’re going to create hundreds of jobs and we’re going to attract visitors from all around the world.’ Mr Sunak was widely ridiculed last year after he appeared confused by using a contactless card at a petrol station.  He did manage to fill up the car, which later turned out to be a red Kia Rio borrowed from a Sainsbury’s employee.  The Eden Project North will include Tidal Gardens that can host music and live events for up to 6,000 people.  It is being delivered by the team behind the Eden Project in Cornwall, along with Lancaster University, Lancaster City Council, Lancashire County Council and the Lancashire Enterprise Partnership. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web
							browser that
							supports HTML5
								video ‘We’re going to make sure we inspire so many people to think about our natural world and help tackle and solve some of the challenges in climate change,’ said Mr Sunak.  Five motorcyclists die after two crashes less than an hour apart Chaos at Waterloo station as severe disruption expected for 'the rest of the day' Bus crashes into theatre in London's West End British teen 'gang-raped in Magaluf by mob who invited strangers to join in' ‘We’re going to do that right here in your hometown.’ Conservative MP for Morecambe and Lunesdale, David Morris, who also attended, said: ‘Today has been far better than anything I’ve done in my life so far.’ Metro.co.uk has contacted No 10 for comment. Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk. For more stories like this, check our news page. Privacy Policy  Get us in your feed