You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: May 9, 2024, 11:04am Have a question for John Iwuozor or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to John Iwuozor, Kelly Main and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Qt9 ERP is an all-in-one cloud enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform that supports the automation of business data from multiple systems into a scalable solution. It offers a wide range of features which includes inventory management, manufacturing and production tracking, bill of materials (BOM), accounting and sales management and more. The platform helps manufacturers streamline their operations and get more out of their data. In this piece, we’ll take a comprehensive look at Qt9 ERP to determine whether it’ll be a good fit for your business. Qt9 ERP is software that integrates multiple business processes for life sciences, medical device manufacturers, pharmaceutical and biotech companies. The system provides real-time reports, connects all company locations, eliminates outdated spreadsheets and paper logs and allows for centralized information. It supports data integration with 18-plus preinstalled business modules across a variety of functions, such as: Qt9 ERP is well-regarded for its ease of use and intuitive navigation. Thanks to its workflow features and integration of multiple applications into one software solution, users report increased efficiency and productivity across different business functions. The system allows you to automate manual tasks, leverage real-time analytics, share and update data across multiple systems to reduce the risk of errors and be able to make informed strategic decisions. Qt9 ERP seems to have garnered a lot of positive feedback from users so far. However, some customers have found the software to be overwhelming, with a steep learning curve while others have reported difficulty with configuring custom reporting in the software. Qt9 ERP provides businesses with a centralized system to manage their inventory levels. This enables users to shift from a reactive to a proactive inventory management approach by providing real-time inventory dashboards, automatic reorder points and multilocation inventory tracking. This allows businesses to track each inventory transaction back to the business function that created it, ensuring a complete audit trail. It also helps to save time and money by optimizing inventory levels (ensuring the right amount of inventory on hand in the right locations to meet demand), preventing shortages and reducing costs. When it comes to finance and accounting, Qt9 ERP provides businesses with a 360-degree view to automating and simplifying transactions. The software takes the complexity out of financial tracking and planning by eliminating outdated spreadsheets and synchronizing financial systems across multiple locations and functions. This helps users keep tabs on their money by reconciling bank accounts, managing credit card transactions and detecting unrecorded transactions and accounting errors. Qt9 ERP centralizes all manufacturing processes, including purchasing, shipping and planning and eliminates the need for manual data entry and spreadsheets. The software optimizes scheduling using real-time production data and provides complete traceability with an audit trail. It features total shop floor management, including barcoding and paperless options and automates manufacturing processes by linking orders to jobs and shipping. Qt9 ERP Desktop offers accounting integration for both QuickBooks and Sage 50. These integrations allow users to manage sales invoices and supplier bills directly with the accounting software, reduce manual data entry, prevent duplicate work and gain insight into sales performance, profitability and costs across all locations. Featured Partners 1 Bookkeeper360 Starting at $49 per month Yes Yes 1 Bookkeeper360 On Bookkeeper360's Website 2 1-800Accountant Starting from $179 per month Dedicated bookkeeper, tax preparation, tax advisory, payroll Yes 2 1-800Accountant On 1-800Accountant's Website 3 Brainy Advisors 30 days All Accountants are Licensed CPAs! Discounted Expedited Catch-up, Led by Big 4 Veterans, Dedicated Bookkeeper, Unlimited Client Calls 3 Brainy Advisors On Brainy Advisor's Website Qt9 ERP provides a BOM software solution for manufacturers to manage their production processes. The software allows for centralizing BOM information, connecting to other business processes and modernizing BOM processes. It provides multi-level capabilities, unlimited revisions and links to the rest of the business to increase planning capacity. It also helps to connect people, products and data to improve job routing accuracy and maintain the right amount of inventory. Qt9 ERP simplifies purchasing by managing the complete cycle and streamlining processes. With the software, you can automate the procurement cycle for purchasing direct and indirect goods and services. The software combines purchasing needs with sales and production demand to plan smarter and provides complete traceability of who ordered what and when and allows setting approvals by dollar amount. With this feature, businesses can manage and track freight delivery effectively. The platform simplifies shipping operations by managing all shipping activities in a single platform with a user-friendly interface. Shipping labels, bills of lading and packing lists can be generated with the click of a button. Qt9 ERP connects shipping operations with the rest of the business and empowers employees to work together. It allows users to track custom data, allocate inventory and improve cash flow by easily creating invoices. The customer web portal provides real-time status updates of shipments to customers and the shipping dashboards offer data-driven insights and tracking of every shipping transaction, on-time shipping and shipping history. Qt9 ERP provides tools to manage your shop’s workflow and boost productivity by becoming as paperless as possible and ensuring complete traceability with an audit trail and transactional inventory. The software also provides a 360-degree view of the shop floor by printing labels on demand, streamlining job data and tracking labor with barcodes. Qt9 ERP does not have any pricing information displayed on its website as users are required to reach out for a custom quote. However, the process of acquiring a quote can be cumbersome as sales will ask to have a conversation in order to provide a quote. However, the software does offer a 30-day free trial and demo for interested prospects. QT9 ERP is a popular and well-received software with many users praising its ease of use. The software’s interface is intuitive and easy to navigate with users able to find what they need quickly and easily. It’s highly customizable and provides a range of functionalities that help streamline operations and raise productivity. QT9 ERP also offers excellent customer service and training, making it easy for users to learn and make the most of the software. QT9 ERP employs a firewall with stateful packet inspection, layered infrastructure access control and software-enforced data access policies. Sensitive server data communication is encrypted using secure sockets layer (SSL) encryption, processed credit card payments are Payment Card Industry (PCI)-compliant and servers and workstations run on current operating system software for added security. Qt9 ERP has received high marks for its customer service and training, with users praising the responsiveness of customer support and the quality of the training they’ve received. Its training academy provides a library of resources including video tutorials and webinars, and you can gain access to 24/7 personalized assistance from the Qt9 support team. As such, they offer email and phone support. There are two options available in the Qt9 ERP software suite. Accessible from anywhere with an internet connection on any device, QT9 ERP Web is a web-based, cloud solution that requires no installation. This browser-based application, supported by Microsoft Edge, Firefox, Chrome or Safari, comes with its own accounting package, eliminating the need for any third-party integrations. For those who prefer to use a 3rd party accounting system such as QuickBooks or Sage 50, QT9 ERP Desktop is a Windows client installation. This solution can be cloud-based, with the QT9 software network hosting all of the data while the customer connects through the QT9 ERP Desktop client installation on their computer. An internet connection is required for this option. As with QT9 ERP Web, QT9 ERP Desktop can also be hosted on-premise, if needed. Microsoft Dynamics 365 is a collection of intelligent business applications that aims to streamline operations, enhance customer experiences and reduce complexity without adding extra costs. The software uses AI technology to provide businesses with valuable insights and optimization opportunities. Dynamics 365 is ideal for organizations that require modern ERP solutions and seek to overcome siloed approaches. Compared to Qt9 ERP, Microsoft Dynamics 365 also offers customer relationship management (CRM) software that integrates smoothly with the broader ERP systems, making it a compelling option for businesses that heavily rely on customer relationships. The solution which supports HR management is designed to work together with existing systems and can be customized to fit individual business needs, including sales and marketing, customer service, finance, commerce and supply chain. SYSPRO is an industry-built ERP system designed for manufacturers and distributors. The ERP system simplifies complexity and adds value to businesses by streamlining the supply chain, providing greater control and visibility and personalizing the experience. While Qt9 ERP may be ideal for companies in the life sciences, pharmaceutical and food industries, Syspro caters to manufacturing and distribution companies and provides a CRM for sales, marketing and service users. Epicor Prophet 21 is a cloud-based software solution that aims to drive growth and modernize workflows for distributors. It offers a wide range of features in inventory and supply chain management, sales management, value-added services, eCommerce, customer experience, warehouse management, finance and accounting and business intelligence. Compared to Qt9 ERP, Prophet 21 is built on Microsoft Azure Cloud and aimed at helping distributors scale and grow without compromise. Qt9 ERP caters to small, medium-sized and large organizations operating industries that include manufacturing, plastics, pharmaceuticals and food and beverage production. One of the key strengths of QT9 ERP is its modular design. This allows businesses to start with a basic implementation of the software and add modules as their needs grow. If you need a robust and flexible system that can grow with your business without worrying about the costs associated or implementing a more complex solution, Qt9 ERP may be a great choice for you. QT9 is a complete ERP solution for small to midsize businesses (SMBs). It’s designed for companies that need to manage their entire operation in one place, without having to rely on multiple software programs. ERP stands for enterprise resource planning. Its main function is to provide a single source of data for all processes and functions within an organization. ERP consists of various modules, such as financial management, production planning, inventory management, sales order processing, CRM and supply chain management. The most popular ERP software are Oracle NetSuite, SAP ERP, Oracle ERP Cloud and Microsoft Dynamics 365. The right solution depends on your business’ size, niche and specific needs. The popular types of ERPs include: on-premise, cloud-based and hybrid ERPs. An on-premises system is installed on an organization’s server, a cloud-based system is hosted by a third party and accessed via the Internet while a hybrid ERP combines both on-premises and cloud-based solutions to provide greater security.