95%of our graduates were in employment and/or further study, due to start a new job or course, or doing other activities, such as travelling.(HESA 2021) of our graduates were in employment and/or further study, due to start a new job or course, or doing other activities, such as travelling.(HESA 2021) (HESA 2021) Working to makea better futurefor Wales and the world a better futurefor Wales and the world for Wales and the world We putour communitiesat the heart of everything we do our communitiesat the heart of everything we do at the heart of everything we do Welcoming andambitiouswe are truly a globaluniversity we are truly a globaluniversity A leadinguniversityin the heart of athriving capital city in the heart of athriving capital city We are a research-led school with a reputation for excellent teaching and courses with real-world impact.  We are based across four sites, comprising more than 2000 students and 190 specialist staff across research, teaching and professional services. Our primary home is Abacws, a state-of-the-art facility in the heart of the city. Study with us. Discover our range of relevant degree programmes which are shaped by our leading, multidisciplinary research. Find out about our world-class research in complex systems, data and knowledge engineering and visual computing. We are recognised by the UK National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) as an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Education (ACE-CSE) and as an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research (ACE-CSR). A centre of excellence for software engineering education in Wales and part of the School of Computer Sciences and Informatics. The Data Science Academy is a hub for data-intensive science set up to educate the next generation of experts in the field. 24 July 2024 More than 100 students from nine schools across south Wales came to Abacws for the CyberFirst Wales Girls event, hosted by the School of Computer Science and Informatics. 25 June 2024 29 May 2024 28 May 2024  We are a research-led school with a reputation for excellent teaching and courses with real-world impact. School of Computer Science and Informatics, Cardiff University, Abacws, Senghennydd Road, Cardiff, CF24 4AG We are proud to hold the Athena SWAN Bronze Award and we continually strive to ensure gender equality. Learn about our Athena SWAN application Copyright Cardiff University. Registered charity no. 1136855