ANYONE who has been to Poundland in recent years will likely be shocked by the large hike in prices. After all, few things are now actually £1. But one savvy shopper named Faye has shared an old school Poundland haul consisting of items that really have kept their £1 price tag - and the bargain buys include everything from cleaning products to chub rub.  For any homeowners out there, Faye begins by noting that she spotted the perfect purchase to keep your home smelling fresh - wax melts.  "I like a new wax melt when I'm off work because I like to cosy up," she explains. "I like a blanket, window wide open, big mug of coffee and some candles on. "You know when the dust is settled, the kids have gone to bed and everything's just calm and you're in that really chilled, where you know you're going to fall asleep state... "I quite like having a melt on so I got this Yankee candle wax melt and that was £1." FABULOUS FIVER: SPEND £5 AND GET A £25 WELCOME BONUS Faye then goes on to say how she nabbed an Airfryer liner, 20 candle tea lights, an iPhone case, six Wagon Wheels and a dog toy that's "strong and durable" - all for £1 each. Next, she turns her attention to a must-have beauty item that she says many people always forget about - combs.  "This is a 12-pack of combs," she says.  "Do you know why I got some combs...to take to work. "It's usually the one thing, which is crazy to me, most people haven't got. "People have a really nice wash and shower, put on some lovely clothes, a bit of blusher, a bit of lippy...and no b****y brush!" Another product Faye's delighted at finding for £1 is a packet of razors.  "I love these ones, they're my favourite," she enthuses.  "They're not rough, they don't take your skin off, they're just nice and they've got aloe vera in them." And for beauty lovers out there, listen up!  "Foundation - this was a quid," says Faye. "I like the consistency of it. "It's quite thick - it's like cement. The savvy shopper then goes on to show something that she's never spotted in store before - and it's perfect for anyone suffering from chub rub this summer.  "It's body powder- it's cooling, drying and absorbent and helps relieve itching and chafing of the skin," she says.  "I thought you know, when my thighs are giving it all that, whack a bit of this on." And for cleaning fans out there, Faye's helpful £1 shopping haul has also got you covered... "Antibacterial wipes - you get 70 in here for £1...that's b****y value," she says. "Astonish floor cleaner in zesty lemon...so I do use my Flash speed mop with the wipes but sometimes I just get some of this together, chuck it on the floor and take it from there." The bargain shopper also nabbed antibacterial pink grapefruit cleaner, Fairy liquid and coconut-hydrating shampoo - again, for £1 each.  "I got some Domestos - this is a three-in-one power clean for your toilet - that was a quid," she continues, before then holding up an . Elbow Grease stain remover bar.  "I'm going to have a go on my work top with the ink," she says. "And then just sometimes the kids will come home with a bit of mud on their shirt that won't come out and it drives me mad, so I'm going to try this." ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/