Workshops July 8 | 5:10PM Online Free Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events! Digital Event Online For Age(s) 18+ Language Hinglish Masterclass Learn from an expert Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience Workshops July 8 | 5:10PM Online Free Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events! Digital Event Online For Age(s) 18+ Language Hinglish Masterclass Learn from an expert Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience Digital Event Online For Age(s) 18+ Language Hinglish Masterclass Learn from an expert Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience FREE Masterclass on Startup Investing by Rohan Bajaj Sir (Angel Investor | Ex Flipkart, Nutanix, Quikr)Why should you invest in startups?Startups are our economy's future; they will eventually represent India’s corporate sector. The benefits of investments in startups may not yield great returns in the short run. However, startups with proper capital requirements and management can achieve more than expected.The investors will have better leverage in controlling the system of the startup. Capitalists can gain many benefits from investment by investing in a startup. In return for their investment, they get an ownership interest in the company. By just providing initial capital and management services, the harvest will be outstanding.The Indian government is playing a massive role in providing benefits to those who provide services to new startups. In a recent survey, it was discovered that, together with loan companies, the government of India has committed a total of 1611.1 crores to venture capital companies.New sections about exemptions, benefits, and rebates have been added to the act to boost start-up as well as funding. Henceforth, new norms such as exemptions from capital gains have to be introduced to compel more investment.Efforts are in the process of encouraging foreign investors to invest in Indian startups. This provides an excellent opportunity for Indian investors to invest in foreign companies. Through this, they can generate more returns to help Indian startups and expand their businesses internationally.Because of the emerging startups in India, healthy competition will be created in our economy. This will, in turn, give rise to a higher GDP, and per capita income will increase. This will create a conducive business environment for existing businesses as well as new startups and establishments.So, to help you invest in startups, we are organizing a FREE and LIVE webinar for you, and we will be covering the below topics in our session.Rohan's Tried-and-Tested Framework to find great startupsLearn how to assess different industries.How and where to invest in startups?Class Link: To be shared after registration Startups are our economy's future; they will eventually represent India’s corporate sector. The benefits of investments in startups may not yield great returns in the short run. However, startups with proper capital requirements and management can achieve more than expected. So, to help you invest in startups, we are organizing a FREE and LIVE webinar for you, and we will be covering the below topics in our session. Class Link: To be shared after registration Workshops July 8 | 5:10PM Online Free Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events! Digital Event Online For Age(s) 18+ Language Hinglish Masterclass Learn from an expert Invite your friends and enjoy a shared experience   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now Free Sorry, this show is already over but head here for other fun events!   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now   ₹ Buy now Subscribe to our newsletter There’s a range of amazing experiences; from music and comedy to food and beverage festivals that you probably have nooooooo idea about. Be in the know! HIT PAUSE ON BOREDOM Watch and cheer for your favourite teams, Discover new hobbies with workshops & courses And Groove to the beats of your favourite artists. Download our App now! Curated & Handpicked Events in Online Music Events: Gigs & Festivals  in Online Comedy shows: Standup & Open Mic in Online Cheer Your Favourite Sports Team! Cheer Your Favourite Sports Team! Trekking, Camping & Adventure in Online EXPLORE events in TRENDING cities Paytm Insider is a platform that helps you discover and buy the best in events, travel and food in your city. We strive to curate experiences that are worth your time and money, possibly something you have never tried before. Paytm Insider is built by the same team that created Bacardi NH7 Weekender (us) and we sure know what goes into putting together a great experience. Our technology, marketing and customer support can help you build a community of not just ticket buyers, but also fans. Find us on: