Today's E-Paper Web Stories Shorts Updated on: 20 August,2023 09:33 AM IST  |  Mumbai 
 Jaison Lewis

							 |  
													
 Protect the planet and your wallet by going for a pre-loved gadget instead of investing in a brand-new one 

 Representation Pic 
There is too much importance given to buying things new, a wasteful exercise of time and money. The life of most gadgets, especially phones, can extend to five years, and even beyond, if maintained. Most of us tend to replace phones in a year or two, causing massive e-waste in the process. So next time you plan to buy something, why not consider something second-hand? I am not talking about sites like OLX, Facebook Marketplace or Quikr. Instead, there are places where you can buy tested gadgets with a warranty and basic things like customer support.  ADVERTISEMENT>> AmazonAmazon is a surprisingly great place to find a deal on a pre-loved gadget. You can generally find these items tagged as refurbished or renewed. They might be customer returns, refurbished products from the manufacturer or in some cases, used products. If they are sold directly from Amazon, you can be assured of a one-year warranty on them, so when buying make sure you are buying from Amazon directly. Products that you can easily find on Amazon are laptops, phones, headphones and computer accessories. As for customer support, Amazon is pretty up there. >> CEX

CEX is a UK brand that came to India a few years ago. They specialise in second-hand electronics and videogames that are tested and carry a two-year warranty. You can also exchange your old gear for vouchers to get something newer. It’s a great place for tech hoarders who may have several generations of phones lying around. The prices are a little steep for second hand, however, the two-year warranty is unbeatable. If you are looking for some reliable but relatively low-priced gear, then this is the place to get it. Their website is not the best, but it can help you locate what is available in a store around the city or country. There are three stores in the city. 
>> Cashify
Cashify is another place where you can buy some fancy second-hand tech. They have an advantage when it comes to stores: there are a few around the city and you can sell your old tech to them to buy something newer just like CEX. However, they offer a maximum of a one-year warranty. You need to check each device to see the warranty offered. Their customer support is pretty decent and for any problem with the device, you can always head to the closest store to solve it. There is a good variety of devices on offer as well. Some are a little more expensive than they need to be, but again you are paying for customer support and reliability.
>> Ovantica
Ovantica is a relatively new player in the second-hand market but they have a pretty decent collection of tech gear. They are based in the South, and they do not have any physical stores. That said they are pretty prompt at delivery, and their customer support is available on several channels and is pretty good as well. They offer between six and twelve months of warranty on their phones with doorstep pickup. You can even replace your phone in the first seven days in case of a problem. Unlike other sites, they don’t have a selection of quality with a price marked accordingly. Instead, all their phones are in superb condition. You can also sell your phone on their site. The site also deals with second-hand laptops but doesn’t seem to have a huge stock. 
>> Sahivalue

Sahivakue is another player in the second-hand market. They are also purely online and they sell a variety of tech including smart watches, laptops, accessories and phones. Their speciality is that all the photos on the site are of the actual product, which means you can examine everything before buying it. However, you need to pay attention to their warranty, and it varies from device to device, with some just carrying seven days of warranty. Also, their customer care isn’t the best. The prices however are very competitive, and you can swing a really good deal on this site very easily. From the options available, though, this is possibly the last one I would choose, simply because some products have just a seven-day warranty and it isn’t immediately apparent. If I had to buy, I would typically do the one-year warranty products from this site. 
>> Places to avoid when buying second-hand

While these sites offer warranty there is another place you can buy from, and that is your neighbourhood mobile shop. These shops typically have second-hand mobile phones and will usually offer some sort of warranty. Since they are a brick-and-mortar store it is less likely to cheat you, and you can easily ask around before buying. There are places you should avoid buying from though. They are OLX, Quikr and Facebook Marketplace. These sites offer a bit of anonymity, and therefore chances of being scammed are very high. Typically, with these places, I will want to physically pick up the product, and I would not carry cash while going to view either as an additional layer of security. You also don’t know if the device in question works all that well or if they are stolen goods.
Social Media causes bodily inflammation?

A study by University at Buffalo researcher David Lee unveiled a surprising connection between inflammation and social media engagement. Published in the journal Brain, Behavior and Immunity, the study involving over 1,800 participants across three experiments showed that elevated levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), a biomarker produced by the liver in response to bodily inflammation, correlate with heightened social media usage among middle-aged adults and college students. The research highlights that increased CRP levels appear to stimulate interaction on social media platforms, including direct messaging and posting.
These lampshades can combat air pollution

Scientists have introduced a novel solution to address indoor air pollution – lampshades coated with a catalyst capable of converting harmful indoor pollutants into harmless substances. This tech is compatible with halogen and incandescent light bulbs and promises to significantly improve indoor air quality in homes and workplaces. The research, recently presented at American Chemical Society (ACS) Fall 2023 meeting, focuses on volatile organic compounds (VOCs), a primary source of indoor airborne pollutants originating from paints, plastics, and more. Unlike traditional air purification methods relying on filters or UV processes, these specially coated lampshades harness the latent heat generated by bulbs.  There is too much importance given to buying things new, a wasteful exercise of time and money. The life of most gadgets, especially phones, can extend to five years, and even beyond, if maintained. Most of us tend to replace phones in a year or two, causing massive e-waste in the process. So next time you plan to buy something, why not consider something second-hand? I am not talking about sites like OLX, Facebook Marketplace or Quikr. Instead, there are places where you can buy tested gadgets with a warranty and basic things like customer support.   ADVERTISEMENT Amazon is a surprisingly great place to find a deal on a pre-loved gadget. You can generally find these items tagged as refurbished or renewed. They might be customer returns, refurbished products from the manufacturer or in some cases, used products. If they are sold directly from Amazon, you can be assured of a one-year warranty on them, so when buying make sure you are buying from Amazon directly. Products that you can easily find on Amazon are laptops, phones, headphones and computer accessories. As for customer support, Amazon is pretty up there.    CEX is a UK brand that came to India a few years ago. They specialise in second-hand electronics and videogames that are tested and carry a two-year warranty. You can also exchange your old gear for vouchers to get something newer. It’s a great place for tech hoarders who may have several generations of phones lying around. The prices are a little steep for second hand, however, the two-year warranty is unbeatable. If you are looking for some reliable but relatively low-priced gear, then this is the place to get it. Their website is not the best, but it can help you locate what is available in a store around the city or country. There are three stores in the city.  Cashify is another place where you can buy some fancy second-hand tech. They have an advantage when it comes to stores: there are a few around the city and you can sell your old tech to them to buy something newer just like CEX. However, they offer a maximum of a one-year warranty. You need to check each device to see the warranty offered. Their customer support is pretty decent and for any problem with the device, you can always head to the closest store to solve it. There is a good variety of devices on offer as well. Some are a little more expensive than they need to be, but again you are paying for customer support and reliability. Ovantica is a relatively new player in the second-hand market but they have a pretty decent collection of tech gear. They are based in the South, and they do not have any physical stores. That said they are pretty prompt at delivery, and their customer support is available on several channels and is pretty good as well. They offer between six and twelve months of warranty on their phones with doorstep pickup. You can even replace your phone in the first seven days in case of a problem. Unlike other sites, they don’t have a selection of quality with a price marked accordingly. Instead, all their phones are in superb condition. You can also sell your phone on their site. The site also deals with second-hand laptops but doesn’t seem to have a huge stock.   Sahivakue is another player in the second-hand market. They are also purely online and they sell a variety of tech including smart watches, laptops, accessories and phones. Their speciality is that all the photos on the site are of the actual product, which means you can examine everything before buying it. However, you need to pay attention to their warranty, and it varies from device to device, with some just carrying seven days of warranty. Also, their customer care isn’t the best. The prices however are very competitive, and you can swing a really good deal on this site very easily. From the options available, though, this is possibly the last one I would choose, simply because some products have just a seven-day warranty and it isn’t immediately apparent. If I had to buy, I would typically do the one-year warranty products from this site.   While these sites offer warranty there is another place you can buy from, and that is your neighbourhood mobile shop. These shops typically have second-hand mobile phones and will usually offer some sort of warranty. Since they are a brick-and-mortar store it is less likely to cheat you, and you can easily ask around before buying. There are places you should avoid buying from though. They are OLX, Quikr and Facebook Marketplace. These sites offer a bit of anonymity, and therefore chances of being scammed are very high. Typically, with these places, I will want to physically pick up the product, and I would not carry cash while going to view either as an additional layer of security. You also don’t know if the device in question works all that well or if they are stolen goods.  A study by University at Buffalo researcher David Lee unveiled a surprising connection between inflammation and social media engagement. Published in the journal Brain, Behavior and Immunity, the study involving over 1,800 participants across three experiments showed that elevated levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), a biomarker produced by the liver in response to bodily inflammation, correlate with heightened social media usage among middle-aged adults and college students. The research highlights that increased CRP levels appear to stimulate interaction on social media platforms, including direct messaging and posting.  Scientists have introduced a novel solution to address indoor air pollution – lampshades coated with a catalyst capable of converting harmful indoor pollutants into harmless substances. This tech is compatible with halogen and incandescent light bulbs and promises to significantly improve indoor air quality in homes and workplaces. The research, recently presented at American Chemical Society (ACS) Fall 2023 meeting, focuses on volatile organic compounds (VOCs), a primary source of indoor airborne pollutants originating from paints, plastics, and more. Unlike traditional air purification methods relying on filters or UV processes, these specially coated lampshades harness the latent heat generated by bulbs. 

 
			• This is our original content. Please fill up the form for authorized use of the content.  Captcha Code  Captcha Code > 

 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT 

 ADVERTISEMENT