Capitalize My Title is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Learn more QuillBot is one of the many artificial intelligence (AI) content writing tools that have taken the content writing industry by storm in the last few years with new advances in natural language processing (NLP). It offers some cool features, like a Paraphraser, that rewrite your existing content so that it will sound better or can be used in different places without being used verbatim. We took both the free plan and premium plan for a spin for this review to see how they performed. Table of Contents In the following sections, we’ll evaluate QuillBot’s various features and interface. The paraphrasing tool (known as the Paraphraser) is QuillBot’s bread and butter. This is the tool that sets QuillBot apart from other grammar and AI copywriting tools.  The paraphrasing tool lets you rewrite content in order to make it more concise, make it longer, make it sound a different way, or change it in several other ways. The tool comes with seven “paraphrasing modes” (two with the free version – Standard and Fluency) that determine how the tool will change your text: What is odd about some of these modes is that they seem like they should overlap. For example, “fluency” should overlap with every other writing mode on this list since it’s supposed to make your writing sound better. To show you how your text changes, we have captured screenshots of a sample paragraph that we wrote and show you how the text changes depending on the mode selected. Standard Mode Fluency Mode Formal Mode Simple Mode Creative Mode Expand Mode Shorten Mode Compare Modes While not technically a “mode” itself, the “Compare Modes” feature lets you see how a sentence will appear in different modes. You can either use the sidebar tool or view this in-line. You also have a setting to select how much of your text is changed. Simply called “Synonyms,” this setting lets you select how many words in your text will be changed. The higher the synonym options, the more words (and thus potentially less accurate) your rewritten text will be. There are three settings with the free plan and four settings with the premium plan. We took our sample document’s first paragraph and ran it through the free version of QuillBot to see how it would change. Below you can see how Levels 1 and 3 differ. QuillBot’s paraphrasing tool does a good job of rewriting content. Although the changes above may seem small, the overall flow of your text can change drastically if you use this tool for longer content. The AI evaluates all of the text at once so that the output may rearrange entire sentences in addition to changing the phrasing of the sentence.  Overall, we think that the “Modes” feature is more useful compared to the “Synonyms” one. The “Synonyms” changes seemed minimal, especially when the free options were compared to the paid ones. For “Modes,” the Standard one (available for free) did a reasonable job of rewriting our content.  The main advantages of the paraphrasing tool come with the Premium mode features, particularly the Formal, Simple, and Shorten options. Of course, if you’re trying to eke out a few more words for a work assignment, the Expand mode works well, too. There are plenty of plagiarism checkers on the market, so we were interested in trying QuillBot’s. QuillBot’s plagiarism detector is only available with a Premium plan.  The plagiarism checker only lets you run 20 pages per month through the tool, so it’s a bit limited when compared to other tools on the market. You can always buy more pages for $7.45 for 25 pages, but that seems expensive given that there are plenty of other plagiarism checkers out there with unlimited searches. We took an article that was published on one of our other blogs and ran it through QuillBot’s plagiarism checker.  It’s a good thing that this plagiarism checker identified the existing article. We’ll give QuillBot’s plagiarism checker a good mark since it was able to find the plagiarism. QuillBot also comes with a grammar checker as part of the Premium plan. It’s fairly standard as far as grammar checkers go checking for spelling, minor grammar issues, and punctuation. It identified a few more errors than the free version of Grammarly (23 vs 9). Still, it doesn’t come close to Grammarly Premium’s grammar checker which identified 53 errors with our demo document and doesn’t offer tips on rewriting/rephrasing text since that is what QuillBot’s main paraphrasing tool is supposed to do. We’re also not a fan of QuillBot’s UX since they don’t give a good summary of what the issues are. You can hover over each issue to see it, but there’s no list view of all the errors unlike in Grammarly and ProWritingAid’s tools. To see how well QuillBot’s revised content adhered to grammar rules, we also ran it through Grammarly Premium and QuillBot’s grammar checking tools once more. To do this, we use the Paraphraser tool discussed above to rewrite our full article using the Standard mode and second level of Synonyms. So how did it do?  Here’s a screenshot of QuillBot’s grammar checker evaluating its own Paraphraser output: And here’s that same content run through Grammarly Premium. So what’s the verdict? The Paraphraser reduced the number of words by 54 but maintained the same number of errors (23) in its own grammar checker. At least in Grammarly, the number of errors was reduced from 53 to 50, but that’s still not great. This just means that you’ll still need to run your rewritten content from the Paraphraser through a grammar checker (QuillBot’s or another) before you use it. Like most grammar checkers these days, QuillBot comes with a citation tool. It’s nothing too exciting. It lets you site websites, books, and journal articles in various citation styles including MLA, Chicago, APA, and more.   Like the Paraphraser’s Shorten and Simple modes, the Summarizer will take text and distill it to its essence. It lets you choose the keywords you want to highlight in the summary. You can also choose between Paragraph mode and Key Sentences mode which will determine how the output is formatted.  We took our demo paragraph and ran it through the Summarizer. See the results below. We selected “lawn” and “maintain” as the keywords to focus on. This meant that the tool kept most of the paragraph. This isn’t really summarizing.  Even when I only select one keyword, the tool outputs one of the existing sentences verbatim. Even the “Key Sentences” feature doesn’t do much. So we tried this on the full document to see if it is any better. Much better. Now the summary makes sense. So the Summarizer is intended for longer documents, not short ones. The Co-Writer tool is essentially a text editor, research tool, citation tool, grammar checker, and Paraphraser tool all in one. It lets you look up content on the web within the tool and then paraphrase, rewrite, or edit it. It’s a way of bringing all of QuillBot’s tools into one screen so that you don’t have to shift around. We decided to test the co-writer with a topic we’ve used for other AI writing tools. First, we used the “Research” functionality to search the web for resources: The tool loads the full contents of these pages and also shows the main highlights and topics. The paraphrase button at the bottom of the screen does the same thing as the main Paraphraser tool You can select text in the editor and have it paraphrased. The Summarize feature will summarize your content the same way that the Summarizer feature above does. You can choose to select different lengths of summary. The Suggest Text feature lets the tool offer you suggestions for what to write next. This is similar to the functionality that most AI content writing tools offer and your mileage may vary. Make sure to fact-check what the tool suggests for you because it may not always be accurate. Note: The Co-Writer tool has the greatest potential for copyright abuse. Since you can research online sources in the tool, mistakenly copying someone else’s content (even when you change a few words with the paraphraser) is a real hazard. QuillBot’s Chrome plugin integrates seamlessly into most web forms. You can use it side-by-side with other browser grammar tools like Grammarly.  In Google Docs, the widget will hover next to your text and provide feedback in-line as well as in the sidebar. We also took it for a spin in Gmail. The results were ok and the widget even suggested going to Quillbot.com for full functionality. The Microsoft Word plugin acts much more like the online tool. You only have the Paraphraser, Grammar Checker, and Summarizer tools in Word. Select text in your document or copy and paste it into the sidebar to have it rephrased or summarized. QuillBot offers a free plan and a premium plan. But do you need to pay for the premium version or is the free version good enough?  The main shortcoming of the free version of the paraphrasing tool is that it is limited to 125 words. Sure you can run the tool multiple times with 125 words each, but this will get tedious. If you have a 1250-word article or essay, you will have to run the program 10 times just to rewrite everything. During our testing, we also found that the premium “Modes” were significantly better than that Standard and Fluency modes offered in the free version. With the Summarizer, you can only summarize 1,200 words while with the premium version you can summarize up to 6,000 words. With premium, you also get access to the Plagiarism Checker, Compare Modes, additional grammar checks, unlimited freeze words, and a faster overall tool. If you’re able to afford the Premium version, we highly recommend it over the free version.  QuillBot offers a free version with limited capabilities and a Premium version.  The premium subscription can be paid for monthly, semi-annually, or manually. Paying annually offers a discounted rate of $8.33 per month while paying semi-annually works out to $13.33 per month and monthly is $19.95 per month. They also offer a 3-day money-back guarantee so that you can be sure you love the product before committing. QuillBot and Grammarly share similar features such as a grammar checker and plagiarism checker. The free version of Grammarly has fairly similar grammar capabilities as QuillBot, but Grammarly Premium’s grammar checking capabilities are much more advanced than QuillBot’s. QuillBot makes up for this in its advanced AI-powered rewriting capabilities. Grammarly Premium’s rewriting features are generally limited to correcting individual sentences. Jasper AI‘s core functionality is to create content from topics or words. It’s great for brainstorming, writing copy for products or ads, and creating new content. Jasper is less powerful at rewriting existing content. If you’re looking for a tool to create copy for marketing, advertising, or a blog, Jasper AI is the better tool. If you’re looking to rewrite your existing content, QuillBot is the better tool. Jasper’s paid plans have word limits (20K words for $29/mo or 50K words for $59/mo) that make it more costly than QuillBot if you have a lot of text to convert.  Similar to Jasper AI, Copy.ai is built to help you create new content. It’s also great for brainstorming, writing copy for products or ads, and creating new content. If you’re looking for a tool to create copy for marketing, advertising, or a blog, Copy.ai is the better tool. If you’re looking to rewrite your existing content, QuillBot is the better tool. QuillBot is also more affordable (even with our 40% discount code) than Copy.ai. Wordtune is another AI rewrite tool that offers a rephrasing tool and a summarizer tool. Wordtune has a free version, like QuillBot, that is limited to rewriting 10 sentences a day. With an average of 15-20 words per sentence, this equates to about 150-200 words, slightly more than one run with QuillBot. Since you can run unlimited sentences and paragraphs up to 125 words through QuillBot per day, QuillBot wins on the free side for quantity. The paid plan for QuillBot is cheaper than Wordtune’s ($99.95 vs. $119.88 if paid annually). To check how well Wordtune’s rephraser works compared to QuillBot, we ran the same demo paragraph we used for QuillBot above. For easy comparison, we’ve copied the results of QuillBot’s “Shorten” mode below which seems to have the most similarity to Wordtune’s output. We were pleasantly surprised by Wordtune’s output. While both tools created grammatically correct paragraphs, Wordtune’s was more readable sounding like it was written by a human. Wordtune’s Chrome plugin has a 4.8/5 star rating (with over a million users) on the Chrome Web Store compared with QuillBot’s 4.6/5 star rating (with 800,000+ users). So clearly we’re not the only ones who think Wordtune’s output is better than QuillBot’s.  If you’re on a budget and want additional features like a grammar checker, plagiarism checker, and integrated writing tool (QuillBot’s Co-Writer), then QuillBot is the better option. If you’re just looking for a great rephraser tool, then we recommend Wordtune. QuillBot is a startup with offices in Chicago and Jaipur that provides a grammar checker, paraphraser, and summarizer. It was founded in 2017 by Rohan Gupta, Anil Jason, and David Silin. To make writing simple, computer science graduates Rohan Gupta, Anil Jason, and David Silin created QuillBot in 2017. In August 2021, QuillBot announced that it was being acquired by Course Hero. The company has recently received a ton of interest, with Google Trends showing a huge spike recently. QuillBot is a great tool to help you write better and rewrite your existing content. It can help you find the right way to phrase your text and make it sound better for the needed context. It doesn’t help you write copy or text from scratch, but that’s not what it’s built for. The Paraphraser and Summarizer do a great job, but the other tools such as the grammar checker, plagiarism checker, and others are lacking since there are better tools available for those needs. We give QuillBot and 3.5/5 star rating since it is a great AI tool for writers looking for a more affordable AI solution than some of the competitors on the market including Copy.ai and Jasper AI. However, if you’re looking for a more robust grammar and writing checker, then you’re better off going with Grammarly or ProWritingAid (get 20% off either here). The free version does quite a bit for rewriting content, but it is limited to only 125 words per run and lacks the advanced “modes” that the premium version has. If you’re deciding between the free or premium version, we’d recommend getting the premium version to take advantage of the additional capabilities and make your life easier when rewriting hundreds or thousands of words. As with other AI writing tools, we’re still wary of this technology. Google hasn’t viewed AI-written content favorably in recent years, and there’s potential for this tool to be used as a modern text spinner by internet spammers.  Yes. However, it has limits. First, you can only rewrite 125 words per run on the Paraphrasing tool and 1,200 words on the Summarizer tool for free. You also are limited to the “Standard” and “Fluency” rephrasing modes and only 3/4 of the synonym settings. Finally, you only have access to the Summarizer and the Paraphraser, not the other tools that QuillBot Premium offers. Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ  Forgot your password? Lost your password? Please enter your email address. You will receive mail with link to set new password. Back to login Fix These Common Headline Mistakes FREE EMAIL BONUS Learn how to spot the 5 most common mistakes and fix them before you publish. 5 Secrets toWriting Great Titles FREE EMAIL BONUS Proven techniques for attention grabbing headlines & titles  CHEAT SHEET FOR How to Write Great Headlines FREE Begin your writing journey with us.