This is the published version of Forbes' Future of Work newsletter, which offers the latest news for chief human resources officers and other talent managers on disruptive technologies, managing the workforce and trends in the remote work debate. Click here to get it delivered to your inbox every Friday! OpenAI launched its enterprise product for businesses this week, as more industries are getting disrupted from the new technology. (Photo by Lionel BONAVENTURE / AFP) (Photo by LIONEL BONAVENTURE/AFP via Getty Images) This week saw big generative AI news for corporations, as Walmart announced its own AI feature for employees, My Assistant, which will be trained on its corporate information. The GenAI-powered desktop and mobile app is aimed at helping 50,000 employees write faster drafts, summarize documents and generate ideas. Meanwhile, OpenAI launched an enterprise tool for businesses; with the company behind ChatGPT noting that corporations “own and control [their] business data in ChatGPT Enterprise.” But AI isn’t just disrupting the professional world—it’s also upending education and the edtech market. My colleague Emmy Lucas had a profile this week of entrepreneur Andrew Grauer, who founded Course Hero, an online library of class notes, essays and exam answers, and is now building out parent company Learneo through acquisitions. One of the companies he’s added, AI-powered writing tool QuillBot, has a user base that’s 30% professionals and non-students, “a really huge unlocking moment for us,’’ Grauer told Lucas. For more on what he’s building as well as AI’s impact, check out Emmy’s story here. Hope it’s a great long weekend. Five-year-old Intenseye, which uses artificial intelligence to analyze workplace images and videos to identify safety issues, is raising new funding that is expected to triple the company’s valuation, Forbes’ David Jeans reported. The venture capital firm Lightspeed Venture Partners is leading the Series B round, valuing the workplace safety AI company at approximately $300 million, Jeans reports. As more companies add positions based on artificial intelligence—including Chief AI Officers—the debate continues on whether AI will create or kill more jobs. Contributor David Armano argues that many of these trendy job titles could also go away, pointing to executives who’ve moved on from jobs leading metaverse projects to those leading generative AI. On Wednesday, the Department of Labor announced a new rule proposal that would extend overtime protections to millions of salaried workers who make around $55,000 or less, extending the number of people who are eligible due to “outdated and out-of-sync rules,” the department said in a press release. The IRS, responding to employer pleas, has postponed a new rule requiring older, higher paid 401(k) participants to make their catch-up contributions into after-tax Roth accounts instead of pre-tax traditional accounts. The IRS has postponed that until 2026, Kelly Phillips Erb reports. The war over work from home versus return to office plans seems like it will never end. But one approach—“flexibility with intentionality”—should end the debate over remote work, writes contributor Sander van ‘t Noordende, the CEO of Randstad. A new study by RAND Corp. and the healthcare company Castlight Health found that Americans’ spending on mental health services during the early years of the pandemic grew significantly.   The Entrepreneur Who Wants To Create One Million Black Businesses By 2030 Watch Don’t underestimate workplace bullying. It’s organizational trauma that’s too often ignored. Anxious about a new job you’re starting post-Labor Day? Try these strategies. Looking to make meetings more candid? Add breaks. These calendar secrets can help you be a better manager. Need more executive presence? Here’s how to establish it. U.S. private employers added far fewer jobs than expected in August, according to an ADP report released Wednesday morning, showing cracks in the labor market. As tracked by ADP, job growth slowed by more than 40% month-over month. How many jobs were added in August?   Check if you got the answer right here. Get our weekly rundown on the future of climate tech with our Current Climate newsletter. Sign-up here to get tomorrow's edition. Thanks for reading! Follow us on Twitter for by-the-minute updates on the latest business and financial news throughout the day.       One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.