The AI revolution has taken hold in different ways around the world, with some surprising differences in how each country is experimenting with it. The term "AI" extends far beyond ChatGPT to a wide range of tools that can generate custom images, audio, and videos. A new study by Electronics Hub examines search data for 90 generative AI tools in these categories to identify the most popular ones as of July 2023. The Philippines has the highest monthly search volume of any country for all AI tools combined. It also has the most people using AI for text generation, with 5,002 searches per 100,000 people. Singapore and Canada follow, with 2,547 and 1,760 searches for AI text generation, respectively. The US ranks much lower (17th), with 825 monthly searches per 100,000 people. "The report shows that the Asia-Pacific region is the world's fastest-growing adopter of text-based technology," the study says. This includes Malaysia, which is number five for AI text generation. Perhaps unsurprisingly, ChatGPT is the most-searched generative-AI tool in the most countries (65), including the US. Quillbot has the highest search volume overall (12 million global searches per month). "For now, humankind’s primary use of AI seems to be completing everyday writing tasks: the most popular AI tools, Quillbot and ChatGPT, are respectively 10 and six times more popular than the most-searched image tool," the study says. Quillbot is an "AI-powered paraphrasing tool," and could be a compelling tool for ChatGPT lovers to try. "Our product will improve your fluency while also ensuring you have the appropriate vocabulary, tone, and style for any occasion," Quillbot says. "Simply enter your text into the input box, and our AI will work with you to create the best paraphrase." The study warns that mass use of AI text-generation tools could fill the internet with "great swaths" of AI-generated content. It cites a quote from Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at the University of Cambridge: “Just as we’ve strewn the oceans with plastic trash and filled the atmosphere with carbon dioxide, so we’re about to fill the internet with blah.” Fewer people around the world are using AI to create images than text. Israel ranks number one for AI image searches, with 305 per 100,000 people. "Content creators in the country marked 2023's Passover celebrations with realistic images portraying tales of ancient stories from the Exodus," the study says.  Singapore has the second highest number of people interested in AI image generation (281). It was also the second highest for text generation. As for the US, it ranks even lower for AI images than text, at 19th. "We have found that the highest volume of image generation searches occurs in the world’s wealthiest countries," the study says. "This resonates with the IMF’s concern that “that new technology risks widening the gap between rich and poor countries by shifting more investment to advanced economies where automation is already established.” Latin American countries are leading the way on AI-generated audio. Uruguay ranks number one (223), followed by Chile (73), Argentina (64), and Peru (57). The most popular AI audio tool globally is FakeYou, with 172,000 monthly searches. These tools can replicate famous musicians and other celebrities' voices with surprising accuracy, which already caused a copyright controversy for Drake and The Weeknd after someone created a new song with their voices, The New York Times reports. Most countries have just scratched the surface on creating videos with AI. Singapore ranks number one, with 54 searches per month per 100,000 population, followed by the United Arab Emirates (54) and Cyprus (39).  "Making convincing images that move 20+ times per second is expensive and difficult, with or without AI," the study says.  Ready to experiment with AI on your own? Here are the most popular tools for text (Quillbot, ChatGPT), images (Midjourney), voice (FakeYou), and video (InVideo). Prior to starting at PCMag, I worked in Big Tech on the West Coast for six years. From that time, I got an up-close view of how software engineering teams work, how good products are launched, and the way business strategies shift over time. After I’d had my fill, I changed course and enrolled in a master’s program for journalism at Northwestern University in Chicago. I'm now a reporter with a focus on electric vehicles and artificial intelligence. I like to survey the market by trying out products from different brands. Right now, I have a Microsoft Surface laptop, an Amazon Echo for jamming out in my …
         PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. PCMag PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant. As an Amazon Associate, we earn from qualifying purchases.