
Celebrating Innovation in the Chicago Region CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--QualSights joined fellow winners of the Chicago Innovation Awards, the Chicago region’s foremost annual celebration of innovation, in New York City yesterday to ring the Opening Bell of the Nasdaq Stock Market. The event emphasizes the surge of innovation that is occurring in the Chicago region and shines a spotlight on the organizations that make up its vibrant economy. 
“Chicago Innovation Award winners cut across all industries and represent the best in new product and service development from large companies, startups and non-profits,” said Luke Tanen, President and CEO of Chicago Innovation. “Their winning innovations are solving a range of unmet needs in the marketplace, and we’re proud to celebrate their successes on a global stage by ringing the Nasdaq Bell.” 
Joining QualSights were other winners of the 2022 Chicago Innovation Awards. The full list of 2022 winners include Crushers Club, Current, Discovery Partners Institute, Joe & Bella, Hope Chicago, Lincoln Park Zoo, Ladder Up, Let’s Talk Womxn, Level Ex, Male Mogul Initiative, Milwaukee Tool, Ocient, PatientIQ, Pluie, QualSights, QuillBot, Reuso, Thierer Family Foundation and the Greater Chicago Food Depository, Valqari, and WasteNot Compost. 
"We are so honored to be recognized for our patented sensor technology that precisely tracks offline consumer behavior in-homes, unlocking new growth opportunities for brands," said Nihal Advani, Founder & CEO of QualSights. “This award was made possible thanks to the passion and hard work of our team members all over the world, and I couldn’t be prouder of everything we have achieved together so far.” 
QualSights was recognized by the Chicago Innovation Awards for its groundbreaking research technology Product Consumption Intelligence™, which leverages cloud-connected smart sensors to capture consumer product usage data with extreme precision in a way never before possible. This is the second time that QualSights has won at the Chicago Innovation Awards, with its first recognition coming in 2017. 
About QualSights 
QualSights is an insights technology platform that helps brands grow by generating deeper and more authentic insights from consumers anywhere in the world in a remarkably fast and cost-effective manner. QualSights’ patented technology enables the capture of offline behavioral data from consumers using a combination of in-context video and passive IoT sensors and offers a robust suite of AI tools for efficient analysis as well as an easy-to-use presentation builder for powerful storytelling. QualSights is used by various Fortune 500 clients in CPG, Pharmaceutical, Technology, and other industries to help with product innovation, renovation, and optimization. 
About Chicago Innovation 
Chicago Innovation, established in 2002, has grown from a single awards ceremony to a year-round series of events and programs to educate, connect and celebrate all innovators in the Chicago region. Chicago Innovation’s vision is to ensure that innovation is for everyone by energizing a community that makes an impact. In addition to running the annual Chicago Innovation Awards to highlight the most innovative new products and services in the Chicago region, the organization’s expansion has included: 
For more information, visit http://www.chicagoinnovation.com. 
Lori McInerney
lori@qualsights.com949.689.7969 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.