Processing.... The Department of Veterans Affairs has posted the final request for proposals for a potential 10-year, $60.7 billion contract vehicle covering a range of information technology and health IT services. Vendors can submit bids for the Transformation Twenty-One Total Technology Next Generation 2 program until April 17, according to a notice posted Tuesday on SAM.gov. T4NG2 services include cybersecurity, enterprise network, test and evaluation, program management and strategic planning, systems and software engineering and operations and maintenance. VA issued the draft RFP for the T4NG2 contract on Jan. 13 and held an industry day in early February to discuss the multiple-award contract. The department expects to award 30 contracts under the unrestricted and small business set-aside portions of the indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract. Twenty-one companies supported VA under the first T4NG contract valued at $22.3 billion. The Department of Veterans Affairs has named CGI Federal as an awardee on the multiple-award Transformation Twenty-One Total Technology Next Generation 2 contract vehicle for information technology products and services. VA’s Technology Acquisition Center announced the move in a notice published Thursday on SAM.gov. The department moved to replace Sierra 7 on the T4NG2 contract The Department of Veterans Affairs has awarded 30 companies positions on a potential 10-year, $60.7 billion contract vehicle for information technology products and services. The multiple-award Transformation Twenty-One Total Technology Next Generation 2 contract covers cybersecurity, health care IT, strategy planning, enterprise network engineering, operations and maintenance, program management and systems and software engineering support The Department of Veterans Affairs has notified stakeholders that it anticipates awarding a potential 10-year, $60.7 billion contract vehicle for information technology products and services by the end of October or early November. VA provided the update on the Transformation Twenty-One Total Technology Next Generation 2 contract in a special notice published Friday on SAM.gov. The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here