Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Strictly Come Dancing fans noticed pro dancer Giovanni Pernice paying a sweet tribute to his previous dance partner Rose Ayling-Ellis during Sunday's results show. Giovanni won the competition in 2021 with Eastenders actress Rose, who was the show’s first-ever deaf contestant.  Rose, who wears a hearing aid, and Giovanni moved the judges with their choice of dance during the nineteenth series of the show, turning the music off and dancing in silence in a tribute to the deaf community. The pair formed a firm friendship and Strictly viewers believe their time together has left a mark on the pro dancer.  During last night's results show, which saw Les Dennis and Nancy Xu become the first couple eliminated from the competition, fans spotted that Giovanni is still using the sign language that he picked up from Rose. READ MORE: Strictly Come Dancing fans 'surprised' as they notice something different about first elimination Read all of our Strictly Come Dancing news here. On Saturday, Giovanni and his new partner actress Amanda Abbington wowed judges with complex-looking lifts and a handstand as they performed the Salsa to a song by Gloria Estefan. Craig Revel Horwood admitted that the performance was “amazing” and the pair were awarded 32 points. As Tess Daly announced that Giovanni and Amanda had avoided the dreaded dance-off and would be returning next week, the couple embraced before Giovanni turned to the camera and signed 'thank you' to the viewers at home. A smiley Amanda spotted the gesture, which involves touching the chin with a flat hand and moving it outwards, and joined in.  Fans were quick to spot the tribute and took to X, formerly known as Twitter, to share their delight. @miast24 wrote: "I love how they still sign ‘thank you’ on #Strictly", to which @8twinge replied: "Me too. I imagine Gio thinking of Rose every time he does it". @MittenDAmour said: "Gio still signing 'thank you' shows a marvellous character and continued respect for the new fanbase he picked up through Rose. Pure. #Strictly". @lightsandsounds: "Giovanni continuing to sign after being partnered with Rose always gets me #Strictly". @EloquentParrot agreed, writing: "I love so much that they're doing the BSL for thank you. #Strictly" and @AddysAura commented: "I love how Gio still does the thank you in sign language" It comes as Rose picked up the best West End debut prize at The Stage Debut Awards 2023 on Sunday night. The 28-year-old won for her performance in As You Like It at Soho Place – her first West End play. The stage and TV star fought off competition from a shortlist that included Normal People’s Paul Mescal for A Streetcar Named Desire, Star Trek actor Zachary Quinto for Best Of Enemies and Orange Is The New Black actress Samira Wiley for Blues For An Alabama Sky. Earlier in the year Ayling-Ellis had been nominated for an Olivier Award for her role in the Shakespearean romantic comedy. 