 Rufa Mae Quinto is known for her signature funny lines that have become so popular they are practically rallying cries among the general public. "Go go go?" "Todo na 'to?" You name it, you've heard it, and chances are, you've said it a number of times.  On Friday’s “Fast Talk with Boy Abunda,” the Sparkle star explained some of them.  “Todo na ‘to!”  According to Rufa, she started saying “todo na ‘to” at work, to encourage her colleagues on set and finish as quickly as possible.  “Minsan sa set, parang gusto kong bilisan. 'Yung kilos na tayo para matapos na, makauwi na. In short, todo na ‘to, mga tol!" She said.  Rufa added she made sure she didn't sound angry. “Parang cute lang,” Rufa said.  “Go, go go! Fight, fight, fight!”  Would you believe this line is borne out of Rufa Mae's resilience?   “Go, go, go! Kasi parang in life nga, kailangan mo na lang itawid, ituloy mo lang kung ano ‘yan,” she said.  “Basta alam mong naniniwala kang maganda ito, tama ito, feel mo ‘to — go, go go! Fight, fight, fight! ‘Wag tayong tumigil, parang ganun,” Rufa said.  “Go, go, goals!”  Rufa explained that in life, “you should have a goal.”  She admitted that previously, she was not as focused as she is now.  “Ngayon, talagang maliwanag sa 'kin kasi [dati] distracted din — naghahanap ng love life, gusto nang magpamilya, mga ganun,” she said.  Rufa also shared that her daughter, Athena, is one of the reasons why her life now has structure.  “Nagkaroon ako ng goals nga, structure in life dahil sa kanya,” she said. “Hindi ako napariwara kasi nga gusto ko lagi I’ll be the best of me.”  4. “Time is go, go, gold”  Says Rufa Mae, “d’yan papasok ang numbers, ang math.”   “Lahat ng bagay po may oras, may timing — ang araw, ang buwan. God’s timing, lagi ‘yun! Kasi mahirap pilitin ang bagay ‘pag alam mong ayaw,” Rufa said.  The actress-comedienne also stressed that we must not force things.  “‘Wag mong pilitin kung hindi panahon. Makinig,” she said.  Rufa Mae returned to the Philippines this year after living in the United States amid the COVID-19 pandemic. She signed with Sparkle GMA Artist Center in 2022.  She stars in Prime Video's "Comedy Island Philippines." — Carby Basina/LA, GMA Integrated News