It doesn't matter if your student is a kindergartner or 12th grader, the cost of school supplies can quickly add up. The National Retail Federation estimates that the average family will spend $890.07 on supplies before sending their children back to school in 2023. With the costliness of school supplies being no secret, local community organizations are spending the final days of summer break collecting supplies and distributing them to children in need. Whether you are looking to donate or receive free school supplies, here are four back-to-school drives and giveaways happening in Pueblo. Those who bring in school supplies to El Centro del Quinto Sol, 609 E. Sixth St., can get two hours of Zumba for free as part of the Back to School Zumbathon on Saturday, Aug. 5, at 10 a.m. Needed school supplies include colored pencils, highlighters, loose-leaf paper, dry erase markers, white glue, glue sticks, crayons, pencils and plastic folders. For those not into Zumba, donations may be made through Aug. 11 at the Pueblo Parks and Recreation Administration Office at 800 Goodnight Ave., between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays. Now in its fifth year, the Halfway Home Pueblo backpack giveaway aims to be bigger than ever in 2023. Halfway Home Pueblo, 803 W. Fourth St., plans to give 400 free backpacks filled with school supplies to local families on Saturday, Aug. 5, at 11 a.m. Items in backpacks may include, but are not limited to crayons, folders, glue sticks and sheets of paper. In addition to backpacks with supplies, there also will be special raffles for K-12 students. Halfway Home Pueblo is still accepting donations and will be accepting them until Aug. 4. Individuals can drop off supplies for K-12 students or a check at 803 W. Fourth St., Suite B during office hours. Monetary donations also are being accepted on the Halfway Home Pueblo website, halfwayhomepueblo.org. Servicios de la Raza, 805 W. Fourth St., will host a school supply giveaway extravaganza outside its facility on Sunday, August 13. Between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m., free backpacks, family resources, school supplies and food boxes will be available. The giveaway is a collaboration between Servicios de la Raza, Kenzi's Causes, the Fraternal Order of Eagles and Care and Share Food Bank. "It's important that anytime that we do an event like this, whether it's a food giveaway or backpacks... we make sure that families feel welcome, and that they're able to receive a service with dignity and respect," said Neva Martinez-Ortega, co-director of the behavioral health department at Servicios de la Raza. Community members can bring school supplies to one of two local car dealerships between now and Aug. 17. Subaru of Pueblo, 2125 U.S. Highway 50, and Dave Solon Nissan, 2525 U.S. Highway 50, are accepting folders, highlighters, notebooks, lunch boxes, pencils, pens and other supplies. Individuals may come to the dealerships during business hours and drop off items. Items donated to Subaru of Pueblo will be placed in a Subaru Ascent and those brought to Dave Solon Nissan will be placed in a Nissan Armada. Supplies will be delivered to Pueblo School District 60 and Pueblo County School District 70, who will then distribute them to high-need students. Pueblo Chieftain reporter James Bartolo can be reached at JBartolo@gannett.com. Support local news, subscribe to The Pueblo Chieftain at subscribe.chieftain.com. Veterinary care in Pueblo: Pueblo direly needs more veterinarians. Here's how a new partnership aims to change that This article originally appeared on The Pueblo Chieftain: Here are 4 opportunities to give or receive school supplies in Pueblo New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.