EXCLUSIVE: One of Tinseltown’s most muscular legal firms is flexing its partnership and name, again. Two years after Kinsella Weitzman Iser Kump LLP became Kinsella Weitzman Iser Kump Holley LLP, the Wilshire Blvd-based firm is now Kinsella Holley Iser Kump Steinsapir LLP. More from Deadline Kim Kardashian Roasted By WGA Picketers After Tweeting From Set Of 'American Horror Story': "Keep Scabbing, Queen!" Joseph Fiennes Says Playing Michael Jackson In 2016 'Urban Myths' Was "Wrong Decision" Zachary Quinto On 'American Horror Story' Season 12 Cameo & Working With Kim Kardashian: "I Was Really Impressed" While the late Howard Weitzman’s name will no longer be on the legal house he co-founded in 2006, the presence of Michael Jackson onetime attorney and dealmaker looms perhaps larger than ever. In very real terms, the promotion of Weitzman protégés Shawn Holley and Jonathan Steinsapir represents a solidification of the lawyer’s legacy at the firm. “When we started our law firm we knew we wanted to create a place where talented litigators could practice law for decades to come,” Kinsella said Wednesday. “Our decisions to make Jon a name partner and honor Shawn’s contributions will ensure that our firm, comprised of superb attorneys working with clients shaping the entertainment business landscape, will be around for a long, long time.” “Having been a member of the firm since its inception, I have witnessed KHIKS’ remarkable success over the past 17 years,” Holley told Deadline Wednesday. “I am honored to move into second position in our firm name, an honor and responsibility I do not take lightly,” the Reasonable Doubt producer added. “I feel like my name is not replacing Howard’s; rather, he is passing me the baton.” The promotion of Holley, the O.J. Simpson Dream Team vet and Kim Kardashian attorney, comes after her recent co-defense counsel role in Danny Masterson’s second rape trial. Found guilty of two counts of sexual assault by a jury on May 31 and facing up to 30 years behind bars, the currently incarcerated That ’70s Show actor is scheduled to be sentenced August 4. Having assumed the bulk of the responsibility for the estate of Michael Jackson after Weitzman’s death in April 2021, Steinsapir has had a full dance card of cases centering on the career and IP of the onetime King of Pop. Still, the shift to a new name for the firm puts the music lawyer center stage. “As the youngest name partner, I hope to help lead the firm into the future and to continue to uphold the values, culture, and highest quality of legal work that the other name partners, along with the late great Howard Weitzman, created,” said Steinsapir, a 2002 UCLA School of Law grad. “I could have never imagined seeing my name on this firm when I joined it 16 years ago. I am humbled.” “Dale, Mike and I are excited for this next phase in the evolution of our law firm, as we all continue to work collaboratively and successfully to resolve the most intriguing and challenging disputes in entertainment and business,” KHIKS’ Managing Partner Larry Iser said. “Howard Weitzman had the utmost respect and admiration for Shawn and Jon – each of whom he mentored after hand-selecting them to join our team. Our name change pays tribute to these key contributors who have helped shape the firm over the past two decades.” Best of Deadline Hollywood & Media Deaths In 2023: Photo Gallery & Obituaries 2023 Premiere Dates For New & Returning Series On Broadcast, Cable & Streaming Harrison Ford: Deadline's How They Reached The Top Sign up for Deadline's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.