The Invincible Season 2 Amazon Prime Video release date is just around the corner, and viewers are wondering when they can start streaming the second season of the critically acclaimed animated series. Viewers are interested to see Invincible Season 2 as not only will it continue the story of Mark Grayson but will also introduce a new dangerous villain, Angstrom Levy. Here’s when Invincible Season 2 is coming out on Amazon Prime Video. Watch Invincible Right Here The first half of Invincible Season 2 will release on November 3, 2023, while the second half of Invincible Season 2 will air in early 2024. Invincible is centered around Mark Grayson, a 17-year-old boy who begins to develop superpowers like super strength, flight, and super speed. He then begins to train to use his abilities under the guidance of his father, Nolan Grayson, who is one of the most powerful superheroes on Earth, Omni-Man. Invincible stars the voice talents of Steven Yeun, Sandra Oh, J.K. Simmons, Andrew Rannells, Zazie Beetz, Gillian Jacobs, Walton Goggins, Jason Mantzoukas, Zachary Quinto, Ross Marquand, Clancy Brown, and Mark Hamill, among other cast members. The first half of Invincible Season 2 will be available to watch via streaming on Amazon Prime Video on November 3, 2023, while the second half will be available for streaming on Amazon Prime Video in early 2024. Current Amazon Prime Video subscribers will be able to watch Invincible Season 2 when it drops, and if you haven’t already subscribed to Amazon Prime Video, you can do so below: Viewers can stream Invincible Season 2 by way of signing up for an Amazon Prime Video account. A standard subscription to Amazon Prime Video costs $8.99 a month or $139 a year. Students, however, can get a special subscription that costs $7.49 a month or $69 a year. Invincible’s official synopsis reads: “Mark Grayson is a normal teenager except for the fact that his father is the most powerful superhero on the planet. Shortly after his seventeenth birthday, Mark begins to develop powers of his own and enters into his father’s tutelage.” For more Amazon Prime Video updates, check out the schedule for August 14-20. Also, here is the first look at Totally Killer, starring Kiernan Shipka. The post Invincible Season 2 Streaming Release Date: When Is It Coming Out on Amazon Prime Video? appeared first on ComingSoon.net - Movie Trailers, TV & Streaming News, and More. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.