Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  Check out the companies making headlines in midday trading. WestRock — The stock gained 4.2% in midday trading on news that the company is nearing a merger with Europe's Smurfit Kappa in a deal that could create a global paper and packaging giant worth about $20 billion, as first reported by The Wall Street Journal. GameStop — The video game retailer saw shares rose nearly 0.8% after the firm posted quarterly revenue that surpassed Wall Street estimates as well as a smaller-than-expected loss. GameStop said the strong revenue in the quarter came from "significant software release." Semiconductors — Semiconductor stocks slid as a group. Shares of Lam Research and Advanced Micro Devices fell about 2.5% and 2.8%, respectively. Shares of Qualcomm dropped 7.2%. Nvidia declined 1.7%. On the other hand, shares of Intel bucked the trend, rising 3.2%. Apple — Apple slid 2.9% after a Bloomberg News report said China plans to expand restrictions on iPhones to state-owned companies. Previously, The Wall Street Journal reported that China was planning to ban iPhone use in government-backed agencies. Align Technology — The orthodontics stock dropped roughly 7.8%. Align Technology said Wednesday it's acquiring 3D printing company Cubicure in a 79 million euro transaction, or roughly $84.6 million. Rollins — Shares declined 6.2% after the pest control services company on Wednesday announced the start of a proposed secondary public offering of $1.35 billion of its common stock. Seagate Technology — Seagate Technology shares dropped about 10.9% after Barclays downgraded the stock to equal weight form overweight. The Wall Street firm cited poor fundamentals and a recovery that could take longer than expected. ChargePoint Holdings — Shares of ChargePoint Holdings plunged 10.9% after the electric vehicle charging infrastructure company missed fiscal second-quarter revenue estimates. ChargePoint posted $150 million in revenue, weaker than the $153 million forecast by analysts polled by LSEG, formerly known as Refinitiv. Separately, the company announced it would cut about 10% of its global workforce. Dutch Bros — Shares slid about 4.6% after the drive-through coffee chain on Wednesday announced a public offering of $300 million in shares of its Class A common stock. Dave & Buster's Entertainment — The stock dropped 6.1% after reporting second-quarter results that missed expectations. The entertainment and dining company earned 60 cents per share on $542 million of revenue. Analysts polled by LSEG had anticipated earnings per share of 93 cents on revenue of $559 million. C3.ai — C3.ai shares tumbled 12.2% after the artificial intelligence software company guided for a wider-than-expected operating loss for the fiscal second quarter. C3.ai forecast an operating loss in the range of $27 million to $40 million. Analysts polled by StreetAccount expected a loss of $20.5 million. Meanwhile, C3.ai reported an adjusted fiscal first-quarter loss of 9 cents per share on revenue of $72.4 million. Analysts polled by LSEG were anticipating a loss per share of 17 cents on revenue of $71.6 million. Roku — The streaming stock slid nearly 3% following a downgrade to hold from buy from Loop Capital. Roku rallied more than 12% Wednesday after announcing plans to lay off 10% of its staff, among other cost-cutting measures. Roku had also lifted third-quarter revenue and EBITDA guidance. Verint Systems — Shares plunged 19.4% in midday trading after the analytics company reported weaker-than-expected second-quarter earnings and revenue. Verint reported adjusted earnings of 48 cents per share on revenue of $210 million. Analysts polled by LSEG had expected earnings per share of 57 cents on revenue of $225 million. — CNBC's Alex Harring, Yun Li and Pia Singh contributed reporting. Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by