TV host-vlogger Mariel Padilla featured comedienne Rufa Mae Quinto in her recent vlog and indeed this one is “chaotic.” For this vlog, the two celebrity moms did the “drink or spill” challenge. They were asked questions and if they can’t answer or choose not to answer, they should drink different liquors prepared for them. “Today, samahan niyo ako sa isang super chaotic and todo na to fun na kulitan with the Ultimate Booba,” Mariel wrote in the description of her vlog. She said in the vlog that if she will do this kind of challenge, there is no other guest who comes to her mind but Rufa Mae. In the 23-minute video, Mariel Padilla and Rufa Mae Quinto answered questions about their experiences in showbiz and the colleagues they encountered. This was filled with laughter, especially after they had their first drink. Mariel kept on saying that she was already “lasing.” When they tried the second kind of liquor, they both can’t hide that they like it. In the vlog, they also shared the first moment they meet. Rufa Mae, as how she remembered it, they meet at the Back Room in Ortigas. Mariel shared that from what she remembered, it was at a birthday party and they were both there because of their talent manager King of Talk Boy Abunda. In the comment section of this YouTube video that Mariel Padilla shared, netizens could not help but to express that she would do another vlog with Rufa Mae Quinto. Here are some of the amused reactions to this “chaotic” vlog. “Itong si Peachy ang legit Comedy Queen ng Pinas eh. Walang ka-effort-effort magpatawa. Natural comedienne. Love her talaga. PS. Nakailang apir sina Ma at Peachy? Hahahahahaha. Todo na ‘to!” “Mariel isang vlog pa with Rufa haha Pls sobrang laftrip to. Ung energy niyo parehong sobra sobra hahahaha hyper kung hyper kahit walang alak” “Magbu-boom talaga kapag may show kayong dalawa! Nakaka-tuwa” What can you say about this? RELATED ARTICLE: Mariel Padilla On Being Called “The Queen of Live Selling” Please like and follow/subscribe:Philnews.ph FB PagePhilnews YouTube ChannelWatta Beautiful Life FB Page Comment  
