Advertisement 
                June 20, 2023 | 5 min read
             
What's this?
 Sponsored content is created for and in partnership with an advertiser and produced by the Drum Studios team. Gen Z’s higher education choices reveal a focus on emotional resilience that advertisers will benefit from understanding, finds a new report.  A new study by Quizlet reveals Gen Z insights for advertisers Many Gen Z traits are well known to advertisers; this generation is digitally savvy, diverse, open to change and individualistic. But these qualities tell us little about how Gen Zers are making significant life decisions, such as how they are approaching higher education and entry to the workforce. Advertisers looking to authentically connect with this generation need to understand the aspirations driving their education and career choices. Quizlet Ads surveyed nearly 1,400 Gen Z students (aged 18-29) in the UK to find out more about their decision-making and behaviors, with questions about their motivations, educational choices and goals.  A sneak peak at some of the key findings about Gen Z: Embracing traditional higher education paths: respondents said reputation and campus life are their #1 factors when selecting higher education. Prioritizing mental health: over half of respondents (52%) said mental health is their most-considered social issue when choosing a higher education path, viewing it as an essential building block for stability and financial wellness.  Seeking in-person experiences: despite being digital natives, 63.4% of respondents said that after experiencing remote classes, they view in-person learning more positively because of its focus on relationship and community building. Fill in the form below to download the report and learn more about Gen Z’s motivations, plus how advertisers can gain brand love and loyalty by supporting the issues that matter most to them:    Advertisement 
                            Quizlet Ads
                         
                            Quizlet Ads is the premier digital partner to reach highly-engaged Gen Z and Millennial achievers. Every month, 60 million students, teachers, and everyday people...
                         
        © Carnyx Group Ltd 2024 | The Drum is a Registered Trademark and property of Carnyx Group Limited. All rights reserved.
    