Don't Miss a Post! Subscribe Educators Technology Innovative EdTech for teachers, educators, parents, and students By Med Kharbach, PhD | Last Update: July 27, 2024 Quizlet Live is a collaborative gaming system that allows teachers to engage students and boost their learning using a wide variety of game-based activities. As students play the games, teachers access live data on their performance and track their progress.  Quizlet Live games can be used for various educational purposes including review vocabulary, practice study materials (e.g., math and chemistry),  learn coding, and many more. In this post, you will learn  what Quizlet Live is all about and how to use it with your own students. [Disclosure: Just to give you the full picture, I’ve recently teamed up with Quizlet as an affiliate. However, it’s important to note that this post was crafted well before that partnership took shape. So rest assured, the opinions and insights you’ll read here are completely my own, derived from my years of classroom teaching and educational research. I stand by the authenticity of this review. Quizlet Live is a collaborative classroom game. Like other  game-based formative assessment tools (e.g., Kahoot, Blooket, and Quizalize), Quizlet Live has two game modes: a Teams mode where students work together to answer questions and review terms and definitions and an Individual mode in which students play against each other.  The way Quizlet Live works is simple and easy. You can either select a study set you created or use one of the study sets you added to your library. Open the study set and click on Live. Quizlet Live automatically generates a game which students can join using a unique code or by scanning  QR code using their mobile devices.  Students can easily join a game of Quizlet Live using their Chromebooks, laptops, or through the browsers of their mobile devices. Here is how they can do it: Teams mode allows students to work together to provide answers to study questions. Teams mode requires at least four players and a set that embeds at least six term-definition pairs. Each player needs a laptop or mobile device.  Here is how to start a game of Quizlet Live in teams mode: – Log int to your Quizlet teacher account – Click a study set  – Select live from the bottom left hand corner – Select Class Live then Get started – Select Random Teams – Choose the combination of prompts and answers that players will see: – Project your screen for the whole class to view. – Ask players to open Quizlet and use the join code and enter their names. – Select Create game and click on Start game. Players are assigned to random teams. You can click on re-shuffle to change members of each team.  You can also remove students from a team but you can only remove them before the start of the game. Also, note that games and activities in Quizlet Live comes with music and sound effects. ‘When the activity is over, music plays until you exit or start a new round’. You can turn off music by clicking on the speaker icon before the start of the game.  In individual mode, students get to play against each other. This mode requires two or more players and a study set that has at least six term-definition pairs. If students use their mobile devices, they can join by scanning the QR code. To start a Quizlet Live game in individual mode:  A Checkpoint is an interesting way to conduct quick formative assessments in your class. Here is how to start a round of Checkpoint: Watch this video to see Quizlet live in action  Quizlet offers a free and a premium one. The free plan offers very limited features. The premium plan has more options and features including the ability to: Sources: Quizlet Help Center Never miss an EdTech beat! Subscribe now for exclusive insights and resources. Dr. Med Kharbach is an influential voice in the global educational technology landscape, with an extensive background in educational studies and a decade-long experience as a K-12 teacher. Holding a Ph.D. from Mount Saint Vincent University in Halifax, Canada, he brings a unique perspective to the educational world by integrating his profound academic knowledge with his hands-on teaching experience. Dr. Kharbach's academic pursuits encompass curriculum studies, discourse analysis, language learning/teaching, language and identity, emerging literacies, educational technology, and research methodologies. His work has been presented at numerous national and international conferences and published in various esteemed academic journals.  As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases Never miss an EdTech beat! Subscribe now for exclusive insights and resources.  Join our email list for exclusive EdTech content.  © 2024 · Educators Techonology 