As South Africans continue to battle with loadshedding the South African Bureau of Standards (SABS) has highlighted the danger power cuts pose to food safety. The bureau warned South Africans to be observant when it comes to shopping for food when loadshedding is in place while also reminding retailers to maintain the cold chain. “Food and food products spoil faster in warmer and humid conditions, and it is important that everyone be more vigilant regarding food safety. Retailers of food and food products need to ensure that the cold chain from suppliers to stores is in place and maintained until it is sold,” acting chief executive officer at SABS, Sadhvir Bissoon wrote in a media release (PDF).  With temperatures getting higher in certain parts of the country, this presents an even greater risk of foodborne illness. This is especially true for high-risk foods such as meat, fish, dairy products and poultry. Should these foods be left out in the so-called danger zone which is between 5 degrees Celsius and 63 degrees Celsius, the risk of bacteria growth is much higher. This is even true for vacuum-sealed products according to Ecowize which states, “Exclusion or inclusion of oxygen will not control the survival of bacteria, only correct cooking will ensure bacteria are killed off.” While you may be tempted to rinse your high-risk foods, this may present more of a danger as showcased in the video below. The advice from SABS and Ecowize however is to simply cook these foods well. In its most recent operational update (PDF) Shoprite Group reports that across its Supermarkets RSA segment, it spent R560 million on diesel to operate generators during Stage 5 and 6 load shedding. That is a gargantuan expense when put alongside the R16 million Shoprite Group saved by switching some of its operations to renewable energy. To further ensure food safety, SABS recommends South Africans pay careful attention to labels, expiry dates, and recommends using cooler boxes to transport high-risk foods. “Consumers need to engage their senses when handling food at home, for example, if something looks and smells bad – rather throw it out or return it to the store for a refund if it has not been used,” the bureau advises. Be wary of shopping at stores that don’t have generators and don’t be afraid to ask the store manager about how they maintain the cold chain, especially during load shedding.  If you want to be absolutely sure your food is cooked properly we highly recommend purchasing a food thermometer. Not only will you be assured of your food’s doneness, but you’ll also never over or undercook a steak again. [Image – an_vision on Unsplash]