Longs Peak and Glacier Gorge reflecting in blue Bear Lake on a calm Summer morning, Rocky Mountain ... [+] National Park, Colorado, USA. What do individual therapy retreats look like? originally appeared on Quora: the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world.  Answer by Ron N. Gad, PhD, LMFT, Founder & CEO at Beverly Hills Therapy Group, on Quora:  Therapy retreats allow for the client to indulge in a focused and streamlined fashion towards their personal and internal goals. Retreats and intensives can look very different based on the needs of the individual client through a catered approach designed by the therapists and clinicians. Many people seek out individual therapy retreats to isolate emotional experiences that have affected their quality of life. For instance, many individuals who are working through trauma, grief, loss, or depression may benefit from a weekend to separate themselves from their responsibilities outside of their mental health. Subsequently, the client can encounter their traumas through extensive activities and interventions; the itinerary looks different for each client. My belief is this: if a clinician understands the desires and needs of the client, the retreat should look exactly as it needs to look. There is no “correct” or “right” way that an individual therapy retreat should look. Yes, there are commonly used practices and interventions used during retreats, but the itineraries that are created for the client vary in the combination of these therapies. For example, one client may warrant a session of ketamine therapy and another client may warrant a session of eye movement desensitization and reprocessing therapy (EMDR). Further, the retreat can include sessions of talk therapy, meal breaks, hikes, massages, horseback riding, yoga, breath work, and an overall healing of the mind, body, and soul. This question originally appeared on Quora - the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world.   One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.