Curated By:  Buzz Staff Local News Desk Last Updated: October 20, 2023, 11:02 IST Delhi, India Quora is an online media platform where users submit their queries. Have you ever travelled by plane? If you have, then you must have seen that the plane has to run on the ground while taking off and landing. However, there’s a slight difference when it comes to the timings of both. It is a known fact that the plane travels a longer distance during takeoff, whereas the distance covered on the runway while landing seems less. In a recent interaction, a Quora user asked, “Is landing distance shorter than takeoff distance?” Responding to the question, a lot of users shared the correct answer and the reason behind the same. Erika Fernandez, one of the Quora users, said, “Landing distance is usually shorter than takeoff distance for most aircraft. The main reason is because landing involves deceleration, while takeoff involves acceleration.” She added that the method used during landing increases the lift-to-drag ratio, which further increases the deceleration rate of the aircraft; whereas during takeoff, an aircraft uses thrust to overcome drag and increase its speed and kinetic energy. She wrote, “The thrust must exceed drag for acceleration to take place and lift must equal weight for lift-off to occur.” Another user by the name Mayfair Jets also responded, “When an aeroplane takes off, it requires a bit more runway than for landing. This is to account for the possibility of an engine failure during takeoff. In such cases, the plane needs sufficient runway left either to stop safely or to continue the takeoff on the remaining engines.” Mayfair further noted, “During landing, aeroplanes are slowing down, not speeding up. They’re also lighter, having burned off fuel during the flight. This allows them to stop in a shorter distance than they need to take off.” Quora is an online platform where users from different parts of the world can submit their queries regarding any topic. The platform is flooded with questions about lifestyle, jobs, salaries, aviation, tech, industries, entertainment, and even general queries about basic stuff. It is considered the best platform to get answers from various users.