A MUM was left in disbelief when she discovered the name of one of her daughter's classmates. She explained that she overheard a parent shouting after their daughter, who shares a name with a tropical disease. Posting on Quora the mum explained: "One morning, I was walking my daughter into her kindergarten classroom when I heard an angry mother yell 'Malaria!! Get over here! You forgot your jacket!'" Naturally, the mum was convinced she'd misheard the name, but it turns out she hadn't. It wasn't until later that week that week that the mum realised the little girl was really called Malaria. When she was walking her daughter to school the teachers were stood outside greeting the pupils by their names. "The teachers and aides said good morning to my little girl and other children walking in to the school. "Then I heard: 'Hi, Malaria!' “'Good morning, Malaria!'” She "burst out laughing" when she realised the poor girl was really named after a tropical disease. To make matters worse the mum said the little girl was really "cute" so the name seemed even more cruel. "I asked my daughter if she knew the student’s name, and she confirmed that it was, indeed, Malaria," she added. Since the mum shared the story on Quora it might not be real,  but there could be a cute little girl called Malaria out there. Other parents couldn't believe the child had really been given such an unfortunate name.  One wrote: "Something is seriously messed up with the parents when they choose to name their child like that." And a second said: "To be honest, without knowing the meaning, Malaria and Marijuana look like very nice names." Someone else agreed: "but it sounds so pretty!!! when that girl is old enough I hope she changes her name. "I bet the hospital didn't want to do that certificate." ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/