businessman holding light bulb for put think growth mindset different fixed mindset concept vector How can I cultivate a growth mindset? originally appeared on Quora: the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world.  Answer by Andrew Cohen, CEO at Brainscape, on Quora:  We’ve all heard about the “secret sauce” to an effective life: the growth mindset. The question is, how can you cultivate one if the soils of your mind are, well, more fixed in nature? I can answer this question very simply. By adding “yet” to the kind of defeatist statements you probably have going around and around in your head whenever you think about where you are in life, or about how you’d like to advance your goals or taking on some new challenge or adventure: “I suck at math!” → “I’m not good at math yet.” “My business idea is a big, fat failure” → “My business idea hasn’t succeeded yet.” “I’ll never be able to afford to travel” → “I can’t afford to travel yet.” “I’m a horrible dancer” → “I haven’t learned how to dance yet.” “I’m terrible with names” → “I haven’t learned your name yet.” “We just can’t seem to get our relationship to run smoothly” → “Our relationship doesn’t run smoothly yet.” “He can’t pay attention for more than two seconds!” → “He hasn’t learned how to focus yet.” By adding “yet” to the above defeatist statements, we transform all the cul-de-sacs in our lives into unending pathways towards growth. It purges from our tongues words like “never” and “can’t” and replaces them with language that is rich with possibility and imagination: “I’m not good at math yet”. Read: I care about getting good at math so that I have more career options in science and engineering. “My business idea hasn’t succeeded yet”. Read: I’ve had some setbacks, but I’m learning from them and using them as opportunities to build a bullet-proof business concept. “I can’t afford to travel yet.” Read: “I’m working hard and saving a little bit every month so that I can afford a trip somewhere exciting.” “I haven’t learned how to dance yet.” Read: I’m taking classes so that my fiancé and I can rip the roof off with our first wedding dance! “I haven’t learned your name yet.” Read: I’m interested. Your name is important to me. And so on. Do you see how a growth mindset takes potential roadblocks and rips the lid off of your life’s possibilities? Isn’t that exciting? More than this, it urges you down pathways that might appear scarily steep at first but you follow them anyway because you know that, with time, you’ll eventually get to the summit. Now that you have the mental game down (just add “yet”), here are 5 things you can do to actually cultivate a growth mindset:   I’m fully aware that saying these things is a whole lot easier than doing them; and that the work required to make them happen takes much longer than simply reading these words and changing overnight. But the fact that you’ve read this through to the end is proof that you have the genuine willingness to change and to embrace a growth mindset. That’s a huge deal. This question originally appeared on Quora - the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world.   One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.