You might think you're innocently making yourself comfortable during your flight, but actually there's a gross reason why you should keep your shoes on your feet, according to an expert Flights are uncomfortable experiences. You're packed in like sardines with limited leg room and slightly too cold air conditioning. It's understandable that you might try to find ways to make yourself more comfortable while travelling - particularly for long haul flights. But there are some things you definitely shouldn't do while flying. One flight attendant has revealed the five things you should never do onboard a plane - number one on this list is taking your shoes off. We've all seen people take their shoes off on flight, usually because they're wearing their heaviest shoes onboard and looking for a spot of relief. But Tommy Cimato, a flight attendant with over 450,000 followers on TikTok, explained in a video that "the floors are filthy. I've seen some many people do this and it's just not sanitary." You might not expect a "no shoes no service" attitude while traveling, but going onto a flight barefoot is against many airlines' rules. But besides hygiene, ex-flight attendant Tony Kuna wrote on Quora that the other reason not to go barefoot is in case of emergencies. "During an emergency, all sorts of debris and unpleasant ground surfaces will block your way towards the exit, as well as outside the aircraft. If your feet aren’t properly covered, you'll have a hard time making your way to safety. Imagine destroying your bare feet as your run down the aisle covered with broken glass, fires and metal shards."  Tommy also explained why you will always be told to sit down during turbulence. "Don't ever get up during turbulence," he said. "You could get injured and it should be taken seriously." Moving onto point three, he recommended you don't ignore safety demos. "In the unlikely event of anything happening, if you paid attention you are 80% more likely to survive." He also advised that you "don't snap at flight attendants. You shouldn't be doing this in general but to get someone's attention you don't need to be doing that." Finally, he warned: "Do not get up when the plane lands it is not safe. You want to make sure you are seated until you're at the gate and the seatbelts sign turns off." Do you keep your shoes on or off during a flight? Let us know in the comments. Fancy an escape? Sign up to the Chill newsletter for weekly inspiration and advice on UK holidays 