
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/06/06/is-retail-still-a-good-investment/   
Colliers
 Interest rates continue to weigh on investors – but strong fundamentals continue to drive fierce competition for the best assets. Despite lingering economic uncertainty, investor demand for the best retail assets remains strong, according to experts from Colliers. "If you have cash and see an opportunity, move really quickly," says Caitlin Zirpolo, VP of retail investments at Colliers. We caught up with Zirpolo, Anjee Solanki, national director of Retail Services & Practice Groups at Colliers US and Lauren Holden, COO of ShopCore and a Colliers client, at ICSC Las Vegas to discuss the state of retail investment and resiliency in the market. They also discuss: 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Kelsi Maree Borland |  August 15, 2024 Nili Sangani built a team with diversity as a core value, and received a Women of Influence award. She talks about her leadership in this podcast. By Natalie Dolce |  July 24, 2024 It's called the Fair Play Method. By Anthony Russo |  July 24, 2024 Members will get exclusive access to content. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
