Mar 20, 2023 Classified by the Wildlife Division of the Ohio Department of Natural Resources as a nuisance wildlife animal, raccoons are one of the most destructive critters to fruits and vegetables in area gardens.
(Submitted photos/ODNR, Division of Wildlife) Each summer I resume my battle to exclude certain nuisance “critters” from invading my garden and damaging my garden fruits and vegetables. I live in a rural agricultural area that is bordered by a small tree-lined stream that flows into the Mahoning River. Next to my lot is a vacant overgrown pasture field. These conditions provide an excellent habitat for all sorts of wildlife. One of the most destructive critters to my garden is the raccoon (Procyon lotor). In their search for food, they damage numerous vegetables and fruits. Their favorite in my garden is the sweet corn, popcorn and ornamental corn. Raccoons pull down the stalks and take a bite or two of the ear. This damage to the ear subjects it to further insect damage and makes the corn unfit for human consumption and use. Another favorite garden fruit is the watermelon. Raccoons defecate in communal sites, called latrines. These latrines are found in numerous places in the garden, at or on trees, raised horizontal surfaces, decks and patios, in attics, garages and any other structures on the property. They are the primary host of Baylis Ascaris procyonis, a roundworm that may be harmful to people. The raccoon is classified as a nuisance wildlife animal by the Wildlife Division of the Ohio Department of Natural Resources. This is due primarily to the raccoon strain of rabies that has spread from western Pennsylvania and West Virginia to 17 counties along the eastern border and northeast Ohio. Raccoons also can be disease carriers of canine distemper, parvovirus, leptospirosis, and ascarid roundworm, aka, raccoon roundworm. The raccoon is adapted to most all types of living environments. They flourish in suburban and urban areas. They will set up their dens under porches, decks and sheds, in chimneys, attics and any unsecured building structure. They will eat fish in ponds, chickens or other poultry, get into trash containers, eat pet food left outside, and cause sod damage in their hunt for grubs. Raccoons raid bird nests for eggs and fledglings. Exclusion can be an effective technique to control raccoons. An electric fence wire around the garden will greatly increase the effectiveness for excluding raccoons. A single wire fence should be approximately 8 inches off the ground. If using a double wire fence, both should be electrified, and the lower should be 3 to 4 inches off the ground and the upper wire 12 to 15 inches off the ground. A radio playing may discourage the raccoon from approaching. Since raccoons are great climbers, trim tree limbs so they do not overhang any building roof. Loose fascia or soffits should be repaired. Chimney caps should be in place. Pet doors should be locked when not in use. All garbage-can lids should be secured.  Ohio laws about raccoons allow them to be trapped or shot at any time if causing a nuisance. If trapped, they cannot be relocated and must be released on site or euthanized. Always check with local regulations before discharging a firearm within a city or village. Licensed nuisance animal control operators will remove nuisance raccoons for a fee. For details on food safety in your veggie garden, go to http://go.osu.edu/safeveggies. For details on raccoons, go to: http://go.osu.edu/raccoon. Schoeni is an Ohio State University Extension master gardener volunteer in Mahoning County. Today's breaking news and more in your inbox To include or update items in the weekly Senior News list, email information to tmunnell@

tribtoday.com or ... In 1988, Aug. 21 was proclaimed National Seniors Day by President Ronald Reagan.

According to Reagan, ... Have you ever met a group of friends that you’re immediately jealous of because of how close they are?

Several ... Hello, this is Lovina’s daughter Verena writing. I was in one of those writing moods, and I heard Mom saying that ... To include or update items in the weekly Health News list, email information to tmunnell@tribtoday.com or ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Tribune Chronicle | https://www.tribtoday.com | 240 Franklin Street SE, Warren, OH 44483 | 330-841-1600 