More than 47,000 trappers and hunters are helping to control the number of furbearing animals across Pennsylvania. The number of people buying furtaker trapping and hunting licenses has increased over the last dozen years. In 2010 the Pennsylvania Game Commission sold 35,279 furtaker licenses, compared to 47,090 in 2022. Animals such as raccoons, coyotes, muskrats, mink, beavers, skunks, opossums and bobcats take a toll on the habitat, and some species create crop losses for farmers. The Pennsylvania Trappers Association (PTA) works closely with the state agency to help sportsmen and women catch predators in an ethical manner. Dan Lynch, PTA public relations director, said, “Pennsylvania has the most furtaker licenses of any state, without a doubt.” The organization tries to further the cause of trapping through education and training. “We try to make sure the Game Commission is aware of the needs of trappers and we try to work as closely as we can with them,” said Lynch, who is also a retired Game Commission educator. “The kinds of wildlife we trap are abundant. They are not endangered at all,” Lynch said about the 13 species of furbearers that have trapping and/or hunting seasons in Pennsylvania. When the population levels for raccoons, red fox and skunk get too high, Lynch said there can be a rise in mange, distemper and rabies. All three species are carriers of rabies. “When we have fewer and fewer trappers taking some of those animals out of the population, they don’t stop breeding,” he said. Pets like dogs and cats can get mange from being close to where an infected animal has been. “We’re doing all this work, knowing full well we’re only getting $1 to $4 for a lot of (the fur pelts),” he said about money not being the reason for trapping. “Trappers are active participants in wildlife management.” Joel DiLorenzo, PTA District 12 representative for southeastern Pennsylvania, said a fox can have two to 10 pups a year. Trappers “are leaving a better and more hospitable environment for the (animals) because they are not on top of one another and (diseases) are not transmitted as easily. It makes for a healthier ecosystem in the end,” the Chester County resident said. Without trappers, residents would have to pay a pest control company to remove an abundance of skunks, raccoons and opossums. Raccoons are known for causing damage to cornfields, muskrats can create leaks in ponds and beavers can block waterways with trees and cornstalks. Lynch, of Oley, Berks County, said many furbearers raid nests of birds like turkeys and some endangered bird species that nest along shore lines to eat their eggs. Trapping is managed by by scientific-based regulations by the Game Commission and enforced by state game wardens. Advancements in foothold traps have made traps themselves more efficient and humane. Lynch said foothold traps hold the animal’s foot but don’t injure the animal. If the trapper catches something by mistake, it can be released back into the wild. There are biologists and trappers working on best management practices to improve every aspect of trapping right down to then chains, swivels and tension on the devices. There is spacing on the jaws of the trap to hold the animal’s foot, but still allow for blood circulation. “The cool thing is that people keep coming up with new (modifications) to make a better trap. Agencies don’t make better traps, trappers make better traps,” Lynch said about best management practices. DiLorenzo explains to new trappers about the modifications that have been made for foothold traps. “The traps are there to hold, they are not there to harm,” he said. They work well for animals that need to be relocated. Make a plan before you hunt: A dog may become a deer hunter's best friend this fall. Here's why Trapping seasons begin Oct. 21 with coyotes, foxes, raccoons, opossums, skunks and weasels. The season runs through Feb. 18 with no daily bag limit. Mink and muskrat season runs Nov. 18 to Jan. 7. Beaver season starts Dec. 16 and runs through March 31. The bag limit for beavers fluctuates depending on which Wildlife Management Unit the trapper chooses. A furtaker license allows people to hunt or trap furbearing animals. For coyotes, general licenses holders can hunt coyotes but need a furtaker license to trap them. A resident adult furtaker license costs $20.97 which is in addition to the cost of a general hunting license which also costs $20.97. The agency has separate permits for bobcats, river otters and fishers that have a yearly limit of one animal per trapper. The prices trappers received for animal pelts don’t create an economic benefit for trappers. Lynch explained that Pennsylvania’s winters don’t get as cold as they do in some western states and that hurts the quality of fur. When the weather is colder, the animals grow thicker fur. In comparing pelts from Pennsylvania and North Dakota, he said, “you would see how much better the fur looks for a coyote in North Dakota where it gets super, super cold and they need a much thicker coat to make it than you do in Pennsylvania.” A trapper in Pennsylvania may only receive about $4.50 for a fox pelt that required time to clean, stretch and prepare. “It’s not really a money making thing at all,” Lynch said. Some trappers sell glands from the animals for trapping baits and lures. Lynch said the pelts, stuffed animals and skulls are popular items for people to have in their homes such as in “man caves.” Some of the meat is also good table fare. “We eat a lot of the beaver that we catch,” Lynch said. DiLorenzo said, “If I’m going to take the life of an animal, I want to utilize every piece of that animal as possible,” he said. With red fox, he found a market for the skulls, fur, glands and stomachs. He said a lure maker purchases the stomach organs for his products. “It’s a labor of love,” DiLorenzo said. “We’re a valuable commodity to landowners, anybody that’s facing predation with backyard chicken farmers or calves where there might be coyote issues.” The PTA offers free trapping training schools or people to attend across the state. “We not only teach them how to trap, how to look for sign, and how to take care of their catch,” Lynch said. The best way to get started is to find a mentor to help the new trapper learn what to do in the field. There are good online resources and tutorials, but Lynch said it really helps to have a mentor there with you. If property owners have a need for trappers, the association’s webpage, patrappers.com, has contact information for each of the districts in Pennsylvania. Brian Whipkey is the outdoors columnist for USA TODAY Network sites in Pennsylvania. Contact him at bwhipkey@gannett.com and sign up for our weekly Go Outdoors PA newsletter email on this website's homepage under your login name. Follow him on Facebook @whipkeyoutdoors, X @whipkeyoutdoors and Instagram at whipkeyoutdoors. This article originally appeared on Erie Times-News: When are trapping seasons held in Pennsylvania Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Dillon was second on the final lap before turning Logano and then hooking Hamlin. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the 2024 season quickly approaching, here's a look at the Big Ten. Ohio State has a lot of pressure entering the season and a few teams could be right on its heels. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL.