The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. This year, the Anne Arundel County Health Department has recorded nine cases of wildlife rabies, not including bats. But before the county started its oral rabies vaccine program, the number was 10 times that amount.  At a Quiet Waters dog park, zoonotic disease specialist Tom Burja with the Anne Arundel County Health Department is checking live traps. "We're right near the dog park here. People come in contact with these animals all the time either accidentally or otherwise," Burja said. He, along with his United States Department of Agriculture wildlife partner Robert Fey, are in the woods to see how well the county's oral rabies vaccine program is working. "We trap in six different locations around the county. We set 50 traps at every location and basically try to collect as many samples as we can," Burja said. "We'll catch red foxes. We'll catch a possum." But on this day, the traps are filled with raccoons, lured by marshmallows, so that their blood can be tested for antibodies against rabies. "Once we have them in hand, we anesthetize the animal with an injection, and then we take blood samples. We send all this data to the CDC," Burja said. "We use this data to basically help us coordinate our program." The whole process takes just a few hours, and once the animal wakes up, it’s released. "What we do is try to put these animals on the tree when we let them go. That way, they can go up the tree and sleep the rest of the day," Burja said.  In September, the health department distributed 85,000 rabies vaccines in bait by air and by ground throughout wooded areas in the county. When ingested, the vaccine immunizes wildlife against the disease. All with the goal of keeping pets and people safe. "It's just nice to know, for a little peace of mind, that this program exists," Burja said.  He said it will take about a year to get results from this blood work back, so each animal trapped will get the vaccine just in case. "He's ready to go back in the cage and recover from the anesthesia. He'll go back to his business, back to being a raccoon, healthier than we found him," Burja said. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.