If hunting deer on the Mississippi Coast has become blasé, you have other options. The state is already more than a week into squirrel season and rabbits will be high-tailing it starting Saturday, when the four-month season gets underway. Here’s everything you can hunt this time of year. The fall season (yes, there’s more than one season) started Sept. 30 and runs through Feb. 28. Your daily bag limit is eight. Rabbit season runs from Saturday, Oct. 14, to Feb. 28. The daily bag limit is also eight. This trio shares a season and daily bag limits. Their season varies based on why you are hunting them. If you want to hunt opossum, raccoons and bobcats to eat or for sport, the season has already begun. The food and sport hunting season lasts from Sept. 30 to Feb. 28. Starting Nov. 1, you can also hunt the small game for their pelts. The daily bag limit is five for individuals and eight total if you have assembled a hunting party. Southeast Mississippi’s mourning and white-winged dove season started last Saturday, Oct. 7, and will continue through Nov. 5. Their final season of the year will run from Dec. 23 to Jan. 28. The daily bag limit is 15 singly or in aggregate; If you are hunting more than one type of migratory game bird or in more than one region of the state, the combined (i.e. aggregate) total is still 15. If your hunting trip will last more than a day, you are allowed to have 45 birds, singly or aggregate, in your possession. This year, Mississippi has an overpopulation of snow, blue and Ross’s geese (collectively known as light geese). To control the population, the Mississippi Department of Wildlife, FIsheries and Parks has a light goose conservation order that “allows for expanded methods of take that are not allowed during regular waterfowl seasons,” according to the MDWFP. “The season is open anytime all other waterfowl hunting seasons are closed.” The current hunting window started Oct. 1 and ends Nov. 9. Four additional windows will take place between Nov. 27 and March 31. To participate in the order, hunters must have a valid Mississippi hunting license, waterfowl stamp and a free light goose conservation order permit number. Hunters can obtain the permit number online at mdwfp.com/waterfowl or call 662-432-2199. Hunting hours are extended until 30 minutes after sundown There is no daily bag limit Only light geese (snow, blue and Ross’s) are eligible to hunt Electronic calls are allowed The use of unplugged shotguns is permitted New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social -- the platform owned by his media company -- that make it seem like Taylor Swift and her fans are coming out in support of his candidacy.  "One of the things I'm seeing a lot of in my practice right now is the rise of AI impersonators across the board for endorsements," Noah Downs, an IP and entertainment lawyer, told TechCrunch, with the condition that his comments are not legal advice.  In one of the images Trump posted, hordes of young women wear matching "Swifties for Trump" t-shirts. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw.