The way he gets into the house is hilarious! TikTok account holder @ThelmaJaneRaccoon runs a nonprofit raccoon rescue and rehabilitation and saves and cares for abandoned and injured raccoons until they can be released back into the wild.  Sounds lovely right? Well, that is until one of their rehabilitated raccoons decides it's just not about that wild-life and comes back home in the funniest and sneakiest way possible. Just check out this hilarious video to see Reina the Raccoon make her grand enterance.  View the original article to see embedded media. LOL! She has no interest in being back outside. @Gabrielwillburns comments, "She like “hey, craziest thing, someone locked the front door but, don’t worry I got in.” @Beetlebeverage adds, "She's like "You're right! I should go to my room and think about what I've done!" She does seem like she knows where she is going! @Lalasworld hilariously types, "She’s like “why are you acting like you didn’t invite me over tonight! Well, I’m here already sooo… what’s to eat?” Listen, we'd probably let her in too. She's too cute to be out in the cold.  Don't miss another headline from PetHelpful! Follow us on Google News by clicking the star in the top right hand corner for the latest updates curated just for you. Do you have a pet who's funny, smart, full of personality, or just downright adorable? We'd love for you to submit a video of your fur baby for a chance to be featured on PetHelpful and our social channels! Click here to upload your clip and share your beloved pet with the world. For more interesting pet news, be sure to sign up for our newsletter! New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.