Francois Ajenstat, Chief Product Officer of Tableau, at a conference in Las Vegas in May 2023. Salesforce announced this morning that it is bringing generative AI to Tableau, its data visualization platform. The goal: democratizing data accessibility to everyone. But it’s also working on something potentially even more revolutionary. “Only 30% of people in organizations use data to make decisions,” Tableau Chief Product Officer Francois Ajenstat said this morning at a convention in Las Vegas. “Data is still too hard; it’s not accessible to everybody.” New versions of Tableau will use generative AI to allow people who don’t typically get data to use natural language to ask questions and get insights, the company said. The software, called Tableau GPT, will automatically create visualizations and suggest questions and queries that could be relevant. A new “experience” within Tableau, called Pulse, will offer instant insights including charts and graphs for people who wouldn’t normally use the software. The announcement comes a week after Salesforce also announced Slack GPT, which integrates conversational AI into the popular work communication and coordination platform. Competitors such as Microsoft are adding ChatGPT to its customer relationship management tools in Microsoft Dynamics 365, announcing that support in March of this year. Zoho CRM also includes an AI assistant for analyzing data, generating charts, and detecting anomalies. Tableau Pulse, which uses Tableau GPT to provide a natural language interface to an organization's ... [+] data. All of this innovation is happening incredibly fast, says Pedro Arellano, an SVP and general manager at Tableau. “We’re not seeing the normal pace of innovation,” Arellano told me this morning. “You typically see an invention and you have time to assimilate it.” That’s not the case anymore. ChatGPT launched just over four months ago on November 30, 2022. It has since taken the world by storm, boosted investor Microsoft’s search engine market share and share price, forced software companies to innovate on generative AI and large language models, and spawned numerous competitors. The core innovation in the new Tableau technology, Arellano says, is intended to drive adoption of data insights throughout organizations by reducing the barrier to entry. But he doesn’t see humans getting cut out of the loop. “The learning doesn’t just start by itself,” he said. “There has to be a human in the loop to add a layer of business context and insight.” While Tableau Pulse, the version of the company’s software that is designed for non-data-natives, won’t be available until it it released in a pilot version in Fall of 2023, Salesforce is already piloting something potentially much more revolutionary: company-wide — and “owned” — AI engines for virtual everything. GPT technology, or Generative Pre-trained Transformers, have been popularized by OpenAI’s GPT-4. But companies like Samsung have already barred engineers from using it because data shared to ChatGPT exists on servers outside of the company’s control. Amazon has also issued a warning, as has Goldman Sachs. So there’s a need for AI tools that are specific to a company. Perhaps, in a sense, owned, developed, trained, and maintained by a company, even if they’re ultimately built by a vendor such as Salesforce. And there’s a need for these tools to learn and grow and remember company-specific data, insights, trends, opportunities, and challenges not just from query to query, but from month to month and quarter to quarter. These AI tools won’t ultimately be just for point solutions in marketing like text generation or image creation. And they won’t just be for data analysis. Rather, they’ll ultimately see and impact almost everything in a company, be privy to the company’s deepest secrets, and have models for what can be shared with different people at various levels within (and outside of) the organization. And there will have to be ironclad rules and technology firewalls to keep all that data and insight safely inside the organization. Salesforce is working on something like that, Arellano told me this morning. “We already have a prototype,” he said. Such an AI could provide insight into what products to launch, where to market them, how general world events at large will impact sales, what marketing efforts is working or not, and where the company should invest more or cut back. Ultimately, in a AI-first economy, companies with better AIs will outperform those with weaker AIs. Building this is a massive undertaking, and likely significantly beyond the scope of what Salesforce has already begun. And as Arellano said, it requires that the AI have access to the internet at large, with all the problems that this entails. But it’s an interesting possibility for Salesforce because the company already owns major capabilities in social listening and marketing technology and company sales, customers, internal operations that could give such an AI immense amounts of data. Few companies would be able to compete with this wealth of capability, with Microsoft as a key contender, perhaps IBM, perhaps SAP, Oracle, and a few others. A major challenge, as Arellano highlights, is in determining which of the external data is accurate and reliable. If the company solves that at some level — and the engineers behind OpenAI had to do precisely that in order to create something that gets it right most of the time — it opens up a world of possibilities for not just AI-first companies, but perhaps even AI-led companies. For now, that’s just an idea and a prototype, and Tableau is cautious about GPT technology and company data, saying that it’s keeping the GTP part of Tableau on the what-data-do-you-want side, and the Tableau part of Tableau GPT on the here’s-the-data side. “GPT is not a deterministic analytics engine,” Arellano told me. “Using it without humans leads to a greater risk of hallucinations and incorrect results.”  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.