A DIVE expert believes if missing Nicola Bulley is dead then her body would likely be found within a two-mile radius. Nicola, 45, disappeared while walking her dog on January 27 in St Michael’s on Wyre, Lancashire.  Peter Faulding, who assisted the police in a specialist search of the river, is now scouring for places where she could have been buried. The forensic expert is planning to hunt close to where Nicola disappeared for possible "deposition sites". Peter said "normally people aren’t found too far away, often within a couple of miles”. He has compiled a list of areas “where it would be possible to secrete a body without anyone noticing”. The search will include hedgerows and wooded areas where "it is possible to park a vehicle and deposit a body without being seen". Peter said he decided to launch his own "low-key" search after having a "frank" conversation with Nicola's partner Paul Ansell and friend Heather Gibbons. He claimed there is still a possibility Nicola ended up in the river. Peter told The Telegraph: “On the river on the day it wasn’t running very fast. “I’ve spent a lot of time with the family and they said she was so cautious, did the same route every day, didn’t go near the river and her Fitbit shows she doesn’t go near the river. "She would have to be pushed really hard to be launched out into the middle of the river." The nation has been gripped by Nicola's disappearance after her mobile was found on a bench still connected to a work conference call. Nicola’s pet springer spaniel Willow was also found – but there was no trace still of the mum-of-two. Lancashire Police said previously their “main working hypothesis” is that Nicola had “sadly fallen in the river”. But officers were yesterday seen searching a caravan site just yards from where the mum was last seen. The previously released a timeline of the missing mum’s final movements before she disappeared. Nicola began her walk along the towpath to the River Wyre at 8.43am after dropping her two children off at school. Police say around seven minutes later, a dog walker who knows Nicola saw her walking around the lower field with her springer spaniel Willow. The witness said their two dogs interacted briefly before she left Nicola via the river path. At 8.53am, the mum sent an email to her boss at Exclusively Mortgages. She then logged into a Teams call at 9.01am and was seen around nine minutes later on the upper field walking Willow. Police say at 9.30am, the work call ended but Nicola stayed logged on. At around 9.35am, the mobile and Willow were found at a bench by the river but there was no sign of Nicola. Police are probing a two hour gap between Nicola's last sighting and when she was reported missing at 11am. Nicola has been described as white, 5ft 3ins tall with light-brown shoulder-length hair. She was last seen wearing an ankle-length black quilted gilet jacket with a black Engelbert Strauss waist-length coat underneath and black tight-fitting jeans. She had long green walking socks tucked into her jeans, ankle-length green Next wellies, a necklace and a pale blue Fitbit on. Nicola has an Essex accent and links to the Thornton-Cleveleys area near Blackpool. Anybody with information about where she might be is asked to call 101, quoting log 473 of January 27, or ring 999 for immediate sightings. READ MORE SUN STORIESVOUCH FOR IT Thousands of households have just WEEKS to cash in free £75 vouchersPACK IT IN Three everyday flight booking 'hacks' that DON'T work - and one that does   ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/