or Remember me or  VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC) today announced the appointment of Brent Hyder to the position of Chief People Office, effective September 5. Hyder will report to President and CEO Bracken Darrell and serve as a member of the company’s executive leadership team.  This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230822176230/en/ Brent Hyder (Photo: VF Corp)  Hyder joins VF after nearly four years as Chief People Officer at Salesforce. Under his leadership, the company earned top spots on best workplace lists, including Great Place to Work, Fortune, People, Glassdoor, and LinkedIn.   Before joining Salesforce, Hyder spent almost 30 years in retail, including 15 years at Gap Inc. where he last served as Chief Human Resources Officer responsible for all human resources efforts, communications, security, Gap Inc Foundation, and sustainability worldwide. Previously, he was Global Chief Operating Officer of the Gap brand and led Gap Japan as its Representative Director and General Manager.   Hyder held other operating roles and responsibilities focused on stores and store operations at the Target Corporation, Best Buy, and across Gap Inc. and its multiple brands.   "We’re thrilled to have Brent join the VF team. His proven success in building top-rated employee experiences and high-performance inclusive cultures, combined with his strong global retail management experience, make Brent the ideal people leader for VF," said Darrell. "Brent shares a deep respect for VF’s incredible brands and a strong desire to build a workplace that attracts, develops, and retains the very best and most diverse talent in service to our consumers."   As Chief People Officer for VF, Hyder will be responsible for all aspects of the human resources function globally and drive strategies to optimize employee and business success. He will lead best-in-class talent acquisition and management programs focused on developing and retaining VF’s more than 30,000 performance-driven employees.   Hyder offered, “I’m honored and excited to join VF and get back to my love of working in the retail industry. VF is a company that I’ve long admired for its many fundamental strengths – from incredible brands, to talent, to environmental stewardship, and a commitment to inclusion and diversity. I look forward to working with the HR organization and the entire VF team to build and deliver our exciting consumer-focused growth strategy.”   Hyder attended Brigham Young University where he earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Retail Management. He serves on the Board of Directors of Enterprise for Youth, a Bay Area nonprofit that helps under-resourced youth reach their potential through transformative paid internship experiences.  About VF  Founded in 1899, VF Corporation is one of the world’s largest apparel, footwear and accessories companies connecting people to the lifestyles, activities and experiences they cherish most through a family of iconic outdoor, active and workwear brands including Vans®, The North Face®, Timberland® and Dickies®. Our purpose is to power movements of sustainable and active lifestyles for the betterment of people and our planet. We connect this purpose with a relentless drive to succeed to create value for all stakeholders and use our company as a force for good. For more information, please visit vfc.com.   View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230822176230/en/ Get the latest news and updates from Stockhouse on social media Follow STOCKHOUSE Today