The layoffs at Google follow similarly huge cuts at Microsoft, Amazon and Salesforce. Tech companies who hired rapidly during the pandemic now... Google is the latest tech giant to announce a massive layoff: the company announced on Friday that it is slashing about 12,000 jobs.  The company already has notified affected employees in the United States, CEO Sundar Pichai wrote in an email to all Google employees. Layoffs will take longer in other countries due to local laws, Pichai said. The job cuts represent about 6% of Google's global workforce. It is not clear how many of those jobs are in the U.S. January has been a brutal month for Big Tech workers. Microsoft announced sweeping layoffs Thursday and is cutting 10,000 jobs, or about 5% of its workforce. Amazon and Salesforce announced layoffs earlier this month.  The companies say they hired rapidly during the pandemic and now have to make serious cuts amid an uncertain economy. "Over the past two years we've seen periods of dramatic growth. To match and fuel that growth, we hired for a different economic reality than the one we face today," wrote Pichai in the email to staff posted online and in a regulatory filing.  The layoffs also come as major tech companies like Google pivot to artificial intelligence. But expanding on early investments comes with "tough choices," Pichai wrote. The job cuts will hit employees throughout parent company Alphabet and across "product areas, functions, levels and regions," he said. In addition to cuts at big tech companies, there have been layoffs on Wall Street. Goldman Sachs said it was planning to lay off about 3,200 employees in one of the biggest cuts since the 2008 financial crisis.  The former president will be traveling the country, focused on the issues that his campaign believe matter most to voters: the economy, crime, national security and immigration.  President Biden is set to headline Monday night's programming, but convention planning remains in flux with the party's quick pivot to Vice President Harris as the nominee. Ukraine is holding ground it seized inside Russia. Yet Ukraine is losing villages inside its own territory. And in the Black Sea, the Russian Navy has been forced to retreat. House Republicans allege abuse of power and obstruction of justice in son Hunter Biden's financial dealings. But the investigation stops short of alleging any criminal wrongdoing by the president. The broadcaster was hailed as the father of the modern audience-participation daytime talk show. Donahue's taste for controversial and polarizing subjects birthed a new genre of television. Derrick Johnson, who is expected to speak Monday night at the DNC, says young Black voters in particular are more excited about the election with Vice President Harris as the nominee. Clinical psychologist Talal Alsaleem has helped hundreds of couples work through romantic affairs. He shares common misconceptions about cheating -- and how to cope. President Biden had made a career of digging in and proving the doubters wrong — until he finally met a political crisis he couldn’t ride out. The DNC kicks off today in Chicago with Biden as the keynote speaker. Here's what to expect at the convention. And, Trump plans to steal the spotlight this week with a number of rallies planned. As the Democratic Convention kicks off in Chicago, Republicans are among those expected to speak in support of Vice President Harris for president.  Many fans are dreaming of coming to the U.S. for the World Cup in 2026. One major problem looms: Wait times to get visas can be about two years for some. The next blue supermoon will not happen until 2032, but supermoons occur more frequently. 