Radius has bought a of a majority stake in EV Charging Solutions, completing its electric vehicle (EV) proposition for customers in the UK. The company has also recently acquired Traction Finance, EV Back Office and Powerhouse Energy Management. Combined, the new businesses enable Radius to provide an end-to-end EV solution. With a wide portfolio of customers across the UK, EV Charging Solutions has installed more than 10,000 domestic and commercial EV chargers. The acquisition will enable EV Charging Solutions to grow its portfolio, as well as gaining access to Radius’ wider line-up of solutions such as telematics, insurance, e-mobility and telecoms for its customer base. Chris Everitt, EV Charging Solutions managing director, said: “We are delighted to join Radius. It allows us to be part of a full end-to-end EV solution and with electric vehicles playing a big role in many businesses’ net zero goals, we’re very excited about the opportunity to help Radius’ existing and new customers on this journey.” Bill Holmes, Radius CEO, added: “Chris and his team have nearly 10 years of experience in the EV marketplace which we believe will really help Radius as it develops its customer proposition in this exciting sector.  We are also looking forward to helping Chris scale and develop his exciting business where he has a growing domestic and commercial customer base.” > Interested in comparing electric vehicle data? Check out our EV tool. > Interested in ensuring the efficient use of EVs. Check out our dedicated editorial sections: Insight & policy | EV news | Charging & infrastructure | Costs & incentives | Benefit-in-kind | EV case studies | EV road tests > EVs by range > EVs by their efficiency > Rapid charging EVs > EVs by price: lowest to highest  In this report Why actions, not data are key to telematics success Tackling the issues around offering company car or cash EV transition sparks funding trend changes - but are they good for business? How to tackle the cost and safety concerns of grey fleet Five ways to control or reduce fleet fuel costs How lower BIK tax is helping revive salary sacrifice Replacement cycles: depreciation versus SMR Fleet management software - gaining insights that matter 'Why fleets need flexibility to be cost effective' - special report in association with Holman Options available to tackling rising costs of insurance premiums Understanding EV impact on accident management How AI will cut SMR costs     
Matt has been an automotive journalist for eight years. As senior staff writer he is responsible for the automotive content on Fleet News and also contributes to Automotive Management. Prior to this, Matt worked in the automotive industry for 10 years.
 Matt has been an automotive journalist for eight years. As senior staff writer he is responsible for the automotive content on Fleet News and also contributes to Automotive Management. Prior to this, Matt worked in the automotive industry for 10 years. No comments have been made yet.   Register to receive our range of digital content, including newsletters and special reports. Fleet News, Media House, Lynch Wood Peterborough, PE2 6EA 
© Bauer Consumer Media Ltd - Media House, Lynch Wood, Peterborough, PE2 6EA - Registered number 01176085
 
www.fleetnews.co.uk is the leading website for the UK fleet sector with an 91% market share (average UK site visits in 2023), according to SEMRush. H Bauer Publishing are authorised and regulated for credit broking by the FCA (Ref No: 845898)
 By submitting any material to us you are confirming that the material is your own original work or that you have permission from the copyright owner to use the material and to authorise Bauer Consumer Media to use it as described in this paragraph. You also promise that you have permission from anyone featured or referred to in the submitted material to it being used by Bauer Consumer Media. If Bauer Consumer Media receives a claim from a copyright owner or a person featured in any material you have sent us, we will inform that person that you have granted us permission to use the relevant material and you will be responsible for paying any amounts due to the copyright owner or featured person and/or for reimbursing Bauer Consumer Media for any losses it has suffered as a result.