We believe everyone should be able to make financial decisions with confidence. And while our site doesn’t feature every company or financial product available on the market, we’re proud that the guidance we offer, the information we provide and the tools we create are objective, independent, straightforward — and free. So how do we make money? Our partners compensate us. This may influence which products we review and write about (and where those products appear on the site), but it in no way affects our recommendations or advice, which are grounded in thousands of hours of research. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable reviews of their products or services. Here is a list of our partners. Try a gas app to pinch pennies when gas is expensive and every little bit counts. Many, or all, of the products featured on this page are from our advertising partners who compensate us when you take certain actions on our website or click to take an action on their website. However, this does not influence our evaluations. Our opinions are our own. Here is a list of our partners and here's how we make money. The average gas price in the U.S. has been on a downward trend lately, but filling up still isn’t cheap. It might be time to download GasBuddy, Upside or a similar fuel-centric app. While there’s no silver bullet to supreme savings on this global commodity, a gas app can help you pinch pennies. To find the best options, NerdWallet considered apps with at least 4.0 stars out of 5 and 6,000 reviews in Google Play and Apple’s App Store, and those created independent of any major gas station chains. Switching your insurance could save you hundreds a year Link your auto or property policy to our insurance assistant and we’ll tell you if you could save money. We’ll even do the shopping for you. Best for: Checking local gas prices and saving cents per gallon when you pay with the GasBuddy card. How it works: The crowd-sourced gas app relies on users to report real-time prices at stations all over. And with over 100 million downloads, it’s become a powerful tool for finding the best deals on fuel. Best of all, you can download the app for free and look at local gas prices right away; no account needed. You could also save money and earn cash back when you set up a Pay with GasBuddy account. GasBuddy will issue you a debit-like card that you’ll need to link up to a checking account. The company says you can save up to 25 cents a gallon when you activate deal alerts in the app and pay with your GasBuddy card at the pump. Cash back is automatically redeemed — in the form of a discount — when you pay with the card. The Premium version of Pay with GasBuddy can net more savings per gallon for a recurring fee. As with any paid deal service, run the numbers first to make sure what you’d save is more than what you’d pay to subscribe. Apple store rating: 4.7  Google Play rating: 4.1 Best for: Getting cash back on gas purchases without the need for a new payment method. How it works: Upside is a free app that connects users to deals on gas, groceries and restaurants at participating locations. Use the app to find offers at gas stations near you, then claim the one you want right before you fill up. The literal upside here is that you can buy gas with the credit or debit card you already use, then follow the app’s instructions to either "check in" or upload a receipt to earn cash back. The cash you earn stores up and won’t expire. When ready, you can redeem your earnings by bank transfer, PayPal or a gift card. Take note: Pulling out smaller dollar amounts (think less than $15) can incur a $1 fee. Apple store rating: 4.8 Google Play rating: 4.7 Apps like Upside and GasBuddy are ideal for anyone who spends lots of time on the road, especially gig workers who log miles driving people, packages or groceries around. Best for: Getting cash back on gas purchases in the form of a check. How it works: Checkout 51 is another app that pays out cash back on a variety of purchases, including gas. Similar to Upside, you use the app to find and claim offers of up to 25 cents back per gallon at nearby gas stations. Once claimed, you have four hours to buy the gas with your preferred credit or debit card and 20 hours to upload your receipt to the app. Checkout 51 partners with Upside to provide gas offers at the same list of partnering stations all over the U.S. You’ll need a minimum balance of $20 to cash out, and when you do, Checkout 51 will put a check in the mail — old school, but tried and true. Apple store rating: 4.0 Google Play rating: 4.2 Best for: Gas station prices and directions in one place. How it works: With more than a billion monthly users, it’s probably safe to assume you already have Google Maps installed on your phone. The do-all map app will help you find the nearest gas station and point you to the cheapest. Current gas prices display on the map view and in business profiles of many stations. Open the app and search for gas. Tap the station you want and take a look at current prices for regular, mid-grade, premium and diesel. Prices don’t show for all gas stations listed, but when they do, it’ll take fewer taps to pick a place based on price and go. Apple store rating: 4.7 Google Play rating: 4.0 Best for: Sticking to recommended service intervals and monitoring true miles per gallon. How it works: Keeping up with your car’s maintenance is an easy way to save money on gas, and the Carfax Car Care app uses vehicle history records to help you do that. Sign in or sign up for a free Carfax account to use the app, then add your vehicle(s) by VIN or plate number. From there, a customized dashboard will alert you to services due soon, like an oil change or tire rotation. Click around to see your car’s service history, vehicle-specific maintenance schedules and open recalls. Use the app’s “Glovebox” section to log gas fill-ups so you can monitor true fuel economy over time. Apple store rating: 4.8 Google Play rating: 4.7 These are just a few of the many gas apps out there. Most of the major chains also have loyalty programs that can help you save on gas, so if you’re a regular at Royal Farms, Speedway, Exxon or somewhere else, try their apps too. A gas credit card is another way to earn rewards at every refuel. And when it’s time to hit the road, don’t discount simple DIY methods to make a gallon of gas go further, like lightening that lead foot of yours — no download or login required. on Capitalize's website Dive even deeper in Personal Finance Read more Read more Read more Download the app Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly. NerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc. Impact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations. NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539 NMLS Consumer Access|Licenses and Disclosures California: California Finance Lender loans arranged pursuant to Department of Financial Protection and Innovation Finance Lenders License #60DBO-74812 Insurance Services offered through NerdWallet Insurance Services, Inc. (CA resident license no.OK92033)  Insurance Licenses NerdWallet™ | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105