Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff appeared to cause an uproar among some employees on Friday by suggesting in an internal Slack message that new employees are less productive, and that remote work might be to blame. "How do we increase the productivity of our employees at Salesforce," Benioff asked in an internal Slack message viewed by Insider. "New employees (hired during the pandemic in 2021 & 2022) are especially facing much lower productivity." Benioff suggested possible causes including remote work. Previously, Benioff slammed return-to-work orders, but appears to have changed his tune recently, asking Salesforce salespeople to return to the office.  "Is this a reflection of our office policy?" Benioff wrote. "Are we not building tribal knowledge with new employees without an office culture?" Hundreds of employees responded to Benioff's Slack message, many of them pushing back on the premise that new employees are less productive. "How are we defining productivity," one employee wrote in a comment with hundreds of positive reactions. Likewise for similar responses from other employees, such as "Can we see the data?" "Are our managers not directly addressing productivity with their teams?," Benioff also asked in the Slack message. "Are we not investing enough time into our new employees? Do managers focus enough time and energy on onboarding new employees & achieving productivity? Is coming as a new employee to salesforce too overwhelming? Asking for a friend." 
                                Related stories
                               A Salesforce spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment on Friday.  Salesforce laid off hundreds of employees in November and has since enacted what some insiders called unrealistic new mandates primarily for salespeople, like making daily in-person meetings throughout the holiday season. Meanwhile, several of Benioff's key executives recently announced plans to leave the company.  Company insiders attributed these departures to Benioff's response to the company's recent economic headwinds: As Salesforce's outlook dips after a successful few pandemic years, the cofounder is exerting increasing control over the company, alienating his closest lieutenants while dialing up performance pressure on employees. Are you a Salesforce employee or do you have insight to share? Contact Ashley Stewart via email (astewart@businessinsider.com) or send a secure message from a nonwork device via Signal (+1-425-344-8242). 
                                Read next
                               Jump to