 
Business and innovation | January 19, 2023                             The City of Mississauga has selected Cielo Medel as the new Director of Information Technology and Chief Information Officer, effective January 30, 2023. “I’m pleased to welcome Cielo to the City of Mississauga and to the City’s extended leadership team,” said Shari Lichterman, Commissioner of Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer. “Cielo brings with her extensive experience in leading and implementing municipal and provincial Information Technology (IT) services and solutions. This role will allow her to apply her knowledge and direct experience to the delivery of all aspects of the City’s IT projects, services and business operations.” Reporting to the Commissioner of Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, Medel will oversee six key areas of operations that focus on the innovation, development, maintenance and security of the City’s IT business applications, services and infrastructure. “I look forward to joining the City of Mississauga and working with staff, senior leaders, as well as the Mayor and Members of Council to deliver, support and implement innovative IT technologies, infrastructure and services,” said Cielo Medel. Prior to joining the City of Mississauga, Medel served as the Director of Operations Support Services at the City of Toronto, where her team lead a city-wide workplace modernization program, deploying telework technologies and enabling the hybrid model since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Prior to that, Medel was with eHealth Ontario leading the technology planning, support and operation of eHealth Ontario’s high availability computing environment for the province’s health care providers who serve more than 13 million Ontarians. Medel holds a Master’s Certificate in Project Management from York University Schulich School of Business and a Bachelor of Science in Computer Data Processing Management from Polytechnic University of the Philippines. She is also Information Technology Information Library (ITIL) v3 certified and ProSci – ADKAR Change Management certified. Media Contact:
City of Mississauga Media Relations
media@mississauga.ca
905-615-3200, ext. 5232
TTY: 905-896-5151 Loading