Processing.... Columbia, Maryland-based iNovex has acquired cybersecurity company Secure Innovations as the Enlightenment Capital-backed software development services provider aims to position itself as a middle-market player in the defense and intelligence sectors. Secure Innovations CEO Doug Jeruzal will join the combined entity as a key leader with oversight of cybersecurity programs, iNovex said Thursday. Founded in 2007, Secure Innovations supports customers in the defense and intelligence markets by providing capabilities and services in the areas of defensive cyber operations, security automation, systems security engineering, vulnerability assessment and penetration testing and information security training. Raymond James and Miles & Stockbridge served as exclusive financial adviser and legal counsel, respectively, to the acquired entity on the transaction.  Moore & Van Allen acted as iNovex’s legal counsel, while Morrison & Foerster offered government contracting legal advisory support in the deal. The transaction marks the second purchase for iNovex in less than one month, following the acquisition of software engineering company Innoplex. Join the Potomac Officers Club’s Cyber Summit on June 8 at Hilton-McLean to hear cybersecurity experts and thought leaders as they discuss the evolving role of cyber across the public sector. Register here. In a meeting last week at Enlightenment Capital’s Chevy Case, Maryland headquarters, Jason Rigoli, a partner at the firm, received his first Wash100 Award from Executive Mosaic CEO and award founder Jim Garrettson. The Wash100 Award is a yearly coronation of the finest executives shaping the government contracting sector. It commends leaders who have demonstrated outstanding vision, innovation and reliability, RealmOne, an Enlightenment Capital-backed technology services contractor, has moved to expand its technological capabilities in support of the Department of Defense and Intelligence Community customers with its acquisition of Torin Consulting. Reston, Virginia-based Torin has been providing analytical and operational services, software development, cybersecurity, network engineering and DevOps platforms for IC and other federal government Enlightenment Capital has merged four businesses to form and launch RealmOne, a new platform company focused on providing cybersecurity and intelligence collection and analysis support for national security agency customers. Columbia, Maryland-based RealmOne is led by CEO Gary Daigle, former chief executive of iNovex. The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here