Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
                      Elyssa Kaufman, 
                              
              Mugo Odigwe, 
                              
              Kris Habermehl
 
Updated on:  January 11, 2023 / 7:34 AM CST
          / CBS Chicago
         CHICAGO (CBS)-- Flights nationwide are resuming after an FAA computer outage Wednesday morning. The FAA ordered airlines to pause all domestic departures until  9 a.m. Eastern Time, 8 a.m. Central Time. The ground stop has been lifted.  The FAA released the following statement:  "Normal air traffic operations are resuming gradually across the United States following an overnight outage to the FAA's Notice to Air Missions (NOTAM) system that provides safety information to flight crews. The ground stop has been lifted." The FAA is working to restore its Notice to Air Missions System. We are performing final validation checks and reloading the system now. Operations across the National Airspace System are affected. We will provide frequent updates as we make progress. Delays were reported at Chicago Airports.  The Chicago Department of Aviation said "residual delays or cancellations will likely continue throughout the day as a result of this morning's outage." United Airlines confirmed all domestic flights are delayed.  Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre in a tweet said the president was briefed on the outage and a full investigation is being conducted by the Department of Transportation.  The President has been briefed by the Secretary of Transportation this morning on the FAA system outage. There is no evidence of a cyberattack at this point, but the President directed DOT to conduct a full investigation into the causes. The FAA will provide regular updates. The FAA says departures are resuming at Newark Liberty and Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson airports due to air traffic congestion in those areas.   Elyssa is a digital news producer for CBS Chicago. She covers breaking news and manages the station's social media presence. 
© 2023 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 ©2024 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.