“This is probably the most beautiful spot in East Hampton,” said David Lauren, surveying the grounds at Mulford Farm in East Hampton on Thursday night. Nearby, the property’s wildflower garden was in peak bloom. “They only come in the summer, and it’s life affirming,” he said of the assortment of colorful flowers. He and wife Lauren Bush Lauren were greeting guests as they made their way through the front gate of the historical colonial farmstead. Ralph Lauren had teamed with Net-a-porter and Mr Porter to host an intimate dinner out east, and Mulford Farm, visible from the main road leading into town, was a fitting dinner location. Overseen by the East Hampton Historical Society, Ralph Lauren has been a partner in the property’s restoration and ongoing preservation. More from WWD Thirteen Lune and Mytheresa Bring the Beauty of Inclusion to the Hamptons Hannah Spinelli Wants Consumers to Step Into Comfort Emma Roberts Makes Red Statement in Ralph Lauren at the Brand's Intimate Dinner With Net-a-porter and Mr Porter “It just feels like it’s part of our culture. It’s been here. It’s worn and weathered and it’s something that has historical meaning to the community,” said Lauren of the significance of Mulford Farm. “It’s wonderful to come back here and feel like a part of it and to keep it alive. Otherwise people forget about it, which is the real issue. I think sometimes these things are so beautiful and [people] take it for granted. But when you come here, you realize just how special it is.” The location also holds personal resonance for Net-a-porter and Mr Porter president Alison Loehnis, who described the evening as the “perfect embodiment of summer.” “It’s really a full-circle moment for me,” Loehnis said during cocktail hour. “This is the place I grew up. I started my fashion retail career here, across the street, working for Ralph Lauren. My first job in the industry was working in the store here when I was in college,” she added. “It was a country store, so I’d be wearing my western gear, park around the corner with my cowboy boots, and start work.” The farmstead took on a mid-summer glow as the sun set and guests made their way across the lawn toward the 18th century Mulford Barn, which had been outfitted with a quintessential Ralph Lauren tablescape and chandeliers dangling from the beams. The Polo Bar had also traveled east for the event, bringing its signatures — polo cocktail stirrers, the restaurant’s beloved burger and ice cream sundaes — with them. “This property is amazing,” remarked Rupert Friend, heading over to dinner with wife Aimee Mullins and Dianna Agron. Other guests included Emma Roberts and Barbara Sturm, both dressed in red; “The Summer I Turned Pretty” star Christopher Briney; Kate Love and Kevin Love; Nike master trainer Joe Holder; Tinx, and Coco Baudelle. Launch Gallery: Inside Ralph Lauren, Net-a-porter And Mr Porter's Intimate Summer Dinner Best of WWD The Best Party Photos of 2021 Penélope Cruz Honored at MoMA's Annual Film Benefit Presented by Chanel The Kid Laroi Performs at Empire State Building for Ami Opening Party Click here to read the full article.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.