NEW YORK, May 30, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- The denim jeans market size is set to grow by USD 22,791.19 million between 2022 and 2027, and register a CAGR of over 6.71%, according Technavio's latest market research report estimates. With a focus on identifying dominant industry influencers, Technavio's reports present a detailed study by the way of synthesis, and summation of data from multiple sources. This report offers an up-to-date analysis regarding the current market scenario, the latest trends and drivers, and the overall market environment. This denim jeans market report extensively covers market segmentation by end-user (men, women, and children), distribution channel (offline and online), and geography (APAC, North America, Europe, South America, and Middle East and Africa). 



 Technavio offers an up-to-date analysis regarding the current global market scenario and the overall market environment. View Sample Report The market is fragmented, and the degree of fragmentation will accelerate during the forecast period. American Eagle Outfitters Inc., AG Adriano Goldschmied Inc., ASOS Plc, BESTSELLER AS, Dolce and Gabbana SRL, EDWIN Europe GmbH, Esprit Holdings Ltd., Giorgio Armani S.p.A., Guess Inc., H and M Hennes and Mauritz GBC AB, Kering SA, Kontoor Brands Inc., Levi Strauss and Co., LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE, Pepe Jeans SL, PVH Corp., Ralph Lauren Corp., Tapestry Inc., The Gap Inc., and G Star Raw eStore BV are some of the major market participants. Although the expanding retail space, increasing consciousness regarding clothes, and product innovations will offer immense growth opportunities, to leverage the current opportunities, market vendors must strengthen their foothold in the fast-growing segments, while maintaining their positions in the slow-growing segments. Denim jeans market 2022-2027: Segmentation The men segment is the largest market share holder in the global denim jeans market. Because of their popularity, adaptability, and comfort, men's denim jeans are expected to witness growing demand, during the forecast period. Primarily, men who prefer premium quality denim and are fashion-conscious are likely to be interested in global and regional vendors offering premium denim. Denim jeans with unique designs or embellishments and greater prices are often offered under the premium product category. Men who value affordability and functionality may choose more reasonably priced denim jean brands. These brands frequently appear in mass-market retail outlets and offer straightforward denim pants with little design characteristics. Geographic Segmentation APAC is expected to contribute 42% of the global denim jeans market during the forecast period. Increasing urbanization is extensively encouraging the adoption of western lifestyles and culture in APAC, compared to other regions. Primarily, the high demand for denim jeans in APAC is expected to be due to continuous economic development in countries such as Australia, New Zealand, Japan, China, India, Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam, and South Korea. This has increased the purchasing power of consumers, making them explore better western lifestyle denim jeans and are willing to spend more money on such products, including premium apparels such as designer denim jeans. Learn more about the factors assisting the growth of the market, download a free sample: View Sample Report Some of the major vendors of the denim jeans market include American Eagle Outfitters Inc., AG Adriano Goldschmied Inc., ASOS Plc, BESTSELLER AS, Dolce and Gabbana SRL, EDWIN Europe GmbH, Esprit Holdings Ltd., Giorgio Armani S.p.A., Guess Inc., H and M Hennes and Mauritz GBC AB, Kering SA, Kontoor Brands Inc., Levi Strauss and Co., LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE, Pepe Jeans SL, PVH Corp., Ralph Lauren Corp., Tapestry Inc., The Gap Inc., and G Star Raw eStore BV. To help businesses improve their market position, Technavio's report provides a detailed analysis of around 15+ vendors operating in the market. Vendors Offering The report also covers the following areas: Market Dynamics MARKET TRENDS Recycling jeans from plastic and other materials The increased use of resources such as water, chemicals, electricity, and other forms of energy due to the growing demand for clothing on the worldwide market is having a negative impact on the environment. Resources in the environment are becoming more scarce as a result of the rising demand for denim jeans. Utilising textile waste to recycle jeans minimises environmental resource exploitation and lessens the dependence on scarce raw materials to generate new clothing. The garbage is recycled by being broken down into thin fibre and then utilised to make yarn. The majority of retailers, including Levi Strauss, manufacture denim using materials like plastic. MARKET DRIVERS Expanding retail space  During the projected period, the growth of the global denim jeans market is anticipated to be fueled by the expansion of retail space across the globe. Strong economic growth and urbanization are both contributing to the ongoing growth of the global retail business. Retail stores, branded retail chains, and convenience stores have traditionally been denim jeans' primary sales outlets. Retail establishments with many brands allow customers to select from a variety of brands. Additionally, several retail establishments are attempting to grow internationally. MARKET CHALLENGES Fierce competition in apparel industry Despite the fact that customers have a strong demand for jeans, the fierce competition in the garment market is having a negative effect on that desire. The majority of floor space at retail establishments is taken up by attractive and vibrant bottom clothing including dresses, leggings, and athletic and yoga trousers. Due to their many uses, athletic and yoga trousers have become more popular among both men and women in recent years. Customers are being let down by some denim manufacturers' incapacity to maintain consistency in the quality of their products. The low quality of denim is evident in many different ways, including early fading, wear and tear, shrinkage, odour, and many others. Due to incorrect textile processing or insufficient recycling techniques, denim quality decreases. Get lifetime access to our Technavio Insights. Subscribe now to our most popular "Lite Plan" billed annually at USD 5,000. View 3 reports monthly and Download 3 Reports Annually! Denim jeans market 2022-2027: Key Highlights Related Reports: The predicted growth of the premium denim jeans market share from 2021 to 2026 is USD 9.75 billion at a progressing CAGR of 6.9%. This premium denim jeans market research report provides valuable insights on the post COVID-19 impact on the market, which will help companies evaluate their business approaches. Furthermore, this report extensively covers premium denim jeans market segmentation by end-user (men, women, and children), distribution channel (offline and online), and geography (North America, Europe, APAC, South America, and Middle East and Africa). The denim fabric market share is expected to increase to USD 8.73 billion from 2021 to 2026, and the market's growth momentum will accelerate at a CAGR of 6.78%. This denim fabric market research report provides valuable insights on the post COVID-19 impact on the market, which will help companies evaluate their business approaches. Furthermore, this report extensively covers denim fabric market segmentation by end-user (clothing and apparel, decor and homeware, and accessories) and geography (APAC, North America, Europe, South America, and Middle East and Africa). Denim Jeans Market Scope Report Coverage Details Base year 2022 Historic period 2017-2021 Forecast period 2023-2027 Growth momentum & CAGR Accelerate at a CAGR of 6.71% Market growth 2023-2027 USD 22,791.19 million Market structure Fragmented YoY growth 2022-2023(%) 5.89 Regional analysis APAC, North America, Europe, South America, andMiddle East and Africa Performing market contribution APAC at 42% Key countries US, China, Japan, Germany, and France Competitive landscape Leading Vendors, Market Positioning of Vendors, Competitive Strategies, and Industry Risks Key companies profiled American Eagle Outfitters Inc., AG AdrianoGoldschmied Inc., ASOS Plc, BESTSELLER AS, Dolce and Gabbana SRL, EDWIN Europe GmbH, EspritHoldings Ltd., Giorgio Armani S.p.A., Guess Inc., H andM Hennes and Mauritz GBC AB, Kering SA, KontoorBrands Inc., Levi Strauss and Co., LVMH MoetHennessy Louis Vuitton SE, Pepe Jeans SL, PVH Corp., Ralph Lauren Corp., Tapestry Inc., The Gap Inc.,and G Star Raw eStore BV Market dynamics Parent market analysis, Market growth inducers andobstacles, Fast-growing and slow-growing segment analysis,COVID-19 impact and recovery analysis and future consumer dynamics, Market condition analysis for forecast period Customization purview If our report has not included the data that you are looking for, you can reach out to our analysts and getsegments customized   Table of Contents 1 Executive Summary 2 Market Landscape 3 Market Sizing 4 Historic Market Size 5 Five Forces Analysis 6 Market Segmentation by End-user 7 Market Segmentation by Distribution Channel 8 Customer Landscape 9 Geographic Landscape 10 Drivers, Challenges, and Trends 11 Vendor Landscape 12 Vendor Analysis 13 Appendix   Download now to uncover successful business strategies deployed by Companies of denim jeans market - Download Latest Sample Report in Minutes  About Us Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. Their research and analysis focus on emerging market trends and provides actionable insights to help businesses identify market opportunities and develop effective strategies to optimize their market positions. With over 500 specialized analysts, Technavio's report library consists of more than 17,000 reports and counting, covering 800 technologies, spanning across 50 countries. Their client base consists of enterprises of all sizes, including more than 100 Fortune 500 companies. This growing client base relies on Technavio's comprehensive coverage, extensive research, and actionable market insights to identify opportunities in existing and potential markets and assess their competitive positions within changing market scenarios. Contact Technavio ResearchJesse MaidaMedia & Marketing ExecutiveUS: +1 844 364 1100UK: +44 203 893 3200Email: media@technavio.comWebsite: www.technavio.com/ 



  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/denim-jeans-market-is-expected-to-grow-by-usd-22-791-19-million-from-2022-to-2027-expanding-retail-space-is-notably-driving-the-market---technavio-301836417.html SOURCE  Technavio © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.