By Connie Rusk For Mailonline   Published:  07:53 EDT, 18 January 2023   |  Updated:  07:55 EDT, 18 January 2023      26 View  comments  Amanda Owen was told by fans to stay safe as she battles the treacherous weather on her Yorkshire farm this week.  The shepherdess took to Instagram to update her followers as she cared for her sheep and horses in freezing conditions and blizzard-like snow.  The TV star, 48, was urged to stay warm inside as much as she could after  temperatures plunged below -8C and the Met Office issued a heavy snow warning across large swathes of England including the North, the Midlands and central and eastern areas. Let it snow: Amanda Owen was told by fans to stay safe as she battles the treacherous weather on her Yorkshire farm this week In the photos, Amanda determinably struggled through the difficult conditions to care for her flock and provided them hay to eat on after the landscape was covered in snow.  She wrote: 'Hang onto your hats….it’s finally stopped raining…….and started snowing.' The mother-of-nine certainly had her hands full as she moved her sheep into the pens to take care of their hooves - as snow conditions can worsen pre-existing issues.  Tough: The shepherdess took to Instagram to update her followers as she cared for her sheep and horses in freezing conditions and blizzard-like snow Chilly: The TV star, 48, was urged to stay warm inside as much as she could after temperatures plunged below -8C Cold blast: Yellow warnings are in place across large parts of Britain for snow and ice on Wednesday  But fans were worried about Amanda working in such tough conditions.  One wrote: 'Looks beautiful but not when you're trying to work. Take care.'  Another added: 'Stay safe Owens', while a third follower added: 'Stay warm and safe'. Luckily for Amanda she had help from her son Reuben. Sharing a sweet selfie she wrote: 'Just one of the happy helpers'.  Mucking in: Luckily for Amanda she had help from her son Reuben. Sharing a sweet selfie she wrote: 'Just one of the happy helpers' Farming life: In the photos, Amanda determinably struggled through the difficult conditions to care for her flock and provided them hay to eat on after the landscape was covered in snow Amanda made her first TV appearance alongside husband Clive, 68, in 2011 on ITV's The Dales, before they landed their own Channel 5 show Our Yorkshire Farm in 2018. However, in June, following months of rumours regarding the state of their marriage, Amanda and Clive issued a joint statement saying they had made 'the difficult decision to separate'. Amanda met her husband in 1995 when he was already divorced with two children, after she arrived at his farm as a 21-year-old trainee shepherdess.   Advice: Fans were worried about Amanda working in such tough conditions. One wrote: 'Looks beautiful but not when you're trying to work. Take care' It didn't take long for the couple get hitched, with their nine children quickly following. The public were quick to fall for the couple and their unusual love story, dubbing them the 'Kardashians of the Countryside' with their hit show Our Yorkshire Farm.  The shepherdess began making solo appearances on a variety of TV shows, becoming a regular guest on programmes such as Lorraine and This Morning to offer comment on parenting and life on the farm. Split: Amanda and Clive announced their separation in June after 21 years together (pictured in 2020)  In November last year, neighbours told MailOnline she and Clive had been living apart for months after she 'got caught up in the spotlight' of her Channel 5 programme. Amanda moved into their rental property down the road from Ravenseat Farm in Swaledale, where Clive has been staying in the farmhouse, villagers said. Clive was understood to be 'desperate' to repair their relationship and 'feared' their marriage would end in divorce. Family: The former couple have nine children together;  Raven, Reuben, Miles, Edith, Violet, Sidney, Annas, Clemmie, and Nancy Last month, his new show Beyond The Yorkshire Farm: Reuben and Clive premiered and saw him launch a digging business with his son. Meanwhile, Amanda has exciting prospects also on the horizon as factual boss Daniel Pearl told The Mirror: 'The Owens have become everyone's favourite farming family and millions have enjoyed watching their unique way of life. It's fantastic that we can now all follow Reuben and Clive on their next adventure. 'We remain absolutely committed to the whole wonderful Owen family and hope to announce new projects with Amanda very soon.' Over: The couple shared a joint statement on social media confirming they had split in June Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group