Consumer fintech is facing something of an identity crisis. Many startups in the sector have been forced away from their rapid growth strategies and instead told to focus on making their businesses profitable after years of losses that were sustained by investor cash.  "Investors changed the rules of the game overnight," Arik Shtilman, CEO and founder of $15 billion fintech Rapyd told Insider at the Slush conference in Helsinki. "Think about the fact that you are a professional football player for all your life playing in the Premier League and one day wake up in the morning and they tell you you're playing basketball in the NBA starting from today. This is not fair but life is not fair. Companies need to adapt to the new rules and new game." Profitability has been touted by a number of fintech's biggest CEOs, including Revolut's Nik Storonsky. The $33 billion British neobank posted healthy profits in 2020 and Storonsky insisted that his company was profitable still to this day. However, the company's annual results for 2021 have yet to be released. Sebastian Siemiatkowski, the CEO of buy now, pay later giant Klarna, which recorded an 85% drop in its valuation this year, said in December the company would be profitable on a month-by-month basis after summer 2023. Similarly, Mubadala-backed German insurance tech startup wefox's CEO said the company had reduced its growth plans for 2023 as part of its changed profitability targets. "We're still seeing investor interest at higher valuations but I think being a healthy business growing on strong fundamentals is important for public markets," CEO Julian Teicke told Insider. "We are aiming to be all-in profitable ahead of going public." The reality of the current market is stark for consumer-facing fintechs. 
                                Related stories
                               Fintech investment has returned to pre-pandemic levels with around $13.4 billion invested in the sector in the third quarter of the year, according to Dealroom data. It has dropped by 64% – around $23.6 billion – from its all-time high in the last three months of 2021. The downturn has not just been contained to the private markets. Publicly-listed trading app Robinhood and card issuer Marqeta have both recorded massive drop-offs in their share prices since their IPOs. Meanwhile, the outlook for growth is no longer as rosy with inflation and a looming recession biting into spending and transaction volumes. Layoffs have become a fixture of tech startups in 2022, with Klarna notably cutting 10% of its staff in May. The consensus from CEOs appears to be one of caution going into 2023 with less hiring expected, rather than any kind of overall freeze. Revolut tends to review staff on a quarterly basis, with consistently low performers at risk of being cut. CEO Nik Storonsky told Insider the company would continue to be "conservative on hiring because we look at what goals we want to achieve and work backward with departments to get a budget for staff," he said. The decision to layoff staff is never easy and in some cases, the move may come from a pure cost-cutting perspective or is perhaps an admission of over-hiring during the COVID-19 pandemic. Regardless of whether a focus on profitability has been pushed by investors or not, the tide has now turned for the fintech sector in Europe. A bevy of leading private players like Starling Bank, Zilch, and Zopa have all claimed profitability in 2022, dispelling the notion that cash flow positivity is too lofty a goal. 
                                Read next
                               Jump to