Rapyd, a London-based fintech-as-a-service provider, has acquired the global payments organisation (GPO) businesses of PayU for $610 million.  

The GPO business of PayU, owned by investment group Prosus, operates in around 30 countries around the world and currently has a total payment volume of $34 billion.  

The acquisition does not include PayU’s India, Turkey and Southeast Asia business.  

The deal will expand Rapyd’s global reach and increase its presence in areas including logistics and transportation. The company said that the purchase will reduce the complexity of building and launch new applications.  

Rapyd claims the acquisition will make it one of the largest integrated global FinTechs in the world operating in over 100 countries with over 250,000 merchant clients.  

“The synergies with PayU GPO include a richer technology stack, expanded geographic licensing, and broader market reach for our combined merchant portfolios.” said Arik Shtilman, founder and chief executive of Rapyd. “We’re helping businesses around the world liberate global commerce, and we’re very excited to have PayU’s GPO team join us on this journey.” 

The deal remains subject to regulatory approvals in various countries.    Monzo tops CMA poll for UK banking customer satisfaction Payments Awards 2024 shortlist announced  Are banks trailing behind on operational risk management?   HSBC to tackle quantum cyber threats in new consortium  Swedish FinTech giant Klarna unveils new banking features Texas adds NatWest to energy ‘boycott’ list over financing restrictions Apple gives developers access to Tap to Pay tech after pressure from EU Citi’s head of digital assets to exit after 14 years  Hargreaves Lansdown agrees to £5.4bn takeover by international consortium HSBC joins Nationwide and Lloyds Bank in sharing digital property data RAKBANK partners with Bitpanda  Mastercard to axe 1,000 jobs Revolut valuation hits $45bn after share sale UBS to divest quantitative investment unit to Manteio Partners PSR outlines next steps in expanding VRPs  Swedish FinTech giant Klarna unveils new banking features Monzo tops CMA poll for UK banking customer satisfaction Science Card launches debit card to help fund scientific research Apple gives developers access to Tap to Pay tech after pressure from EU Texas adds NatWest to energy ‘boycott’ list over financing restrictions PQ.Hosting: The Cornerstone of Reliable and Secure Hosting for Fintech Innovators Intelligent finance: Redefining resilience for the digital era Revolutionising financial services: The path to intelligent banking in the digital age Huawei's Approach to Build a Strong and Digital Software Foundation for Smart Financial Services Why financial services leaders must reframe their perception of cybersecurity The power of digital transformation: How SCB added 45,000 new customers to its Digital Loan business Critical requirements for tomorrow’s intelligent finance — acceleration of technology application 4 Simple steps to securing your Microsoft 365 environment    