Comment Thanks to a months-long shakeout, the crypto market experienced one of the most drastic drawdowns in its history in 2022. But questions are arising about when (if?) major cryptocurrencies will recover. The global crypto market capitalization, which makes up the total value of all crypto assets (including stablecoins and tokens), has fallen roughly 64% from $2.2 trillion to about $797 billion year to date, according to CoinMarketCap data. The two largest cryptocurrencies by market cap, bitcoin and ether, have fallen 64% and 67%, respectively, during the same time frame. With a loss of more than half their value, one could argue that these cryptocurrencies can’t recover. But when you zoom out and look at the overall picture, things aren’t that bad for bitcoin and ether, despite what transpired this year. Let’s look at how significant crypto and global events from this year affected the two biggest cryptocurrencies. When the Terra/LUNA ecosystem collapsed in early May, within about six weeks, over a billion dollars of the total crypto market cap was wiped out, dropping from about $1.8 trillion to about $820 billion, data shows. Comparing against the largest cryptocurrencies again, bitcoin and ether both fell over 50% in that period. Just focusing on that event, the decline looks (and, fair enough, was) brutal. Yet, since that big drop, both bitcoin and ether have held in the same range, even after FTX, one of the largest crypto exchanges, collapsed last month and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.  “Within crypto, we expect digital asset selection will transition towards higher-quality names like bitcoin and ether based on factors like sustainable tokenomics, the maturity of respective ecosystems, and relative market liquidity,” Coinbase’s 2023 Crypto Market Outlook report stated. When you combine crypto’s bigger drop earlier this year with the global macroeconomic reset, it begins to paint a picture of resilience for the two largest tokens in the digital asset space. “Bitcoin’s resilience amid major stress suggests its long-term success is not dependent on any centralized entity either pumping or dumping it,” Coinbase researchers said in the report. The value proposition for bitcoin has “only strengthened this year,” too, as sovereign currencies globally have shown signs of stress and central banks continue to struggle with policy credibility, they added. “For as long as a Bitcoin 100-week moving average could be calculated, the crypto has never been at a deeper discount than at the end of November,” Mike McGlone, senior macro strategist at Bloomberg Intelligence, said in a “2023 Cryptos Outlook” report. “The collapse of FTX and other crypto firms is a good reason, but it’s from similar ashes that bull markets typically emerge.” This is not implying that all cryptocurrencies will maintain similar, if any, support. Take Solana, for example, which is down a whopping 94% year to date and hit single-digit prices for the first time in almost two years earlier this week. Ever since FTX’s demise, Solana has been spiraling for a number of reasons, including top NFT projects leaving its blockchain and one of its most prominent backers being the now-disgraced former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried. Solely looking at numbers, Solana’s future appears uncertain — it dropped from being the fifth-largest cryptocurrency in early November to 18th place as of today, according to CoinMarketCap data. Amid the chaos, though, Solana co-founders see this downturn as an opportunity for their team to continue building and ignore the market madness. “It’s just a time of immense fear, but there’s immense opportunity,” Raj Gokal, co-founder of Solana, said to TechCrunch earlier this month. “There’s a lot of signal and a lot of noise.” The baseline focus for Solana-centric developers and users is to “look at the hard times as a great opportunity to just jump in, in a contrarian way, and build for that next market cycle,” Gokal said at the time. The bear market can provide additional pressure on cryptocurrency markets and break current support levels for bitcoin and ether, but some industry analysts view these breaks as extreme discounts and opportunities. “Bitcoin may drop to what would be a substantial discount around $10,000, but within the elongated upward trajectory could revisit $40,000 resistance,” McGlone stated earlier this month. As for the second-largest cryptocurrency, Ethereum may have a bullish scenario amid slumping global markets and outperform both bitcoin and equities, McGlone added. “Plenty can go wrong with new technology, but we see maturation with an enduring downward slope in incremental supply that — if the rules of economics apply — are positive for the No. 2 crypto.” The most significant concern for crypto players is an obvious one: Perhaps the market won’t jump back up next year. But believers and some market analysts think it will. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Powered by WordPress VIP