View this photo on Instagram Hair mask for KK ...I added aloe this time for hydration. The reviews are overwhelmingly positive, with people raving about how the DIY left their hair feeling "soft" and "shiny," while "defining" their curls.  NBC For a little more info, I have Type 4, low-porosity curls. I recently shared a bit more about my natural hair journey here. Here's a list of all the ingredients and their benefits: 1. Aloe: according to hair experts, aloe has anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties that help soothe the scalp, and it's filled with vitamins, minerals, and fatty acids that can help improve the health of your hair. 2. Avocado: avocados have natural oils and fatty acids that can help moisturize dry, dehydrated hair. And they contain vitamins that nourish the scalp and hair, helping it look shiny, healthy, and hydrated.  3. Egg: egg yolks contain proteins and fats, which help moisturize and nourish the hair and enhance softness. And the cholesterol within egg yolks contains lipids that can help repair damaged hair and prevent further damage.  4. Mayonnaise: mayonnaise contains protein and can improve the health of dry and brittle hair. Plus, it helps with softness, hydration, and strength.  5. Banana: bananas contain natural oils and carbohydrates that can help improve hair hydration. And they contain vitamin B, potassium, and antioxidants that can help protect the hair against damage.  6. Oil: in the TikTok, Cardi uses coconut oil, which can help to lock in moisture, strengthen the hair, and reduce breakage. My hair doesn't like a lot of coconut oil (too much of it can make my hair feel dry), so I ended up swapping it out for argan oil instead. Argan oil is said to hydrate and soften the hair, increase hair elasticity, prevent breakage, enhance shine, and more. Also note: I've seen variations of the "Cardi B" mask online with other ingredients that also have great benefits for hair. For example, Cardi previously shared a different mask on her Instagram made with avocado, eggs, mayo, and black castor oil.  Liz Richardson / BuzzFeed Brace yourself: this part gets messy. I recommend wearing an old T-shirt you don't mind getting dirty — and/or using an old towel and having paper towels nearby, which helped big time.  Nickelodeon  TBS I used my favorite clay mask which cleanses my hair really well — and helps with curl definition. View this photo on Instagram New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Two-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.