Getty Images SAP has reported a 19% increase in cloud revenue to €3.3bn for the second quarter of 2023, although software licences and support revenue has declined. S/4Hana revenue grew by 74% during the quarter to €823m, while software licence revenue dropped 3% to €2.9bn. Software licence revenue declined 6% to €323m. The decline in support and maintenance revenue comes just six months after SAP introduced an increase of 3% in its annual support fees. Overall, the company posted second-quarter revenue of €7.6bn, a 5% increase over the same quarter in 2022. “This has been another strong quarter,” said SAP CEO Christian Klein. “We see significant opportunities ahead, in particular through the transformative power of AI [artificial intelligence]. We are focused on delivering SAP Business AI that’s relevant, reliable and responsible, and we see significant possibilities for market expansion through these technologies and new premium offerings.” In his prepared comments during the earnings call posted in Seeking Alpha, he said: “Based on external forecasts and our own calculations, we see a potential doubling of our addressable market to $1tn by 2028, with AI being a key contributor.” Klein added that AI is being embedded into every part of SAP’s product portfolio. “More than 24,000 SAP cloud customers today can already use SAP business AI across hundreds of built-in AI capabilities and partner use cases” he said. According to Klein, generative AI in SAP Transportation Management can save up to 55% of the processing cost of delivery notes. Another example is intelligent collections in SAP S/4Hana Finance, which Klein claimed can reduce the time between invoice and payment by up to 10%. In a note discussing the latest SAP results, analysts at private bank Berenberg said: “The main talking points were that Q2 cloud revenue missed consensus estimates and SAP downgraded its full-year 2023 cloud revenue outlook, albeit modestly by about 1.6%.” According to Berenberg, the shortfall in cloud revenue is a direct result of the rising pressures in enterprise IT spending. “Cloud transition projects create resilience to spending headwinds: cloud revenue came in at €3.3bn in Q2, below expectations,” analysts wrote. “We understand that demand for transactional products, such as Concur, Ariba, and Fieldglass, was soft. This is consistent with the resurgence in spending cuts observable in enterprise IT budgets.” However, the bank pointed out that S/4 Hana, which is the primary driver of SAP’s transition to cloud, is proving resilient to spending cuts. “This reinforces our views that cloud transition projects are mission-critical for customers, and thus immune to spending cuts,” it said. Discussing Klein’s ambition to embed AI in all SAP products, Berenberg predicted these AI capabilities will command a 30% price premium, but only be available on the cloud. “This will further incentivise customers to transition to cloud, in our opinion,” it said. The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Data is one of the most important assets in any organization. To truly protect it, you need a DDR strategy. Here's what you need ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
