Google employees have been testing several potential ChatGPT competitors as part of the tech giant's bid to launch a response to OpenAI's technology, according to CNBC. A previous New York Times report said that Google CEO Sundar Pichai declared "code red" and accelerated AI development to be able to unveil at least 20 AI-powered products this year. Now, CNBC has detailed several of the products the company is working on, including a chatbot called "Apprentice Bard" that uses Google's LaMDA conversation technology. Apparently, Google management asked the LaMDA team to prioritize working on a ChatGPT competitor, telling them that it takes precedence over any other project and even warning them not to attend unrelated meetings. Apprentice Bard reportedly looks and functions like ChatGPT in that a user can type a question or a prompt in a text box and then get a written response. CNBC says it saw samples proving the bot's answers include information from recent events — something ChatGPT isn't capable of, because it only has limited knowledge about anything that happened after 2021. In one example, Apprentice Bard was able to answer whether there will be another round of layoffs at Google. (Unlikely for this year, it said, seeing as the company is doing well financially.) If you'll recall, Google's LaMDA tech had gotten a former company engineer fired after he claimed that it had gained sentience. Google is also reportedly testing a new search page that uses a question and answer format. The experimental home page features five potential question prompts replacing "I'm feeling lucky" under the search bar. After a user types in their query, the page generates human-like responses in gray bubbles. Underneath those responses are suggested follow-up questions, followed by the typical search results with links and headlines. In addition, Alphabet is working on a project called "Atlas" under its cloud unit. While CNBC didn't have details on what it is, it's still reportedly part of Google's "code red" efforts. It's unclear at this point which of Google's projects are going to be released to the public. Google AI chief Jeff Dean told employees during an all-hands meeting to discuss the company's response to ChatGPT that it's moving "more conservatively than a small startup." Providing people wrong information will have a much bigger impact for a known company like Google, after all. Indeed, The Times previously said that the tech giant is prioritizing safety, accuracy and blocking out misinformation when it comes to the development of its search chatbot. If reports that Microsoft is incorporating ChatGPT's technology into Bing as soon as this March are true, however, we'll also likely see Google's search chatbot in the near future. A24’s hilarious-looking Y2K has teens battling ancient computers and bloodthirsty Tamagotchis. The trailer for Kyle Mooney’s feature film is a retro-soaked good time. It's Gamescom time! Follow along with Senior Reporter Jessica Conditt, Contributing Reporter Kris Holt and Executive Editor Aaron Souppouris Valve is kicking Counter-Strike players out of matches if they use a feature found on some Razer and Wooting keyboards. Anova will soon charge customers to use its sous vide app, because everything must be a subscription. The company’s also removing Wi-Fi and Bluetooth functionality from its first-generation cookers. To aid those who could use some help winding down, we’ve rounded up a few games that purposefully deemphasize aggression but aren’t overly cute or so stripped-down that they’re boring. Apple's M2-powered iPad Air has dropped to its lowest price to date. You can pick up one with 8GB of RAM and 128GB of storage for $729. Waymo's self-driving cars have finally stopped honking at each other in the middle of the night. A game developer called Amazing Seasun Games is demonstrating NVIDIA's Avatar Cloud Engine (ACE) technology through its upcoming multiplayer mecha game Mecha BREAK at Gamescom this year. xMEMS's new micro-cooling chip could bring active cooling to any device. Here's a list of the best games for Nintendo Switch and Nintendo Switch Lite, from A to Z trigger, as chosen by Engadget editors. Lucasfilm has decided not to renew The Acolyte for a second season, according to Deadline and Variety. The biggest news stories this morning:   The 22 best PC games you can play right now, Apple Podcasts gets a web interface, X closes its operations in Brazil. The next entry in the Pacific Rim franchise could be an origin story for the universe, set before the events of the 2013 film by Guillermo del Toro. If you’ve ever browsed Razer’s selection of gaming peripherals and thought, “You guys need to step up your RGB game,” HP has just the accessory for you. The company’s newest HyperX microphone, unveiled on Tuesday at Gamescom, has over 100 LEDs for “a stunning visual” with “energetic style.” Here's the latest list of the best laptop for college and university students, as reviewed by experts from Engadget. If you’re looking for an iPad that’s more affordable than cutting-edge, Amazon has the 2021 base model for only $199. This ninth-generation edition could be great for kids, seniors or anyone content with a perfectly solid tablet that forgoes the latest and greatest hardware. Right now, brand new subscribers can get Apple Music for free for three months instead of the usual one-month trial. Alphabet’s Waymo unveiled its sixth-generation Driver system on Monday with a more efficient sensor setup. Despite dropping the camera and LiDAR sensor counts, its new setup allegedly lowers costs while maintaining safety redundancies. Final Fantasy XVI at last has a PC release date. It will hit Steam and the Epic Games Store on September 17. Zoom can now handle one million simultaneous participants. This is after hundreds of thousands of people hopped on webinar calls to support Vice President Kamala Harris. Subscribe to our two newsletters:  - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals  - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.