When it comes to mini-breaks and short trips, you want to make sure you’ve packed all your essentials without having to haul around a lot of luggage.  The viral Béis’ ‘Weekender’ Bag is a much loved piece of luggage by holiday goers on TikTok, however, shoppers are eager to get their hands on an Amazon bag that is almost identical to the designer bag and would save you £82. READ MORE: Shoppers question if new Heinz sauce is early April Fools joke The Amazon Well Top Weekend Bag is priced at £18.99, and as reported by Wales Online, is strikingly similar to viral Béis 'Weekender' Bag. The designer bag currently costs £101 and is often used by travel TikTok videos where people show just how much they can fit in the bag, making it a popular choice for those travelling through airports. The Béis brand was founded by actress and Pretty Little Liars star Shay Mitchell who says her aim is “to create amazing, affordable pieces for travellers like myself and—in turn—everyone inspired to seek new places, meet new people and share the world.” However, for those who find the price of the £101 travel bag too steep to pay, the Amazon Well Top Weekend Bag has almost the exact same structure as the ‘Weekender’, including the much desired show compartment section. The Amazon bag is made from Oxford fabric and is not built with a wire frame while the Béis bag is made from poly canvas and vegan leather, that is structured with a wire frame double zip opening. The dupe has space to keep essentials organised, as well as a separate zipper compartment on the bottom to keep shoes away from fresh, clean clothes. Buyers of the bag are raving about it calling it the perfect bag for a get away. One buyer said: "I especially like the separate zipped compartment at the foot of the bag- so useful for a washbag , shoes etc., or for a bag of washing on the return journey! This will be my go to bag for short trips from now on!” Another reviewed it saying: “I bought this bag to use on a flight and it worked perfectly. It was large enough to fit everything I needed to take with me and the compartment at the bottom was excellent for extra bits & bobs too.” The £18.99 bag is described as an ‘aeroplane friendly travel bag.’ It is 22x40x42cm in size, which falls out of the standard size for carry-on luggage such as Ryanair’s small bag allowance which permits a bag sized 40cm by 20cm by 25cm, and must be able to fit under the seat in front of you on the plane. However it is described as an ‘ideal overnight weekend boarding bag for sport and 3-4 days short journey.’ If you’re looking for a bag that is the perfect fit for personal luggage onboard your flight and is an alternative to Béis’ £91 mini-weekender, many frequent fliers swear by the £14.99 ‘Ryanair Airlines Cabin Bag’ which you can also find on Amazon. The bag has been used by dozens of Ryanair flyers for their trips, with shoppers saying they’re the ‘perfect’ size. One said: “I bought 2 of these for hand luggage as we were travelling with Ryanair, they are the perfect size and fit perfectly under the seats.” Another added: “The bag is absolutely perfect as a carry on for Ryanair! It’s deceivingly spacious - I used it for a 4 day trip (with hair straighteners and a second pair of shoes also chucked in there). I would highly recommend. So much so that I just bought my daughter the blue version for sleepovers.”  READ NEXT: