By Jowena Riley   Published:  09:16 EDT, 2 August 2023   |  Updated:  12:24 EDT, 2 August 2023      267 View  comments  A mother who became a viral sensation after throwing her 36G bra on stage at a Drake concert has revealed that the superstar private messaged her online following the event - issuing some useful advice.  Veronica Correia, 21, from Cumberland, Rhode Island, became a hot topic on social media after she tossed her underwear on stage during the rapper's show at the Barclay's Center in Brooklyn, New York, in July.  Upon discovering the piece of clothing, the One Dance artist picked it up, checked the tag, and exclaimed: 'Damn. 36G? Locate this woman immediately.' Appearing on the Club Ambition podcast episode on Youtube, Veronica - who is mother to a two-year-old girl - revealed the star offered her some advice on how to handle any unwanted attention. She said: 'He said just to live your amazing life, like, people are faceless and they would never really say the negative comments to your face.'  Veronica Correia, from Rhode Island, appeared on the Club Ambition podcast on Youtube to talk about her Playboy deal and Drake DM after throwing her 36G bra at him in July  Veronica - who also runs a coffee shop in Rhode Island called Café La La - was asked by the host about the recent Playboy deal she accepted and she told the host, Sam, that she is still finding her feet with the venture.  She said: 'It's all very new to me. They're [Playboy] really just posting some content - no nudity for anyone wondering!' Sam pointed out that Veronica has been teasing her followers with possible nude content, but she laughed and said that it's a way to bring in a bigger audience.  She continued: 'I'm still learning the ropes on, you know, how to still be successful, but not ruin myself at the same time.'  Alluding to the 'rumors' of Veronica signing a 'million-dollar deal' with Playboy, she told the host that wasn't true.  The moment Drake picked up the mom's 36G bra after it was thrown onto the stage. The rapper exclaimed: 'Damn. 36G? Locate this woman immediately' Playboy's official Instagram account shared a snap of the Veronica in July, announcing her arrival as a model for the brand  The business owner shared to her story on August 1 on Instagram a personalized gift from Playboy welcoming her to 'the family' She said: 'I haven't really been earning money, like, no contracts - it's just from the content that I post on Playboy centerfold. 'I have been getting money, but it's not, you know, "Oh, she's gonna buy a Ferrari tomorrow".'  The pair moved on to talk about OnlyFans - an online service where people can subscribe to view exclusive or explicit content by creators and celebrities - and why Veronica has made the choice not to take that specific route.  'I feel like OnlyFans is more... exposed,' she said. 'Yeah, Playboy is fine.'  Sam then asked Veronica about Drake, and whether or not the artist has reached out to her following her lucrative deal with the men's lifestyle brand. She laughed before confirming: 'Yeah, he did.'  Prompted to share more details, she explained: 'So, he slid up on a story and just simply sent a laughing face. I took a day or two to respond because I didn't know what to say. The mother-of-one speaks candidly of her experiences and opportunities to Club Ambition host Sam since the unexpectedly life-changing moment 'I wrote out this paragraph basically just thanking him for the experience, like an awesome show. 'Then I told him that I own the coffee shop in Cumberland and asked him if he likes coffee. He responded back and said that he likes it iced and sweet.'  She continued: 'He was laughing at all my messages, so I asked him, "Oh do you think I'm funny?" and he said, "I think you're really sought-after right now".' Veronica then reveals what he told her when she then took the opportunity to ask him for some advice - in particular, to online abuse and trolls.  She recalled: 'He said just to live your amazing life, like, people are faceless and they would never really say the negative comments to your face. 'I'm like yeah, wow, now I'm definitely not paying them any attention.' Veronica talks about the moment Drake appeared in her DMs on Instagram, and the consequent opportunity she took to ask him for some advice  Host Sam concluded the DM discussion, saying: 'I'm pretty sure he saw the feedback you were getting - even probably saw some of the negative ones - and made sure to reach out to you and maintain communication. 'It [the concert footage] was so so viral. I think that tweet alone got, like, almost 80, 90 million views on Twitter, so, that's amazing.'  And it seems that Veronica has inspired other fans to try to get the star's attention in the same manner.   Drake was left in shock when a third fan threw a bra at him on stage during his New York City concert amid his It's All A Blur tour with fellow rapper 21 Savage. Reading out the label to an excited crowd, the musician, 36, said while stunned: '36-L?  'L? How many letters does it go up to?' Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group