By Monique Rubins   Published:  08:47 EDT, 22 May 2023   |  Updated:  09:53 EDT, 22 May 2023      187 View  comments  Lady Eliza Spencer and Lady Amelia Spencer looked stunning in summery dresses at the preview of Chelsea Flower Show on Monday.  While Lady Amelia, 30, chose a floaty, floral number from Sydney fashion brand Zimmermann, her twin opted for a slim-fit, turtleneck polka dot dress that was reminiscent of one worn by the sisters' late aunt, Princess Diana, in the 1980s.   Lady Eliza's long-sleeved pink dress was made by Italian-born, London-based designer Alessandra Rich, who is famous for feminine fashion with a twist. Sharing a strong likeness with the dress Princess Diana wore to visit Freemantle Women's Hospital in Australia on April 7 1983, Lady Eliza's dress fell just below the knee and had a cinched waist.  Three weeks on from her South African wedding, Lady Amelia looked equally fashionable with a bold red clutch bag and matching heels. Lady Eliza Spencer (left) and Lady Amelia Spencer wore striking summer dresses to the preview of the Chelsea Flower Show in London on Monday Lady Eliza's pink polka dot dress by Italian-born, London-based designer Alessandra Rich was reminiscent of one worn by Princess Diana on a 1983 visit to Australia  She finished off the look with gold earrings and a slick of red lipstick.    The sun-kissed sisters both opted for natural makeup and wore their blond hair brushed back.  Lady Eliza and Lady Amelia were not the only royals due to visit the preview of the famous flower show, which is held annually at the Royal Hospital Chelsea.  Buckingham Palace announced that the King and Queen will attend along with the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester and Prince and Princess Michael of Kent.  And royal fans were in for a treat when the Princess of Wales made a surprise appearance at the first Children's Picnic in the show's history.  Kate met youngsters from 10 schools taking part in the RHS Campaign for School Gardening as they sat down to eat, before visiting three of this year’s Show Gardens with them. On her first visit to the world-famous horticultural show since 2019, the future queen and the children took part in a bug hunt, helped to plan a home-grown meal and discovered how gardens can support wellbeing – something the Princess has been highlighting for several years. In 2019, Kate even designed her own garden to be featured in the showcase, the Back To Nature Garden. The garden, which Kate hoped would inspire families 'to get outside' and 'enjoy nature', featured a tree house, waterfall, rustic den and a campfire as well as tree stumps, stepping stones and a hollow log for children to play on. Touchingly, Kate also made sure Diana was part of the garden, including the late princess's favourite forget-me-nots in the design.  Lady Eliza paired her polka dot dress with gold drop earrings. Her hair was brushed back off her face and she wore natural makeup  Lady Amelia, who got married in South Africa earlier this month, added a slick of red lipstick to finish off her stylish look  This year's display includes a garden called 'The Royal Tribute Garden', which was created to commemorate the life of Queen Elizabeth II. According to the Royal Horticultural Society website, the garden offers an opportunity for 'contemplation within the show ground' and combines the late Queen's and new King's favourite plants in light pink and white on the one hand and purple and blue on the other.  A life-size topiary display of the late Queen’s pony, Emma, also features in this year's show, while the 'RHS and Eastern Eye Garden of Unity' celebrates the 'richness in the unity of cultures, traditions and backgrounds'.  Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group