My Account Subscribe My Account Hub will provide investment services across the North East  | Wealth management firm Raymond James has unveiled a branch in Newcastle. The new hub, named ‘Raymond James, Monument’, will provide investment services across the North East of England. The operation will be led by branch principal Gary Fawcett, who arrives at the firm after 23 years at Brewin Dolphin. He is joined by chartered wealth managers James Carrick and Rob Brotherton, who spent seven and 23 years at Brewin respectively. The trio will provide discretionary investment management and financial planning services to clients including individuals, companies and trusts. In May, former Killik duo Dasha Plotnikova and Max Scholey joined Raymond James to set up a branch in Fulham. Commenting on his appointment, Fawcett said: “I have always been a firm believer in putting clients first and finding personalised solutions to their situations, and so Raymond James was a perfect fit in terms of culture and aligning on this focus.  “What clients most want is honesty, trust, good value and expert advice, and that is exactly what James, Rob and I plan to focus on as we build and grow the branch.” MORE ARTICLES ON Share price total return for the company has outperformed the sector on a one-year and three-year basis  Decision follows exit of fund manager Jeremy Gleeson  Strategies underexposed to tech and energy feature prominently in the bi-annual report  Active funds don’t come close to the high returns of the index trackers, with many multi-asset managers cutting their active exposure all together  Key events for wealth managers for the week beginning 19 August  Consolidation and falling interest rates could spell positive news for the sector  Published by MA Financial Media Ltd (part of Mark Allen),St Jude’s Church, London SE24 0PB . Copyright (c) 2024. Portfolio Adviser is a monthly news magazine and daily news web site aimed at wealth managers , investment IFAs and other professional fund pickers and asset allocators in the UK and Channel Islands. No news, articles or content may be reproduced in part or in full without express permission of Portfolio Adviser.