By Summer Goodkind and Natasha Anderson    Published:  05:33 EDT, 23 April 2023   |  Updated:  21:14 EDT, 23 April 2023      606 View  comments  Sir Mo Farah has crossed the finish line line in 9th place in his last ever London Marathon today. Mo, the four-time Olympic and six-times world champion, took on the 26.2 mile course alongside celebrities including Mark Wright, Chris Evans, Kirsty Gallacher, Adele Roberts and Natalie Cassidy. The 40-year-old completed the race in 2hrs 10min 28sec. He has been featured in five London Marathons, with his best time coming in 2019 at 2hrs 5min 39sec. Speaking to the BBC after his finish, an emotional Mo said 'I've got great support here over the years and I wanted to make my last Marathon here.'  Sir Mo Farah has crossed the finish line line in 9th place in his last ever London Marathon today. He is pictured today during the race Mo, the four-time Olympic and six-times world champion, completed the race in 2hrs 10min 28sec. He is pictured after having crossed the finish line today Britain's Mo Farah and Kenya's Amos Kipruto are caught in action at the start of the elite men's race today Brave: Jake Quickenden was raising money for Sarcoma UK, in memory of his brother late Oliver and father Paul, who both passed away from bone cancer Say cheese! The singer posed with a fan after crossing the finish line Peace out: Louise Minchin posed for fans after completing the race Pals: Louise (right) was joined by her BBC co-star Sophie Raworth (left) Beaming: Adele Roberts flashed a smile while posing with her latest Guinness World Record Mo ended his last 26-mile race in ninth place. It was also the first full marathon he raced in since 2019. Mo, after the race, said: 'I was confident and thought I'd do between 2.05 and 2.07 but you never know. I gave it my all but my body just didn't respond. I pushed myself all the way but it didn't respond and that's when you know it's time to call it a day!' 'Part of me was wanting to cry along the course - the crowd and people are amazing, even though it's pouring with rain people come out and that's what the sport needs, that's what keeps me going. I will miss that, it's quite emotional.' 'We need to give back to the younger athletes and teach them anything is possible. Some younger ones don't understand that's what they can do but they can. That's what I want to give back to them. 'It's my turn, I've got a couple of races more and then I'm done. The Great North Run will be my last race to say goodbye to the fans and I'm looking forward to it. I've had an amazing career.' Protesters waving Extinction Rebellion (XR) flags cheered as the first wave of elite male runners sprinted past a chiming Big Ben in the London Marathon, before spectators shouted 'go on Mo' as Sir Mo Farah tried to chase down the leaders. Members of the climate group, some clutching placards emblazoned with statements such as 'fix our environment fix our future', are watching participants run past Parliament in Westminster. Britain's Mo Farah runs past the Houses of Parliament during the elite men's race today GBBO bakers running for Great Ormond Street Hospital Celebs at the start of the 2023 London Marathon today Britain's Mo Farah (R) is applauded after finishing the men's race in 9th place at the finish of the 2023 London Marathon in central London today Chris Evans and Eliud Kipchoge are pictured at the start of the London Marathon today An XR member said fellow activists avoided disrupting the London Marathon to 'show people we are good people'. XR 'de-escalator' Lu Curtis, 52, of Wandsworth, south-west London, was among the activists watching the race in Westminster - near where the climate group is protesting. She said: 'We, as Extinction Rebellion, have a unity agreement with all the people we are standing with that we will all respect each other, but also respect the event that's going on today. 'We are doing it specifically today to show people we are good people because the press don't give us any credit for the work that we are doing - they spin a narrative that casts us as the bad guys when, in fact, our movement's all about love. 'Love for our planet, love for our fellow human beings. Because we are in the end of days. 'I have a niece and a nephew, and their future will already be very different to the one that I grew up with, and that breaks my heart, but I can try to mitigate for the worst of it by using my voice to put pressure on the Government.' Ms Curtis said she wants everyone to 'come together as one big human race to solve these problems'. Mark Wright and his family are pictured together crossing the finish line at the London Marathon today Ready! Mark Wright and Kirsty Gallacher were all smiles on Sunday as they prepared to take on the gruelling London Marathon Britain's Mo Farah (R) is applauded by members of the St John's Ambulance Service after finishing the men's race in 9th place at the finish of the 2023 London Marathon today A competitor wearing a costume competes during the 2023 TCS London Marathon A competitor wearing an Ice Cream fancy dress outfit passes Buckingham Palace during the TCS London Marathon A runner in a dinosaur costume passes across Tower Bridge during London Marathon 2023 Kenyan Kelvin Kiptum won the men's race in the second fastest marathon in history. The 23-year-old broke the course record with an incredible time of 2:01.27.   Kiptum tired towards the end and missed out on Eliud Kipchoge's world record by 18 seconds. The first British man home was not Sir Mo Farah, but Yorkshire's Emile Cairess, who finished a creditable sixth on his marathon debut. Another Briton, Philip Sesemann, outsprinted Farah on the final straight to finish eighth. Chris Thompson made it four British runners in the top 10 by finishing 10th. Great Britain's David Weir finished fifth in his 24th London Marathon in a time of 1:32.44.  Swiss star Marcel Hug won a fifth men's wheelchair race in London, just six days after winning the Boston Marathon. The 'Silver Bullet' shattered his own course record with a time of 1:23.43. Sifan Hassan was a surprise winner of the TCS London Marathon on her debut over the distance. The Ethiopian-born Dutch athlete's victory was all the more remarkable because she fell way off the pace, clutching her hip, around the 15-mile mark. But Hassan, who is the 5,000 and 10,000 metres Olympic champion, reeled in the leaders with three miles to go. The 30-year-old then survived making a mess of collecting a drink from a water station, but recovered again and even offered rival Yalemzerf Yehualaw, last year's winner, a swig from her bottle. Being a track athlete gave Hassan a distinct advantage in a sprint finish and she pulled away from Alemu Megertu and Peres Jepchirchir down The Mall, coming home in two hours 18 minutes and 33 seconds. Former Olympic middle-distance runner Steve Cram was gobsmacked at Hassan's triumph. He told BBC One: 'Sifan Hassan has done something that nobody could ever have expected. 'She was struggling, she was grabbing her hip, stopping to stretch it off. 'She would have been dreaming of just finishing. She can hardly believe it, this might just be the best success of her life.' The women's wheelchair race was won by 2018 winner Madison de Rozario of Australia, who pipped four-time champion Manuela Schar on the finish line. Family: Mark, who admitted he is both 'nervous' and 'excited' is running the marathon alongside his brother Joshua Beginning: Taking to the start line, Mark will be running with FLORA for its Making Healthy Switches campaign Third place finisher Tamirat Tola of Ethiopia, first place finisher Kelvin Kiptum of Kenya and second place finisher Geoffrey Kamworor of Kenya pose for a photo after the Elite Men's Marathon during the 2023 TCS London Marathon Mo Farah and other competitors at the start of the Men's elite race during the TCS London Marathon today Sifan Hassan of Netherlands celebrates after winning the Elite Woman's Marathon during the 2023 TCS London Marathon A competitor wearing a dinosaur costume competes during the 2023 TCS London Marathon As the elite runners finished, 40,000 others were starting their marathon with Mark Wright and Kirsty Gallagher spotted on the starting line. The former TOWIE star, 36, and the TV presenter, 47,  were all smiles on Sunday as they prepared to take on the gruelling London Marathon. They got together before the 26-mile run, where they are set to be joined by 40,000 competitors.  The pair appeared in good spirits as they smiled for a selfie, captioning the snap: 'We're ready! @londonmarathon'. Taking to the start line, Mark will be running with FLORA for its Making Healthy Switches campaign, while Kirsty is for The Royal Marsden Hospital, a specialist cancer treatment hospital. Speaking to Flora ahead of the start of the TCS London Marathon, Mark said: 'I am feeling excited.  'I'm a little bit nervous, I'm nervous for my mum and dad, but at the same time it's an emotional day.  'All four of us family members are doing it together, the London marathon – what a time.' After his finish, an emotional Mo said 'I've got great support here over the years and I wanted to make my last Marathon here.' Mo is pictured the race Sir Mo Farah (2nd left) and other Emile Cairess (second right) reach the Isle of Dogs during the Men's elite race during the TCS London Marathon Sir Mo Farah is pictured after finishing the Men's elite race during the TCS London Marathon Kelvin Kiptum of Kenya reacts after winning the Elite Men's Marathon during the 2023 TCS London Marathon Chancellor of the Exchequer Jeremy Hunt is pictured today at the start of the 2023 London Marathon  Women's race winner Sifan Hassan of the Netherlands and men's race winner Kelvin Kiptum of Kenya hold a trophy together after the London Marathon today Say cheese! The Eastenders runners pose at the finishing line the London Marathon, in honour of Barbara Windsor, Adam Woodyatt, Tanya Franks Scott Mitchell and Sam Woodyatt EastEnders' Natalie Cassidy, who got together with Chris Evans before embarking on the challenge, also took on the big route today. Taking to Instagram, the pair beamed with excitement as they made their way to the start line. Natalie wrote: 'The best person to see on marathon day. @chrisevanstfi LET'S DO THIS. WE ARE ALL SO LUCKY TO BE DOING THIS TODAY.' Natalie will ran the race in honour of her late EastEnders co-star Barbara Windsor, who died in 2020 aged 83 after being diagnosed with Alzheimer's.  Also running in honour of Barbara was her widow Scott Mitchell. The actor, 60 proved he was ready for the day ahead as he placed his hands on his hips and gave a big smile to the cameras.  Also making her way was Adele Roberts, who is attempting to be the first woman with an ileostomy to run a marathon. The radio presenter was diagnosed with stage two bowel cancer in October 2021, but was given the all-clear in June last year. Part of her treatment was receiving a stoma bag, which she is still living with. On their way: Also getting ready to take on the big route is EastEnders' Natalie Cassidy, who got together with Chris Evans before embarking on the challenge Peace: Chris seemed excited for the challenge at hand as he offered peace signs to the cameras Excited: Taking to Instagram, the pair beamed with excitement as they made their way to the start line Inspiration: Also making her way was Adele Roberts, who is attempting to be the first woman with an ileostomy to run a marathon All set! Jake Quickenden was also ready for the race, in a brightly coloured neon running ensemble Here they go! Meanwhile, also getting ready at the start of the race was EastEnders' Adam Woodyatt who beamed alongside his son at the start line Happy: Adam was all smiles as he made his way to the start line  Competing: Mo Farah (middle) made his start on the 26-mile route alongside other runners On the move: At around the halfway point, runners will pass the Cutty Sark and the Shard before crossing Tower Bridge Adele appeared ready-to-go as she met with Richard Whitehead MBE before the race. Richard is a double gold medallist and Paralympic champion, who is running his 77th marathon. As they cosied up for a photo, they wrote: 'Off to the start line!'. Jake Quickenden was also ready for the race, in a brightly coloured neon running ensemble. Having difficulties on the day though, Union J's Josh Cuthbert admitted his that not only was his train 'cancelled', he could 'barely walk'. Taking to his Instagram Stories on Saturday evening, Josh confirmed that he was 'having a nightmare'. He wrote: '14 hours until the marathon and I can barely walk on my foot.  'I had a 'sports massage' on Thursday and ever since I've had the worst pains on the sole of my left foot. 'Every time I walk it hurts, to the point that I can't put much weight on it. I'm icing it and taking ibuprofen and gelling it up and then I hope I'll be ok for tomorrow.  'I've also got numbing gel. But yeah, this is not ideal'.  Meanwhile, also getting ready at the start of the race was EastEnders' Adam Woodyatt who beamed alongside his son at the start line.  Marcus Mumford, the lead singer of Mumford and Sons was also pictured on his way to the London Marathon. On March 21, Marcus shared on Instagram that he will be running the streets of London to raise money for The Grenfell Foundation, where he serves as a Chairman of the board of trustees.  In 2017, the Grenfell fire raged through a 24-story London high-rise and became the deadliest fire England suffered in over 100 years.  'We support the extraordinary group of bereaved and survivors from Grenfell Tower, and the wider community still impacted by this tragedy in West London, where I'm from,' wrote Marcus in an Instagram caption. In honour: Also running in honour of Barbara Windsor is her widow Scott, who appeared ready for the day as he placed his arms on his hips Meaningful: Marcus Mumford, the lead singer of Mumford and Sons was also pictured on his way to the London Marathon Unfortunate: Having difficulties on the day though, Union J's Josh Cuthbert admitted his that not only was his train 'cancelled', he could 'barely walk' Not happy: Taking to his Instagram Stories on Saturday evening, Josh confirmed that he was 'having a nightmare' Crowds: As the celebs get ready alongside 40,000 other races, it marks the first time since 2019 that the marathon has taken place in April Back to normal: For the last three years, the event has taken place in October due to the coronavirus pandemic Start line: Those competing will start in Greenwich, which serves as the neutral location for measuring all time zones around the world As the celebs get ready alongside 40,000 other races, it marks the first time since 2019 that the marathon has taken place in April.  For the last three years, the event has taken place in October due to the coronavirus pandemic. The London Marathon route has mostly remained the same since 1981. Those competing will start in Greenwich, which serves as the neutral location for measuring all time zones around the world. At around the halfway point, runners will pass the Cutty Sark and the Shard before crossing Tower Bridge. They will then run along Victoria Embankment to Westminster, passing the London Eye, before heading in the direction of Canary Wharf. Heading into the final stretch, runners will pass Big Ben and the Houses of Parliament. They will then turn onto The Mall and head towards the finish line, which is situated near Buckingham Palace. The London Marathon will be shown live on BBC One. Coverage of the elite races will start at 8:30am, with their main show beginning at 10am. Fans will also be able to watch the event via BBC iPlayer. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group