Front page layout Site theme 
Andrew Cunningham
    -    Dec 15, 2022 9:51 pm UTC
 The Continuity Camera feature was one of the headliners in the macOS Ventura update: Any Mac can now use any compatible iPhone as a webcam via a Lightning cable or a wireless connection. And any iPhone camera is a significant upgrade over the 720p and 1080p webcams that ship with iMacs and most of the 1080p desktop webcams from the likes of Logitech, Microsoft, and Razer (for Mac mini and Pro owners with no built-in webcam). The problem is finding a place to put your iPhone while you try to use it as a camera. Belkin made a MagSafe mount that could quickly clip an iPhone to the top edge of a MacBook, but the retention clip is too narrow to use with most desktop monitors. A new version of the mount, announced today, has been created with a wider base and a sort of kickstand to help it fit on top of most desktop monitors. As of this writing, the Belkin iPhone Mount (Magsafe Compatible) for Mac Desktops is listed on Apple's site for $30, though a Belkin representative informed us that the correct price is $39.95. The product photos show it sitting astride a Studio Display, which includes a front-facing camera similar to the one Apple includes in iPads, but image quality has been a mixed bag. As a MagSafe accessory, the Belkin mount will only work with a subset of the iPhones that support the Continuity Camera feature. MagSafe is included in all iPhone 12, iPhone 13, and iPhone 14 models (Pro, mini, Max, and otherwise), while Continuity Camera works with phones as old as 2018's iPhone XR. To support Continuity Camera, your Mac needs to be running macOS Ventura, and your phone needs to be running iOS 16.0 or newer. Ars Technica may earn compensation for sales from links on this post through affiliate programs. Join the Ars Orbital Transmission mailing list to get weekly updates delivered to your inbox. Sign me up → 
  CNMN Collection
  WIRED Media Group
  © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 1/1/20) and Privacy Policy and Ars Technica Addendum. Ars may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our affiliate link policy.
Your California Privacy Rights |  Do Not Sell My Personal Information
  The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices
