
  THIS is what it looks like to be an Inspire Business Awards winner – and in a few months, other business leaders and their teams will take home a trophy and enjoy the prestige and pride of being an award winner.
 
  Melanie Redding and Lewis Oaten, pictured, experienced double delight at Inspire21 as their company RazorSecure won the Excellence in Digital Technology Award and the Winner of Winners prize.
 
  To find out what it’s like to be a winner, you have to be in it to win it – and there are now just days to go before the Monday, March 6, deadline for the awards. Miss this and business stars and successful companies in the Basingstoke and Deane, Hart, Rushmoor and Test Valley areas will miss out on a chance of glory and showcasing their business.
 
READ MORE: Award winner inspires others to follow in company’s footsteps
 
  John Biffen, chair of the Inspire Business Awards steering group, said: “We have been delighted with the quality of entries to this year’s awards – the judges are going to have a tough job when it comes to picking the finalists and winners.
 
  “The message to any last-minute entrants is there is still time to get your entry in but the deadline of March 6 will not be extended, so make sure you don’t miss out.”
 
  There are plenty of exciting changes in store for the 2022-23 event as the prestigious awards, which are organised by Destination Basingstoke, move to a new venue and timeslot in the calendar.
 
SEE ALSO: Residents encouraged to enter business awards as deadline looms
 
  Thursday, July 13, is the date for the diary and The Anvil in Basingstoke will be the place to be as people and businesses from Basingstoke and Deane, Rushmoor and Test Valley compete for the winner’s prize in 12 categories.
 
  Entry to the awards, for which the Gazette is media partner, is free and easy and can be done online at destinationbasingstoke.co.uk/inspire – and all entries must be submitted by the deadline of March 6.
 
  All those selected as finalists receive two free tickets to the awards final.
 
  The 2022-23 award categories are:
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.