Staff Writer/Reporter In the Week 14 clash, featuring two division leaders, the San Francisco 49ers dominated the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on their home turf. The Bucs drop to a 6-7 record following a 35-7 loss to the 49ers. Tampa Bay entered the game with the goal of strengthening their cushion in the NFC South and instead, the 49ers dominated for four quarters. Many of the same issues that have plagued the Buccaneers throughout the 2022 slate came to fruition on Sunday: penalties, ineffectiveness on third down, blown assignments and missed tackles.Â  In the first half, the 49ers imposed their will on both sides of the ball. Self-inflicted penalties, failure to wrap-up tackles and the inability to convert on third down became the main storyline for the embattled Buccaneers in Battle of the Bays. In the first half, San Francisco held a yardage advantage of 290-111 and first-down edge of 19-5. Through the first two frames, penalties by Tampa Bay nullified a sack by Keanu Neal on the opening play, a 66-yard touchdown from Tom Brady to Mike Evans, an interception by Anthony Nelson and a fumble recovery by Lavonte David. As a result, the Buccaneers' offense struggled to sustain drives and San Francisco put up 28 unanswered points.Â  The trend continued into the second half. On the Bucs' opening drive in the third, Brady was intercepted on a deep lob to Mike Evans by Tashaun Gipson. San Francisco capitalized with a two-play, 38-yard scoring drive, culminating in a Christian McCaffrey score. After the 49ers took a 35-0 advantage, the Bucs sputtered once again. After a promising drive featuring a quick passing attack, Brady was picked off by Dre Greenlaw. Late in the third quarter, the Bucs were able to cross the goal line. Brady's pass was deflected and bounced into the hands of Russell Gage Jr. for an eight-yard touchdown, however, the team's struggles early on sealed their fate. Late in the fourth, a Rachaad White fumble brought the team's total to three turnovers on the day in Santa Clara. In his California homecoming, Brady completed 34 of 55 passes for 253 yards and one touchdown. It is now back to the drawing board for the Buccaneers. The Buccaneers lost to the Jaguars on the road 20-7 in Preseason Week Two The Buccaneers defeated the Bengals in Preseason Week One, 17-14 The Buccaneers lost to the Lions, 31-23, ending their playoff run The Buccaneers defeated the Eagles 32-9 and advance to the Divisional Round of playoffs The Buccaneers beat the Panthers 9-0 en route to their third-straight division titleÂ  The Buccaneers fell to the visiting Saints and drop to 8-8 The Buccaneers dismantled the Jaguars in a 30-12 Christmas Eve victory The Buccaneers surge to victory over the Packers, 34-20 The Buccaneers outlasted the Falcons 29-25 and improve to 6-7 on the season The Buccaneers defeated the Panthers 21-18 and improve to 5-7 The Buccaneers faltered against the Colts, 27-20 on the road in Week 12 The Buccaneers faltered against the 49ers 27-14 and drop to 4-6Â  Second-year player Markees Watts spoke on his mantra, eliminating mental errors and emphasizing what works in his pass rush toolbelt The Buccaneers have one more week to figure out how many players and precisely who to keep at such competitive positions as wide receiver, offensive line and defensive line Following practice on Monday, veteran Chris Godwin discussed the preparedness of the young players in the room and an influx of quality players year after year from the collegiate level entering the pros Keep informed with our daily updates: News, notes and more throughout the Buccaneers 2024 Training Camp and Preseason Top observations from Saturday's preseason matchup with the Jacksonville Jaguars Tampa Bay Buccaneers Head Coach Todd Bowles spoke to the media after Monday's 2024 Training Camp practice. HC Bowles addressed injury updates, getting in the game flow and having players ready in uniform. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Wide Receiver Chris Godwin spoke to the media after Monday's 2024 Training Camp practice. WR Godwin discussed the value of Training Camp, expressed his admiration for the rookies' grasp of the offense, and shared the advice he offers to his teammates. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Linebacker K.J. Britt spoke to the media after Monday's 2024 Training Camp practice. LB Britt discussed his focus on daily improvement, playing with intensity and what he looks forward to this season. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Outside Linebacker Markees Watts spoke to the media after Monday's 2024 Training Camp practice. Watts discussed the importance of consistency, his appreciation for joint practices, and the value of maintaining attention to detail. After a five-sack night in Jacksonville led by first-year man Jose Ramirez, the Bucs believe they have the pieces in place to form an impactful OLB rotation in 2024 On Monday, the Buccaneers waived/injured second-year DL Eric Banks and removed first-year TE Tanner Taula from the active/non-football injury list, allowing the latter to return to practice Tampa Bay quickly filled a vacancy on their roster and in the D-Line group with the signing of rookie Brandon Matterson on Monday morning Tampa Bay Buccaneers Quarterback Kyle Trask keeps the play alive rolling to his right to find WR Cody Thompson in the endzone against the Jacksonville Jaguars in Preseason Week 2 of the 2024 NFL season. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Outside Linebacker Jose Ramirez gets into the backfield to bring down QB C.J. Beathard for one of this three sacks against the Jacksonville Jaguars in Preseason Week 2 of the 2024 NFL season. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Outside Linebacker Markees Watts wins at the line of scrimmage and gets a sack on QB C.J. Beathard against the Jacksonville Jaguars in Preseason Week 2 of the 2024 NFL season. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Head Coach Todd Bowles spoke to the media the day after the Bucs' Preseason Week 2 game against the Jacksonville Jaguars. HC Bowles discussed his takeaways from Bucs vs. Jags, the battle at the center spot and his thoughts on his pass rushers. View the top photos of Tampa Bay's Preseason Week 2 matchup vs. the Jacksonville Jaguars on Saturday, August 17th, 2024 in Paycor Stadium. Tampa Bay's rushing attack continued to impress and the defense put together a more robust pass rush, but troubles on third down and in pass protection kept the offense in neutral on Saturday night in Jacksonville View plays from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' game against the Jacksonville Jaguars in Preseason Week 2 of the 2024 NFL Season The Buccaneers lost to the Jaguars on the road 20-7 in Preseason Week Two 
    © TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
  