The Princess of Wales attended the reopening of the Young V&A museum in London on Wednesday, where she met an inquisitive group of schoolchildren Erin Clack is a Staff Editor for PEOPLE. She has been writing about fashion, parenting and pop culture for more than 15 years. Richard Pohle-WPA Pool/Getty Images  Kate Middleton had an adorable moment with some of her youngest fans on Wednesday.
  The Princess of Wales, 41, attended the reopening of London's Young V&A children's museum, which just underwent a roughly $16 million renovation. While there, she had an opportunity to chat with a group of inquisitive schoolchildren. As the kids showered her with hugs, they excitedly peppered her with questions, including how old she is.
  The royal — who is likely used to fielding lots of curious questions at home from her own three children — was captured on video giving the young students the best response. "I'm 41. Shhh … don't tell anyone," she whispered, per The Daily Mail, referring to the fact that she's not part of the museum's target audience.
 Richard Pohle-WPA Pool/Getty Images  During her visit, Kate, who studied art history in college and became the V&A's first royal patron in 2018, also spent time touring the museum's three new galleries — Play, Imagine and Design, each geared toward specific age groups. The galleries house more than 2,000 objects from the V&A's collections, from nostalgic toys to ancient sculptures.
 Richard Pohle-WPA Pool/Getty Images  Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories.
  Not only is the Princess of Wales an art enthusiast, but she's made early childhood development and education a focus of her royal philanthropic work. In January, she launched the Shaping Us campaign for her Royal Foundation Centre for Early Childhood. During a speech addressing the new campaign, Kate spoke about the importance of the early years of a child's life.
  "The campaign is fundamentally about shining a spotlight on the critical importance of early childhood and how it shapes the adults we become," she said in her address. "This is why it is essential, to not only understand the unique importance of our earliest years, but to know what we can all do to help raise future generations of happy, healthy adults."
  "Those involved in raising children today need the very best information and support in helping to achieve this mission – and this campaign aims to help do that too," she continued.
