By Ali Daher For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  07:55 EDT, 21 December 2022   |  Updated:  22:00 EDT, 26 December 2022      1 View  comments  The new season of Married At First Sight is right around the corner. And it appears Channel Nine is gearing up to launch an official new podcast hosted by experts John Aiken and Alessandra Rampolla. The new weekly series will be released every Sunday from February following the commitment ceremony and discuss the week's biggest themes. Daily Mail Australia can reveal that Channel Nine will soon be launching it's official Married At First Sight podcast hosted by experts Alessandra Rampolla (left) and John Aiken (right) 'Fuelled by MAFS unmissable moments and culture shifting conversations, each podcast episode will dive deeper into the week's most burning relationship issues,' read a statement.  The new season of MAFS will see brides and grooms bring up a range of topics that include racism, sexual assault and narcissist behaviour. Nine recently dropped a first look at the outrageous new season ahead of its return next month. The new season of Married At First Sight is right around the corner and the upcoming instalment is going to be the most explosive one yet And if the teaser is anything to go by, next year's experiment will feature even more tears and drama than ever before.  The clip starts with black and white shots of brides and grooms suited up in bridal looks.  The thud of a heartbeat plays as these new brides and grooms make their way to each other, tension clearly in the air. 'The phenomenon of love is back,' flashes across the screen.  If the teaser is anything to go by, next year's experiment will feature even more tears and drama than ever before One brunette bride previously identified as Bronte Schofield (pictured) is then seen standing staring into the camera in her wedding dress The thud of a heartbeat plays as these new brides and grooms make their way to each other, tension clearly in the air  'The phenomenon of love is back,' flashes across the screen One brunette bride previously identified as Bronte Schofield is then seen standing staring into the camera in her wedding dress. Viewers are treated to a flashes of fellow brides Janelle Han, Claire Nomarhas, Sandy Jawanda and Alyssa Barmonde in their wedding gowns. We then see glimpses of grooms Duncan James, Shannon Adams and Ollie Skelton looking dapper in their tuxedos.  Viewers are treated to a glimpse of several brides including beauty content creator Janelle Han (pictured) in their wedding gowns We then see glimpses of grooms Duncan James, Shannon Adams and Ollie Skelton (pictured) looking dapper in their tuxedos But it doesn't take long for next year's participants to have their heart ripped out of their chest - as several brides and grooms are seen breaking down into tears But it doesn't take long for next year's participants to have their heart ripped out of their chest - as several brides and grooms are seen breaking down into tears. Elsewhere a dinner party shows shock echoing out across the group, while expert Mel Schilling exclaims, 'wow!' MAFS 2023 will feature even more highly addictive drama, when the experiment is rocked by scandal in an explosive MAFS first, leaving the participants gobsmacked and facing a potential walk out by many of the participants. Elsewhere a dinner party shows shock echoing out across the group, while expert Mel Schilling exclaims, 'wow!' MAFS 2023 will feature even more highly addictive drama, when the experiment is rocked by scandal in an explosive MAFS first, leaving the participants gobsmacked and facing a potential walk out by many of the participants Beauty business owner Bronte (centre) looks set to bring the drama, as will construction worker Harrison Boon, who also works as a part-time male stripper As for the brides and grooms, the new season will star glamorous business woman Melinda Willis, hunky CEO Layton Mills, and beauty content creator Janelle Han. Public relations manager Tahnee Cook, down-to-earth voice over artist Ollie Skelton, tradie Cam Woods, makeup artist Caitlin McConville and accountant Lyndall Grace will also appear. Beauty business owner Bronte Schofield looks set to bring the drama, as will construction worker Harrison Boon, who also works as a part-time male stripper. Married At First Sight will return to Channel Nine next month  Tahnee Cook Public Relations, Sydney Instagram: @itstahnee   Melinda Willis Businesswoman, Brisbane Instagram: @melindarichelle  Shannon Adams Personal trainer, Melbourne Instagram: @shan_adams_44  Janelle Han Beauty content creator, Perth Instagram: @janellemyh  Claire Nomarhas Kindergarten Assistant, Melbourne Instagram: @cforclaire_  Dan Hunjas Marketing agency owner, Gold Coast Instagram: @danhunj  Harrison Boon Builder, Sydney Instagram:  @harrison_boon_ Duncan James Regional Director, Cyber Security Sales, Sydney Instagram:  @duncan__james  Joshua White Advertising Client Director, Sydney Instagram:  @whitej81    Cam Woods Carpenter, Darwin Instagram: @yepcams_on  Bronte Schofield  Online Beauty Educator, Perth  Instagram:  @_bronteschofield  Layton Mills CEO, Sydney Instagram:  @laymills Caitlin McConville Makeup artist, Brisbane Instagram: @caitlinmcconville   Adam Seed Business Owner, Sydney Instagram: @adam_seed13   Jesse Burford  Marriage Celebrant, Perth Instagram: @jesse_burford   Alyssa Barmonde Executive Assistant, Sydney Instagram: @alyssa_barmonde  Oliver 'Ollie' Skelton Voice over artist, Perth Instagram:  @skeltonoliver   Sandy Jawanda Dental therapist, Melbourne Instagram: @sandyjawanda  Mel Shepherd Hairdresser, Sydney Instagram:  @mel_sheppard1 Lyndall Grace Accountant, Perth Instagram:  @10dall    If you have a tip about any of the participants email tips@dailymail.com Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group