Dak Prescott ran back to the locker room after beating the Eagles and gave a NSFW reaction that Cowboys fans can certainly relate to. Saturday’s game between the Cowboys and Eagles was a back-and-forth slugfest. If it was that exhausting for fans watching in the stands and at home just watching, imagine what it was like for the players on the field. Quarterback Dak Prescott expressed that with one word on his way back to the locker room. Dak’s reaction pic.twitter.com/mq84JaxeXY Yeah, Dak, we all feel that one. The Cowboys quarterback might have uttered that same word in the first quarter when he threw a 42-yard pick-six to Josh Sweat. That score put Dallas in a hole down 10-0. They caught back up with touchdowns from Ezekiel Elliott and CeeDee Lamb. After Gardner Minshew restored Philadelphia’s advantage. They traded field goals before halftime with the Eagles ahead 20-17 at the break. DeVonta Smith notched the first touchdown of the third quarter but the Cowboys tied things back up at 27 apiece with a field goal and a Michael Gallup touchdown reception. The Eagles struck first in the fourth quarter as Smith caught another TD pass from Gardner Minshew. From then on it was all Cowboys. Lamb caught a seven-yard touchdown then Brett Maher kicked two field goals to go ahead and ice it. Prescott finished with 347 yards and three touchdowns. Lamb led the way with 10 receptions for 120 yards and two touchdowns. Minshew, who was filling in for the injured Jalen Hurts, had 355 yards, two touchdowns and two interceptions. Dallas’ win kept them alive for the NFC East title, though the chances of them pulling that feat off remain very low. The hope now is that games against the Titans and Commanders are far less taxing. 5 OCs who will be HC candidates. dark. Next © 2024 Minute Media - All Rights Reserved. The content on this site is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All betting content is intended for an audience ages 21+. All advice, including picks and predictions, is based on individual commentators’ opinions and not that of Minute Media or its related brands. All picks and predictions are suggestions only. No one should expect to make money from the picks and predictions discussed on this website. For more information, please read our Legal Disclaimer. Gambling content intended for 21+. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can be accessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER.