You're going to want to add these whodunnits to your reading list. Every item on this page was chosen by a Town & Country editor. We may earn commission on some of the items you choose to buy. The two Knives Out movies—Knives Out and Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery—are firmly in the tradition of Agatha Christie whodunits. Director Rian Johnson has shared how he has been inspired by the British crime writer, and how he is consciously trying to emulate her in changing style for each film. "Something I love about Agatha Christie is how she never tread water creatively. I think there’s a misperception that her books use the same formula over and over, but fans know the opposite is true," Johnson tweeted earlier this year. "It wasn’t just settings or murder methods, she was constantly stretching the genre conceptually. Under the umbrella of the whodunnit she wrote spy thrillers, proto-slasher horrors, serial killer hunts, gothic romances, psychological character studies, glam travelogues." He continued, "When I made Knives Out, that’s what excited me about the prospect of making more mysteries with Daniel as Benoit Blanc—to emulate Christie and have every film be like a whole new book, with its own tone, ambition, reason for being." That being said, the two Knives Out films do share similarities: They both feature Daniel Craig as Detective Benoit Blanc, and neither are too gruesome in their murders. In fact, viewers who love the films may like the "cozy mystery" genre, where the violence occurs off-screen, and an amateur sleuth is the protagonist. Or, Knives Out fans may also love mysteries where there is an established detective (like Detective Blanc) who pops into new plots in each book.  With that in mind, here are the 13 best books to read if you love Knives Out and Glass Onion:  Agatha Christie's Crooked House is the only way to start this list. (Christie believed it to be "one of her best.") The plot is similar to the first Knives Out: The head of the Leonides family is murdered by fatal barbiturate injection, and his young widow is the main suspect. It's not the only Christie book to feature a mansion, family drama, and murder—but it's definitely the most famous one. If you're looking for an Agatha Christie similar to the vibes of Glass Onion, however, look no further than Dead Man's Folly—where a murder mystery party turns into the real thing, just like in the movie. One of the buzziest murder mystery series in recent years is Richard Osman's Thursday Murder Club trilogy, wherein four retirees solve murders from their retirement home. All three books are a sheer delight—and will leave you guessing until the very end.  Now a TV show staring Lesley Manville, Magpie Murders is a fascinating story-within-a-story.  "I'm not very interested in writing gory, violent, horrible stories. There's enough violence in this world at the moment for us not to need it," Horowitz told T&C. "My books are meant to be—if not an escape, then at least sort of a refuge from the sort of storms that are blowing all around us."  Just like in Glass Onion, the characters in The Guest List find themselves on an isolated island when someone turns up dead. Guests have gathered on an island for the wedding reception of Will Slater, reality TV star, and Julia Keegan, an online magazine editor, someone dies—but readers don't find out who until late in the story. Instead, the different flashbacks from varied perspectives encourage the reader to try and figure out what happened. Walter Mosley is one of America's best crime fiction writers, and his Easy Rawlins mystery series—which begins with Devil in a Blue Dress—is not to be missed. Set in post World War II America, Easy is a Black P.I. living in Watts, Los Angeles, who solves mysteries in the neighborhood. Like Knives Out, Mosley expertly weaves in social commentary into his plotlines.  Though this is a young adult novel, Maureen Johnson's Truly Devious series is, well, truly delightful. The first book follows teen true-crime lover Stevie Bell as she begins her studies at the mysterious Ellingham Academy in Vermont—she is determined to solve the cold case about the kidnapping of the founder's wife and daughter.  When Accra detective Emma Djan resigns from the police force due to unwanted advances from the commissioner, she joins a private detective agency. Her first case is to find widower Gordon Tilson, an American who has disappeared in Ghana. The story follows Emma through a world of corruption, scams, and bribes. The Missing American introduces readers to a compelling new detective—one who surely could keep up with Benoit Blanc.  Eight coworkers at the tech start-up Snoop are snowed in at a luxurious ski chalet in the French Alps. What could possibly go wrong? Well, as One by One is on this list of whodunits... murder. Soon, the group starts to dwindle and the employees are left to solve what is happening, before it's too late.  This delightful series imagines Queen Elizabeth as a mystery enthusiast. When a guest dies at Windsor Castle, the Queen and her Assistant Private Secretary, Rozie Oshodi, investigate. You must suspend disbelief and just go along for the plot—it's pure fun, as all good mysteries should be.  Another young adult book, The Agathas channels Agatha Christie—and teen detective Veronica Mars. Alice Ogilvie and Iris Adams are two unlikely partners, but they team up to solve the disappearance of Alice's former friend, Brooke, in their quiet California town. Like Knives Out, it is a homage to Christie that still manages to be entirely original.  The first in this mystery series set in the south of France focuses on a very Knives Out plot: local nobleman Étienne de Bremont falls to his death from the family château. Antoine Verlaque, the detective, has to team up with his on-again off-again girlfriend Marine Bonnet, a close friend of Étienne. As Marine and Antoine get closer to solving the death—another murder occurs.  After a bad break-up, Lila Macapagal moves back home to help her Tita Rosie's failing restaurant. Soon after, a food critic, who happens to be her ex-boyfriend, dies following a confrontation with Lila—she's the main suspect. As the publisher touts, "her life quickly swerves from a Nora Ephron romp to an Agatha Christie case..." Yet, it keeps all the joy of Ephron, combining it with all the twists and turns of Christie. Emily Burack (she/her) is the Senior News Editor for Town & Country, where she covers entertainment, culture, the royals, and a range of other subjects. Before joining T&C, she was the deputy managing editor at Hey Alma, a Jewish culture site. Follow her @emburack on Twitter and Instagram. Why We’re Still So Obsessed With the Tudors 'The Thursday Murder Club' Movie News Inside an Infamous Art Grifter's Early Schemes The Best Books to Read This August Inside the Coffee-Table Book Economy 10 Best Books About the Olympics When Ricky Ian Gordon Met Stephen Sondheim Lev Grossman on Writing a King Arthur for 2024 How JFK Jr. and Carolyn Bessette Met Inside a New Biography of JFK Jr. Everything We Know About the Perfect Couple The Best Books to Read This July A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.