


Sept. 29 (UPI) -- The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday chose to take a case on whether Florida and Texas laws that ban social media companies from removing content violates the First Amendment protections of the companies to be free of government compelling speech.
It sets the stage for a potentially landmark social media First Amendment ruling on what limits, if any, companies have in moderating the kind of speech allowed on their platforms.
Advertisement
Tech groups NetChoice and the Computer and Communications Industry Association challenged the Texas and Florida laws as unconstitutional because they say the laws compel private speech.
"Online services have a well-established First Amendment right to host, curate and share content as they see fit," NetChoice Litigation Director Chris Marchese said in a statement. "The Internet is a vital platform for free expression, and it must remain free from government censorship. We are confident the court will agree."
Related
Elon Musk's X cuts workers tracking election disinformation
Supreme Court avoids ruling on tech companies' liability for user content
X accused of preserving extreme content in violation of its own policies
The case arises from laws in Texas and Florida designed to stop social media companies from barring former President Donald Trump as some of them did after the Jan. 6, 2021, pro-Trump mob's violent attack on the U.S. Capitol.
Advertisement
"It is high time that the Supreme Court resolves whether governments can force websites to publish dangerous content. Telling private websites they must give equal treatment to extremist hate isn't just unwise, it is unconstitutional, and we look forward to demonstrating that to the court," CCIA President Matt Schruers said in a statement.
He added that for 200 years courts have upheld First Amendment protections against government attempts to compel private speech.
At issue is the power of government to tell private companies what they can and can't do when it comes to political speech on platforms that are privately owned.
The First Amendment prohibits government from banning free speech but private companies have been largely free to govern the type of speech they allow on their platforms.
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody said social media companies infringe on right-wing First Amendment rights by barring certain content for breaking company content moderation rules.
In May, the Supreme Court declined to rule on a law that protects Internet companies form lawsuits based on content posted by social media platform users.
The case in question then involved allegations that YouTube was liable for suggesting videos that promoted militant Islam.
Advertisement



Topics
Law and CrimeDonald TrumpKen PaxtonSupreme Court






Latest Headlines







U.S. News // 47 minutes ago
Trump tells defense workers he will cut energy costs 'in half' by boosting production
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former President Donald Trump on Monday pledged to cut the "cut the cost of energy in half" with a massive change of energy production and manufacturing if he returns to the White House.










U.S. News // 4 hours ago
Democratic convention opens in Chicago with President Joe Biden scheduled to speak
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention kicks off in Chicago, President Joe Biden -- who topped the Democratic ticket last month -- will take the stage Monday night to make the case for Vice President Kamala Harris.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
Chicago DNC protesters breach security fence near where Bidens set to appear
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago on Monday, police already have arrested several demonstrators, including some who breached a security fence. Four were arrested.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
Border patrol agents find hundreds of pounds of meth in celery at San Diego crossing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents seized 629.72 pounds of methamphetamine with a street value estimated at $755,00, concealed within a shipment of celery in San Diego, the agency said Monday.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
Ex-NFL player Gosder Cherilus accused of urinating on elderly woman during flight
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Gosder Cherilus, a former lineman for nine seasons in the NFL, is facing several federal charges after he is accused of urinating on an elderly woman for approximately 20 seconds during a flight from Boston to Ireland.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
Hyatt hotels settles with D'Vontaye Mitchell's family, same day 4 suspects in court
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Hyatt Regency hotels said Monday it reached a settlement in the recent death of an unarmed Black man in Wisconsin allegedly at the hands of four Hyatt employees.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
Former Rep. George Santos pleads guilty to federal fraud charges, faces prison time
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former Rep. George Santos, R-N.Y., pleaded guilty Monday to federal fraud charges in a plea deal that will send the former lawmaker to jail and bypass a criminal trial that was scheduled to start next month.










U.S. News // 3 hours ago
D.C. council member Trayon White Sr. arrested on $150,000 bribery charge
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- District of Columbia council member Trayon White Sr. has been charged with bribery of $150,000 in contracts kickback case, the Justice Department said Monday.










U.S. News // 5 hours ago
Harvey Weinstein to stay in N.Y. prison pending retrial on sex charges
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein will remain incarcerated in New York as he awaits a new sex crimes trial set for November before being returned to California to serve out his sentence there.










U.S. News // 7 hours ago
Deal reached to keep road open when Donald Trump not at Mar-a-Lago home
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- A busy road in front of Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in the town of Palm Beach, Fla., will be open when the former president is not at the residence, according to an agreement.






 Sept. 29 (UPI) -- The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday chose to take a case on whether Florida and Texas laws that ban social media companies from removing content violates the First Amendment protections of the companies to be free of government compelling speech. It sets the stage for a potentially landmark social media First Amendment ruling on what limits, if any, companies have in moderating the kind of speech allowed on their platforms.
Advertisement Tech groups NetChoice and the Computer and Communications Industry Association challenged the Texas and Florida laws as unconstitutional because they say the laws compel private speech. "Online services have a well-established First Amendment right to host, curate and share content as they see fit," NetChoice Litigation Director Chris Marchese said in a statement. "The Internet is a vital platform for free expression, and it must remain free from government censorship. We are confident the court will agree."
Related
Elon Musk's X cuts workers tracking election disinformation
Supreme Court avoids ruling on tech companies' liability for user content
X accused of preserving extreme content in violation of its own policies The case arises from laws in Texas and Florida designed to stop social media companies from barring former President Donald Trump as some of them did after the Jan. 6, 2021, pro-Trump mob's violent attack on the U.S. Capitol.
Advertisement "It is high time that the Supreme Court resolves whether governments can force websites to publish dangerous content. Telling private websites they must give equal treatment to extremist hate isn't just unwise, it is unconstitutional, and we look forward to demonstrating that to the court," CCIA President Matt Schruers said in a statement. He added that for 200 years courts have upheld First Amendment protections against government attempts to compel private speech. At issue is the power of government to tell private companies what they can and can't do when it comes to political speech on platforms that are privately owned. The First Amendment prohibits government from banning free speech but private companies have been largely free to govern the type of speech they allow on their platforms. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody said social media companies infringe on right-wing First Amendment rights by barring certain content for breaking company content moderation rules. In May, the Supreme Court declined to rule on a law that protects Internet companies form lawsuits based on content posted by social media platform users. The case in question then involved allegations that YouTube was liable for suggesting videos that promoted militant Islam.
Advertisement