
                
                    
                        Let Healthcare Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Juniper Communities (Juniper), a premier regional senior living company in the United States, has partnered with DailyPay – the leading provider of on-demand pay. Through this partnership, Juniper employees have the essential financial wellness benefit of on-demand pay.     Recognized as a Great Place to Work, Juniper prides itself on its employee-focused model. Understanding the changing needs of the workforce, Juniper looked to implement a benefit that allows their employees to get paid sooner and provide pay transparency.      “Juniper took the time to listen to our associates and hear what they were really wanting from an additional benefits perspective. We live in an on-demand world, and it just made sense to implement DailyPay into our total rewards package, said Kristin Fogle, National Director of People at Juniper Communities. “A year later, we have an almost 60% adoption rate and find that giving our teams immediate access to their pay, as well as the financial wellness tools available through the program, have increased our retention and employee satisfaction tremendously. It’s good to ‘think outside the box’ and Juniper has been doing that for decades!”     Research shows that 76% of workers across all age groups say it is important for their employer to offer on-demand pay. With DailyPay, employees can access their earned wages after each shift. They also have the freedom to pay bills, save, invest and spend on their own schedules.    To learn more about career opportunities at Juniper Communities, click here. Juniper Communities Juniper Communities, a leader in quality, value and innovation in long-term care, operates over 25 senior living communities in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Colorado and Texas that emphasize residents’ well-being, interaction and security. Its approach to housing and care offers residents the opportunity to live a full life, regardless of age or health. Juniper’s innovative Connect4Life program has been proven to improve residents’ care by decreasing hospitalizations, re-hospitalizations and urgent care visits, while offering potential cost savings to public programs such as Medicare. To learn more about the many ways Juniper Communities innovates in support of our residents, visit www.junipercommunities.com.   DailyPay DailyPay, Inc., powered by its industry-leading technology platform, is on a mission to build a new financial system for everyone. DailyPay delivers the industry’s leading on-demand pay solution with modern, insight-driven pay strategies that help America’s leading employers to activate their workforce and build stronger relationships with their employees, so they feel more engaged, work harder, and stay longer. DailyPay works to ensure that money is always in the right place at the right time for employers, merchants, and financial institutions. DailyPay is headquartered in New York City, with operations based in Minneapolis and Belfast. For more information, visit www.dailypay.com/press.   The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines