Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? We’re right in the thick of tax season and filing day is almost here. This makes it a great time to get your paperwork together and start figuring out how to maximize your tax refund. The best tax software is a great place to start things off, but if you’re looking to get your 2023 tax prep taken care of with some savings we’d like to direct you to Amazon. There you’ll find some of the best tax software deals this year, and among them are discounts on both TurboTax and H&R Block tax prep software. You can’t go wrong with either piece of software, so read onward for more details on how to save this tax season. H&R Block Tax Software Deluxe + State 2023 offers five free federal e-files for your personal return along with unlimited federal preparation and printing. There’s step-by-step Q&A and guidance on credits and deductions to help you figure out what to do. It’s simple to quickly import your W-2, 1099, 1098, and last year’s personal tax return, even if you’ve used other software in the past. The software also provides reporting assistance on income from investments, stock options, home sales, and retirement, while you can also learn how to maximize mortgage interest and real estate tax deductions too. It’s all intuitive to figure out and works smoothly.  Recommended for anyone who has sold stocks, bonds or mutual funds, sold employee stock, own rental property or are a trust beneficiary, TurboTax Premier 2023 is ideal for more advanced tax filing. It includes five federal e-files and one state. It’s possible to search over 350 deductions and credits, while there’s also guidance for how to report sales of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. For more assistance, you can also learn more about retirement tax while there’s an audit risk meter to help you ascertain ownership likely you might be facing an audit. Extensive in its guidance, TurboTax Premier 2023 runs thousands of checks before you file to help you identify anything that might be missing such as deductions or credits, with it always being simple to import W-2s, investment and mortgage information from participating companies. It’s strong peace of mind.  While gaming desktops are great, they don't have the same excellent portability as gaming laptops. So, if you've always wanted one of the latter, then these 4th of July sales are the perfect opportunity to grab yourself one. Of course, if you do want to go for a more traditional desktop option that's still from Dell, then these Alienware 4th of July deals are worth taking a look at, while our roundup of the best gaming laptop 4th of July deals should give you a few more options on top of that.
G15 Gaming Laptop -- $1,000, was $1,150 The Dell G15 is probably one of the most popular gaming laptops on the market when it comes to budget-oriented options. In this configuration, you get a solid RTX 406o, which should easily handle the FHD resolution and 165Hz refresh rate of the monitor with minimal graphical compromises. The Intel Core i7-13650HX is also a reasonably powerful CPU that will handle most games just fine, and productivity tasks should be a relative breeze to do on the G15. Similarly, the 16GB of DDR5 RAM means you get some good speed and capacity for having apps and tabs open, while the 1TB SSD is a good start and will probably be enough for a year or so of gaming before you may have to start deleting games or thinking of expansion with an external hard drive deal. While there is a lot of interest in larger gaming laptops that come in 17-inch and 18-inch sizes, for many, having a smaller laptop is much better, especially if they are constantly on the move and don't want to be lugging around something massive. That's where the Alienware x14 R2 comes in quite handy; it's a small laptop that's slim enough to fit into pretty much any bag so that you can travel and move around without having to purchase a specific backpack or messenger bag to fit something bigger. Of course, being Alienware, its quite expensive, but luckily you can grab yourself the Alienware X14 R2 directly from Dell for just $1,400 rather than the usual $2,000. Why you should buy the Alienware x14 R2
Probably one of the most important parts of any gaming laptop is the GPU under the hood, and in this case the Alienware x14 R2 has a relatively solid RTX 4060. That's a great card for 2K gaming at around 60-70fps, and while you probably won't be able to have the game in ultra graphical settings, you'll get somewhere between medium and high. Even so, it's a great option for those who prefer more casual or indie games, or even free-to-play games like Rocket League and League of Legends, since these games tend to be better optimized for more hardware than just the high-end stuff. Alienware is known for  being one of the best laptop brands, but it also makes some excellent gaming desktops as well, with the Aurora R15 being at the top of the game. Of course, having a premium desktop means paying premium prices, and Alienware certainly is an premium brand, but there are some great early Memorial Day deals you can take advantage of. For example, this configuration of the Aurora R15 usually goes for an eye-watering $4,050, but Dell is discounting it quite heavily down to $2,750. Why you should buy the Alienware Aurora R15
One of the reasons for the high price tag of the Aurora R15 is the fact that it has an RTX 4090 under the hood, which is one of the most powerful GPUs on the market, if not the most powerful. It's perfect for 4k gaming, and while it still might struggle to high something like 144Hz on the highest graphical settings, it will certainly get close. Similarly, the AMD Ryzen 9 7950X is one of the best CPUs on the market, so it will easily handle any games you throw at it, as well as any more complex productivity or creativity tasks, and you could even stream to YouTube or Twitch while you play if you want to do that. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.