


April 21 (UPI) -- Twitter removed labels from several outlets that designated them as "state-affiliated media" in the social network's latest change to its verification system.
As of Thursday night Twitter had removed the state-affiliated media labels from the accounts of NPR, PBS and BBC, as well as from the Russian state-backed outlets Sputnik and RT.
Advertisement
The social network also deleted the policy page explaining the labels.
NPR reported that Elon Musk told reporter Bobby Allyn in an email Friday morning that it had eliminated all of the media labels at the suggestion of Walter Isaacson, who is reportedly working on Musk's autobiography.
Related
Twitter begins removing legacy blue checks
SpaceX scrubs Starship launch attempt over pressurization issue
Elon Musk values Twitter at $20 billion after purchasing for $44 billion
Earlier this month, NPR and PBS announced they would stop posting new content to Twitter after being labeled as state-affiliated media.
NPR challenged the label, pointing out that only a fraction of the outlet's funding comes from the government-sponsored Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
"It would be a disservice to the serious work you all do here to continue to share it on a platform that is associating the federal charter for public media with an abandoning of editorial independence or standards," NPR CEO John Lansing wrote in an email to NPR employees.
Advertisement
In addition to removing the state-affiliated labels, government official labels have been dropped from the Twitter accounts of President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris.
The overhaul comes one day after Twitter removed a majority legacy blue verification checkmarks from accounts that had previously been adorned with the badge recognizing notable public figures to encourage users to subscribe to Twitter Blue for $8 a month.
Twitter has struggled to generate revenue since Elon Musk purchased the company for $44 billion in October. In March, Musk admitted that the company is now worth closer to $20 billion.



Topics
BusinessTechnology






Latest Headlines







U.S. News // 39 minutes ago
Trump tells defense workers he will cut energy costs 'in half' by boosting production
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former President Donald Trump on Monday pledged to cut the "cut the cost of energy in half" with a massive change of energy production and manufacturing if he returns to the White House.










U.S. News // 4 hours ago
Democratic convention opens in Chicago with President Joe Biden scheduled to speak
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention kicks off in Chicago, President Joe Biden -- who topped the Democratic ticket last month -- will take the stage Monday night to make the case for Vice President Kamala Harris.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
Chicago DNC protesters breach security fence near where Bidens set to appear
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- As the Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago on Monday, police already have arrested several demonstrators, including some who breached a security fence. Four were arrested.










U.S. News // 1 hour ago
Border patrol agents find hundreds of pounds of meth in celery at San Diego crossing
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents seized 629.72 pounds of methamphetamine with a street value estimated at $755,00, concealed within a shipment of celery in San Diego, the agency said Monday.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
Ex-NFL player Gosder Cherilus accused of urinating on elderly woman during flight
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Gosder Cherilus, a former lineman for nine seasons in the NFL, is facing several federal charges after he is accused of urinating on an elderly woman for approximately 20 seconds during a flight from Boston to Ireland.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
Hyatt hotels settles with D'Vontaye Mitchell's family, same day 4 suspects in court
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Hyatt Regency hotels said Monday it reached a settlement in the recent death of an unarmed Black man in Wisconsin allegedly at the hands of four Hyatt employees.










U.S. News // 2 hours ago
Former Rep. George Santos pleads guilty to federal fraud charges, faces prison time
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Former Rep. George Santos, R-N.Y., pleaded guilty Monday to federal fraud charges in a plea deal that will send the former lawmaker to jail and bypass a criminal trial that was scheduled to start next month.










U.S. News // 3 hours ago
D.C. council member Trayon White Sr. arrested on $150,000 bribery charge
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- District of Columbia council member Trayon White Sr. has been charged with bribery of $150,000 in contracts kickback case, the Justice Department said Monday.










U.S. News // 5 hours ago
Harvey Weinstein to stay in N.Y. prison pending retrial on sex charges
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- Disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein will remain incarcerated in New York as he awaits a new sex crimes trial set for November before being returned to California to serve out his sentence there.










U.S. News // 6 hours ago
Deal reached to keep road open when Donald Trump not at Mar-a-Lago home
 Aug. 19 (UPI) -- A busy road in front of Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in the town of Palm Beach, Fla., will be open when the former president is not at the residence, according to an agreement.






 April 21 (UPI) -- Twitter removed labels from several outlets that designated them as "state-affiliated media" in the social network's latest change to its verification system. As of Thursday night Twitter had removed the state-affiliated media labels from the accounts of NPR, PBS and BBC, as well as from the Russian state-backed outlets Sputnik and RT.
Advertisement The social network also deleted the policy page explaining the labels. NPR reported that Elon Musk told reporter Bobby Allyn in an email Friday morning that it had eliminated all of the media labels at the suggestion of Walter Isaacson, who is reportedly working on Musk's autobiography.
Related
Twitter begins removing legacy blue checks
SpaceX scrubs Starship launch attempt over pressurization issue
Elon Musk values Twitter at $20 billion after purchasing for $44 billion Earlier this month, NPR and PBS announced they would stop posting new content to Twitter after being labeled as state-affiliated media. NPR challenged the label, pointing out that only a fraction of the outlet's funding comes from the government-sponsored Corporation for Public Broadcasting. "It would be a disservice to the serious work you all do here to continue to share it on a platform that is associating the federal charter for public media with an abandoning of editorial independence or standards," NPR CEO John Lansing wrote in an email to NPR employees.
Advertisement In addition to removing the state-affiliated labels, government official labels have been dropped from the Twitter accounts of President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris. The overhaul comes one day after Twitter removed a majority legacy blue verification checkmarks from accounts that had previously been adorned with the badge recognizing notable public figures to encourage users to subscribe to Twitter Blue for $8 a month. Twitter has struggled to generate revenue since Elon Musk purchased the company for $44 billion in October. In March, Musk admitted that the company is now worth closer to $20 billion.