
												They’re apps-olutely sick of swiping. 											 
												Talk about a software bug. A tech expert discovered "an unusually 'scary' vulnerability" in the Apple Vision Pro headset which lets hackers flood your virtual reality with spiders, bats and...											 
												A new breed of interactive porn has emerged that is “ruining relationships everywhere”, experts are warning.											 
												One user reported "extreme headaches" and "extreme discomfort" after wearing the headset for just 10 minutes -- an experience they liken to "a torture session."											 
												A couple that posts pornographic films of themselves are creating amateur videos using Apple Vision Pro VR headsets.											 
												The future is here. Game like it.											 
												“There's a lot of promise here, and that offers hope," study author Noah Philip said.											 
												A partnership could thwart Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg's plan to "own the next computational platform for AR, VR and mixed reality," according to the report.											 
												A software engineer infuriated his new wife when he thought it would be a good idea to sport his Apple Vision Pro headset during their wedding day.											 
												Pro, no! More than 200,000 pairs of the groundbreaking goggles were sold during pre-order before being released to the public on Feb. 2.											 
												Zuckerberg took aim at Apple’s buzzy gadget in a product review after he “finally tried” the device.											 
												A segment of Apple's customers are disappointed to learn that immersive pornographic content isn't among the pricey Vision Pro's high-tech features.											 
												The "Simpsons" is truly a Vision-ary series.											 
												I was among the few hundred people who lined up before sunrise Friday outside Apple's flagship store for the launch of the company's futuristic $3,500 gizmo.											 
												Hundreds of Apple fans began lining up outside its Manhattan flagship store before dawn Friday to sample its new Vision Pro virtual reality set — as they and even the tech...											 
												The headset is scheduled to be available for purchase in company retail locations on Friday.											 
												"Don't pretend you didn't love it," the virtual victim was told.											 
												The AR headset starts at $3,499 and costs more than thrice as much as the priciest headset in Meta's line of mixed and virtual reality devices.											 
												The victim may have suffered the same trauma as someone who had been raped in real life, police and politicians suggest.											 
												ABC executive Robert Mills confirmed that Ava, 24, was indeed at the show — and she brought along a relative.											