Sydney Sweeney’s upcoming movie Reality is based on the story of an intelligence specialist named Reality Winner who leaked classified information about Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. elections.  Winner's story began in May 2017 when she leaked a classified document to The Intercept, an online news outlet. The leaked document disclosed Russian military intelligence cyberattacks on local election officials and American voting software leading up to the 2016 election. Unfortunately for Winner, The Intercept mishandled the leaked document, leading to her exposure as the anonymous source.  Winner was charged under the Espionage Act and pleaded guilty in 2018 as part of a plea deal and received a harsh sentence of five years and three months in prison. Winner claimed her motivation for leaking the report was to expose the truth. "I knew it was secret," she said in a 2021 interview with 60 Minutes, "But I also knew that I had pledged service to the American people, and at that point in time, it felt like they were being led astray." After exhibiting good behavior, Winner was released to a halfway house program in June 2021, followed by home confinement, before her full release from custody in November 2021. HBO’s Reality takes lines verbatim from the real FBI interrogation transcript, shedding light on the intensity of the encounter. Reality brings Winner’s story to life, depicting the bold decisions she made and the catastrophic aftermath. The movie will be released on May 29 by HBO Films. Ryan Reynolds says Hugh Jackman made his 'dreams come true' with 'Deadpool & Wolverine'  Penn Badgley wraps up shooting of 'You’ final season with viral TikTok trend
 King Charles 'frustrated' as rift with Prince Harry grows over 'mistaken belief' Alain Delon passed away on Sunday, August 18, at the age of 88 Meghan Markle talks about 'love and kindness' amid rift with the royal family Barry Keoghan, Sabrina Carpenter have been dating for eight months Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved | Contact Us | Authors