Raymond Carlin III-USA TODAY Sports NASHVILLE -  "Perception is reality, but it may not be actuality, and you have got to be able to keep the difference between that." ~ Former Pittsburgh Steelers head coach Bill Cowher Such is the case for the Tennessee Titans two days after the conclusion of the 2023 NFL Draft, where the majority of fans walked away from its close on Saturday evening with the perception that general manager Ran Carthon, in his first draft as a general manager, his staff, and head coach Mike Vrabel had failed miserably in their first attempt together.   That perception began to shift on Sunday morning- at least for some, some still feel differently- as folks awoke to find various rankings and analyses giving the Titans a good grade and many giving them A's across the board for the class they assembled. Here's the thing about this class, and it's fundamental to me. If you grade this class on the perception of did they draft the flashy, big-name Ferrari guys, then no, this was not a good draft. But it was a great draft if you perceive that they filled needs and got great value from each pick.  It's really that simple. Yet, both beliefs will likely hang on to those beliefs until this class proves them wrong or they are validated to say, "I told you so!"   Most draft experts and NFL teams ranked Titans first-round pick Peter Skoronski as one of the class's most solid and safest picks. Yes, there were questions about his arm length, and some fans felt the need to make a video cutup of him getting blown up on one play to highlight how terrible he will be and how bad his selection was.  However, that's one play, and the best to ever play the game have had that happen to them during their careers. It doesn't change the reality that Skoronski is a solid player, a safe pick, and a great value selection for a team whose offensive line allowed 49 sacks last season.   Then there's the story of quarterback Will Levis. For brevities sake, I won't rehash what we already know. The Titans and everyone else passed on him in round one, but the Titans traded up at the top of the second round to select him with the No. 33 overall pick.  Almost universally, fans hated this pick, and while I was not a fan of selecting him at No. 11, I believe this was a solid pick and a great value where he was selected. Now it's up to Levis to change fans' perceptions and forge his reality on the field.   Finally, the receiver situation. Yes, the Titans went through six rounds-actually only five, as they did not have a fourth-round pick- before they finally addressed one of their perceived most significant areas of need. Then, when they finally selected one, it was someone from a small school that few people had even heard of at the time.   Still, Colton Dowell's selection was met with overwhelming approval from those covering the NFL and grading all teams following the draft.    Ultimately, your perception is your reality, but as Coach Cower says, it's not necessarily actuality! That said, it will be a year or two before we can begin to know with certainty how good or bad this class will turn out to be.   Greg Arias covers the Tennessee Titans for All Titans.com on Sports Illustrated/FanNation. He has been covering the NFL for various outlets since 2000.