STEPHEN Bear's girlfriend has set her sights on reality TV - and the caged star is helping her from behind bars.  Bear, 32, has been advising fiancee Jessica Smith how to apply for the new series of Big Brother so he can watch her on TV in prison, a source has revealed. The former Big Brother contestant was jailed after he filmed himself having sex on CCTV with ex Georgia Harrison, then made at least £40,000 on OnlyFans from uploading the clip without her permission. Now his girlfriend Jessica, 22, who has stood by him and has been visiting him regularly as he serves a 21-month sentence at HMP Chelmsford, is hoping to launch a TV career and has just finished her audition tape for Big Brother, according to a source. The show, which Bear won in 2016, is due to return to our screens in Autumn on ITV2, hosted by AJ Odudu and Will Best. ITV has also dropped hints online that a Celebrity Big Brother is in the works. A source told The Sun: "Jess is really keen with the idea of making it from social media on to TV, and who better to guide her through the process than Stephen himself - who of course won the show. "Stephen is coaching her through the process so far, giving his tips as to how to come across best to show’s producers and Jess is grateful for the inside track on things from him. "Jess is really enthusiastic about the idea of making it onto TV. She has 250,000 followers on her social media so it seems like it’s the natural next place for her to go.  "There are a lot of shows she could have chosen but with Big Brother coming back this summer and her own boyfriend being a bit of an expert on the show, it seems like the obvious route for her to try. "Stephen loves the idea too. He can’t physically be with her this summer, but watching her on TV doing her thing would be the next best option." Bear was jailed in March for sharing the private sex video with Georgia without permission. Georgia waved her anonymity to speak out against her reality star revealing that she nearly died fighting him for two-and-a-half years and is now planning to sue Bear saying he destroyed her career. She has previously slammed Jessica as a "villain" who "enjoys infamy". As well as a jail sentence, Bear was also placed on the Sex Offenders Register for ten years and was slapped with a five-year restraining order banning him from contacting Georgia. A source told The Sun at the time that Bear was a "broken man" and had been "crying for days" in his cell at HMP Chelmsford following his sentencing. He was reportedly put on an ACCT (Assessment, Care in Custody and Teamwork) plan at HMP Chelmsford, which is for prisoners who are at risk of self-harm or suicide. However the former reality star has since settled into prison life and has two jobs, the source said. "He’s settled well into prison life now and has two jobs that keep him busy during the week, one stripping wires and the other packing tea," the source said. "Jess visits him frequently but the time is passing slowly." OnlyFans model Jess has been documenting her visits to see Bear, moaning about prison rules including the strict dress code and kissing ban. She even revealed she had applied for a cleaning job at the prison in a bid to be closer to him.  Jessica also revealed her boyfriend's latest letter to her from prison in an Instagram post. She wrote: "I get so excited checking the post box for letters… He is so cute makes me melt every time seeing his handwriting."  The letter read: "You're doing amazing at home. I'm so proud of you! It helps me having more credit and I can call you all the time." "I love you with all my heart and I don't want you to worry about anything," he added. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/