They’re back! The ladies of The Real Housewives of Orange County will undoubtedly bring the drama back to the small screen in season 17 of the beloved reality series, which wrapped production in November 2022. Keep reading for everything to know about season 17 of RHOC, including the cast, premiere date, which Housewife is jumping franchises and more. Heather Dubrow, Shannon Beador, Emily Simpson, Gina Kirschenheiter and Tamra Judge are all returning to the Bravo franchise – which first premiered on the network in 2006 – for its 17th season.  Tamra, who joined the long-running reality show during season 3 until her season 14 departure in 2020, confirmed she would be rejoining the cast during an appearance on Watch What Happens Live With Andy Cohen in July 2022, telling host Andy Cohen, “The judge is back and drama is in session,” after months of speculation. The Bravo patriarch responded, “Ladies and gentlemen, it’s true — Tamra Judge is returning to The Real Housewives of Orange County.” The Vena CBD cocreator, who first returned to the franchise during season 2 of Girls Trip, opened up about the casting process during an episode of her “Two T’s in a Pod” podcast with The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills alum and cohost Teddi Mellencamp that same month, revealing that she wasn’t sure if she would join the RHOC cast for the forthcoming season. “I’ve been talking with production for about two months now,” Tamra told Teddi at the time. “And I wasn’t really sure. Were they gonna ask me back? Not ask me back? I really didn’t know.” During a November 2022 Q&A on Instagram, the former Cut Fitness owner teased what it felt like returning to the show that launched her reality TV career. “I forgot how exhausting it was! I laughed, I cried, I yelled, I drank a lot,” she wrote at the time via Reality Blurb, adding, “I made new friends, and reanalyzed old friends.” While speaking with In Touch at the iHeartRadio Music Awards in March 2023, former RHOC star Meghan King revealed what she hopes the forthcoming season will bring. “I hope that Tamra can bring a little bit more spice back to it,” she spilled. “I love her so I'm looking forward to supporting her. I mean, they definitely need a revamp.” While fans will see a familiar face return to the series, season 16 newcomers Noella Bergener and Dr. Jen Armstrong will not be appearing on the newest season.  "My family and my work are the most important aspects of my life, so I am stepping away from RHOC and focusing on them," Jen wrote in a July 2022 Instagram post. Taylor Armstrong, who originally appeared on the first three seasons of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills, made Bravo history after it was announced she would be joining The Real Housewives of Orange County, making her the first Housewife to jump cities. Meghan also gave her thoughts about Taylor joining the cast for season 17, telling In Touch at the iHeartRadio Music Awards, “It'll be interesting to see how the crossover works.” Though “OG of the OC” Vicki Gunvalson has been spotted filming scenes – and even traveling! – with the RHOC crew, she is not returning to the show as an official cast member.  “Just the Tres Amigas, we're having lunch. We definitely filmed a little scene,” the Coto Insurance founder told E! News in October 2022, referring to her, Shannon and Tamra’s group nickname. “I'm going to be doing a little cameo – one or two times – that's it this season. It was good.” Shannon started dating John Janssen in July 2019, just three months after her divorce with ex-husband David Beador was finalized. Though the pair went through some ups and downs – particularly during the initial COVID-19 outbreak and nation-wide shutdowns in 2020, much of which was documented during season 15 of RHOC – Shannon and John seemed to be going strong, as he regularly appeared on the show, often defending Shannon and sticking by her side amid the drama between her and the other cast members. However, in January 2023, the mom of three revealed that John had ended their relationship in November 2022 – about a week after filming for season 17 wrapped.  "All I can do is repeat in my head what he said to me while we were filming," Shannon told People. "We were in a great place. But seven days later, when the cameras were down, it was a completely different story. He told me he was done with the relationship. And to hear what he said to me then was absolutely devastating." She continued, "I've never loved anyone more in my life. I was hopeful this was the man I was going to spend the rest of my life with. I wanted it to work out. I've never loved anyone like I've loved John. But clearly, he didn't feel the same way." Gina revealed in a March 2023 Instagram post that the RHOC cast recorded their taglines, sharing a sneak peek at one of her three interview looks. “We [are] so close!” she captioned the clip, seemingly alluding that it won’t be long until the long-awaited trailer drops. Fellow castmate Tamra also gave fans a glimpse at one of her interview looks, in which she rocked a blue, long sleeve bodycon dress with nude illusion cut-outs. Returning cast member Emily also showed off her glam in a video clip posted to her Instagram Story, donning a white curve-hugging gown and sideswept locks.  Before the official season 17 of RHOC was released, Tamra insinuated it was coming soon after an appearance as a Mega Mystery Housewives Caller on a February 2023 episode of WWHL, in which she surprised fellow housewife Melissa Gorga and I Love That for You star Matt Rogers. “Stopped by #WWHL tonight as a mystery caller and Andy teased my return to #RHOC to hold you over until the trailer,” she captioned a short video on Instagram. “By the way, the new season of Orange County is awesome, and wait until you see Tamra’s entrance,” host Andy told viewers in the clip. The trailer was later dropped on April 25 and highlighted the return of Tamra and Vicki. “I’m back, bitches,” Tamra declared. As the clip ​continued, fans watched Tamra get into an argument with newcomer Jennifer Pedranti. Another cast member Tamra seems to have drama with is Heather. “You and I pinky promised,” Heather told Tamra, who had a disgusted look on her face, in the clip. While Tamra was front and center in the trailer, Vicki made her comeback at the end of the clip as she was seen scaring her longtime friend. The trailer also highlighted problems in Gina’s marriage with her husband, Travis Mullen, while he accused her of not “being over” her ex-husband, Matt Kirschenheiter, cheating on her. Though no official premiere date has been announced, fans can expect The Real Housewives of Orange County to return to Bravo sometime in the first half of 2023. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.