Managing partners Megan and Dampn Williamson will lead the Dallas office of The Agency. [Photo: The Agency] A Beverly Hills, California-based global real estate brokerage with a major presence in reality television has opened a new franchise office in Dallas, its second location in Texas. Called The Agency, the brokerage says its new office at 8117 Preston Road is part of a growing network of more than 70 offices in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Europe. The Dallas office will be led by managing partners Damon and Megan Williamson. The Agency is featured on international television shows including Million Dollar Listing Los Angeles, The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills, and Buying Beverly Hills, which made its debut on Netflix in November. “We’re thrilled to expand our presence in Texas with the launch of our new franchise in Dallas,” Mauricio Umansky, CEO and founder of The Agency, said in a statement. “Damon and Megan Williamson are two of the most celebrated real estate authorities in their region and we are confident that they will be incredible stewards of our brand and culture.” The Agency also has an office in Austin and said it has expanded its presence across the globe rapidly throughout the past year, making it one of the fastest-growing luxury boutique brokerages in the world. It said its independent-owned brokerages are referred to and integrated as true global partners. “We are delighted to partner with Damon and Megan Williamson as we bring The Agency to Dallas and new flourishing cities around the world,” Jim Ramsay, executive vice president of franchise sales at The Agency, said in a statement. “Our continued growth in Texas is a true testament to the growing demand and need for a luxury boutique brokerage with global reach like The Agency.” The firm said that each managing partner, in both corporate and independently owned offices, operates cohesively as one global network. Rather than just using brand likeness in their marketing, The Agency said its global partners enjoy the same access to leadership, marketing, public relations, training, tools, and technology as the corporate offices. In the past 12 months, The Agency has opened 26 new corporate and independently owned offices, including the new office in Dallas. More openings are planned, The Agency said. Dallas Managing Director Damon Williamson has more than 20 years of experience in real estate and has grown a reputation as one of the most trusted and respected realtors in the Dallas Fort-Worth area, The Agency said. A Texas native and Dallas resident, he founded his own group, the Damon Williamson Group in 2010 with the idea of assembling a forward-thinking team to use cutting-edge technology and innovative solutions to disrupt the industry. “The collaborative culture at The Agency is the ideal complement to our business. We look forward to continuing to service buyers and sellers in the Dallas area while harnessing the unparalleled resources of The Agency’s global brand,” Damon Williamson said in a statement. “I am excited to introduce The Agency’s cutting-edge approach to my hometown and continue to raise the bar for our industry here in Dallas.” Megan Williamson has honed her marketing and e-commerce skills to help expand and grow their real estate business throughout the years. She specializes in brand development and business strategy, and she has grown their investment property portfolio and managed multiple properties around the Dallas-Fort Worth area. Megan Williamson is known for pairing innovative technological solutions with comprehensive business development strategies, The Agency said, offering clients extensive knowledge and expertise of the local market with a tailored approach. “Damon and I are honored to join such a well-respected group of top agents across the nation and to be expanding The Agency’s footprint in the Lone Star state,” Megan Williamson said in a statement. “The Dallas market holds incredible synergy with The Agency’s boutique, global brand and we look forward to continuing to elevate our service offering in this next chapter.” The Agency has grown to more than 65 corporate-owned and franchise offices across the globe, making it one of the fastest-growing luxury boutique brokerages in the world. The Agency is noted by The Financial Times as one of America’s Fastest Growing Companies and has ranked among Inc. 5000’s list of fastest-growing private companies in the country for six consecutive years. It ranked 21st on the 2022 Real Trends 500 list and led the top 50 firms in average sales price by sides with a $2.5 million average sales price. In August, Inman named The Agency Luxury Brokerage of the year.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   In a recent survey, 73% of multifamily residents said they are interested in—or won’t rent an apartment without—sustainability and green initiatives being implemented at the property. The two companies are joining forces to help "shift the aspirational to become truly day-to-day operational." Mark Roberts is taking his expertise in the real estate space to two local organizations. A fellow at the Real Estate Research Institute, Roberts has been jointly hired by Dallas real estate investment and development firm Crow Holdings and the SMU Cox School of Business’ Robert and Margaret Folsom Institute for Real Estate as a director of research. “It is a rare opportunity to be able to be a part of two incredible organizations at once,” Roberts said in a statement. “I look forward to adding my voice to the conversations going on in both classrooms and boardrooms during this… The pioneer in real estate social media and branding is launching his fifth company: RHA Land and Lake. Already owning the largest independent real estate firm in North Texas with a long list of celebrity clients, Healy relocates clients worldwide. Now he aims to place more people in down-to-earth rural properties across Texas, and "Texahoma" too—with a projected $50 million under contract by this spring. Local developer and consulting firm Innovan Neighborhoods is leading the roundtable's efforts to increase affordable housing in the region while accelerating the revitalization of underserved communities around Dallas. With initial funding from JPMorgan Chase, "flexible capital" could help boost needed projects. "When we put funds and resources behind innovative solutions, we can see neighborhoods and communities set up for long-term success,” says Maggie Parker, Innovan's founder and managing partner. There's interest by developers from across the country to build affordable housing here, says Jones, a director at Coats Rose and public policy chair at The Real Estate Council. Stakeholders can embrace the opportunity, the attorney says. The investment in affordable housing "will be catalytic and will beget economic vibrancy." North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Venture Dallas 2024 isn’t just another networking event—it’s where multi-million dollar deals get done and North Texas startups secure game-changing investments. Backed by J.P. Morgan and Perot Jain, this year’s summit will shine a spotlight on the region’s defense tech, biotech, and software startups, attracting investors from across the country eager to connect with the next big thing.... North Texas is a big place with plenty of opportunities. Here’s a curated roundup of contests and competitions; accelerator and recognition programs; and resource and grant opportunities for North Texas innovators. ... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Venture Dallas 2024 isn’t just another networking event—it’s where multi-million dollar deals get done and North Texas startups secure game-changing investments. Backed by J.P. Morgan and Perot Jain, this year’s summit will shine a spotlight on the region’s defense tech, biotech, and software startups, attracting investors from across the country eager to connect with the next big thing.... North Texas is a big place with plenty of opportunities. Here’s a curated roundup of contests and competitions; accelerator and recognition programs; and resource and grant opportunities for North Texas innovators. ... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.