Logic Commercial Real Estate has been selected to find buyers for several downtown Las Vegas properties owned by the late Tony Hsieh’s estate. Logic Commercial Real Estate has been selected to find buyers for several downtown Las Vegas properties owned by the late Tony Hsieh’s estate. The real estate brokerage firm said Friday it is trying to sell boutique hotel The Downtowner; the John E. Carson office and retail building with adjacent parking lot; a six-unit retail property at the intersection of Las Vegas Boulevard and Fremont Street; the building occupied by Nacho Daddy on North Fourth Street; and the Gold Spike and adjacent Oasis hotel. It did not announce any asking prices. “We understand the importance of these properties and the significance of Tony Hsieh’s vision for revitalizing downtown Las Vegas,” Logic President Jeff Jacobs said in a news release. Hsieh was the former CEO of online shoe seller Zappos and the face of downtown Las Vegas’ revival, becoming one of the biggest property owners in the area. He died in November 2020 at the age of 46 from injuries suffered during a Connecticut house fire. Hsieh did not leave a will and amassed his portfolio through a side venture — originally called Downtown Project — that he launched in 2012 to pump $350 million into the Fremont Street area. Hsieh’s family filed more than 100 notices in District Court in a two-day span in 2021, disclosing plans to sell dozens of his properties in Las Vegas. Hseih wasn’t known for selling his properties, and as outlined in his probate case, his various real estate holdings included everything from office buildings and apartment complexes to dirt lots and shuttered motels. He also owned such high-profile sights as Downtown Container Park and Zappos’ headquarters. Contact Patrick Blennerhassett at pblennerhassett@reviewjournal.com or 702-348-3967. The restaurant, which opened in late 2022, specializes in a modern take on the cooking of Mexico’s Baja Peninsula. Lavish casino buffets, once a Vegas staple, have become less common in recent years, as food halls have largely taken their place. Part of the makeover involved installing a new wall of windows to frame views of the pool, gardens and the Sphere. Nevada is the only state with licensed brothels — but tourists should be aware of the penalties around illegal prostitution. Vice President Kamala Harris announced her plans to address housing affordability. Two elevators will be added and 38 others will be modernized under a Biden administration infrastructure grant program, with work beginning next month. A National Association of Realtors settlement means big changes for the local real estate industry regarding commissions and agreements. Here’s what you need to know. Nearly 1,500 vehicles have been reported stolen from various Strip casinos/resorts within the past five years. In grocery settings, quality control is of the utmost importance. For a retailer like Costco, whose customers pay an annual membership fee, quality control means a lot more to the average shopper. After a four-year shutdown because of the coronavirus pandemic in 2020, the Governor’s Conference on Tourism is returning to Las Vegas’ Rio hotel-casino in October. 
Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
 Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP