
                  Karlsson has goal, 3 assists for San Jose; Robertson gets 30th for Dallas
                 Reimer, Sharks earn comeback victory SAN JOSE -- The San Jose Sharks scored five straight goals to come back from down three and defeat the Dallas Stars 5-3 at SAP Center on Wednesday. Erik Karlsson gave the Sharks a 4-3 lead at 10:41 of the third period with a shot from the right face-off circle. Logan Couture scored into an empty net for the 5-3 final."We found a way to win this game and it definitely feels good, especially [since] it would have been easy to quit at 3-0," Sharks forward Timo Meier said. "But we put our heads in there and then went to work, so I think that one feels really good."Karlsson also had three assists, and Nick Bonino had a goal and an assist for the Sharks (14-23-9), who had lost three straight. James Reimer made 33 saves for his 200th NHL win."When you get deep in the season, it's easy to kind of look at the situation and just quit and we have done anything but that," Sharks coach David Quinn said. "I've said this all along, I love coaching our group. It's a great group to coach. They come to work every day, they bounce back after tough nights, which we've done. And I just can't say enough about our group. I'm really happy for them." DAL@SJS: Karlsson gives Sharks lead in 3rd period Karlsson's four-point night brought him to 61 for the season. The last defenseman to reach 60 points in 46 or fewer games was Paul Coffey with the Pittsburgh Penguins in 1988-89."I think [all] the guys are doing a good job and showing up every day," Karlsson said. "If everybody wasn't doing that, then no one could have any success. I'm just appreciative of everybody else."Jason Robertson scored his 30th goal, and Miro Heiskanen had two assists for the Stars (26-13-7), who had won six of their previous 10 (6-3-1). Jake Oettinger made 23 saves after shutting out the Vegas Golden Knights on Monday."I think us on the road with a three-nothing lead, we've got to close that out," Stars coach Peter DeBoer said. "But that's on us. It's not about scoring another goal. It's about not handing them any." DAL@SJS: Robertson doubles Stars' lead in 2nd period Ty Dellandrea gave Dallas a 1-0 lead at 6:43 of the first period when he beat Reimer with a wrist shot from the right circle.Robertson made it 2-0 at 3:54 of the second period. He gloved down a centering pass from Colin Miller in the slot and shot bar down on Reimer.Radek Faksa extended the lead to 3-0 at 6:57 with a centering pass through traffic that redirected off of Meier's skate.Steven Lorentz got San Jose on the board 3-1 at 9:21 with a shot from the slot. Bonino made it 3-2 at 11:49 when Alexander Barabanov set him up with a pass from behind the net."[We] played really well in the first half and then they got the momentum," Stars defenseman Esa Lindell said. "They just [kept] coming out and we couldn't find [the] answer to it."Meier tied the game 3-3 at 15:18 with a power-play goal on a shot from the right circle after a pass from Karlsson."It's going to be a while until we come back here, so it was good [to get the home win]," Karlsson said. "We enjoy playing here. I know our record hasn't really shown that, but this is a great building to play in." DAL@SJS: Meier nets 26th goal of season in 2nd period NOTES: Robertson reached 30 goals in 46 games, the fewest games to 30 goals for the Stars since they moved to Dallas in 1993-94. Dino Ciccarelli has the Stars/Minnesota North Stars record, reaching 30 goals in 31 games in 1986-87. … The Sharks won in regulation after trailing by three or more goals for the first time since Feb. 1, 2011 and for the fourth time in their history. … Karlsson's four points in a game tied the Sharks record for a defenseman. It's been done 11 times, most recently by Karlsson on Nov. 1 against the Anaheim Ducks. … It was his ninth four-point game in the NHL, the most among active defensemen.