NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT The prime suspect in the Nottingham knife and van rampage which left two students and a school caretaker dead was known to MI5, it has been reported.  The 31-year-old turned up at the security service’s London HQ last August and ‘banging on the door’ demanding to be let in, according to The Sun.  A security source told the paper he was ‘moved on and logged’, adding: ‘This happens from time to time.’  The man’s name is then believed to have come up during the investigation after he was taken into custody.  Unlike at MI6’s modern offices in Vauxhall, pedestrians can stroll right outside MI5’s headquarters at Thames House on the north bank of the river.   The Home Office has declined to comment.  Barnaby Webber, Grace Kumar and Ian Coates were killed, and another three people injured in connected attacks in Nottingham on Tuesday morning.  A 31-year-old man was tasered and arrested on suspicion of murder after the trio were stabbed to death.  According to reports, the suspect is a West African migrant who had settled in the UK legally and was known to police. It is understood the man has a mental health history.  Chaos at Waterloo station as severe disruption expected for 'the rest of the day' Five motorcyclists die after two crashes less than an hour apart Bus crashes into theatre in London's West End Mum 'died saving her family' as knifeman chased her children down the street CCTV from a residential care home 100 yards from where Mr Coates was found, appearing to show a man dressed in black attempting to gain access to a bay window, is being examined by detectives.  The footage shows someone inside the building managing to bat the man away before closing the window.  Nottinghamshire Police said the force was not contacted about the attempted break-in and had no calls about the suspect before the first stabbing.  Investigators are continuing to work with counter-terrorism police and maintain an open mind about the motive for the attack.  The heartbroken families of the two students joined thousands of people for a moving vigil in their memories on Wednesday evening.  Barnaby’s father David told those gathered that ‘his heart will be with you guys forever’ while Grace’s father Sanjoy told the students to look after each other.  He said: ‘Grace and her friend they fell together, and you just need to be friends with everyone. You need to love everyone, and I wish we had more of it.  ‘But most of all, all of you guys, everyone who’s here who Grace may not have even touched, I really thank you for being here and taking the time.  ‘I really do. It means so much to Sinead, my wife, and me. She loved being here and she loved all of you. She really did and you should all feel very blessed.  ‘She was so full of her stories and things that she said about all of you, and you’ve all touched her life. And hence ours.  ‘You’ll never be forgotten by us, certainly. We have children who were taken away prematurely from us, that should never happen to any parent.’  Mr Coates’ sons left tributes at the scene of his death on Wednesday, telling reporters he was ‘a die-hard Forest fan’ and a keen fisherman who took young people from deprived backgrounds fishing to try to divert them from crime.  Lee Coates said the death of his father, who was four months from retirement, had ‘rocked everyone’s world’, adding: ‘If we had to think about it, he’d be lying in a bed with us holding his hand, him dying naturally in 20 to 30 years’ time.’  ‘Not dying on a street because some guy decided it’s not his day today,’ Lee’s brother James added.  He went on: ‘He was everyone’s friend, always willing to help.  ‘Nobody deserves this, but he definitely didn’t. None of them did, it’s a tragedy.’  

	MORE : Outrage as ‘vile’ woman dances during live Sky News report on brutal Nottingham attacks that left three dead

 

	MORE : Families of students killed in Nottingham hold hands at heart-wrenching vigil

 Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk. For more stories like this, check our news page. Privacy Policy  Get us in your feed