
Latin America
 

              Fri Jun 23 2023 11:01:00 GMT+0000
            
·

                Juan Manuel Herrera
              
 
            Additional authors: Others
           Overnight markets that were trading with a risk-averse mood owing to yesterday’s hawkish central bank decisions in the UK and Norway, and the Fed’s Powell iterating that two more hikes are likely appropriate, were hit by weaker-than-expected PMIs in Europe this morning. Further to the risk-off mood seeing a 0.5% drop in SPX futures, losses across all key industrial commodities and the drag from another cycle low in the offshore yuan are pulling on all major FX against the USD; the NOK (-1.8%) and AUD (-0.9%) are lagging, while the MXN is among the least bad currencies today with a 0.4% drop (see also yesterday’s Banxico flash). Oil is off by 1%, iron ore by 2,2%, and copper by 1.4%. Rates markets are well bid on the back of the soft PMI prints, ahead of the equivalent figures for the US due at 9.45ET that are the standout data release in the Americas. In Latam, only Chile PPI data at 9ET are on tap. It’s not part of our regular coverage, but Paraguay’s central bank is expected to hold its policy rate at 8.5% at an unspecified time this afternoon (closer to 17ET based on its past two decisions). There may be some controversial comments from Colombian Pres Petro when he speaks at a summit in Paris (though these are now being generally ignored by markets), and don’t be surprised if Lula and/or Haddad denounce the BCB for not cutting rates yet. It’s not the most immediate market mover, but one can’t but notice that more and more articles are popping up on the dangers posed by El Niño. Peruvian media have of course been following developments regarding the climate phenomenon for a while, also amid the country’s dengue outbreak that has rains and flooding to blame as mosquito breeding grounds. However, international media seems more awake to the issue and how this could impact food supply chains in coming months/quarters. It may be too early to speculate, but this risk (that is pulling away from simply being a ‘tail’ risk) may be worth preparing for; recall that during the 2017–18 El Niño episode, the BCRP cut its policy rate by 150bps. That was from a 4.25% policy rate level; 350bps below where it currently stands. —Juan Manuel Herrera   MEXICO: INFLATION PRINTS BELOW EXPECTED IN THE FIRST HALF OF JUNE BUT AMID AN UNCERTAIN OUTLOOK Inflation came in below expectations in the first half of June, decelerating from 5.67% to 5.18% y/y (vs. 5.30% expected, chart 1). Within components, core inflation also moderated more than expected, from 7.32% to 6.91% (vs. 7.03 consensus, chart 2), derived from a lower pace in both merchandises (8.33% vs 8.93% previous), and services (5.23% from 5.23%). Non-core components remain almost unchanged (0.03%, vs. 0.78%, chart 3), as energy and tariffs dropped -2.6%, compensating the 3.19% increase in raw food.  In a sequential basis, headline inflation came in at 0.02% 2w/2w, below the 0.13% expected, and reaching a minimum level for any 1H June in the last 4 years. In the same sense, core inflation moderated more than expected, from 0.17% to 0.11% (0.22% consensus), reaching a minimum for any 1H June since 2018, and the non-core (-0.26%) also reached a minimum for a similar period in four years. Despite the below consensus prints in headline and core inflation, uncertainties remain high. Among other upside risks, recent record heatwaves in most of Mexico could pose another short-term risk for non-core items, as food producers face adverse conditions as heatwaves remain. In monetary policy implications, we believe Banxico sees its current policy stance to be tight enough to drive an inflation decline process, but the work will take some time—we hold our call for the start of the cutting cycle for December 2023.  —Miguel Saldaña DISCLAIMER   This report has been prepared by Scotiabank Economics as a resource for the clients of Scotiabank. Opinions, estimates and projections contained herein are our own as of the date hereof and are subject to change without notice. The information and opinions contained herein have been compiled or arrived at from sources believed reliable but no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made as to their accuracy or completeness. Neither Scotiabank nor any of its officers, directors, partners, employees or affiliates accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this report or its contents.   These reports are provided to you for informational purposes only. This report is not, and is not constructed as, an offer to sell or solicitation of any offer to buy any financial instrument, nor shall this report be construed as an opinion as to whether you should enter into any swap or trading strategy involving a swap or any other transaction. The information contained in this report is not intended to be, and does not constitute, a recommendation of a swap or trading strategy involving a swap within the meaning of U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Regulation 23.434 and Appendix A thereto. This material is not intended to be individually tailored to your needs or characteristics and should not be viewed as a “call to action” or suggestion that you enter into a swap or trading strategy involving a swap or any other transaction. Scotiabank may engage in transactions in a manner inconsistent with the views discussed this report and may have positions, or be in the process of acquiring or disposing of positions, referred to in this report.   Scotiabank, its affiliates and any of their respective officers, directors and employees may from time to time take positions in currencies, act as managers, co-managers or underwriters of a public offering or act as principals or agents, deal in, own or act as market makers or advisors, brokers or commercial and/or investment bankers in relation to securities or related derivatives. As a result of these actions, Scotiabank may receive remuneration. All Scotiabank products and services are subject to the terms of applicable agreements and local regulations. Officers, directors and employees of Scotiabank and its affiliates may serve as directors of corporations.   Any securities discussed in this report may not be suitable for all investors. Scotiabank recommends that investors independently evaluate any issuer and security discussed in this report, and consult with any advisors they deem necessary prior to making any investment.   This report and all information, opinions and conclusions contained in it are protected by copyright. This information may not be reproduced without the prior express written consent of Scotiabank.   ™ Trademark of The Bank of Nova Scotia. Used under license, where applicable.   Scotiabank, together with “Global Banking and Markets”, is a marketing name for the global corporate and investment banking and capital markets businesses of The Bank of Nova Scotia and certain of its affiliates in the countries where they operate, including; Scotiabank Europe plc; Scotiabank (Ireland) Designated Activity Company; Scotiabank Inverlat S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero Scotiabank Inverlat, Scotia Inverlat Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V., Grupo Financiero Scotiabank Inverlat, Scotia Inverlat Derivados S.A. de C.V. – all members of the Scotiabank group and authorized users of the Scotiabank mark. The Bank of Nova Scotia is incorporated in Canada with limited liability and is authorised and regulated by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada. The Bank of Nova Scotia is authorized by the UK Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and limited regulation by the UK Prudential Regulation Authority. Details about the extent of The Bank of Nova Scotia's regulation by the UK Prudential Regulation Authority are available from us on request. Scotiabank Europe plc is authorized by the UK Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and the UK Prudential Regulation Authority.   Scotiabank Inverlat, S.A., Scotia Inverlat Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V, Grupo Financiero Scotiabank Inverlat, and Scotia Inverlat Derivados, S.A. de C.V., are each authorized and regulated by the Mexican financial authorities.   Not all products and services are offered in all jurisdictions. Services described are available in jurisdictions where permitted by law. Latam Daily: Chile MPR and Colombia Imports Recap 
 Latam Daily: BCCh Opts for Larger Cut, MPR Today 
 Latam Daily: BanRep and BCCh; Colombia and Peru Macro Recap Additional authors: Others 
 Latam Daily: ‘Against’ Wins Chile Constitution Vote; Peru and Colombia Macro Additional authors: Others 
   1.800.4SCOTIA Meet with an advisor. 





