Digital rights group Access Now urged biometric surveillance companies operating in Latin America for more transparency after presenting a new report detailing how many companies sent information on their human rights practices when queried. The group sent a list of questions to 23 technology companies querying them on sales of surveillance products to governments, data collection practices and practices that ensure products are not used in human rights abuses in Latin American countries. Getting straight answers was “unsurprisingly difficult,” says the report. Only nine out of the 23 companies contacted chose to send information on their practices. Among the companies that sent replies to Access Now are Idemia, Cellebrite, NEC, Dahua and IBM. Companies that declined to send answers include Huawei, Hikvision, Johnson Controls, Oosto and more. Many of the replies lacked detail and clarity while some responses may indicate that companies are not in compliance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), according to the report. If they engage, their answers are mostly short, general, focused on the procurement angle, or coming straight from the public relations playbook,” Access Now’s Ángela Alarcón says in a press release. “Civil society needs accountability from these companies, and people across Latin America have the right to security and privacy.” The Access Now report was published with the Asociación por los Derechos Civiles (ADC), Laboratory of Public Policy and Internet (LAPIN) and LaLibre.net. Access Now  |  biometrics  |  facial recognition  |  Latin America  |  surveillance “Orbs coming to Malaysia,” says a new announcement from Worldcoin. “Verify your humanness.” The iris biometrics, digital ID and cryptocurrency… The White House is about to throw its support behind state issuance of mobile driver’s licenses (mDLs), in part to… More than 70 percent of consumers in Brazil, France, Germany, the UK and the U.S. are using a digital wallet… With the new Entry/Exit System (EES) formally scheduled to launch on November 10, 2024, Europe will deploy the “most modern… August 19, 2024 – Precise Biometrics is making progress on its “commercialization journey,” according to CEO Joakim Nydemark, but it is… By Professor Fraser Sampson, former UK Biometrics & Surveillance Camera Commissioner Last week’s webinar by Public Policy Exchange considered the future… This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Continue Reading Learn More Copyright © 2024 Biometrics Research Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Web Design by Studio1337