0 By clicking the button, I accept the Terms of Use of the service and its Privacy Policy, as well as consent to the processing of personal data. 
                            Powered by :
                            





   Follow Us Image Credits: NDTV The anonymous bride took to Reddit to share that the alleged cake-smashing incident had ruined her wedding. She explained that she disliked the act to the extent that she left her husband over it. In the now-deleted Reddit post, she elaborated that she has a “history with cake smashing” and that her husband found such videos hilarious. She goes on to narrate a personal ordeal from when she was a teenager. She said that when she was 17 years old, her mother pushed her head into the cake, and one of the decorations on the cake ended up slicing her forehead, and she was injured with some substantial bleeding. She added that her birthday was ruined, and she didn’t come out of the room after that, for which her mother still calls her a brat. Further, the bride wrote that she had already told her groom that if he ever did something like that to her, she would leave him. He had begun laughing, but she had meant it seriously, although it seems he never took her for real. On the wedding day, the husband didn’t heed the warning, and when the couple got to the cake-cutting part, he scooped up a huge chunk of cake and smashed it all over her face. The cake-smashed incident on her wedding day not only ruined the bride’s hair and makeup but also her confidence. She wrote that everyone in the crown began laughing at her, and she stepped out and took an Uber. She went on to say how her family and the groom’s family have been calling her for days, claiming he was just being childish and is actually a good man. She claimed that her husband also tried to contact her to talk and apologise for the incident. The bride stated, "This was supposed to be the happiest day of our lives, and he embarrassed me in front of everyone for some prank that he knew I hated," adding that he ruined a $500 cake, her makeup, her hair, and the top of her dress. 

 Reddit users supported the woman’s decision to leave her husband. One user pointed out that this wasn’t just about a cake or a prank but was a flat-out disrespectful act because he knew how she would react. The groom probably was just seeing it as a win-win situation, as she would either suck it up and go along with it and he would win because he got to do his prank, or she would leave him and he could play the victim card and accuse her of overreacting. Echoing the same view, another user said that the fact that he disregarded her words and boundaries and ruined her day and outfit showed who he truly is. A third user commented that since the groom did it despite the bride's warnings of leaving him if he ever did it, if she didn’t leave, she would be setting herself up for a lifetime of being walked over if that amused him. Suggested Reading: Matrimonial Ad Seeks ‘Short Marriage’: Leaves Internet Buzzing    Subscribe to our Newsletter!   
                        Share this article 
                        If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later
                    