The Reddit user posted their experience on the popular social media platform, with people sharing their own views on the parenting Get daily headlines and breaking news alerts for FREE by signing up to our newsletter We have more newsletters Get daily headlines and breaking news alerts for FREE by signing up to our newsletter We have more newsletters Taking to the air can be tense, and if there is someone on your flight who is causing trouble, it tends to make things worse. From someone stealing your seat rest, to someone blaring music out of a child's iPad, or even loud snores, there are things out of your control that can be very frustrating, The Mirror reports. But how would you react if a child was sprinting around the aisles of the plane as if it were their own personal 'jungle gym'? Read More: Man dies in Donegal workplace explosion as tributes paid to tragic married dad One infuriated flyer took to Reddit to vent about a child who was "running up and down the aisle and using the seats as his own personal jungle gym" and people have been at odds over how they feel. In the post, the child's feet can be seen above the back of the seat, as people wondered where their parents were and why didn't the flight attendants step in to control the situation. One Redditor said: "I never understood why people just let their kids do whatever they want to do." Another wrote in response: "The most common reason is because they gave up parenting because it is difficult to be consistent, fair, willing to repeat yourself 4 millions times a day. It's way easier to sit there and pretend you don't see it or hear it." Other commenters recalled their own horror experiences. One said: "I was on five-ish hour flight with a couple of friends years ago. One of my friends bought a meat and cheese plate. A kid, I'd guess about six or seven, in a seat in front of us tried reaching his foot through the crack in between the seats so he could drag the plate close enough that he could reach it with his hands and steal it. "All his mum said was 'I guess you're hungry' and ordered him the same thing. No scolding the child, or apologising to us, or any acknowledgment beyond 'he's hungry'." Another wrote: "That's f***ing disgusting. I don't know how people are so calm about kids doing things like this!" "Your flight attendants should have put a stop to this. It is unsafe", another pointed out. "It would just be terrible if that kid learned when there was some unexpected turbulence", a Redditor joked. READ NEXT: Get news updates direct to your inbox by signing up to our daily newsletter here 