A gardener has learned the hard way that a certain type of vine can actually take over your yard if unchecked. The homeowner posted a picture on the Reddit community r/gardening, which now has an impressive 5.6 million members and counting. “Did you know if you don’t properly research how big pumpkin vines grow they don’t care and just take over your yard?” the person wrote. The picture posted in the Reddit community shows what appears to be a traditional grass lawn being taken over by a pumpkin plant. Although the Redditor in mention may be complaining, the fact of the matter is embracing wilder lawns with native plants and without the use of lawn mowers is gaining popularity in the United States and other parts of the world. In a report last year, the BBC highlighted how Plantlife, a conservation charity in the United Kingdom, is promoting a monthlong initiative encouraging individuals to abstain from using lawnmowers and let wildflowers thrive instead. Plantlife has also been urging people to participate in their No Mow May project by observing and documenting the blossoming flowers. There are numerous advantages to replacing traditional grass lawns with more natural alternatives. Traditional lawns require substantial amounts of water. In the United States, for instance, maintaining a lush green grass lawn would consume approximately 200 gallons of drinking water per person daily (per a NASA report) if everyone aspired to have one. With an estimated population of more than 334 million in the U.S., that works out to more than 66.8 billion gallons of water per day — or a shocking 101,000-plus Olympic-sized swimming pools. Moreover, the fertilizers and pesticides used to maintain the lush appearance of lawns contain various chemicals that often seep through the soil and find their way into streams, lakes, rivers, and sometimes even our drinking water. Converting a grass lawn into a vegetable garden, a landscape with a mix of shrubs or flowers, or any other alternative can provide multiple benefits, including avoiding the issues mentioned above. These alternatives can also be visually appealing and require less maintenance compared to traditional lawns. This gives you more time to simply enjoy your yard while letting nature do the hard work. “This is so true, of all plants, I think. Just give them barely enough, and they thrive. Fuss over them, and they fall over like some sickly Victorian child,” one commenter wrote. “They feed on your apathy,” another expressed. Join our free newsletter for easy tips to save more, waste less, and help yourself while helping the planet. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.