"If it's listed online, it's probably already too late" Get the latest property market news straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Get the latest property market news straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Renters face an ever-challenging market to secure a home in our city. A lack of new houses, an influx of people and rising mortgage rates have all contributed to Bristol's current housing crisis. Properties that pop up on Rightmove often disappear within days, if not hours, after being first advertised. According to number crunching by chartered surveyors Stokemont, Bristol is now the most expensive major city to live outside of London. Stories of people viewing 100-plus properties without being able to secure a home are now commonplace on social media - where renters often turn to when they have become exasperated by their searches. READ MORE: Council paying over £1,400 a month to landlord for studio flats But now one person has shared a clever, yet desperate, tip for how they managed to sign on the dotted line of a flat. Taking to Reddit, they explained they had been searching for months and it had turned into a nightmare situation where they faced being made homeless. They wrote: "As someone who recently just managed to secure a property to rent it was a nightmare. I had the cash but kept getting denied on applications. It looked as if I would be homeless within a fortnight so I just started offering a couple extra months rent upfront and extra pcm to what was advertised. Stay up to date with the latest on this story and more by  signing up to our daily newsletter, delivering our top stories straight to your inbox "This strategy worked on the first application I tried, the letting agent actually emailed asking I could double confirm that I could do extra months rent upfront as it would make me the preferred offer. "It’s awful that on the Bristol rental market, you now have to bid your way to even have somewhere to live. I feel bad as it felt underhanded but the alternative for me was worse." Dozens of people shared their horrific experience of trying to find a flat. One person said: "I'm looking for a 2-bed to rent, I have contacted over 60 properties now and had only 3 viewings organised. Each property you're competing with literally hundreds of applicants." Another wrote: "You have to be super quick, but they are there. I moved this summer, my place is £950 & in Bemmy. The sh*t part is that you have to be the first person to see it or it will be gone. "If it's listed online, it's probably already too late. We were being proper pests to the letting agents and managed to view the place we got before it went live online. We definitely won't be the only people doing that." TikToker Shedot Travels has documented her experience trying to find a flat. She saw a beautiful one-bed in Clifton that cost £1,000 a month. She filled out an application form as soon as she viewed but the estate agent told her it was already gone.   According to Zoopla’s Rental Market Report published in December 2022, the average rental in Bristol is £1,254 compared to London's £1,879. The average rental rate in the UK last year was £1,051 per month. 