(Reuters) - Medical technology firm Danaher Corp lowered its annual sales growth forecast on Tuesday due to weakness in its biotechnology business, dragging the company's shares down nearly 5% in premarket trading. Danaher's biotechnology business helps companies to manufacture biological medicines, but it has been facing pressures due to a funding crunch in the sector over the last one year. This has been exacerbated by the collapse of U.S. lender Silicon Valley Bank, a key investment banker in the biotech sector. "The tightening credit environment contributed to a reduction in demand from emerging biotechnology companies during the quarter," Danaher said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from the company's biotechnology business was $1.86 billion in the first quarter, lower than analysts' average estimate of $1.92 billion, according to Refinitiv data. The healthcare company now expects annual adjusted sales in its core operations, which exclude its COVID-19-related business, to grow in mid-single digit, compared with its previous forecast of high-single-digit growth. Danaher's COVID-19-related business is likely to face uncertainties as the U.S. government plans to end the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency on May 11. Washington D.C.-based Danaher's total revenue fell 7% to $7.17 billion. Analysts on average estimated $7.03 billion, according to Refinitiv data. Excluding one-off items, the company's profit was $2.36 per share for the quarter ended March 31, higher than the analysts' expectations of $2.25 per share. Danaher shares fell 4.7% to $242.47 in premarket trading. (Reporting by Khushi Mandowara in Bengaluru; Editing by Shilpi Majumdar) New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.