The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. Interior designers point to kitchen cabinets as to the element that makes or breaks the look of the kitchen. Refacing your kitchen cabinets takes some precision, time and a little know-how but you can do it yourself and save around 30 to 50% versus paying a pro.




Advertisement






THIS IS AN ADVERTISEMENT AND NOT EDITORIAL CONTENT. Please note that we do receive compensation for any products you buy or sign up to via this advertisement, and that compensation impacts the ranking and placement of any offers listed herein. We do not present information about every offer available. The information and savings numbers depicted above are for demonstration purposes only, and your results may vary.



Planning A Kitchen Remodeling Project?
Avoid the stress of doing it yourself. Update your countertops, cabinets, sink, and more through top-rated kitchen remodeling services from Angi.

					Explore Options
				


 


 Planning A Kitchen Remodeling Project? Avoid the stress of doing it yourself. Update your countertops, cabinets, sink, and more through top-rated kitchen remodeling services from Angi. Cabinet refacing is a weekend kitchen renovation project and is a minor disturbance to the kitchen, so plan out a chunk of time and find some takeout. NOTE: The beginning half of 2021 has seen an unprecedented labor shortage as a side effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. In conjunction with this, demand for materials and construction jobs has skyrocketed. As a result, material prices may be higher than those reported in this article, and lead times may be longer than usual for both labor and materials. You can reface kitchen cabinets at any time of the year but there are several reasons people decide to reface cabinets. People choose to reface cabinets because it’s cheaper than replacing cabinets and it’s an easy way to spruce up dated-looking cabinets. Refacing kitchen cabinets is a spendy project, so some people might choose to do the project after receiving their tax refund. In 2018, Remodeling reported an 81% return on investment for a midrange minor kitchen remodel, which cabinet refacing falls into. It also ranked number five on the list of most value-added projects. Kitchen cabinet refacing requires cutting a lot of material so be sure to wear safety goggles when using a saw. Also, be aware of how to handle dust from sanding and cutting. Be sure to empty your cabinets before you start sanding them. There are several options to choose from for your cabinet refacing project. Some popular cabinet refacing materials include: wood veneer, which costs between $2,500 and $6,000; plastic laminate or rigid thermofoil laminate, which costs between $1,000 and $3,000; solid and plywood, which runs $5,000 to $10,000. You might want to get a quote from a professional in order to get accurate measurements if you don’t know how to determine how much material you’ll need and need help on picking a material.
You can find prefinished cabinet parts at home improvement stores or online. It’s also a good time to determine if you need new hardware. Remember to keep track of the hardware by labeling if you aim to use it again. Use wood filler or putty to fill any large dents or gouges. The material you choose will likely cover any ugly spots when installed. Start by wiping a rag damp with denatured alcohol to clean up the wood. Just lightly sand cabinet face frames to score them for better adhesion. Sand the cabinet sides as well and wipe the cabinets with a damp sponge to clear any sawdust. Depending on the cabinet material you use, you might want to cut pieces with a laminate slitter, table saw or a utility knife. You can find a laminate slitter at a home improvement store or ask a professional where to find one to rent. Apply construction adhesive with a caulk gun to the back of the panels you’re going to place and press firmly into place. Use a brad nail gun with 3/4-inch brad nails to firmly secure the panels. The type of material you choose will require different applications, like some veneer has a sticky backing that requires you to peel off the backing paper. Others will use contact cement or construction adhesive. The vertical pieces on kitchen cabinets are known as stiles while the horizontal pieces are called rails. Use a veneer applicator tool to create a smooth bond with the veneer. Start at the top of the stiles and move down for a snugger fit. Be sure to line everything up when putting it back. Make sure hardware goes into place and repair any spots that have been stripped. You’ll need precise measurements for hinges, screws for drawer fronts, the drawer back and measure for the drawer front placement. Refacing cabinets isn’t for every DIYer. The length of time needed to complete cabinet refacing is one reason to hire a pro. Most experts recommend homeowners use a professional to reface kitchen cabinets. Labor can cost you between $100 and $250 per cabinet, which can be half of the total cost of the project. If you choose to go to a pro, try seeking quotes in late fall to early winter. That time period usually marks the beginning of a busy season and you might be able to find a deal by seeking multiple quotes.




Advertisement






THIS IS AN ADVERTISEMENT AND NOT EDITORIAL CONTENT. Please note that we do receive compensation for any products you buy or sign up to via this advertisement, and that compensation impacts the ranking and placement of any offers listed herein. We do not present information about every offer available. The information and savings numbers depicted above are for demonstration purposes only, and your results may vary.



Compare Quotes From Top-rated Local Kitchen Remodelers
Free, No-commitment Estimates



				Find A Kitchen Remodeler
			




 Compare Quotes From Top-rated Local Kitchen Remodelers Free, No-commitment Estimates 
				Nick spent 10 years in print journalism before landing in digital publishing within the home improvement space. In addition to writing for Forbes Home, Nick contributes to publications like Angi, Trusted Company Reviews and Family Handyman. Through this, he has developed a wealth of knowledge in a variety of topics ranging from solar and home security to moving and home warranties.
			 
				Sami Allen is an editor with a decade of experience in editorial and who is currently the managing editor at Forbes Home. She got her start in lifestyle writing and editing at Oprah Magazine and more recently sharpened her home repair and design skills at websites like The Spruce and HomeAdvisor.
			