Considerable clouds early. Some decrease in clouds later in the day. High 92F. Winds E at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Mainly clear early, then a few clouds later on. Low 66F. Winds light and variable.  Updated: August 18, 2024 @ 11:52 pm    Beckett Robinson [11] and Race Stopp [8] celebrate after a week one touchdown. The Tigers return to action on Friday, Sept. 22. Once district play starts for football, it is a whole new season. A team can go undefeated in non-district play, or go unbeaten and completely turn the tide of their season. Tahlequah football is looking to forget their 0-3 start as they welcome Putnam City West to town to open district play. While the Tigers come in looking for their first win, the Patriots come into the Tigers’ homecoming game 3-0. With district play starting Tigers Head Coach Brad Gilbert knows there will be an added level of focus going forward. “Intensity [will be up], but more so focus. They know for them to have an eighth game they have to perform well in district play and win a certain amount of district games,” Gilbert said. “Football and soccer are the only two sports where you have to perform at a specific level to make the postseason, so it is just an added intensity and focus on what we are doing.” After last week’s game, the Tigers are looking to refocus themselves before the explosive Patriots come to town. Through two games into the season, the Tigers were not struggling with fouls. After two weeks the Tigers had amassed just 15 penalties while their opponents had 32. But last week the Tigers could not seem to evade the yellow flag against Sallisaw and were being constantly pushed back. “We made too many mistakes mentally but also systematically not only the kids but the coaches,” Gilbert said. “We have to play cleaner football that is something we didn’t do Friday night. That along with staying positive and continuing to encourage the guys.” While the constant fouls hurt the Tigers throughout the game, the drives they played cleanly resulted in hitting pay dirt. “We need to stay in front of the chains. When we were ahead of the chains we scored four times,” Gilbert said. “It is not rocket science, it is pretty basic football at this point. It is a pretty simple solution you want to stay on schedule on offense and on defense you want to get them off schedule.” Tahlequah’s Darryn Spahr breaks through the end zone as he battles with a Sallisaw defender. The Tigers will not be able to get away with the same amount of mistakes against the Patriots. This season PCWHS has been a powerhouse averaging 37 points per game. Gilbert knows that the Patriots will be a tough task to open districts. “A very athletic team, they are 3-0 for a reason,” Gilbert said. “Offensively they are explosive, we have to limit their big plays. If we can stop them they will have to string a lot of plays together and we think we can force a mistake.” Early against the Black Diamonds, the Tigers’ defense was playing lockdown. In the first half, the Tigers locked down SHS on three straight drives to keep a 9-7 lead going into halftime. Gilbert wants to see the Tigers play the same level of defense they played in the first half against SHS. “I expect them to play well. I think what you saw in the first half last, I firmly believe is what we will see against the Patriots. Now that doesn’t mean they won’t score but I think [we] will respond in the right way,” Gilbert said. The defensive uptick could have been attributed to the Tigers getting back a big piece of their defensive attack. Mason Watkins has missed over a year with a leg injury but made his return during the Tigers’ loss to SHS. Gilbert saw the difference in having Watkins back in just one game. “It was good to have him back out there. you could tell he was rusty at first, but he ended up making a lot of plays for us,” Gilbert said. “He stays on his keys really well, he plays downfield well, and he is very physical, it was good to have him back.” Going into week three the Tigers are still looking to put together their offense completely. In game one the Tigers opened up with a big passing game, with quarterback Cash McAlvain throwing three touchdowns. Week two saw Darryn Spahr and the running game started to heat up with a pair of touchdowns. Against SHS, the Tigers broke the 200-yard plateau on the ground. Going into the week three showdown, Gilbert knows that the Tigers need to find more offensive consistency. “We know that we have to be prepared and establish the run,” Gilbert said. “We just need to be more consistent up front. Like I told the staff we have to have a better plan in the red zone. I thought our plan was okay last week, but we got off track a little bit. We need to, as a staff, to put our players in better positions.” The Tigers and the Patriots kick off at 7 p.m. on Friday, Sept. 22 at Doc Wadley Field at Northeastern State University. Follow live sports coverage @JakeSermershein on Twitter Hulbert football opens the district season at home looking for their first win when the Commerce Tigers come to town on Friday, Sept. 22.    Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. 
                            Sign up now to get our FREE breaking news coverage delivered right to your inbox.
                         First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: