Sometimes it feels like my worlds are at war. I spend part of my week teaching classes at the University of Southern California’s USC Annenberg School of Journalism and the other part at the Viterbi Startup Garage, a tech startup incubator. My Twitter feed, or what’s left of it, is a dizzying mishmash of Media Twitter, Startup Twitter, and Editor Twitter. Investors ask me why I haven’t let machines do the work of humans for my company, Stylebot. Journalists come to me with the opposite concern. If you’ve spent time in the past couple of weeks playing with or reading about ChatGPT, you might feel as though, once again, a new era is dawning on the media industry that we’re not prepared for. My Twitter feed and group chats have been filled with “funny because it’s true” comments about how AI can make some newsroom jobs obsolete. Because of my work on Stylebot, which uses machine learning to enhance the experience of using a style guide written by people at USC Annenberg, I’ve spent a fair amount of time thinking about what humans are good at and what machines can offer us. The hands-on demonstration of what’s possible with AI offers journalists an opportunity in 2023 to take the road less traveled when it comes to disruptive innovation in our industry: embrace it, and do so without fear that the product you currently offer will be worse because of it. Think about what people have that machines don’t: intuition, adaptability, creativity, and critical thinking, to name a few. Then consider how those overlap with the traits a good journalist needs. I spend a lot of time in the classes I teach at USC Annenberg talking about what’s fundamental to journalism and what’s not. So many of our practices and habits are simply those: practices and habits. They are not what defines the profession or what makes it useful to the public. It’s easy to look at the power and scale of technology and think that mere mortals can’t compete. But if we adopt a posture of collaboration and lean into both what machines can do and what humans excel at, it will allow journalists to use their human abilities to greater potential. Don’t underestimate the power you have if you refocus your time and mental energy. I am able to live in each of my two worlds because I see the good in both: the potential of technology to improve our lives and the value and power of journalism. While I can be frustrated by both at times, I never doubt that they are stronger as allies than as enemies. Laura E. Davis is an associate professor of professional practice at the University of Southern California. Laura E. Davis is an associate professor of professional practice at the University of Southern California. Sometimes it feels like my worlds are at war. I spend part of my week teaching classes at the University of Southern California’s USC Annenberg School of Journalism and the other part at the Viterbi Startup Garage, a tech startup incubator. My Twitter feed, or what’s left of it, is a dizzying mishmash of Media Twitter, Startup Twitter, and Editor Twitter. Investors ask me why I haven’t let machines do the work of humans for my company, Stylebot. Journalists come to me with the opposite concern. If you’ve spent time in the past couple of weeks playing with or reading about ChatGPT, you might feel as though, once again, a new era is dawning on the media industry that we’re not prepared for. My Twitter feed and group chats have been filled with “funny because it’s true” comments about how AI can make some newsroom jobs obsolete. Because of my work on Stylebot, which uses machine learning to enhance the experience of using a style guide written by people at USC Annenberg, I’ve spent a fair amount of time thinking about what humans are good at and what machines can offer us. The hands-on demonstration of what’s possible with AI offers journalists an opportunity in 2023 to take the road less traveled when it comes to disruptive innovation in our industry: embrace it, and do so without fear that the product you currently offer will be worse because of it. Think about what people have that machines don’t: intuition, adaptability, creativity, and critical thinking, to name a few. Then consider how those overlap with the traits a good journalist needs. I spend a lot of time in the classes I teach at USC Annenberg talking about what’s fundamental to journalism and what’s not. So many of our practices and habits are simply those: practices and habits. They are not what defines the profession or what makes it useful to the public. It’s easy to look at the power and scale of technology and think that mere mortals can’t compete. But if we adopt a posture of collaboration and lean into both what machines can do and what humans excel at, it will allow journalists to use their human abilities to greater potential. Don’t underestimate the power you have if you refocus your time and mental energy. I am able to live in each of my two worlds because I see the good in both: the potential of technology to improve our lives and the value and power of journalism. While I can be frustrated by both at times, I never doubt that they are stronger as allies than as enemies. Laura E. Davis is an associate professor of professional practice at the University of Southern California. Laura E. Davis is an associate professor of professional practice at the University of Southern California. Tre'vell Anderson   Continued culpability in anti-trans campaigns Ryan Gantz   “I’m sorry, but I’m a large language model” Masuma Ahuja   Journalism starts working for and with its communities Joshua P. Darr   Local to live, wire to wither AX Mina   Journalism in a time of permacrisis Jennifer Choi and Jonathan Jackson   Funders finally bet on next-generation news entrepreneurs Pia Frey   Publishers start polling their users at scale David Cohn   AI made this prediction Esther Kezia Thorpe   Subscription pressures force product innovation Jody Brannon   We’ll embrace policy remedies Mael Vallejo   More threats to press freedom across the Americas Ryan Nave   Citizen journalism, but make it equitable Valérie Bélair-Gagnon   Well-being will become a core tenet of journalism Dominic-Madori Davis   Everyone finally realizes the need for diverse voices in tech reporting Sue Cross   Thinking and acting collectively to save the news Cory Bergman   The AI content flood Ariel Zirulnick   Journalism doubles down on user needs Emma Carew Grovum   The year to resist forgetting about diversity Kaitlyn Wells   We’ll prioritize media literacy for children Mar Cabra   The inevitable mental health revolution Jessica Clark   Open discourse retrenches Jarrad Henderson   Video editing will help people understand the media they consume Ben Werdmuller   The internet is up for grabs again Cindy Royal   Yes, journalists should learn to code, but… Kerri Hoffman   Podcasting goes local Matt Rasnic   More newsroom workers turn to organized labor Alan Henry   A reckoning with why trust in news is so low Sam Guzik   AI will start fact-checking. We may not like the results. Mauricio Cabrera   It’s no longer about audiences, it’s about communities Cari Nazeer and Emily Goligoski   News organizations step up their support for caregivers Taylor Lorenz   The “creator economy” will be astroturfed Sarah Marshall   A web channel strategy won’t be enough Julia Angwin   Democracies will get serious about saving journalism Stefanie Murray   The year U.S. media stops screwing around and becomes pro-democracy James Salanga   Journalists work from a place of harm reduction Joni Deutsch   Podcast collaboration — not competition — breeds excellence Wilson Liévano   Diaspora journalism takes the next step Lisa Heyamoto   The independent news industry gets a roadmap to sustainability Laura E. Davis   The year we embrace the robots — and ourselves Surya Mattu   Data journalists learn from photojournalists Emily Nonko   Incarcerated reporters get more bylines Moreno Cruz Osório   Brazilian journalism turns wounds into action Felicitas Carrique and Becca Aaronson   News product goes from trend to standard Elite Truong   In platform collapse, an opportunity for community Elizabeth Bramson-Boudreau   More of the same Eric Nuzum   A focus on people instead of power Sue Robinson   Engagement journalism will have to confront a tougher reality Al Lucca   Digital news design gets interesting again Dannagal G. Young   Stop rewarding elite performances of identity threat Christina Shih   Shared values move from nice-to-haves to essentials Susan Chira   Equipping local journalism Jim VandeHei   There is no “peak newsletter” Tamar Charney   Flux is the new stability Ståle Grut   Your newsroom experiences a Midjourney-gate, too Leezel Tanglao   Community partnerships drive better reporting Jaden Amos   TikTok personality journalists continue to rise Richard Tofel   The press might get better at vetting presidential candidates Ryan Kellett   Airline-like loyalty programs try to tie down news readers Bill Adair   The year of the fact-check (no, really!) Errin Haines   Journalists on the campaign trail mend trust with the public Paul Cheung   More news organizations will realize they are in the business of impact, not eyeballs Danielle K. Brown and Kathleen Searles   DEI efforts must consider mental health and online abuse Eric Thurm   Journalists think of themselves as workers Basile Simon   Towards supporting criminal accountability Josh Schwartz   The AI spammers are coming Eric Ulken   Generative AI brings wrongness at scale Karina Montoya   More reporters on the antitrust beat Francesco Zaffarano   There is no end of “social media” Andrew Donohue   We’ll find out whether journalism can, indeed, save democracy Juleyka Lantigua   Newsrooms recognize women of color as the canaries in the coal mine Priyanjana Bengani   Partisan local news networks will collaborate Doris Truong   Workers demand to be paid what the job is worth Andrew Losowsky   Journalism realizes the replacement for Twitter is not a new Twitter Raney Aronson-Rath   Journalists will band together to fight intimidation Shanté Cosme   The answer to “quiet quitting” is radical empathy Peter Bale   Rising costs force more digital innovation Jenna Weiss-Berman   The economic downturn benefits the podcasting industry. (No, really!) Sue Schardt   Toward a new poetics of journalism Brian Stelter   Finding new ways to reach news avoiders Megan Lucero and Shirish Kulkarni   The future of journalism is not you Martina Efeyini   Talk to Gen Z. They’re the experts of Gen Z. Anna Nirmala   News organizations get new structures Larry Ryckman   We’ll work together with our competitors Jennifer Brandel   AI couldn’t care less. Journalists will care more.  Jonas Kaiser   Rejecting the “free speech” frame John Davidow   A year of intergenerational learning Alexandra Svokos   Working harder to reach audiences where they are Gina Chua   The traditional story structure gets deconstructed Alex Perry   New paths to transparency without Twitter Sarah Alvarez   Dream bigger or lose out Christoph Mergerson   The rot at the core of the news business Amethyst J. Davis   The slight of the great contraction Hillary Frey   Death to the labor-intensive memo for prospective hires Dana Lacey   Tech will screw publishers over Kavya Sukumar   Belling the cat: The rise of independent fact-checking at scale Anika Anand   Independent news businesses lead the way on healthy work cultures Snigdha Sur   Newsrooms get nimble in a recession Mary Walter-Brown and Tristan Loper   Mission-driven metrics become our North Star Rodney Gibbs   Recalibrating how we work apart Jacob L. Nelson   Despite it all, people will still want to be journalists Peter Sterne   AI enters the newsroom Sarabeth Berman   Nonprofit local news shows that it can scale Victor Pickard   The year journalism and capitalism finally divorce Don Day   The news about the news is bad. I’m optimistic. Julia Beizer   News fatigue shows us a clear path forward Anita Varma   Journalism prioritizes the basic need for survival A.J. Bauer   Covering the right wrong Nikki Usher   This is the year of the RSS reader. (Really!) Johannes Klingebiel   The innovation team, R.I.P. Sumi Aggarwal   Smart newsrooms will prioritize board development Brian Moritz   Rebuilding the news bundle Upasna Gautam   Technology that performs at the speed of news Michael W. Wagner   The backlash against pro-democracy reporting is coming Sam Gregory   Synthetic media forces us to understand how media gets made Nicholas Thompson   The year AI actually changes the media business Walter Frick   Journalists wake up to the power of prediction markets Parker Molloy   We’ll reach new heights of moral panic Nicholas Jackson   There will be launches — and we’ll keep doing the work Ayala Panievsky   It’s time for PR for journalism Delano Massey   The industry shakes its imposter syndrome Amy Schmitz Weiss   Journalism education faces a crossroads Jessica Maddox   Journalists keep getting manipulated by internet culture Rachel Glickhouse   Humanizing newsrooms will be a badge of honor Joe Amditis   AI throws a lifeline to local publishers Jakob Moll   Journalism startups will think beyond English Gabe Schneider   Well-funded journalism leaders stop making disparate pay Bill Grueskin   Local news will come to rely on AI Mario García   More newsrooms go mobile-first Gordon Crovitz   The year advertisers stop funding misinformation Cassandra Etienne   Local news fellowships will help fight newsroom inequities Khushbu Shah   Global reporting will suffer Sarah Stonbely   Growth in public funding for news and information at the state and local levels Nicholas Diakopoulos   Journalists productively harness generative AI tools Kaitlin C. Miller   Harassment in journalism won’t get better, but we’ll talk about it more openly Zizi Papacharissi   Platforms are over S. Mitra Kalita   “Everything sucks. Good luck to you.” Jim Friedlich   Local journalism steps up to the challenge of civic coverage Eric Holthaus   As social media fragments, marginalized voices gain more power Joanne McNeil   Facebook and the media kiss and make up Michael Schudson   Journalism gets more and more difficult Alex Sujong Laughlin   Credit where it’s due Laxmi Parthasarathy   Unlocking the silent demand for international journalism Kirstin McCudden   We’ll codify protection of journalism and newsgathering Tim Carmody   Newsletter writers need a new ethics Kathy Lu   We need emotionally agile newsroom leaders Simon Galperin   Philanthropy stops investing in corporate media Barbara Raab   More journalism funders will take more risks Mariana Moura Santos   A woman who speaks is a woman who changes the world Anthony Nadler   Confronting media gerrymandering Molly de Aguiar and Mandy Van Deven   Narrative change trend brings new money to journalism Burt Herman   The year AI truly arrives — and with it the reckoning Daniel Trielli   Trust in news will continue to fall. Just look at Brazil. Jesse Holcomb   Buffeted, whipped, bullied, pulled Alexandra Borchardt   The year of the climate journalism strategy Janet Haven   ChatGPT and the future of trust  J. Siguru Wahutu   American journalism reckons with its colonialist tendencies David Skok   Renewed interest in human-powered reporting To promote and elevate the standards of journalism Covering thought leadership in journalism Pushing to the future of journalism Exploring the art and craft of story The Nieman Journalism Lab is a collaborative attempt to figure out how quality journalism can survive and thrive in the Internet age. It’s a project of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University.