All recommendations within this article are informed by expert editorial opinion. If you click on a link in this story we may earn affiliate revenue. IF you're hunting for a new iPhone plan but you're spending on a budget, here's a little gem courtesy of Mobiles.co.uk. You can pick up a refurbished iPhone 12 with 100GB data for just £28 per month. This excellent-value iPhone plan is available on Vodafone's network - but stock is limited so you'll need to buy quickly. Apple's smartphones are not generally known for their affordability - even older-generation models like the iPhone 12. A tip we have, if you're keeping your spend under control, is to invest in a refurbed device as they cost significantly less. These items are usually just orders that have been returned due to buyers having a change of heart. They're all checked and vetted by a team of engineers and protected by the standard 12-month warranty. The Apple iPhone 12 was released to acclaim back in 2020, and remains one of the leading smartphones on the market. Read our tech editor Sean Keach's iPhone 12 review for a detailed verdict on this handset. Curiously, this isn't the only refurbished iPhone 12 deal we've spotted this January: earlier in the month we reported on a discount on the SIM-free iPhone 12 Pro available at the online seller Mozillion. At a time when the cost of living is spiralling so rapidly, 2023 might well be the year for refurbished, money-saving tech. Discover more top deals and savings at your favourite tech retailers by heading to Sun Vouchers. Sun Vouchers is the one-stop shop where you can find hundreds of discount codes for top chains including Currys, Argos, AliExpress, and more. If you've got your sights set on a new Apple phone, don't miss our pick of the best iPhone 13 deals and best iPhone 14 deals. Head to our tech deals hub for all the latest discounts on smart devices, phones, TVs, wearables and more. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.