Subscribe to our daily What's On newsletter to keep up with what's happening around Greater Manchester We have more newsletters Subscribe to our daily What's On newsletter to keep up with what's happening around Greater Manchester We have more newsletters Burger King lovers can get their hands on free food at the reopening of one of its Manchester restaurants. The fast food chain has now reopened the doors to its branch in Piccadilly Gardens which has undergone a refurbishment.  Manchester's new fully refurbished restaurant will be open 24 hours a day and now features a brand-new dining area, front counter and customer facilities, as well as new digital ordering kiosks and a Frozen Fanta machine. To mark the reopening, Burger King is now offering its fans the chance to get free food for one day only on March 29. The Piccadilly restaurant will be giving away 1,000 free whoppers or plant-based whoppers to lucky locals, but you'll have to be quick to be in with a chance. READ MORE: McDonald's one-day warning as five popular items set to be axed from menu The deal will be available from 2pm to 6pm on 29th March, 2023 at the Piccadilly restaurant only, which is located at 2a Mosley St Piccadilly Gardens, M2 3AN.  The burgers will be available on a first-come first-served basis and the deal is exclusive to Burger King app users only. Ahead of visiting the restaurant, you will need to head to this link to retrieve a code and then simply show the code to staff at the counter to claim a free Whopper®. For those not quick enough to secure themselves one of the free burgers up for grabs, the Burger King app includes countless other great value offers, including £1.99 Whoppers available at every Burger King branch every Wednesday, all year round.  The newly refurbed Piccadilly restaurant will give burger fans a new and improved dining experience as well as a fresh makeover both inside and outside.  There are eight new digital ordering kiosks that have been installed along with a separate collection area for speedy service.  The restaurant also now boasts a Frozen Fanta machine, offering diners a whopping range of flavours to choose from.  READ NEXT: Fashion fans rush to buy 'perfect and flattering' £39 Marks and Spencer Spring dress after seeing it on Holly Willoughby Beauty fans say 'magic' £10 Boots anti-ageing serum works SO fast it's a 'beauty sleep in a bottle' Aldi shoppers praise 'dreamy' £25 furniture Special Buy that instantly transforms any garden into a 'haven' 51-year-old Amanda Holden strips down to her underwear as BGT auditions begin following David Walliams axe 