THE history of Frogmore Cottage is a rocky one - from the first time Prince Harry and Meghan Markle stepped foot inside until the last.  It was this week revealed the couple had officially left their beloved, £2.4million-refurbed UK base - six months after they were given an eviction notice.  Their remaining possessions at the pile have now been shipped to their California mansion. Frogmore Cottage, originally built in 1801, underwent a massive renovation said to have cost £2.4m when the Sussexes took charge. The pair were gifted the cottage by the Queen when they got married, and lived in it from April 2019 until they shifted to the US the following year. In recent months Brits got a sneak peak inside the Royal cottage's four walls, when the Sussexes released their Netflix documentary trailer.  In two photos included in the trailer, the Duchess is perched on a kitchen island, with Harry in front of her. The pair are smiling away at each other and the first shot is candid - with Meghan pulling her hair off her neck. In the second the couple are kissing. While the photo is in black and white, it appears as though the pair are dressed up in the same clothes they wore to the Mountbatten Music Festival at the Royal Albert Hall during their March farewell UK tour in 2020. The pair stayed at the cottage during their final tour before stepping down from life as working royals. The photos show off their kitchen, with wooden cabinets and pendant lights. The luxury room was said to have been installed during the renovation, while an existing studio with a bedroom was renovated, and fireplaces, floors and staircases replaced. Meghan chose eco-friendly, toxin-free and vegan paint for the redecoration, which was reportedly overseen by designer Vicky Charles. She was responsible for the interiors of Soho Farmhouse in Oxfordshire, a hotel and members’ club popular with celebs. The couple shifted to the US amid Megxit in 2020, seeing Princess Eugenie and husband Jack Brooksbank move in a short time later. But the cottage was then said to have sat empty.  Earlier this year The Sun revealed Prince Andrew could be moving into the 1801 home, after the Sussexs were evicted.  In March an insider said the Duke has been "resisting" shifting to the cottage.  We can confirm that the Duke and Duchess of Sussex have vacated Frogmore Cottage. The source said that's because 63-year-old doesn't want to downsize from the Royal Lodge in Windsor, which he has called home for more than 20 years. While Andrew has signed a 75-year lease on the property he still fears he could be kicked out.  Prince Harry and Meghan Markle were said to have been left "stunned" by the King's "cruel punishment" to evict them. A close pal of Meghan said today: “It all feels very final and like a cruel punishment. “It’s like [the family] want to cut them out of the picture for good.” Harry has previously taken aim at Charles - suggesting his dad made him "suffer" in an interview with Oprah. Speaking to the chat show legend on their new Apple TV+ mental health show, The Me You Can’t See, Harry said: “My father used to say to me when I was younger … ‘Well, it was like that for me, so it’s going to be like that for you." He added: "That doesn’t make sense — just because you suffered, that doesn’t mean that your kids have to suffer, in fact quite the opposite."  On Tuesday courtier Sir Michael Stevens said: “We can confirm that the Duke and Duchess of Sussex have vacated Frogmore Cottage.” He added the Crown was left with “a greatly enhanced asset”. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/