
  TWO new play parks have opened in Bishopdown following a £117k government investment.
 
  St Peter's Play Park, in Bishopdown Farm, was declared officially by the chair of Laverstock and Ford Parish Council, Nick Baker, at a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Tuesday, June 27.
 
  Located right at the heart of the local community within tree-lined open space on St. Peter’s Road, the play facility offers young children a unique environment where they’re free to play, explore and have fun.
 
Read more: Durrington man slapped his 'hysterical' wife to 'calm her down'
 
  It is one of two play parks recently refurbished by Eibe Play on behalf of the parish council after taking over ownership of the facilities from Wiltshire Council.
 
  The other play park at St. Lukes Close features opportunities for sensory play, with a new safety surface, musical chimes, high-backed swings, an accessible multi play unit and sensory planting.
 
  The parks come after a £117,000 investment and are tailored for under elevens with areas for sliding, climbing, swinging and multi-play.
 
Councillor Nick Baker checks the robustness of the slide.  (Image: Laverstock and Ford Parish Council)
 
  Cllr Lesley Waller said: "We’ve had such a brilliant time officially launching these fantastic new play parks – and the laughter and smiles of the local school children highlight what it’s really all about."
 
  South Wilts pupils joined the celebrations on the day, as part of their work experience for their politics A Level to learn about local democracy.
 
  Also present were PC Rachel Gunn and PCSO John Taylor from Wiltshire Police’s Community Policing Team and alongside a treasure hunt while Harrison’s Ices made sure everyone kept cool.
 
  Stuart Evans from Eibe Play said: "It is really important when designing a play area that we incorporate play equipment which maximises the play potential for children of all abilities, allowing children to play together, so no-one feels left-out."
 
  The parish council will work on two further play parks at Bishopdown Farm at Drakes Close, on behalf of Abri Housing, and a new play park on The Green alongside Sycamore Drive to ensure that children and families in the area have plenty of opportunity for creative and active play.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.