Evan Seigerman, an analyst from BMO Capital, assigned the Buy rating on Regeneron (REGN – Research Report). The associated price target is $985.00. Evan Seigerman’s Buy rating for Regeneron (REGN) is driven by a number of considerations. Firstly, he sees potential in the base business of the company, which he believes is well-positioned currently. He also holds a favorable view of the firm’s oncology franchise, which he sees as a key driver for growth in the foreseeable future.  Moreover, Seigerman expresses a measured optimism regarding Regeneron’s early-stage pipeline, which he believes could yield significant advancements. However, what stands out in his analysis is the belief in Regeneron’s capability to convert its Research and Development expenditure into Enterprise Value (EV) growth. Seigerman sees this ability as a critical factor for long-term success in the biotech space, and a key reason for his Buy rating for REGN. Seigerman covers the Healthcare sector, focusing on stocks such as Eli Lilly & Co, Regeneron, and Amgen. According to TipRanks, Seigerman has an average return of 6.0% and a 45.85% success rate on recommended stocks.  In another report released on October 22, Wells Fargo also maintained a Buy rating on the stock with a $980.00 price target.
		  See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  TipRanks tracks over 100,000 company insiders, identifying the select few who excel in timing their transactions. By upgrading to TipRanks Premium, you will gain access to this exclusive data and discover crucial insights to guide your investment decisions.  Begin your TipRanks Premium journey today.  Regeneron (REGN) Company Description: Founded in 1988, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a New York-based biotechnology company, which discovers, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of various medical conditions. Its product portfolio includes the following brands: EYLEA, Dupixent, Praluent, Kevzara, Libtayo, ARCALYST, and ZALTRAP.
		   Read More on REGN: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks