   Doha International Consulting Group and Jupiter Sports Club officials and award winners pose for a photograph at the conclusion of the event.  Doha: The annual sports event of Doha International Consulting Group (DICG) was successfully conducted for the 2nd time in collaboration with Jupiter Sports Club at the Iranian School Doha, recently. 
In addition to ‘The National Sports Day’ celebrated in February, Doha International Consulting takes an extra stride to promote sports and well-being among its employees. The Chairman, Nasser Al Marri is constantly in alignment with Qatar’s’ vision, promoting sports as well as take personal interest to advocate work-life balance.
Employees, their family members, distinctive guests, students from Jupiter sports club along with their parents and coaches attended the full day event filled with fun and activity. 
The junior badminton (doubles) tournament was won by Keyaan Faizal and Sethum Jayalath. The senior badminton (doubles) tournament was won by Malik Sheriffdeen and Rifka Nakeem. 
Jupiter Sports Club players stole the spotlight, with head coach of the sports club, Anil Perera stating that the students have shown tremendous progress in their skills.
The winners were honoured with awards and goodie bags. The General Manager Ishan Faizal acknowledged the staff for organising a memorable event and extended a special thanks to all attendees. He also took the opportunity to thank the well-wishes for their generous support in numerous ways to make this event a success.
 Doha: The annual sports event of Doha International Consulting Group (DICG) was successfully conducted for the 2nd time in collaboration with Jupiter Sports Club at the Iranian School Doha, recently.  In addition to ‘The National Sports Day’ celebrated in February, Doha International Consulting takes an extra stride to promote sports and well-being among its employees. The Chairman, Nasser Al Marri is constantly in alignment with Qatar’s’ vision, promoting sports as well as take personal interest to advocate work-life balance. Employees, their family members, distinctive guests, students from Jupiter sports club along with their parents and coaches attended the full day event filled with fun and activity.  The junior badminton (doubles) tournament was won by Keyaan Faizal and Sethum Jayalath. The senior badminton (doubles) tournament was won by Malik Sheriffdeen and Rifka Nakeem.  Jupiter Sports Club players stole the spotlight, with head coach of the sports club, Anil Perera stating that the students have shown tremendous progress in their skills. The winners were honoured with awards and goodie bags. The General Manager Ishan Faizal acknowledged the staff for organising a memorable event and extended a special thanks to all attendees. He also took the opportunity to thank the well-wishes for their generous support in numerous ways to make this event a success. 
   



  Check all issues & supplements 



