Legendary wrestler Dan Gable once said, “Gold medals aren’t really made of gold. They’re made of sweat, determination and a hard-to-find alloy called guts. More enduringly than any other sport, wrestling teaches self-control and pride. Some have wrestled without great skill-none have wrestled without pride.” If any grappler embodies all those characteristics shared by one of the greatest wrestlers in American history, it is Quincy graduate Jacob Reif. Reif etched his name into the Quincy High School wrestling record books for a variety of reasons over his four year career and now he will take his skill, toughness, and grit to the college level, having signed his commitment letter to wrestle at Ohio Northern University.  “I was actually at an Adrian College wrestling camp and one of the assistant coaches was teaching a session and we just got to talking about my future and things fell into place,” said Reif. “I went to visit the campus and it was everything I really wanted. They have a really good team and really good coaches, so it just works out. The thing is, is that I really did not look anywhere else, it was a one and done deal, I went there, and it had everything I wanted, it was really a simple decision.” In Reif the Polar Bears of Ohio Northern University wrestling are getting a four-time individual state qualifier, just the second wrestler in Quincy history to accomplish that feat. This past season Reif capped off a stellar senior campaign by finishing with a record of 40-5 while also earning his first All-State honor, finishing in eighth place in the Division Three 132-pound weight class at the MHSAA (Michigan High School Athletic Association) Individual State Finals.  In addition to his All-State status, Reif secured several individual crowns, including back-to-back MHSAA District and Regional championships while wrestling in one of the state's more stacked weight classes. Reif also finished his career with over 100 total wins while also setting an individual school record for takedowns in a season during his junior campaign.  “I’m really looking forward to going to college and getting pushed on the mat,” said Reif. “I have been one of the top guys in the wrestling room here for the past few years, so I am looking forward to being knocked down back to the bottom and grinding my way back to the top. I am also looking forward to getting to know all my new teammates and just becoming a part of the team.” Reif will be joining a Polar Bears squad that saw a ton of success in 2022-23, finishing the year with a 20-3 dual meet record to go along with three individual All-Americans and nine NWCA Scholar All-Americans. Ohio Northern finished second in the Ohio Athletic Conference with a 6-1 record and closed the season as the thirteenth ranked team in the NWCA Tournament Poll and number sixteen in the NWCA Dual Poll.  While at Ohio Northern University Reif plans on majoring in Civil Engineering with the intent on someday designing highways and bridges.  Get To Know Your Recruit  Name: Jacob Reif School: Quincy High School College: Ohio Northern University Major: Civil Engineering Favorite Food: Spaghetti Favorite Dessert: Warm and gooey chocolate chip cookies Favorite Movie: When it was younger it was the Pixar movie Cars Favorite Sport to Watch: College Football Hobbies: I shown livestock at the fair, I show lambs and pigs at the state fairs and jackpot shows, that’s something I really enjoy doing This article originally appeared on Coldwater Daily Reporter: Quincy's Jacob Reif signs with Ohio Northern Wrestling Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Scott Pianowski breaks down the recent NFL schedule release from a fantasy football perspective. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman wonder if the Pirates are wasting a prime winning opportunity with Paul Skenes, the challenges the Yankees and Mets both face in trying to improve their rosters and answer some listener emails. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Follow these four tips to dominate your fantasy football draft. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Jason Fitz, Frank Schwab and Jori Epstein pull back the curtain and go behind the scenes on some of the biggest stories circulating around the NFL. Vincent Goodwill is joined by Ros Gold-Onwude to talk about the success of Team USA in men’s basketball, what it means for LeBron’s legacy, what to watch for when the WNBA returns after the Olympic break and who will make the women’s team in 2028? The MLS All-Stars have now lost the last two All-Star Games by a combined eight goals.