Plymouth city centre has a secret gaming room and local man, Adam, who's a gamer enthusiast, is organising something exciting there soon Make sure you're staying in (or going out, when we can) in style with our FREE weekly newsletter covering the best of food, drink, music, theatre, TV and more We have more newsletters Make sure you're staying in (or going out, when we can) in style with our FREE weekly newsletter covering the best of food, drink, music, theatre, TV and more We have more newsletters A hidden gaming room in Plymouth city centre is tucked away inside a well-known sports shop - and it’s a gamer's paradise. The awesome room inside Sports Direct can be used by anyone and keen gamers can play all the new releases at the space. What's more, gamers of all ages and capabilities can use the professional area, which is said to have 'really good equipment'. It's perfect for solo visitors or groups of family and friends. The comfortable space can also be rented out for parties and events and soon, you’ll be able to play games for free there with the chance to win a big cash prize. Plymouth man Adam 'AJ' Davidson, aged 22, uses the space. He’s been gaming since he was nine years old. AJ grew up playing World of Warcraft in his teens and has been working for a company called ZenGaming for eight years. Now, he’s trying to gather gamers in Plymouth together for a new tournament - that will be happening at the Belong Plymouth Gaming Arena within the Game store soon.  Adam needs at least ten players in order for this new tournament to go ahead. There is a cash prize of £500 up for grabs for the winners. Gamers will be playing the popular PC game, Counter Strike: Global Offensive (CS:GO), one of the ‘biggest competition games’ on PC. If the first tournament is a success, there’s a plan to make them a regular feature at Plymouth’s Game. Adam said: “Essentially, the plan with the tournament is to bring people to Game. It’s going to be on a Sunday, the date will be confirmed soon. We’ll then select the teams and put them on the computers to play against each other in the game CS:GO. I’d say it’s the biggest competitive game on the PC, they’re doing tournaments all around the world. The winning team will be eligible for a £500 cash prize. It’s free to enter for anyone aged 16 and above. We’re hoping to do these tournaments every Sunday, once it’s up and running - always with a cash prize. I see this as a chance to create a gaming world.” He added: “I started working with the company I’m with now, ZenGaming when I was 16, I was still in school doing a few hours part-time. Eventually, when I left school I went full-time with them, three years ago I became the business development guy for the company. Since then I’ve networked and grown over 150 people working with us - from YouTubers, Live Streamers and different gaming organisations. "This is what we’re doing in Game, I’ve played in Game many times myself over the years.” Belong Plymouth Gaming Arena can be found in the Game store, which is located in Sports Direct on New George Street. There's a ‘cut off’ at the back of the sports, fitness footwear, and clothing retailer and it leads into a subtly-lit space, becoming the Game shop. Players can experience games on up-to-the-minute next generation consoles such as Xbox Series X and PlayStation 5 and there’s also High End Gaming PCs at the premises. This gaming arena is ‘adding value to the community’, Adam said, especially with the free all-day event coming up soon. You can find out more about the tournament by popping into Game within Sports Direct or you can join the Facebook Group here 