Disney (DIS) is facing multiple challenges — settling ownership over Hulu, potential asset restructuring, uncertainty over CEO Bob Iger's tenure — leaving many investors cautious on the company's future. Shares of the company are down over 20% from where they were a year ago today, but could it be time to buy back in? Bank of America Securities Senior U.S. Media and Entertainment Analyst, Jessica Reif Ehrlich, joins Yahoo Finance to discuss her position on the company and what potential investors should pay close attention. When asked about Bob Iger's performance as CEO Ehrlich responds: "It's a little hard to put a grade on Bob because the entire industry is suffering... you can't blame Bob for the 'ad recession' that's going on of course in the industry, nor the decline in the linear pay-TV universe, some of this stuff... it is what it is, and I think there's a lot of confidence that Bob can do it." For more expert insight and the latest market action, click here to watch this full episode of Yahoo Finance Live. JOSH LIPTON: For more on Disney and a possible investment case, we turn to Jessica Ehrlich, Bank of America Securities senior US media and entertainment analyst, and Yahoo Finance's Alexandra Canal. So Jessica, let me ask you this. The stock is down now about 10% year-to-date. Do you think, Jessica, the risks, the challenges, that Allie just laid out there, is it priced in at these levels? JESSICA REIF EHRLICH: Yeah. I do think a lot of it's priced in. Allie mentions a lot, but there's even more that she could have mentioned. There were a lot of challenges. They just came out of a battle with Charter, which lasted 11 days. I think the end results was actually a positive for Disney. Their film division has performed extremely poorly after many years, more than a decade of incredible industry leading performance. They also have, which may tie into some of the linear issues, of [INAUDIBLE] ESPN searching for strategic partners. But I think that Allie got a lot of the things, the issues that have been hounding Disney for the last two years. ALEXANDRA CANAL: So Jessica, given all of those-- JOSH LIPTON: I'm sorry. Go ahead. Go ahead, Allie. ALEXANDRA CANAL: No, I was going to say, Jessica, given all of those challenges, what one in particular do you think is dragging down the stock price so much? JESSICA REIF EHRLICH: Probably-- I don't know. I mean, they also remember the-- they have this-- I don't want to say disagreement. They have the Hulu put coming up. So they have to pay at least $9.2 billion, maybe more, for Comcast's 1/3 stake. I just think it's a combination. India has been problematic. But as you look forward, there are a lot of things that will change in the year ahead, you know, [AUDIO OUT] '24 for them. So I don't know that it's one thing. It's just been one thing after another. JOSH LIPTON: And Jessica, Bob Iger, grade his performance for me since his return. What letter would you give him? And it's only supposed to be, you know, a couple of years, right, Jessica? So what are succession plans here as well? JESSICA REIF EHRLICH: It's because of the secular and cyclical challenges, it's a little hard to put a grade on Bob, because the entire industry is suffering. I mean, there are some self-inflicted issues that may have been caused before. Bob got there whether the film division, you know, like, it needs a lot of tender loving care, which I think is his priority at the moment. But you can't blame Bob for the ad recession that's going on across the industry, nor the decline in the linear pay TV universe. So some of this stuff is just, you know, it is what it is. And I think there's a lot of confidence that Bob can do it. On the succession issue, I don't even think this is the right time to talk about that, because there's so much to do to kind of get the company into the right place. They've restructured. They're bringing down costs. They're fixing what seems to be fixable. The focus now is on improving the content engine that it was and has been. But there's a lot of work to be done. They don't even have a CFO, a permanent CFO. So you know, Bob needs these extra two years. That's I think-- and Disney does, too. There's no obvious candidate. But again, I would say there is some optimism as you look out to the year ahead. There are several things that will change for the better. Gold jumps to new record in anticipation of rate cuts by the Federal Reserve next month. The circulating image shows Trump looking down at one point during the NATO ceremony, according to its European Pressphoto Agency caption. The local sheriff's office and US Army Reserve missed several opportunities to take away the weapons of the mentally ill gunman who carried out a mass shooting in Maine last year, an independent commission said in a report released on Tuesday.The seven-member commission set up to investigate the deadliest-ever mass shooting in the northeastern US state released its findings in a 215-page report.  Scotland recorded an increase in drug deaths last year, official figures showed Tuesday, as the country continues to have one of the highest rates of such deaths in Europe.Scotland had recorded its lowest drug death figures in five years in 2022, sparking hopes that the country had turned a corner in its fight against drug misuse. Ukraine's parliament voted Tuesday to ban the Russian-linked Ukrainian Orthodox Church, a move Kyiv says strengthens its independence as the country cuts ties with institutions it considers aligned with Moscow.- 'Everything is political' -
The schism between Ukrainian and Russian-linked Churches was triggered by Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014 and the war between Kyiv and Moscow-backed separatists in the east. A man is charged with breaking into an FBI truck in San Francisco and then trading thousands of dollars worth of surveillance gear for crystal meth. A bipartisan group of lawmakers on Tuesday called on the Biden administration to ramp up scrutiny of U.S. clinical trials conducted in China, citing the risk of intellectual property theft and the possibility of forced participation of Uyghurs.  Republican John Moolenaar, who chairs the House Select Committee on China, and ranking Democrat Raja Krishnamoorthi said U.S. drug companies have collaborated with Chinese military-run hospitals to conduct hundreds of clinical trials over the last decade, including in Xinjiang, home to China's Uyghur minority group. Protests are scheduled for each day of the DNC, which runs from Monday through Thursday night. An estimated 50,000 people are expected to be in Chicago for the convention this week. Alain Delon's pet dog Loubo will not be put down and buried with the film star as he wanted, the Brigitte Bardot Foundation said Tuesday following an outcry from animal rights activists.But the foundation named after former film idol Bardot quoted Delon's family as saying the wish would not be carried out. Azerbaijan formally applied Tuesday to join the BRICS bloc of developing economies, a day after Russian leader Vladimir Putin's visit to the oil-rich South Caucasus country to shore up regional ties and secure Moscow’s under-pressure trade routes.  The announcement from the foreign ministry in Azerbaijan's capital, Baku, comes as the BRICS alliance has seen a major expansion. The winner of a Democratic primary election that triggered a recount for an open congressional seat in Arizona will be announced Tuesday.  Former Phoenix City Council member Yassamin Ansari led by 42 votes over former state lawmaker Raquel Terán in the July 30 primary race for Arizona's 3rd District. The Ohio Supreme Court should step in on behalf of voters and order a rewrite of ballot language for a fall redistricting measure that “may be the most biased, inaccurate, deceptive, and unconstitutional" the state has ever seen, argues a lawsuit filed late Monday.  Citizens Not Politicians, the campaign advancing November's Issue 1, and two individuals brought the promised litigation against the Ohio Ballot Board and Republican Secretary of State Frank LaRose, the state's elections chief and the panel's chair.  “This Court’s intervention is needed to ensure that Ohio voters are provided with the truthful and impartial ballot title and ballot language required by law so that they can exercise their right to determine for themselves whether to amend the Ohio Constitution,” the lawsuit says. A looming stoppage of freight railway operations across Canada would disrupt North America's agricultural supply chain, snarling shipments of everything from wheat to fertilizer and meat.  Unless last-minute labor agreements are reached, both Canadian National Railway and Canadian Pacific Kansas City, an effective duopoly, will shut nearly all freight rail services in Canada for the first time at midnight on Thursday.  Canada is the world's top exporter of canola, used in food and biofuel, and of potash fertilizer, as well as the No. 3 wheat exporter. A campaign to bring a casino to the Missouri tourist destination of the Lake of the Ozarks on Tuesday sued to get the proposal on November's ballot.  The secretary of state’s office last week said the campaign did not collect enough voter signatures for the constitutional amendment to go before voters.  "However, ORGC has always been confident their initiative petition contained a sufficient number of valid signatures from legal voters to qualify for placement on the November 5, 2024, general election ballot and are now asking the Court to do so.” A massive rally in Nvidia and the tech sector has overshadowed a solid performance from the rest of the S&P 500 as the index moves toward record highs. Venezuela's parliament, controlled by members loyal to strongman President Nicolas Maduro, on Tuesday delayed debate on a law against "fascism" seen by detractors as a means of cracking down on political opponents.Parliament is also considering laws regulating social networks, which Maduro says are being used to attack him and to promote "hate," "fascism" and "division." Israeli central bank chief Amir Yaron has called on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to speed up the process of debating and approving the 2025 state budget, saying financial markets were seeking responsible fiscal policy even during a time of war.  In a letter to Netanyahu seen by Reuters on Tuesday, Yaron said the security situation of more than 10 months of war requires the government to maintain 2024 budget frameworks and promote a 2025 budget.  A month ago, Netanyahu, Yaron, Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich and senior finance ministry officials met for their initial high-level meeting on the budget that is slated for approval by year end. For younger investors, stocks for the long run means stocks, not bonds. The Federal Aviation Administration will require inspections of hundreds of Boeing 787 Dreamliners after a LATAM Airlines plane in March took a sudden midair plunge that injured at least 50 people. The foreign and defense ministers of India and Japan Tuesday held security talks in New Delhi, aiming to bolster their strategic partnership in the Indo-Pacific as they seek to counter China's increasingly assertive economic and military activities in the region.  Indian Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar and Defense Minister Rajnath Singh met with their Japanese counterparts in the two governments’ third so-called “two-plus-two” talks since their launch in 2019.