Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Paromita Gupta
          

            Aug 29, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   Tech Mahindra, the information technology services and consulting company vertical of Mahindra Group, announced a partnership with Google to launch Generative AI-Powered Email amplifAIer, part of its suite of AI offerings, TechM amplifAI. "Generative AI will drive significant improvements in customer experience and agent efficiency by solving challenges such as high cost of operation, turn-around time, and volume of emails. Our Email amplifAIer powered by generative AI, will help enhance organizational efficiency and customer experience with quick, accurate and automated responses. It will further enable personalization at scale and create compelling and visually appealing content. Together with Google, we are delivering the most advanced solution for all the email needs in contact centre space," shared Hasit Trivedi, CTO, Digital Technologies and Global Head, AI, Tech Mahindra. The Gen AI-powered solution will act as a one-stop solution for all email communication of the contact centre for enhanced customer service. It will provide end-to-end solutions including features such as email automation, personalized responses, information extraction, and other system applications such as CRM and finance. "Google Cloud's generative AI capabilities can add real world value for organizations working across every industry, particularly in areas where data privacy and security are paramount. New services and solutions from partners like Tech Mahindra will scale these capabilities to customers more quickly and effectively, and create even more opportunities for organizations to accelerate their AI-driven transformations," shared Chandra Sankholkar, Director, Google Cloud Partnerships, India. Entrepreneur Staff Features Writer with Entrepreneur India 
          Generative AI can give us mountains of information on any topic under the sun in seconds — but is it any good at marketing? I had to find out.
         
          Cassie Kozyrkov, leader in decision intelligence and CEO of Data Scientific, delves into effective decision-making and its role amid the rapid advancement of AI. 
         
          The rising use of deepfakes is a growing threat to businesses and society as technology advances. Here are three tips for companies to combat this threat. 
         
          Attract more customers to your small retail business with these actionable marketing tips.
         
          Use AI to gain a competitive edge and streamline your workflow.
         
          With a couple of months until Election Day, now's the time to think about how to encourage voters, work for a better community and even drive sales. 
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
