Explore  SECTIONS MORE The listed financial services company has announced three internal appointments, including that of two group executives. ClearView Wealth Limited has added to its executive leadership team with the appointment of Joanne Faglioni as group executive, operations, and Nick Kulikov as group executive, product and pricing. Both will report to ClearView managing director Nadine Gooderick. Ms Faglioni, who first joined ClearView from Zurich Australia in 2021 as chief claims officer, will be responsible for overseeing and driving improvements across administration and operational functions including underwriting, claims, and rehabilitation. Commenting on her appointment, Ms Gooderick said: “Joanne is the ideal person to help ensure we achieve our strategic objectives around optimising business processes and maximising operational efficiencies. “Over the last 18 months, Joanne has built and managed a high-performing team, refreshed our customer claims journey and delivered improved end-to-end claims management outcomes. She is a highly respected professional who brings a depth of experience to the ELT.” Mr Kulikov similarly joined ClearView in 2021 from Reinsurance Group of America (RGA) as head of life insurance product and pricing and will see his role expanded to include data and analytics, in addition to product and pricing. According to the firm, he will also work closely with ClearView’s appointed actuary Ash Bhalerao to manage the group’s reinsurance responsibilities. “Nick spearheaded the launch of our flagship product series, ClearView ClearChoice, in September 2021 and recently oversaw a range of product enhancements, which have been well received by financial advisers,” Ms Gooderick said on Mr Kulikov’s appointment. “Nick’s knowledge and experience spans the entire life insurance value chain and I look forward to working more closely with him.” On Monday, the firm also announced the appointment of Hicham Mourad as chief technology officer. Mr Mourad first joined ClearView from BT Financial Group, originally as general manager, information technology, before being seconded to head the group’s Policy Administration System (PAS) transformation project last year. With that project largely complete, ClearView confirmed that Mr Mourad’s role has been broadened to include accountability for the delivery of the group’s technology roadmap and other key strategic initiatives. “With life insurance market conditions improving and regulatory tailwinds on the horizon, there is a unique opportunity for ClearView to accelerate our transformation and growth,” Ms Gooderick explained. “We have a strong leadership team with the right mix of skills, expertise, and experience to take the business into the future.” Never miss the stories that impact the industry. Get the latest news! Subscribe to the ifa bulletin