The Emirates Health Services (EHS) has launched a Metaverse based Virtual Telemedicine Solution using 3D virtual reality technology. The launch is part of transformative projects which leverage advanced technology and promote smart services such as remote health solutions and telemedicine.
Through the project, EHS aims to deliver virtual medical consultation services supported by advanced technologies. This first-of-its-kind technology enables members of society to access e-services via smart devices, thus scaling up service to reach broader segments of individuals and enhance the customer experience. Patients can effortlessly access psychiatric consultation services, family health promotion clinics, and customer happiness centers through the new virtual channel. H.E. Dr. Yousif Mohammed Al-Serkal, Director-General of Emirates Health Services, said it is the first global healthcare provider to apply Metaverse technology to provide advanced services and promote sustainable health development goals by adopting best practices that leverage AI, IoT and Blockchain technologies. “This aims to strengthen governance, clinical review services, and research, promote global ethical standards and best practices, and enhance the sector’s competitiveness to world-class levels.The above aligns with our strategy of future-proofing our services against emerging challenges.” He added: “Our transformative projects aimed at promoting innovation, investing in national healthcare capacities, and continuing to keep abreast of the rapid global developments and changes in the sector by using the latest global medical devices and AI-based treatments and service automation. The transformative projects underline our forward-looking vision to integrate the tools and techniques of the Fourth Industrial Revolution in delivering advanced preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic services. The projects align with the UAE Centennial Plan 2071 to bring about a qualitative leap in our healthcare sector.”
 
The new initiative aims to promote telemedicine practices in virtual clinics and provide consultation services and medications through robotic pharmacies. It also focuses on increasing customer satisfaction and boosting patients’ confidence by delivering excellent outpatient services and updating service channels.  The project will provide psychiatric consultation services for different age groups in addition to accessing the Customer Happiness Centre and family-centered health promotion services. The project complements the goal of EHS to be at the forefront in applying Metaverse technology and equipment-free services. Metaverse provides a 3D interactive space that allows customers to engage with healthcare professionals through a secure link using their devices equipped with a camera, microphone, and speakers. This way, patients need not purchase equipment such as headphones or controllers. Doctors can assess conditions, discuss treatment plans, and provide treatment and other clinical services. The Metaverse comprises multiple emerging technologies and creates a roadmap for providing specific virtual rehabilitation services covering physiotherapy, autism, support groups, and ADHD. It also allows physicians to monitor the patient’s progress and collect data which can be evaluated using pre-trained A.I. models to upgrade treatment plans and achieve better clinical outcomes. Follow Emirates 24|7 on Google News.