Norfolk Southern offers hazmat instruction to first responders aboard its specially outfitted safety train at the Harrisburg Yard in Harrisburg, Pa., July 27, 2023. (Dan Gleiter | dgleiter@pennlive.com, file) NEW YORK (AP) — Norfolk Southern railroad is recovering from a “hardware-related technology outage” that affected its rail systems Monday, but there may be lingering effects for at least a couple of weeks. The railroad said there is no indication that the outage was related to any cybersecurity incident. All system functionality was restored by 7 p.m. Eastern on Monday, the company said, and it is bringing the rail network back online. Norfolk has been in contact with its customers and is working Tuesday to get shipments where they need to be. Norfolk Southern Corp., based in Atlanta, is in the crosshairs of federal regulators after a derailment in Ohio this year led to a fiery, toxic chemical spill. In a 143-page report this month, the Federal Railroad Administration said that Norfolk has made some improvements, but is nowhere near the “gold standard for safety.” The railroad is too often only willing to meet minimum safety requirements, regulators said. The agency has promised to conduct similar safety culture reviews at all the major freight railroads, including CSX, Union Pacific, BNSF, Canadian National and Canadian Pacific Kansas City, but it hasn’t set a timeline for those reviews. More: Computer problems halt assembly lines at Toyota’s Japan auto plants If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices