With 189 member countries, staff from more than 170 countries, and offices in over 130 locations, the World Bank Group is a unique global partnership: five institutions working for sustainable solutions that reduce poverty and build shared prosperity in developing countries.   The World Bank Group works in every major area of development.  We provide a wide array of financial products and technical assistance, and we help countries share and apply innovative knowledge and solutions to the challenges they face. We face big challenges to help the world’s poorest people and ensure that everyone sees benefits from economic growth. Data and research help us understand these challenges and set priorities, share knowledge of what works, and measure progress. Creating an innovation ecosystem to connect a million Kenyan farmers to disruptive agricultural technologies The World Bank Group and the Korea-World Bank Partnership Facility organized a knowledge and innovation challenge conference on scaling up disruptive digital technologies in the agricultural sector in Kenya.  The Disruptive Agricultural Technology (DAT) Challenge and Conference provided a forum to discuss the opportunities offered by disruptive digital technologies to increase productivity, and access to services and markets in the agricultural sector. Several promising digital technology innovators in agriculture shared their innovation and business plans. Leaders of public and private institutions, technology companies, incubators, researchers, the business community, policymakers, financial institutions, and the donor community gathered together to learn from and network with each other. The challenge was organized around themes and challenges faced in Kenyan agriculture. Key presentations and Media reports are available here.  Themes: Challenge 1: Advisory and Information of Agricultural Productivity Context The average productivity of major crops in Kenya has not increased at a significant rate annually.  The maize productivity has increased by 17% over the last 10 years resulting in an annual increase of about 1.7%.  There are multiple reasons why growth in productivity has been slow. These include low access to extension and advisory services, including digitally enabled agripreneurs, lack of inputs and quality data. To reach their full potential, farmers need to have access to the latest technologies and data. Climate change is also having a significant impact on farmers. About 98% of Kenya’s agricultural systems are rain-fed and highly susceptible to climate change and variability. Adoption of climate smart practices can help mitigate the impact of climate change and ensure predictability in yields for the farmers. Specifically, relying on input data such as soil and weather information, can help farmers increase the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations, and improve sustainable planning, production, and management systems. Challenge How will your model help ensure Kenyan farmers have access to the latest knowledge, training, practices and data, and mechanization best suited for them? Disruption We are looking for innovators, organizations, and businesses that have disrupted the lack of access to advisory services, data for farmers, and climate smart practices.   Challenge 2: Market linkages Context A significant percentage of Kenyan farmers are impacted by poorly structured value chains, which directly impact their yields and quality. A Kenyan farmer growing maize typically harvests around two tons per hectare. When the same farmer is able to access inputs including seeds and fertilizers, mechanization technology, and training on better farm practices, his yields increase to 5-7 tons per hectare. Additionally, 83% of the Kenyan farm households sell part of their crop produce. Hence, fast and reliable access to markets is critical for their success. The farmers, majority of whom are in rural areas and sell their produce at harvest, experience challenges of asymmetric information in prices and selling opportunities as well as limited market access for their products. While markets may exist, one of the limiting factors is not connecting on time. Challenge Given the limited market linkages for both inputs and production, how can you facilitate market links between buyers and sellers along the value chain? Disruption We are looking for innovators, organizations and businesses that have disrupted the poor access to forward and backward market linkages with a disruptive digital solution using digital and other AG Technologies.   Challenge 3: Farmer Financial inclusion Context Financial inclusion has significantly increased in rural Kenya. However, access to agriculture finance for small and medium farmers is still limited in Kenya. Only 10% of the smallholder farmers have access to financial services including credit and insurance. The quantity of credit is also inadequate with only 4% of credit supply flowing to the agriculture sector.  Many factors have hampered access to financial services. These include lack of reliable data to support agricultural lending decisions, lack of collaterals to secure financing, the high transaction cost of accessing and delivering financial services to rural areas, lack of data platforms for assessing risk and delivering financial services. Additionally, the high cost of credit translates into a lack of demand for credit by farmers. Challenge How can your technology help to expand coverage of financial services to farmers, including credit, savings and other financial services? Disruption We are looking for innovators, organizations, and businesses that have disrupted the existing situation where most farmers have poor access to financial services (outreach) and the cost of accessing credit and insurance services are high.    Challenge 4: Data Analytics and Agricultural Intelligence Context The rapid development of data infrastructure, profusion of digital technologies, and low-cost precision agriculture devices (ICT, Drone Aerial Surveillance, Satellite GIS, Weather Data Analytics, Blockchain, Internet of Things) in Kenya has the potential to deliver farm-level, geospatial, and real-time analytics to inform policies and targeted investments by governments and service providers. Challenge How can your solution enable low-cost collection, analysis, and visualization of high-quality, high-frequency and high-resolution agriculture data to produce maps, farmer registries, project dashboards, climate advisories, market forecasts and other relevant analytics? Disruption We are looking for innovators, organizations, and businesses that have disrupted agricultural intelligence, and decision-making by leveraging the emerging agriculture data infrastructure, digital technologies, and precision agriculture tools. Program book Program Book: Provides the background, session descriptions, and program schedule and panelist bio. . Please click here to download the document.   Context Setting Presentations Ignite Talks   Category 1: Agricultural Productivity Agrics Company Limited provides agricultural products and services on credit to smallholder farmers to increase production and value chain effectiveness. Please click here to download the presentation and click here to visit the website. Category 2: Market linkages Farmster is a digital platform that operates over an SMS Chatbot for farmers and a mobile Application for local buyers. Please click here to download the presentation and click here to visit the website. Category 3: Financial inclusion Category 4: Data analytics AgroCares offers a unique operating system combining agronomic knowledge (in a smartphone) application, in-house developed sensor technology, databases for soil, feed and leaf and deep learning algorithms. Please click here to download the presentation and click here to visit the website. Please click here to watch UnConference video Media coverage Eligibility Criteria Selection criteria Click here to apply: APPLY ONLINE Please contact Vivek Prasad with any questions at vprasad@worldbank.org The deadline for submissions is 26 March, 2019 (11:59 pm, Nairobi time). Selection Process  The invited agencies will attend a pitch bootcamp one week prior to the event where they will receive additional mentoring as needed. Following a panel discussion on the relevant challenge category, the invited agencies will make their pitches and presentations to the Jury at the Challenge event, which will be followed by a live Q&A session with the Jury. The five participants who meet the challenge criteria will be invited to join the ‘Million Farmer Scale Up Platform. If selected, you will be invited to attend a Bootcamp in Nairobi on March 28th and 29th. Awards:  Each selected innovator will work on increasing outreach and impact to 10,000 farmers.  Data on impact and outreach will be collected through a data collection and analytics platform and would be transparent to all the participants. Awards will be provided per unit of impact achieved through the scale of disruption, outreach, and impact. These will be developed through an open design workshop with selected innovators. Each innovator will also be provided mentoring and other support throughout the period.  The final list of awardees will be announced at the event. Specific monetary amounts for each award will be decided after the design workshop.