Automotive servicing has changed drastically in the past 10 years. Mechanics work with electronic equipment as well as a variety of tools, and they must understand computer diagnostics along with the basics of vehicle repair. To successfully fix an automobile, the service technician must be able to properly diagnose the problem and then apply their technical knowledge and skills to resolve the issue. The Automotive Systems Technology program will equip you for successful employment in the transportation industry. Wake Tech offers a two-year (21-month) Associate in Applied Science (AAS) degree in Automotive Systems Technology. The program includes new and emerging technologies. Most classes allow for three hours of hands-on experience for each hour of classroom instruction. Wake Tech's curriculum covers all automotive systems, progressing from the basics to advanced technologies, to prepare students for success in the workplace. The electrical system is emphasized most, since electricity controls 99% of vehicle operations. A background in automotive systems is not required for the program. The program covers the following: Manufacturing programs include the following: Information sessions are 6 to 9 p.m. in Building R on Scott Northern Wake Campusor Building P on Southern Wake Campus. All Automotive Systems Technology programs have limited enrollment. Students can enter programs in the Fall or Spring semester, as follows: Virtual Tour    The Automotive Systems Technology program has received certification by the ASE Education Foundation and is accredited by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (ASE). All eight areas of auto repair meet the strict industry standards required for ASE MASTER certification, which is the highest level of achievement recognized by the institute. Upon completion of the program, students should be prepared to take the ASE exam and enter full-time employment in automotive dealerships and repair shops. NOTE: The Automotive Systems Technology program does not seek out projects for its day or evening curriculum classes. The program is designed as an educational platform, not a production facility where repairs and preventive maintenance are performed. While it will consider projects from time to time, the program does so sparingly and within the confines of the coursework being taught during a specific semester. Inquiries and requests will be placed on a list, and the department will notify the parties if and when there is availability. There is no guarantee that a request for maintenance or repair will be scheduled. Job opportunities in the automotive field are plentiful. Qualified technicians can work in any of the following: The average starting salary is about $25,000 a year; it can vary depending on the technician’s abilities. Salaries can increase significantly as skills and experience grow. Successful Master Diagnostic Technicians can earn more than $65,000 a year, plus chances to compete with other technicians for awards and bonuses. Several dealerships and independent garages in Wake and surrounding counties employ Wake Tech graduates. Wake Tech stays in close contact with these employers to make sure their needs and the needs of graduates are being met. Local employers include Capital Ford, Crossroads Ford, Leith Honda, Kings Auto, Reeve-Smith Auto, Fred Anderson Toyota, Hendrick and more. Wake Tech academic programs (credit and non-credit) that are designed to lead to professional licenses are tied to North Carolina or national certifications. If you intend to pursue professional licenses outside North Carolina once you have completed your academic program at Wake Tech, please refer to the Professional Licensure section of the college's distance education authorization page for additional information.