Nansen data shows that NFT marketplace Blur has surpassed OpenSea in daily Ethereum (ETH) trading volume. Reports show that NFT investors are moving to Blur anticipating greater returns on their NFT investments. OpenSea has maintained the top NFT marketplace position for some years as depicted in our NFT statistics and the sudden rise of the Blur marketplace has forced OpenSea to actualize some massive restructuring to get it back at the top. The restructuring involves three major changes. OpenSea has announced three major changes which include a 0% fee that will last for a limited time, introducing leniency on some operations, and introducing optional creator earnings. We’re making some big changes today:1) OpenSea fee → 0% for a limited time2) Moving to optional creator earnings (0.5% min) for all collections without on-chain enforcement (old & new)3) Marketplaces with the same policies will not be blocked by the operator filter — OpenSea (@opensea) February 17, 2023  Blur’s success is highly attributed to its new loyalty policy which is quite different from that of OpenSea. Blur recently said: “OpenSea’s current royalty policy prevents collections from being able to earn royalties everywhere. They have cited various reasons for this (see FAQ), but the end result is that creators are limited to earning royalties on only one platform at a time.” The difference in loyalty policy between Blur and OpenSea is definitely good for the industry since if it wasn’t for zero royalty marketplaces, NFT marketplaces like OpenSea would eventually increase their fee structure and negatively affect creators. OpenSea has admitted losing NFT investors to other “NFT marketplaces that don’t fully enforce creator earning,” and it believes introducing optional creator earnings will bring back a good number of these customers. Blur also recently rolled back its creator earnings and OpenSea may be trying to do the same. Explaining its decision to restructure OpenSea tweeted saying: “In October, we started to see meaningful volume and users move to NFT marketplaces that don’t fully enforce creator earnings. Today, that shift has accelerated dramatically despite our best efforts.” While OpenSea’s creator earnings feature was aimed at helping creators secure the revenue generated from the resale of their work, it blocked recommendations of marketplaces with the same policies.  OpenSea has not given a concrete timeline for the 0% fee. It plans to continue testing the fee model to identify what works best for its users. However, community members anticipate that the marketplace will likely increase the platform fees in future once it successfully attracts back the lost customers. Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Please be aware that some of the links on this site will direct you to the websites of third parties, some of whom are marketing affiliates and/or business partners of this site and/or its owners, operators and affiliates. We may receive financial compensation from these third parties. Notwithstanding any such relationship, no responsibility is accepted for the conduct of any third party nor the content or functionality of their websites or applications. A hyperlink to or positive reference to or review of a broker or exchange should not be understood to be an endorsement of that broker or exchange’s products or services. Risk Warning: Investing in digital currencies, stocks, shares and other securities, commodities, currencies and other derivative investment products (e.g. contracts for difference (“CFDs”) is speculative and carries a high level of risk. Each investment is unique and involves unique risks. CFDs and other derivatives are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how an investment works and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Cryptocurrencies can fluctuate widely in prices and are, therefore, not appropriate for all investors. Trading cryptocurrencies is not supervised by any EU regulatory framework. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Your capital is at risk. When trading in stocks your capital is at risk. Past performance is not an indication of future results. Trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Prices may go down as well as up, prices can fluctuate widely, you may be exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and you may lose all of or more than the amount you invest. Investing is not suitable for everyone; ensure that you have fully understood the risks and legalities involved. If you are unsure, seek independent financial, legal, tax and/or accounting advice. This website does not provide investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice. Some links are affiliate links. For more information please read our full risk warning and disclaimer.
