William A. Smith II, SVP at Reliance Steel & Aluminum RS, reported a large insider sell on August 2, according to a new SEC filing.  What Happened: A Form 4 filing from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday showed that II sold 6,000 shares of Reliance Steel & Aluminum. The total transaction amounted to $1,756,254.  Reliance Steel & Aluminum shares are trading up 0.49% at $286.45 at the time of this writing on Thursday morning. Now trade stocks online commission free with Charles Schwab, a trusted and complete investment firm. Insider transactions shouldn't be used primarily to make an investing decision, however an insider transaction can be an important factor in the investing decision.  In legal terms, an "insider" refers to any shareholder who owns at least 10% of a company. This can include executives in the c-suite and large hedge funds. These insiders are required to let the public know of their transactions via a Form 4 filing, which must be filed within two business days of the transaction. When a company insider makes a new purchase, that is an indication that they expect the stock to rise. Insider sells, on the other hand, can be made for a variety of reasons, and may not necessarily mean that the seller thinks the stock will go down.   Investors prefer focusing on transactions that take place in the open market, indicated in Table I of the Form 4 filing. A  P in Box 3 indicates a purchase, while  S indicates a sale. Transaction code C indicates the conversion of an option, and transaction code A indicates the insider may have been forced to sell shares in order to receive compensation that had been promised upon being hired by the company. Check Out The Full List Of Reliance Steel & Aluminum's Insider Trades. This article was generated by Benzinga's automated content engine and reviewed by an editor. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.