Los Angeles, CA / Salt Lake City, UT, Jan.  19, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Untold.io (https://untold.io/),  the first and only FINRA member equity crowdfunding platform focused  solely on impact content, is to preview its new film Fuzzy Head at the  Slamdance Film Festival this Sunday. Untold announced that it has  secured grant funding from Dapper Labs. The grant enables fractionalized  ownership of alternative assets in a regulated way, making it the  largest grant deal of its kind within the crypto industry. Fuzzy Head, a surreal psychological thriller directed by Wendy McColm, is premiering at Slamdance  film festival, where it was honorarily placed. In Fuzzy Head,  Insomnia-ridden Marla is on the run after the murder of her mother. Now,  Marla (portrayed by McColm) must confront her everlasting void to find  out the truth of what really happened and at last, undo all that's been  done. Marla embodies the journey of meeting her child self to rewrite  her story. McColm is acclaimed as a top emerging director. The  feature has been described as Terrence Malick meets David Lynch. The  team behind the film is composed of notable industry personalities  (Alicia Witt, Rain Phoenix, Fred Melamed, Richard Riehle, Frank  Oz). Slamdance film festival is dedicated to promoting grassroots  productions and has launched industry changing careers, such as  Christopher Nolan (Dunkirk) and Rian Johnson (Star Wars: The Last  Jedi).   "Having a platform to invest in  carefully-vetted entertainment projects with impact-driven agendas that  would otherwise not have access to Hollywood screens is a unique  opportunity," said Ali Aksu, CEO of Untold.io. "We are all about using  film and entertainment as an educational and healing tool to improve the  condition of our world, and we're grateful to have the added support of  Dapper Labs to support exciting indie projects like Fuzzy Head."  Aksu is a serial entrepreneur with two exits at Universal and Netflix in  his repertoire.Untold's name is its agenda. As an enabler for  indie film, it uses two instruments – microfinance and streaming – to  fill a gap, helping independent filmmakers to produce untold stories and  promote impact. This revolutionizes funding accessibility by  democratizing the financing of entertainment projects, opening  investment to accredited and unaccredited investors for as low as $100. Dapper  Labs is famous as the creator of CryptoKitties. Its parent company,  Alphabet, has itself received over 1.5 Billion in investments from major  VC funds like Andreessen Horowitz and Google Ventures, and Dapper is  now using the funds to enable other innovative projects with the Flow Ecosystem Fund,  endowed with $725M as an innovation accelerator and multiplier to  enable equitable Web3 opportunities globally for blockchain developers  and creators.   Untold champions unconventional,  impact-driven content that not only entertains but educates and inspires  audiences to solve real-world problems. With a strict vetting process  that only accepts major award-winning producers, artists and founders to  ensure investors are supporting pre-vetted projects, Untold also  prioritizes the SDG/ESG blueprint when it comes to vetting the area of  impact for a specific project.  Untold has supported a number of notable films to date.  While  film content is usually dictated by the market for mainstream  productions, for indie films with offbeat content, funding is an even  greater challenge. Nearly half of independent feature films never get a  theatrical release, and only 3% of all films turn a profit. If they do,  they are almost always supported by mainstream agencies, film festivals,  and well known film stars. Untold established a strategic partnership  with a sales company, Hollywood Media Bridge, to help independent films  find their exit strategy as the production is underway. While  theater closings caused by COVID caused a crisis in the film industry,  streaming is turning things around. In the first year of the global  pandemic, the demand for streaming grew to one billion subscriptions  worldwide. Streaming is good because it cuts costs enough to make small  budgets work for arthouse and genre titles. With accessible  microfinancing and streaming, Untold is addressing two pivotal enablers  for independent film.  As a member of the Council for Inclusive Capitalism,  Untold is taking action to promote an inclusive and sustainable economy  and has pledged to support free education for independent, impact  driven content creators, setting ambitious crowdfunding financing goals  of $100M for this group, to 2030. It is also a member of the Financial  Industry Regulatory Authority, an organization that regulates member  brokerage firms and exchange markets.Untold.io intends to  accelerate film production by opening up investment opportunities to the  broader public. The platform is the only FINRA member funding platform  for content that enables investment via Reg CF, providing a simple and  cyber-secure way to invest with either credit, ACH, check or wire  transfer, and crypto in the near future. Untold also embraces the future  of Web3, offering investors a variety of benefits ranging from  attendance at film premieres, inclusion in credits, NFT merchandise, and  more.  For more information on Untold, visit https://untold.io/.  About Untold.io UNTOLD  is the only SEC-registered investment platform in the media and  entertainment industry that allows both accredited and unaccredited  investors to invest in mass media (i.e. movies, TV shows, streaming  content, etc.). UNTOLD was created to meet the demand for streaming  content by connecting investors and producers, allowing them to share  the benefits of accelerating the content production cycle. Developed by  international film producer, Ali Mahir Aksu, Untold offers simple,  cyber-secure, and transparent investment opportunities for both retail  and institutional investors via reg cf and reg d.  For more information, visit https://untold.io/.  Company contact: Ali Mahir Aksu ali@untold.io Media Contact: Transform Group untold@transformgroup.com  About Dapper Labs Formed  in February 2018, Dapper Labs' mission is to make the world more open  and trustworthy by introducing consumers to the value of blockchain  technology through fun and games. Dapper Labs is the team behind  CryptoKitties, one of the first and most successful blockchain  applications outside of cryptocurrency, and Dapper, the world's first  publicly available smart wallet. Upcoming Dapper Labs projects include  Cheeze Wizards, the world's first blockchain-based battle royale, NBA  Top Shot, a platform created in partnership with the NBA and NBPA, and  Flow, a consumer-based blockchain for decentralized applications.  Notable investors in Dapper Labs include Andreessen Horowitz, Union  Square Ventures, Venrock, GV (formerly known as Google Ventures), and  the founders of Dreamworks, Reddit, Coinbase, Zynga, and AngelList,  among others.  Dapper's $725 million Flow Ecosystem Fund is financed  by the world's leading investors. It is designed to hypercharge  innovation and growth across the Flow community by promoting the  development of more efficient, secure and scalable web3 applications. For more information, visit: www.dapperlabs.com About Slamdance Film Festival Slamdance  is a community, an experience and a statement. Established by a wild  bunch of filmmakers who wanted to showcase the unfiltered voice of  independent artists, Slamdance is an ongoing experiment that has proven,  year after year, when it comes to recognizing talent and launching  careers, the independent and grassroots film communities can do it  themselves. Slamdance has launched a number of notable  careers in the  film industry.MovieMaker has recognized Slamdance as one of the 50  best film festivals, and it is a qualifying festival for the Academy  Awards. For more information, visit: https://slamdance.com  All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.