
	Becoming a professional poet is the ultimate career of choice for those living in the UAE, followed by the dreams of being a scientist, YouTuber or social media influencer, said Remitly, a top financial services provider for expats.

	The concept of a ‘job for life’ has changed dramatically in recent years, with new generations much more likely to seek a career switch and not ‘settle’ for a job role they dislike.

	Taking this into account, Remitly looked at global search data to find which jobs are proving most popular with the inhabitants of each country. This was achieved by analysing the annual search volume for phrases commonly associated with researching a new career such as ‘how to be a poet’ - the most searched for job within every country topping their specific rankings.  

	A heavily romanticised vocation choice steeped in history, poetry has long been a part of Arab culture, and is echoed through its position at the summit of the country’s dream job choices.

	Beneath that however, it’s a varied mix of roles, with more modern career choices coming to the fore. Both becoming a YouTuber or a social media influencer are ways of making a living that have only appeared in the last decade, however take third and fourth in the rankings, above becoming a professional footballer or comedian, highlighting the region’s love of football and talent for comedy.     
	 
	The top 10 dream jobs in the UAE
	 
	1.    Poet
	2.    Scientist
	3.    YouTuber
	4.    Influencer
	5.    Comedian
	6.    Football coach
	7.    Footballer
	8.    Athlete
	9.    Illustrator
	10.  Programmer
	 
	Remitly’s research also looked at the most desired jobs in the rest of the world, revealing that taking to the skies and becoming a pilot is the number one dream job globally, having topped the wish-lists of 25 countries.

	Becoming a pilot, known for its excellent pay, great job prospects and travel opportunities is a clear favourite for everywhere from the UK and the US to Cyprus and Montenegro. With almost one million Google searches per year around becoming a pilot, its worldwide popularity is undeniable.
	 
	The top 10 dream jobs around the world

	1.    Pilot
	2.    Writer
	3.    Dancer
	4.    YouTuber
	5.    Entrepreneur
	6.    Actor
	7.    Influencer
	8.    Programmer
	9.    Singer
	10.    Teacher

	 
	The full findings have been compiled into an easily navigable map, with each country’s dream job clearly marked.  

	Jago McKenzie, Business Management Director at Remitly commented: “People are getting used to the idea of changing careers at least once in their lifetime as the flexibility to work online and retrain increases. Some of the main reasons people seek a career move are for better work-life balance, higher pay and a more meaningful and fulfilling career. With that in mind, I wasn’t surprised to see so many people around the world showing clear search intent for a change.”
	 
	“We can see a huge range of different professions featuring prominently, including many that can be done solely online, from anywhere in the world. It’s clear that our desire for travel and exploration has not been dimmed by the past couple of years and has even grown, with new emerging roles such as becoming an influencer, being heavily tied to travel, and capturing regular content wherever you are,” McKenzie added.- TradeArabia News Service  Tags:
