E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary Monday through Friday, 8:30am to 4:00pm, please email obits@pottsmerc.com or call us at 610-235-2690 for further information.
 
Saturday & Sunday, please contact obits@pottsmerc.com
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 PHOENIXVILLE — Renaissance Academy Charter High School has secured two rankings on the prestigious U.S. News & World Report’s Best High School Report.The school ranked 16th on both the Best Pennsylvania High Schools and the Best Philadelphia PA Metro Area High Schools. This achievement establishes Renaissance Academy as the highest-rated charter high school featured on the list of top educational institutions within the state.“U.S. News and World Reports’ annual rankings are a testament to the exceptional dedication and commitment of Renaissance Academy High School faculty and staff, under the direction of Principal, Michelle Boyd,” according to a press release from the school. “The high school consistently demonstrated its performance in various key metrics including high standards for academics, college, and career readiness a consistent focus on a culture of success and inclusivity.”Renaissance Academy has a 97 percent graduation rate.The U.S. News and World Report evaluate high schools by considering a range of factors that showcase academics. Renaissance Academy Charter School has excelled in these metrics which include 61 percent of students participating in Advanced Placement testing. Among these,41 percent of students successfully passed at least one AP exam.In terms of proficiency on standardized tests: 90 percent of students achieved proficiency in Mathematics; 97 percent in reading, and 93 percent in sciences.“It is an honor to have our high school recognized for these accomplishments. Our staff and students work very hard, and I am grateful for their dedication,” CEO Guarino Buli said in the press release. “As a school leader, I am proud to be integral to the school choice movement in the Commonwealth of PA. I am confident that the work of Renaissance Academy Charter High School has set the bar for all charter schools to strive for excellence.”“I am proud of the hard work and perseverance our dedicated staff and resilient students demonstrated over the past challenging years. This ranking is a testament to their unwavering commitment and determination to succeed,” said principal Michelle Boyd. “As we continue to rebuild and recover from the pandemic, our focus remains on empowering students to achieve their goals and reach new heights.”Furthermore, Renaissance Academy has a 97 percent graduation rate and a sharp emphasis on college readiness. The school’s academic counselor, Tracey Behrens O’Brien, works with each student to ensure their college plans or post-graduate goals are realized and executed before they graduate. These accomplishments culminate in an impressive overall rating score of 95.42 percent.

U.S. News & World Report’s evaluation of kindergarten through 12th-grade public schools at the national, statewide, city, and school-type levels serves as a reliable benchmark.Renaissance Academy’s mission is to “to create a diverse-minded community that prepares a diverse cross-section of students for success as scholars.” (Image Courtesy of Renaissance Academy)Renaissance Academy has consistently ranked above average among public schools nationally and within the realm of Pennsylvania charter schools since 2019.“At the core of Renaissance Academy’s success lies its mission to create a diverse-minded community that prepares a diverse cross-section of students for success as scholars, workers, and citizens,” the press release said.“Through a world-class liberal arts, college-preparatory education, the school fosters an inclusive environment where high standards, technological innovation, a growth mindset, unique experiences, creativity, and accountability are embraced as the norm. Renaissance Academy Charter High School’s accomplishment as the highest-rated charter high school on U.S. News’ list of Best Pennsylvania Schools is an honor that serves as a point of pride to the Renaissance Academy community. Renaissance Academy Charter School extends gratitude to The U.S. News & Report and looks forward to continuing to rise to the occasion of high academic quality,” said the release. The school ranked 16th on both the Best Pennsylvania High Schools and the Best Philadelphia PA Metro Area High Schools. This achievement establishes Renaissance Academy as the highest-rated charter high school featured on the list of top educational institutions within the state. “U.S. News and World Reports’ annual rankings are a testament to the exceptional dedication and commitment of Renaissance Academy High School faculty and staff, under the direction of Principal, Michelle Boyd,” according to a press release from the school. “The high school consistently demonstrated its performance in various key metrics including high standards for academics, college, and career readiness a consistent focus on a culture of success and inclusivity.” The U.S. News and World Report evaluate high schools by considering a range of factors that showcase academics. Renaissance Academy Charter School has excelled in these metrics which include 61 percent of students participating in Advanced Placement testing. Among these,41 percent of students successfully passed at least one AP exam. In terms of proficiency on standardized tests: 90 percent of students achieved proficiency in Mathematics; 97 percent in reading, and 93 percent in sciences. “It is an honor to have our high school recognized for these accomplishments. Our staff and students work very hard, and I am grateful for their dedication,” CEO Guarino Buli said in the press release. “As a school leader, I am proud to be integral to the school choice movement in the Commonwealth of PA. I am confident that the work of Renaissance Academy Charter High School has set the bar for all charter schools to strive for excellence.” “I am proud of the hard work and perseverance our dedicated staff and resilient students demonstrated over the past challenging years. This ranking is a testament to their unwavering commitment and determination to succeed,” said principal Michelle Boyd. “As we continue to rebuild and recover from the pandemic, our focus remains on empowering students to achieve their goals and reach new heights.” Furthermore, Renaissance Academy has a 97 percent graduation rate and a sharp emphasis on college readiness. The school’s academic counselor, Tracey Behrens O’Brien, works with each student to ensure their college plans or post-graduate goals are realized and executed before they graduate. These accomplishments culminate in an impressive overall rating score of 95.42 percent. U.S. News & World Report’s evaluation of kindergarten through 12th-grade public schools at the national, statewide, city, and school-type levels serves as a reliable benchmark. Renaissance Academy has consistently ranked above average among public schools nationally and within the realm of Pennsylvania charter schools since 2019. “At the core of Renaissance Academy’s success lies its mission to create a diverse-minded community that prepares a diverse cross-section of students for success as scholars, workers, and citizens,” the press release said. “Through a world-class liberal arts, college-preparatory education, the school fosters an inclusive environment where high standards, technological innovation, a growth mindset, unique experiences, creativity, and accountability are embraced as the norm. Renaissance Academy Charter High School’s accomplishment as the highest-rated charter high school on U.S. News’ list of Best Pennsylvania Schools is an honor that serves as a point of pride to the Renaissance Academy community. Renaissance Academy Charter School extends gratitude to The U.S. News & Report and looks forward to continuing to rise to the occasion of high academic quality,” said the release. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group