One thousand HR professionals will be converging in Glendale for Arizona’s largest HR educational conference. The Arizona Society for Human Resource Management’s (AZSHRM) 2023 Annual Conference will be at the Renaissance Hotel & Spa in Glendale from Tuesday, August 29 through Friday, September 1. Start planning your attendance now! Office managers, small business owners, HR executives, HR departments of one, people managers, business students, and so many other professions can benefit from the education and offerings available at this conference. Registration is open now. Everyone is welcome to attend, including those who are not members of the local Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM)-affiliated professional associations. The theme of this year’s conference is Be BOLD: Navigating Mental Health & Championing Resilience. Employers, employees and HR teams have had a few tumultuous years. Many organizations are seeing the lingering effects of the pandemic present themselves in the forms of increased turnover, employee burnout, and issues related to stress and mental health challenges in the workplace. While a full array of HR programming will be offered at the conference, specific emphasis has been placed on offering programming to help HR professionals foster workplaces where employees can thrive during stressful times. AZSHRM’s 2023 Annual Conference is a 3.5-day conference that will have an opening and closing keynote on each full day and the opportunity to choose from more than 80 HR topics across 11 breakout sessions throughout the conference. The final half day is an engaging legal update that has become a perennial favorite. Local employment lawyers will be presenting relevant legal updates including a panel discussion and the always-entertaining Wacky Cases segment. Sometimes truth can be stranger than fiction, so attendees always look forward to the legal updates on the last day of the conference. The conference will offer a lot of learning for HR professionals at all levels and stages of their careers. With a special focus on Navigating Mental Health & Championing Resilience, attendees will be able to learn and share best practices with others to help their workforce stay strong. Programming won’t stop there. A broad spectrum of HR topics will also be featured throughout the conference to provide learning opportunities for those working in all segments of the profession. The two-day Executive Leadership Symposium is an add-on option that will offer an executive-focused HR conference-within-a-conference experience for strategic leaders. The scale of the conference is truly special, offering the impeccable quality of world class speakers, an array of impactful sessions, and the opportunity to network and meet with peers during learning sessions. Attendees also have the chance to mingle with vendors in the exhibit halls and during the included meals and social activities. All of this, without having to travel across the country. In addition to formal scheduled learning, there will be an exhibit hall full of vendors to help HR professionals meet the demands of their workplaces. Spending time in the exhibit hall can be a wonderful way to learn about new HR practices, to identify potential partners to help attendees tackle business challenges, and to connect with peers and providers to discuss business challenges and solutions. Those who may be looking to add a new benefit to their portfolio, or who may be hoping to identify a consultant to help them with an upcoming project, may be able to save considerable research time by coming to the exhibit hall to speak directly with vendors. The AZSHRM 2023 Annual Conference will be at the Renaissance Hotel & Spa in Glendale on August 29 through September 1. Register for the Full Conference or choose a single-day pass! Find full conference details here.  Michelle N. Lewis, SHRM-SCP, SPHR, CBP, CCP is a volunteer with the Arizona SHRM State Council who also provides compensation consulting to organizations of all sizes via her business HR Delta, LLC. Join her this August 29 through September 1 at the 2023 AZSHRM Annual Conference in Glendale.