  Athlone Advertiser, Thu, Mar 16, 2023 All new Renault Kangoo E-Tech van  Following on from the arrival of the all-new Renault Kangoo van in December, the all-electric Renault Kangoo E-Tech goes on-sale here this month. It is a good time for the brand with Renault vans are now number two in the LCV market year to date with 21 percent market share. It has continued its winning ways into this year after being named the ‘Small Electric Van of the Year’ at the Company Car & Van Awards 2023. The latest award reaffirms the new-generation Kangoo E-Tech as a great choice for SMEs who are considering swapping from a conventional van to a more efficient, yet equally usable, all-electric version. It goes on sale in Ireland next month (March ). It features on-trend tech and safety features that come as standard, as well as the user-friendly interior and clever storage solutions it offers over its competitors. A promised near 300 kilometre (WLTP ) battery range will be very welcome.” The all-new Renault Kangoo E-Tech benefit from a load volume of up to 4.2m3, a maximum 764kg payload, and 1,500kg of towing capacity. The zero-emissions-in-use version can be recharged by a typical 7.4 kW Wallbox from 20-80 per cent charge in little more than four hours, while rapid DC charging at up to 75 kW can deliver 20-80 per cent charge in around 43 minutes. It also comes with 22kw 80DC charging as standard. Recharging at a typical 22kW public charger from 20 to 80 percent takes only 1.35 hours. Meanwhile a generous warranty covers the battery’s performance for eight years or 100,000 miles. Renault boasts that the pure electric LCV complements its advanced powertrain and striking new look with the availability of 20 advanced driver assistance systems. Customers can also choose from short- and long-wheelbase variants. The availability of 44 litres of in-cab storage also contributes to the All new Renault Kangoo E-Tech being the perfect work partner, while a range of door and glazing options, an extra-wide side loading door, and a clever new Easy Inside Rack are just some of the features that broaden its appeal still further. The All new Kangoo E-Tech sits alongside the Master E-Tech in the long-established range of award-winning Renault light commercial vehicles. The Trafic E-Tech 100 per cent electric will be coming later in 2023, which will complete a fully electrified range.  Page generated in 0.1354 seconds.