ORCHARD PARK - As homecomings go, this one coming up Sunday night for New York Giants head coach and former Buffalo Bills offensive coordinator Brian Daboll has the potential to be pretty ugly. Daboll is returning to his hometown where for four years he laid the foundation and then built upon it one of the best offenses in the NFL. However, now he will come face-to-face with the reality of trying to defend the juggernaut that he helped created, and he will do so with a team that has staggered out to a brutal 1-4 start and has looked, at times, like one of the worst teams in the NFL. “It’s certainly not how we wanted to start the season, but that's where we're at so you make no excuses, you get ready to play a really good team on the road in a great environment,” Daboll told reporters via Zoom Thursday morning. Sign up for the Bills Blast newsletterDelivered straight to your inbox, additional Bills analysis, insight, stats, quotes and team history from Sal Maiorana Daboll became the Bills’ OC in 2018, the year they drafted Josh Allen, and during his time in Buffalo, the former University of Rochester football player played the biggest role in helping develop Allen into what he is today - one of the elite quarterbacks in the league. “He’s meant so much to me in my football career and in my life for that matter,” Allen said. “When you look at the grand scheme of things in terms of football and how to handle being a quarterback in this league, relying on the knowledge he has and the guys he’s been around in his career, I spent a lot of time with him. There’s been a lot of people who’ve had their hands in the pie in the success we’ve had here in Buffalo. It was him first.” As for returning to a place that means so much to him, a place where he grew up and then got to live out a dream by being a coach on the Bills’ staff, he admitted it’s going to be an emotional night in front of the Sunday Night Football cameras. “Buffalo is my hometown and I have a lot of appreciation, a lot of friends there in Buffalo,” he said. “So it's always special to go back, but the focus is we’re playing one heck of a team; they’re one of the best teams in the league and we're gonna have a big challenge ahead of us.” Here’s the broadcast and betting information for the game: You can listen on satellite radio on Sirius channel 85 and XM 227 (Bills) and Sirius 81 and XM 226 (Giants), and on traditional radio, the Bills Radio Network has stations all across the state. Chris Brown has the play-by-play, Eric Wood is the analyst, and Sal Capaccio is the sideline reporter. The network includes: Sal Maiorana can be reached at maiorana@gannett.com. Follow him on Twitter @salmaiorana and on Threads @salmaiorana1. To subscribe to Sal's newsletter, Bills Blast, which comes out twice a week during the season, please follow this link:https://profile.democratandchronicle.com/newsletters/bills-blast