Take a look at the video game release calendar to see all the biggest new games of 2024 and beyond 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Take a few minutes to look at the lineup of new games of 2024 and it's clear that we've got another incredible year of play ahead of us. The video game release date schedule is starting to take shape, with Microsoft Gaming dating one of its biggest upcoming Xbox Series X games for early spring, and Sony pushing a smattering of fantastic third-party upcoming PS5 games that are exclusive to the platform over the first quarter. Admittedly, it is looking a little light on the upcoming Switch games roster, but that's to be expected when rumors of the Nintendo Switch 2 continue to swirl.  Given that the best games of 2023 act as a showcase for one of the greatest years for gaming in decades, we're still curious to see whether this year has what it takes to match the previous. But with so much promise and potential in the new games for 2024 that we know about already – including some incredible new PC games, and the last handful of upcoming PS4 games and upcoming Xbox One games – we're convinced that it's going to be a year to remember.  Below you'll find the biggest video game release dates of 2024. You can use the navigation bar to jump between the months that have games confirmed, and at the bottom of this article we run through the key new releases that are yet to receive firm windows. Additionally, because we know how hard it can be to sort through all the noise, every month we spotlight the five biggest new games of 2024 that we think you need to know about and then follow with the rest of the key releases. So keep on reading to find your essential guide to the year ahead.    Our tracker of the biggest new games of 2024 was updated on July 23, ensuring all the top games of the year have been documented on a month-to-month basis so you can check out what to expect - or catch up on gems you might have missed!              There's no shortage of new games of 2024. The wider video game release date schedule is taking shape, and as you will see in the list below, there's still plenty out there for publishers to firm up.  We're already getting our hands on some early release dates for the 2025 slate of upcoming games. These are subject to change, but we will drop the new dates as and when we learn them!  Publishers are already locking in the release windows for some of the biggest upcoming video games of 2025. While we don't have any firm dates just yet, there are some massive games confirmed to launch next year.  Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more  The following upcoming video games have been officially unveiled but are yet to receive firm release dates. While we await more details, keep scrolling to find some of the most anticipated (and mysterious) games on the horizon.  Looking for something new to play while you wait for your most anticipated new games of 2024? Check out our pick of the best PS5 games and the best Xbox Series X games.  Josh West is the Editor-in-Chief of GamesRadar+. He has over 15 years experience in online and print journalism, and holds a BA (Hons) in Journalism and Feature Writing. Prior to starting his current position, Josh has served as GR+'s Features Editor and Deputy Editor of games™ magazine, and has freelanced for numerous publications including 3D Artist, Edge magazine, iCreate, Metal Hammer, Play, Retro Gamer, and SFX. Additionally, he has appeared on the BBC and ITV to provide expert comment, written for Scholastic books, edited a book for Hachette, and worked as the Assistant Producer of the Future Games Show. In his spare time, Josh likes to play bass guitar and video games. Years ago, he was in a few movies and TV shows that you've definitely seen but will never be able to spot him in. Helldivers 2 hackers get their "pet fish summarily executed," while a new Major Order sends us back to fight the bots that mutineers ignored Don't even bother with the clown makeup, Hollow Knight: Silksong won't be at Gamescom's Opening Night Live show "If I had a game, I would not sign with 90% of publishers": Manor Lords publisher thinks "self-publishing is a fine way to go" GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 