Some clouds this evening will give way to mainly clear skies overnight. A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible. Low 67F. Winds W at 10 to 15 mph.. Some clouds this evening will give way to mainly clear skies overnight. A stray shower or thunderstorm is possible. Low 67F. Winds W at 10 to 15 mph.  Updated: August 18, 2024 @ 3:41 pm    Aiken Standard reporter Dede Biles is a reporter for the Aiken Standard. She covers Aiken County government, business and horse industry.
To support local journalism, sign up for a subscription. See our current offers » Dede Biles is a reporter for the Aiken Standard. She covers Aiken County government, business and horse industry. To support local journalism, sign up for a subscription. See our current offers »   The Olive Garden currently under construction on Aiken’s Southside will begin welcoming diners two months from now. “I confirmed with our construction team that the opening date is October 9 for this location,” wrote Lauren Bowes, a spokesperson for Darden Restaurants, in an email sent to the Aiken Standard on Thursday afternoon. The City of Aiken will be prepared to help make sure that everything goes smoothly, City Manager Stuart Bedenbaugh told the Aiken Standard in a telephone interview Friday morning. When Krispy Kreme first opened on the Southside’s busy Whiskey Road corridor in 2016, “there were traffic issues, so I suspect we will have the Department of Public Safety on standby to address any traffic concerns and direct patrons,” Bedenbaugh said. “Like most business openings, it’s always good to see that a company has made an investment in Aiken,” he continued. “Aiken is very fortunate to have wide variety of dining options, and Olive Garden will just add to that list.” Bedenbaugh described the news that the date had been set for the Olive Garden’s opening as “awesome.” Aiken Chamber of Commerce CEO J. David Jameson also expressed enthusiasm about the restaurant’s debut here. “Aiken has wanted this for a long time and it’s in a great location, so I think Aiken is going to respond very well,” he said in a telephone interview Friday morning. “I think people will want to try it out, and I think they are going to enjoy it.” The Olive Garden chain is a subsidiary of Darden Restaurants, which is headquartered in Orlando, Florida. The company’s other chains include Ruth’s Chris Steak House, LongHorn Steakhouse, Cheddar’s and Bahama Breeze. The site of Aiken’s Olive Garden at 2265 Whiskey Road is a nearly 2-acre outparcel of the East Gate Shopping Center. A Golden Corral restaurant, which was demolished, used to be located there. The Aiken Standard reported previously that plans for the Olive Garden submitted to the City of Aiken included a 7,805-square-foot building with 235 seats for customers. There will be more than 100 parking places. The restaurant has a stone veneer exterior with elements of stone cladding and brick veneer, according to the plans. The closest Olive Garden to Aiken currently in operation is in Augusta at 2736 Washington Road near Augusta National. That location is scheduled to close. A new Olive Garden in Augusta is being built at 804 Cabela Drive in the Village at Riverwatch. Other Olive Gardens in South Carolina include two in Columbia at 274 Harbison Blvd. and 10136-112 Two Notch Road, according to olivegarden.com. Aiken Standard reporter Dede Biles is a reporter for the Aiken Standard. She covers Aiken County government, business and horse industry.
To support local journalism, sign up for a subscription. See our current offers » Dede Biles is a reporter for the Aiken Standard. She covers Aiken County government, business and horse industry. To support local journalism, sign up for a subscription. See our current offers » An Aiken area property where a Guest Inn hotel stands and land nearby recently changed hands.  Read moreGuest Inn property near Aiken sells for more than $1.4 million A new restaurant planned for Aiken's Southside could be announced soon. Another restaurant has signed a lease for a space in one of two buildings planned for Aiken Towne Park, Southeastern Development Vice President Jason Long said Aug. 13. Read moreAiken Towne Park likely to announce new fast casual restaurant soon, join Chicken Salad Chick The site of … Read moreAn Aiken Dollar Tree location sells for nearly $2.5 million to a Georgia-based LLC A new busine… Read moreOptical retailer coming to Aiken Towne Park as redevelopment continues Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: