
Published: Apr 13, 2023 04:30 pm 
 There’s a new Genshin Impact event called Brewing Developments live, and it involves four stages of combat. As usual, taking part means Hero’s Wits, Mora, Mystic Enhancement Ores, Primogems, and Talent Level-Up Materials. As long as someone is at Adventure Rank 20 and can get to Sumeru, they can start taking part immediately.   First. the Genshin Impact Brewing Developments event is a combat-focused one that first involves taking the “Boiling Over” quest. You’ll need to go to the Wall of Samiel at Ashavan Realm in Sumeru. You’ll find Hajanad, who previously appeared in the similar Tablet Analytics event near a special domain. You’ll take on the challenge in order to basically help her with her alchemy research. You’ll get 3 Hero’s Wits, 30 Primogems, and 30,000 Mora just for speaking with her. This also unlocks the domain for the event. From there, you must complete four stages and earn points by fighting waves of enemies in three rounds. Defeating them and hitting certain milestones gets you different tiers of rewards. The first available is Thundergrass Resonance, which involves Dendro and Electro elements. You’ll know all of the monsters that could appear in each of the three rounds for every stage. You can also set the score multiplayer and difficulty. From there, you choose four characters to fight in each wave and can see the brews that will be in effect with different special traits. This first round in the initial stage has Alhaitham and Yae Miko as the trial characters. When the first wave is over, you’ll pick four more characters and see the new brews and traits in effect. For this second part, I had Kokomi and Yae Miko appear as possible trial characters. The final round works in the same way, with Faruzan and Wanderer showing up as the trial character options.  Know that you don’t need to worry about activating buffs. The “Shock-Boiling Device” you have automatically uses and applies the effects randomly as you fight. All you need to do is focus on fighting as many enemies as possible during each of the three two-minute rounds during the stage.  If you get 1,000 points in Thundergrass Resonance, you earn 3 Guide to Admonitions, 90 Primogems, and 20,000 Mora. The 2,000 tier also adds 2 Hero’s Wits and 20,000 Mora to that. Reaching 4,000 gets you 4 Mystic Enhancement Ores and 20,000 Mora.  There are four stages total, with each offering similar rewards at all tiers. Here are the ones that will unlock over the next few days. Genshin Impact is available for the PS4, PS5, PC, and mobile devices, and d Brewing Developments is live in-game until April 24, 2023. 