What to expect when undergoing this test  Magnetic resonance enterography, or MR enterography, is a painless imaging test used to diagnose problems specifically in your small intestine. This test is a specialized type of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), a form of imaging that provides detailed views of your organs through the use of a strong magnetic field.
 Verywell / Emily Roberts   This article discusses what MR enterography is and what it is used for. It also explains the procedure, the potential risks, as well as the process of getting your results.
  With MR enterography, your healthcare provider can get very detailed images of your small intestine. This can help them find problems, diagnose your condition, and monitor your treatment.
  The procedure is done in an MRI machine, which uses powerful magnets to produce a strong magnetic field.
  MR enterography is performed with a contrast material, which is a liquid that helps to improve the quality of images. Contrast material is given by mouth and/or delivered into the vein.
  This test does not involve radiation, a form of energy that can cause damage to the body. Because of this, the procedure may be used to evaluate individuals who need frequent imaging done.
  Using MR enterography can help reduce the exposure to radiation that is emitted in other medical imaging tests like X-rays and computed tomography (CT) scans.
  Diagnosis
  Healthcare providers use MR enterography to diagnose a number of medical conditions that affect the small intestine.
  MR enterography can identify:
  Monitoring
  MR enterography may also be used to track how well certain treatments are working and to detect any complications.
  Differences and Limitations
  Unlike a CT scan or X-ray, MR enterography:
  One of the limitations of MR enterography is that movement may impact the image quality. To get the best images, you must remain still and follow breath-holding instructions during the procedure.
  If you feel anxious beforehand, you may find it difficult to keep still while the procedure is happening. Your healthcare provider may recommend taking a sedative, a medication that helps you feel calm and relaxed, before the MR enterography.
  Another limitation of MR enterography is that MRI machines have different weight and size capacities. This means that some individuals won't be able to use certain MRI machines.
  MR enterography uses a strong magnetic field, so it's crucial to let your healthcare team know if you have any devices, implants, or metal in your body, or if you have worked with metal in the past. The magnetic field may cause some medical devices to malfunction.
  Individuals with certain implants cannot have this procedure, so be sure to speak with your healthcare provider about the safety of this test for you.
  Prior to having MR enterography, there are a few things to keep in mind:
  Possible Disqualifications
  Certain individuals should not undergo MR enterography. These include individuals with:
  Before the test, be sure your healthcare provider knows your medical history, including current and past conditions, allergies, as well as your history of working with metal. They should be aware of recent surgeries, as well as any medical devices, and implants. You should also let them know if you are or could be pregnant.
  If you have claustrophobia, or fear of confined spaces, or anxiety, your healthcare provider may give you a prescription for a sedative prior to your MR enterography.
  Before your procedure, you may want to ask your healthcare provider:
  In general, it’s also essential to understand why you are undergoing MR enterography. If you have any questions or concerns about why you’re receiving this test, don’t hesitate to ask your healthcare provider.
  Timing
  MR enterography takes about 45 minutes. However, you may need to arrive two and a half hours prior to the exam in order to drink an oral contrast material. The oral contrast may be provided at 30-minute intervals.
  During your check-in process, you may be asked to fill out a safety form.
  Location
  MR enterography is often performed at hospitals or at imaging centers. Your healthcare provider will inform you where your exam will take place.
  Typically, the MRI unit is a large, cylinder-shaped tube surrounded by a circular magnet. During the exam, you’ll lie on a movable examination table that slides into the center of the magnet.
  What to Wear
  When undergoing MR enterography, wear comfortable clothing and leave your jewelry at home. Once you arrive at your appointment, you’ll be asked to change into a hospital gown and lock up your belongings.
  Cost and Health Insurance
  Your MR enterography may be covered by your health insurance. Depending on your plan, you may have to pay a co-pay and/or coinsurance. Some insurance plans may require pre-authorization for MR enterography.
  Food and Drink 
  Instructions on eating and drinking prior to undergoing MR enterography tend to vary between facilities, so be sure to carefully read the instructions given to you. Unless you’re told otherwise, continue taking your regular medications as usual.
  What to Bring
  If you have a medical device or implant, bring along any information you have about it to show your healthcare provider prior to undergoing MR enterography.
  You should also bring your ID and insurance card to the exam.
  Other Considerations
  If you’re planning on receiving a sedative before your MR enterography, make arrangements for a ride home from the exam.
  Since the MRI machine may produce loud noises, you may be given earplugs or headphones to wear during the exam. This will block the noise of the machine, while still allowing you to hear the technologist, or the person operating the MRI machine.
  Pre-Test
  When you arrive at the facility, you'll be asked to change into a gown. Before your MR enterography, your healthcare team may review your health and medication history and check your heart rate, temperature, and blood pressure.
  A needle will be inserted in a vein in your hand or arm to give you fluids. You may be asked to drink an oral contrast drink in timed intervals. A contrast agent may also be given via the inserted needle. You may experience a cold sensation when the contrast enters your bloodstream. You might also get a metallic taste in your mouth.
  You’ll lie flat on your back on a table that slides in and out of the scanner. In some cases, straps may be used to help you stay in the correct position. The technologist may put a pillow under your head and a cushion under your knees.
  Throughout the Test
  During the exam, you’ll be placed into the MRI unit and the radiologist, or doctor that specializes in using imaging techniques to treat conditions, as well as the technologist will carry out the procedure. During this time, they will be working at a computer outside of the room. The scanner is well-lit and kept cool.
  During the exam, two sets of pictures may be taken. These images show different parts of your small intestine and the surrounding tissues. After the first set of pictures, your radiologist will look at the images to ensure that you have enough of the contrast in your intestines. In some cases, you may have to walk around to help move the contrast through your intestines.
  You may feel some warmth in the area of your body that's being scanned. This feeling is normal, but let your technologist know if it bothers you.
  During the exam, your technologist may ask you to hold your breath at certain points. This helps improve the quality of the images obtained.
  Although you’ll be alone in the room during the MR enterography, you can talk to the technologist at any time.
  Post-Test
  After the test is complete, you may need to wait a few minutes while your healthcare team determines whether any additional images are needed.
  Once all images are done, the exam table will slide out from the MRI tube. Any needles will be taken out at this time.
  If you had anesthesia, or a medication that decreases pain and awareness, you will be taken to a recovery room after the exam. Otherwise, you can go home right away.
  It’s normal for people to feel slightly full or a bit nauseated for several hours after undergoing MR enterography. Some people may experience some cramping or diarrhea. If these symptoms don’t subside by the next day or are severe, make sure to consult your healthcare provider.
  In addition, there’s a very small risk of skin irritation at the site where the needle was inserted.
  There are no post-exam dietary restrictions associated with MR enterography. You may continue with your usual eating and drinking routine after the procedure.
  It should be noted that manufacturers of intravenous contrast suggest that individuals avoid breastfeeding their babies for up to 48 hours after receiving contrast medium. However, the American College of Radiology state that it is safe to continue breastfeeding after receiving contrast directly into the vein.
  After your MR enterography, a radiologist will analyze the images and send a report to your primary care provider or referring practitioner. Your healthcare provider will then share these results with you.
  While results generally take several days to come back, the wait time varies depending on the facility.
  Follow-Up
  If your MR enterography results aren’t normal, you may need additional imaging. This may involve having another MRI, a CT scan, an X-ray, or other types of medical tests. Talk to your healthcare provider about how to proceed in the event of abnormal results.
  MR enterography is a painless imaging test that is used to get very detailed images of your small intestine. This helps your healthcare provider make a diagnosis, as well as monitor your treatment.
  Some individuals should not have this test done, so be sure to tell your healthcare provider your detailed medical history to ensure that this test is safe for you.
  Before, during, and after the test, your healthcare provider will give you specific instructions to follow. This ensures that they can get the best images possible, while also helping you feel comfortable throughout this process.
  Because waiting for test results may cause anxiety, it’s important to take steps to ease your worries. Along with spending time with your loved ones, focus on enjoyable activities that keep your mind occupied.
  If you have any questions during the waiting period, don’t hesitate to reach out to your healthcare provider.
 Johns Hopkins Medicine. MR enterography. National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering. Magnetic resonance imaging (mri). Jasti R, Carucci LR. Small bowel neoplasms: a pictorial review. RadioGraphics. 2020;40(4):1020-1038. doi:10.1148/rg.2020200011 Saleh L, Juneman E, Reza Movahed M. The use of gadolinium in patients with contrast allergy or renal failure requiring coronary angiography, coronary intervention, or vascular procedure. Cathet Cardiovasc Intervent. 2011;78(5):747-754. doi:10.1002/ccd.22907 Masselli G, Gualdi G. Mr imaging of the small bowel. Radiology. 2012;264(2):333-348. doi:10.1148/radiol.12111658 UCSF Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging. Size and weight considerations for imaging and image-guided interventions. National Organization for Rare Disorders. Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. University of Virginia School of Medicine. MRI enterography: what to expect and how to prepare. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) benefits and risks. American College of Radiology. ACR manual on contrast media. 
By Cathy Wong

Cathy Wong is a nutritionist and wellness expert. Her work is regularly featured in media such as First For Women, Woman's World, and Natural Health.
  Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up. There was an error. Please try again.