A mixed bag of topics captured the attention of the IndustryWeek manufacturing community over the past week. Topics of interest ranged from the Biden administration's  fuel-efficiency rules and Ford's retooling in Canada to IW's ongoing salute to century-old manufacturing firms and finding the right IIoT system.  Here we present the Top 10 most-consumed content over the past seven days, plus one editor's choice. We urge you to review any of these you may have missed and then take some time to review the breadth of articles, videos and webinars the comprise the IndustryWeek manufacturing library. The Century Club: 10 Manufacturing Companies That Have Reached the 100 Year Mark: It isn't easy but it can be done. Meet 10 manufacturers that began in 1923 or earlier--and are still going today.
 Rivian CFO: Don't Expect Smaller Truck to Be Cheaper: Executives believe the company could generate gross profits by the end of 2024.
 Simple IIoT System Informs Lean Methodology for Body Product Manufacturer: iPads and basic data reporting halved changeover times.
 Biden Administration Fuel Efficiency Rules Make Selling Gas and Diesel Cars and Trucks Difficult: EPA projects new rules to raise electric vehicles (EVs) to 67% of new car sales by 2032, from low single digit market share today.
 Ford to Retool Existing Ontario Assembly Complex: By converting the complex for EVs, Ford will come closer to reaching its goal of an annual production run rate of 2 million EVs by the end of 2026.
 Growing a Manufacturing Plant on a Greenfield: GAF Energy, Excellerate and Agilent Technologies share innovation ideas and lessons learned as they expand their U.S. presence. 
 CEO: PPG Is Racing to Keep up with Aerospace Demand, Innovate Around Energy Use: Tim Knavish, with 36 years at the global paint and coatings company, is very familiar with its footprint. 'I try to get out on the frontlines where we make stuff as much as possible.' 
 Is Manufacturing Unionization on the Upswing? Record public support for unions and new priorities of the NLRB have swung the regulatory pendulum towards employee rights.
 A Quality Look at QEE: Vita-Mix employs a novel quality metric to measure finished goods and product quality.
 Career Advice: Manufacturing Leaders Share the Best Advancement Tips They Received Early in Their Journeys: IndustryWeek's new Talent Advisory Board members answer our March question: What was the best piece of career advice you received during your first five years in your industry?
 Editor's Choice
 Production Pulse: UAW Leadership Changes and Shakeups in the EV World (Video): IndustryWeek editors discuss Shawn Fain's election to lead the United Auto Workers and which startup EV makers look like they're staying viable and which ones are struggling.   Find contact information for the IndustryWeek staff: Contact IndustryWeek