The MLB trade deadline is around the corner. These three teams are expected to be active on the phones looking to add to their roster. Just over two weeks remain until the MLB trade deadline, and with the All-Star break here, time is going to fly by between now and August 1st. This MLB season feels wide open and there for the taking. As such, most teams have kept themselves postured competitively and ready to deal if they so choose to. There are clear should-be buyers out there and clear should-be sellers. But there’s a middle ground of teams that sit in an area where one could make a case for going either direction. Add more and make a run at the playoffs. Or, sell, cash in, and retool for the future. Since there is such a substantial grey area, it’s hard to keep track of who wants to do what. Here’s the latest on some teams who are leaning toward buying. You know that movie moment, now a popular gif, where Adam Driver playing Kylo Ren in Star Wars is screaming, “MORE!” as he’s pummelling a weapon of mass destruction’s entire capacity toward a certain popular Jedi? That’s how I picture the approach Rangers general manager Chris Young and the rest of the front office has toward pitching, because despite the fact that the Rangers have Nathan Eovaldi, Andrew Heaney, Dane Dunning, and Jacob deGrom (out for the season), they still want to add even more. Granted, despite the Rangers adding some strong arms this offseason in Eovaldi and deGrom, they could still use a starter. Since deGrom went out and needs Tommy John surgery, there’s a hole to be filled. Enter Lance Lynn of the Chicago White Sox, who the Rangers are coveting according to Bob Nightengale of USA Today. Lynn is one of the few players the White Sox are willing to give up in a trade this year, as Jon Heyman of the New York Post reports that several players are on a no-touching list for the White Sox. While Lynn hasn’t emerged as a player Chicago is shopping, he didn’t appear in Heyman’s report as an untouchable. In fact, at 36, there’s a strong case to be made that the White Sox would be fine moving on from Lynn in favor of getting younger. Lynn has a 6.03 ERA this season but evidence suggests a great deal of his stats are influenced by the oh-so-bad Sox. His FIP is a far better 4.81 and his WHIP is tenable at 1.417. One would expect the Rangers, and any team calling the Southside Chicago team, would prefer Dylan Cease, but he’s expected to be unavailable. Not to mention, if he were up for bidding, he would command a massive pricetag compared to Lynn. © 2024 Minute Media - All Rights Reserved. The content on this site is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All betting content is intended for an audience ages 21+. All advice, including picks and predictions, is based on individual commentators’ opinions and not that of Minute Media or its related brands. All picks and predictions are suggestions only. No one should expect to make money from the picks and predictions discussed on this website. For more information, please read our Legal Disclaimer. Gambling content intended for 21+. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can be accessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER.