Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition The UConn football team added a bit more depth at linebacker when Davon Hicks announced his commitment on Thursday to join the Huskies out of the transfer portal.After two seasons at the University of South Florida, Hicks will play his junior season with the Huskies and have at least two years of eligibility.Hicks, 6 feet, 215 pounds, had 36 total tackles, 22 solo, in 14 games during his time at USF. His best game came in a 45-31 loss to Tulane where he made nine total tackles, six of them solo.Posting to Twitter that he received an offer on Monday, Hicks committed to UConn just three days later.“When nobody gives you a chance, you gotta take chances,” his announcement post read.https://twitter.com/Dhicks2002/status/1651692091985076227?s=20Head coach Jim Mora noted linebacker depth as one of his main areas of emphasis ahead of last Saturday’s “Spring Showcase,” and ensured that his staff would continue recruiting through the portal to add more pieces. UConn also anticipates the arrival of Oumar Diomande, a Class of 2023 commit, who was in attendance and watched the showcase from the bleachers.Kalen Villanueva, a three-star recruit at linebacker and defensive back in the high school Class of 2021, took an official visit to Storrs on Monday. Villanueva committed to Illinois out of high school but transferred to Louisiana Tech after an injury kept him from the field as a freshman.

UConn looks to fill in holes left by graduated linebackers Ian Swenson, Marquez Bembry and Brandon Bouyer-Randle. Positional coach Siriki Diabate and the Huskies return one of the top linebackers in the nation, and the team’s leading tackler in back-to-back seasons, in Ridgefield native Jackson Mitchell.The UConn defense appears it will again be its strongest on the line where Dal’mont Gourdine, Eric Watts, Pryce Yates, Sokoya McDuffie, Collin McCarthy and Jelani Stafford return.“I think we’ll add a few,” Mora said last Saturday. “We have a couple official visitors here; we have several coming in next week. We have some spots that we have to fill and we’re working hard to do so.”The 15-day spring college football transfer portal window opened on April 15 and is set to close on Sunday. After Sunday no additional players will be able to enter their name into the portal, but those already seeking a new destination will be able to be recruited.Offering receiversWith new names continuing to depart the UConn wide receiver room, three since the spring portal window opened, the coaching staff offered six different receivers in the last few days looking for replacements.The offered group includes two receivers from Colorado, Montana Lemonious-Craig and Chase Sowell, who were among a large number of former scholarship players to leave the Buffaloes after head coach Deion Sanders’ first spring game. Lemonious-Craig led the spring game with 152 yards and a touchdown; he has received a slew of Power Five offers since entering the portal.Sowell played in three games for Colorado in 2022 as a freshman, catching two passes for 23 yards, and has received offers from programs like Kent State, Texas State, Delaware and East Carolina, among others.UConn and new wide receivers coach Kashif Moore also offered former Mississippi State receiver Marquez Dortch and former Utah receiver Chris Reed, as well as Jahdae Walker (Division II Grand Valley State) and Jayden Dixon-Veal (JUCO College of San Mateo).Huskies leading receiver to CincinnatiIt didn’t take long for Aaron Turner, who led UConn’s battered receiving corps in receptions for both the 2021 and ’22 seasons and in receiving yards last year, to find his new home out of the transfer portal. After catching 57 passes for 527 yards and three touchdowns last season, Turner announced that he received an offer to transfer to Cincinnati on Wednesday and revealed his commitment Thursday. After two seasons at the University of South Florida, Hicks will play his junior season with the Huskies and have at least two years of eligibility. Hicks, 6 feet, 215 pounds, had 36 total tackles, 22 solo, in 14 games during his time at USF. His best game came in a 45-31 loss to Tulane where he made nine total tackles, six of them solo. Posting to Twitter that he received an offer on Monday, Hicks committed to UConn just three days later. “When nobody gives you a chance, you gotta take chances,” his announcement post read. https://twitter.com/Dhicks2002/status/1651692091985076227?s=20 Head coach Jim Mora noted linebacker depth as one of his main areas of emphasis ahead of last Saturday’s “Spring Showcase,” and ensured that his staff would continue recruiting through the portal to add more pieces. UConn also anticipates the arrival of Oumar Diomande, a Class of 2023 commit, who was in attendance and watched the showcase from the bleachers. Kalen Villanueva, a three-star recruit at linebacker and defensive back in the high school Class of 2021, took an official visit to Storrs on Monday. Villanueva committed to Illinois out of high school but transferred to Louisiana Tech after an injury kept him from the field as a freshman. UConn looks to fill in holes left by graduated linebackers Ian Swenson, Marquez Bembry and Brandon Bouyer-Randle. Positional coach Siriki Diabate and the Huskies return one of the top linebackers in the nation, and the team’s leading tackler in back-to-back seasons, in Ridgefield native Jackson Mitchell. The UConn defense appears it will again be its strongest on the line where Dal’mont Gourdine, Eric Watts, Pryce Yates, Sokoya McDuffie, Collin McCarthy and Jelani Stafford return. “I think we’ll add a few,” Mora said last Saturday. “We have a couple official visitors here; we have several coming in next week. We have some spots that we have to fill and we’re working hard to do so.” The 15-day spring college football transfer portal window opened on April 15 and is set to close on Sunday. After Sunday no additional players will be able to enter their name into the portal, but those already seeking a new destination will be able to be recruited. With new names continuing to depart the UConn wide receiver room, three since the spring portal window opened, the coaching staff offered six different receivers in the last few days looking for replacements. The offered group includes two receivers from Colorado, Montana Lemonious-Craig and Chase Sowell, who were among a large number of former scholarship players to leave the Buffaloes after head coach Deion Sanders’ first spring game. Lemonious-Craig led the spring game with 152 yards and a touchdown; he has received a slew of Power Five offers since entering the portal. Sowell played in three games for Colorado in 2022 as a freshman, catching two passes for 23 yards, and has received offers from programs like Kent State, Texas State, Delaware and East Carolina, among others. UConn and new wide receivers coach Kashif Moore also offered former Mississippi State receiver Marquez Dortch and former Utah receiver Chris Reed, as well as Jahdae Walker (Division II Grand Valley State) and Jayden Dixon-Veal (JUCO College of San Mateo). It didn’t take long for Aaron Turner, who led UConn’s battered receiving corps in receptions for both the 2021 and ’22 seasons and in receiving yards last year, to find his new home out of the transfer portal. After catching 57 passes for 527 yards and three touchdowns last season, Turner announced that he received an offer to transfer to Cincinnati on Wednesday and revealed his commitment Thursday. Copyright © 2024 Hartford Courant