There have been so many T-shirts printed about tradition that it would keep an eclipse of moths in business for decades. If it’s Revere and you’re talking about boys soccer, the Minutemen don’t need a catchy little phrase printed on cotton to get pumped. Winning is expected at Everett Road. “The bar's always set high,” coach Nick DePompei said. “It's not rebuild. It's kind of retool and get going again. They all know the expectations, which is very nice. The personnel is going to change. You’ve got to step in and fill that role. The way we play and the dynamic of this group is a little different than last year, but the goal is still the same and they know that." Last season, Revere played in its second straight regional final with dreams of returning to the state finals like it did in 2016 and 2018. The dream came to a halt when eventual state champion Shawnee won 3-2 in an incredibly wind-aided contest at Bowling Green. Eight starters graduated, including first-team All-Ohioan Desmond Johnston (15 goals, 10 assists) and super scorer Ryan Brown (17, 9). No big deal for the Minutemen, who brought back A.J. Catlett, Jeff Boyle and Zach Iler. The captains have Revere undefeated through three games after a 4-1 win over Marlington on Tuesday.  “It's a lot of hard work in the offseason,” Catlett said. “It starts early and it never really slows down. The work is hard and it's honestly really tiring. We run a lot, but we make sure that we come together as a team. … We keep working hard to make sure we come back stronger every game.” Keeper Jake Nations is back as a letterwinner as are Joe Brown, Gavin Boltz, Jacob Thomas and Will Sharp. That’s enough power to make the two-time reigning Suburban League American Conference champions a player once again for another title. While it’s only a three-game sample, the Minutemen appear to have found themselves a scorer in Dylan Halm. The Detroit native played for the MLS Next Michigan Wolves SC last season. “When I first moved here, everyone told me it was a soccer school,” Halm said. “I didn't really know what to expect. Now playing with them, I realize we really work good together and I have a lot of good players.” The senior is one of those players with 10 goals this season. That includes four against Kenston and Marlington and a two-spot against Hubbard in the season opener. “Anytime you can get somebody that is just born to put the ball in back of the net it’s great,” DePompei said. “I think there are players on the team that kind of graciously fit in different roles. In particular. I mean, A.J. is that person. On any other day, he could be that scorer if we wanted him to. I think he probably has eight or nine assists of Dylan's 10 goals this year. The fact that he's kind of put that team first has been a huge deal, too.” Contact Brad Bournival at bbournival@gannett.com and follow him on Twitter at @bbournival This article originally appeared on Akron Beacon Journal: Revere High School boys soccer is back, ready to wreak havoc Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Our fantasy football draft kit is here to help you crush your 2024 drafts and build championship-winning teams! Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Dan Wetzel and Ross Dellenger break down the NCAA's landmark settlement deal and explain what it means for the future of college football, most notably with the sport increasing the maximum amount of scholarship roster spots from 85 to 105. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it.