Sustainability awareness among luxury brands is on the rise amid growing environmental concerns and heightened expectations from consumers, a trend that is a boost for UK-based sustainable luxury packaging solutions provider Delta Global. The firm, which designs and manufactures packaging that reduces the carbon footprint for luxury brands including Harvey Nichols, Tom Ford and Fortnum & Mason, has seen its profit surge 300 per cent in the year to September 2022 from a year ago. The firm’s revenues grew 55 per cent in that period. In the first eight months of the current financial year, Delta Global’s revenue grew a further 8 per cent from the previous period. “Luxury brands’ sustainability awareness is definitely on the rise and we’re happy to see more brands getting into the movement with us,” said Robert Lockyer, founder and chief client officer of Delta Global, in an interview. “Our aim is to produce less packaging for more clients.” The global sustainable packaging market is expected to double to over US$190 billion by 2031 from 2021, according to US-based research firm Allied Market Research as growing use of sustainable packaging in healthcare, pharmaceuticals, car, nutraceuticals and fashion sectors drives demand. “Consumers’ growing environmental concern is one of this industry’s main drivers,” according to the report. The market in Asia-Pacific, accounting for over two-fifths of the global sustainable packaging demand, was likely to maintain its leadership during the forecast period. A boom in the international luxury retail e-commerce market during the pandemic, especially in the Asia-Pacific region, had contributed to the firm’s strong business growth, Lockyer said. “Luxury brands’ sustainability-awareness is driven by the expectations of their customers. The global awareness of the need for change in all matters surrounding sustainable best practices has become the minimum expectation and those brands that fail to embrace this, will struggle,” said Lockyer. The use of packaging materials that have been certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), a non-profit that labels products sourced from sustainable forests, has increased by 36 per cent of Delta’s client base during the last 12 months. The demand for plastic packaging among these customers has fallen by half over the same period, and now represents less than 0.5 per cent of the global packaging demand, according to Lockyer. The firm is looking to source its packaging from the closest market to minimise the carbon footprint during transport. The firm has a stake in a manufacturing facility in Dongguan in Guangdong province, and has partnerships in Vietnam, Europe and the UK. Delta hopes to use Hong Kong as a hub in the Asia-Pacific to grow its presence in the region, particularly in mainland China and Australia, said Lockyer. The company produces packaging for Net-A-Porter and MatchesFashion made from FSC-certified materials that are 100 per cent recyclable, according to Lockyer. The firm is working on carbon footprint calculations of the packaging for its customers, data which will be made available on the Delta Global Intelligence platform, a supply chain management tool designed for luxury packaging. “Sustainability is a strategic issue for the packaging value chain,” according to McKinsey’s Sustainability in Packaging report released in September. “With increased consumer awareness and regulations on the rise, there is no time to lose in ensuring that bold commitments can, in fact, be fulfilled,” McKinsey’s report said. “Corporations that delay will face significant uphill struggles, especially with capital being increasingly allocated on the basis of sustainability and performance.” “By contrast, companies that achieve their sustainability commitments, simultaneously driving cost efficiency and revenue growth, will progress to the next stage of the value creation journey.”