The DStv Content Creator Awards unveiled their highly anticipated nominees list at a vibrant event in Johannesburg. The annual awards celebrate the best and… The SAB Foundation, a South African grant-making organization, is inviting applications for its Tholoana Enterprise Programme. This sought-after 18-month program empowers small business owners… A wave of excitement swept through Alexandra township as 33 grandmothers, or “gogos,” celebrated their graduation from the GOGOs with Vuma digital skills training… Fintech innovation is increasingly targeting the world’s most influential consumer group: women. With women controlling a staggering 75% of global discretionary spending, fintech providers… South Africa boasts a vibrant financial sector, yet green SMEs, those championing sustainability and circular economy, often struggle to access the funding they need… South African CEOs are swiftly embracing generative AI solutions, aiming to boost operational efficiency and innovation, according to a recent IBM study. However, this… The Huawei ICT Academy Annual Instructor Summit has emerged as a cornerstone in the global landscape of digital education. By convening educators, industry experts,… Samsung Electronics unveiled what it describes as bespoke AI which means personalized home appliances intended to become much more than home appliances. What is… Samsung Electronics has announced the expansion of its innovative Circle to Search feature to select Galaxy A series devices. This development marks a significant… EVs have never been a core issue in American elections. The American auto industry’s Big Three make profits from large pick-up trucks and ladder-frame… EX30 is Volvo’s sub-R1m EV offering. The Swedish brand has been a pioneering EV marketeer in South African, and this crossover model range is… Audi started small. Not in terms of ambition, but vehicle size. When Audi established itself as a standalone brand from VW, it had compact… In what is being hailed as a breakthrough moment for the human resources and learning and development sector, New Leaf Technologies says its cloud-based LXP aNewSpring will now include a moderation function built to comply with the SETA requirements. The learner logs into the aNewSpring platform to complete their learning and assessments. The work can then be evaluated by the course assessors online. Then the internal moderation process can take place within the organisation. Once this has been completed, an external moderator of the SETA will check the learner’s work as well as the assessment of the moderator online. If all is aligned, the learner will be issued a certificate. With the help of the platform, a wide range of learner activities may be evaluated and assessed. Enabling automatic marking of actions, which saves time and resources. The platform records input from the assessor and moderator as well as learner progress. “We are incredibly excited about this development,” says New Leaf Technologies co-founder Paul Hanly. “The new moderator role offers an important advantage for learning and development professionals by making it easier for training providers to calibrate evaluations of assessors and offer feedback,” he says. “They can also be sure that the training adheres to the highest standards and there’s no room for any kind of bias. This kind of advantage is of paramount importance when the training has rigorous requirements for quality control and certification.” “The updated system is a first-of-its-kind for Africa,” Hanly adds. “There has been a big demand for it in South Africa as it manages the process from end to end. Previously this process was handled manually, loaded from one platform to another, with results all over the place and messy. Now everything is streamlined and in one system without the need for paperwork or document storage.” READ NEXT: Job seekers turn to HRTech platform myPiitch for video CVs  Fintech innovation is increasingly targeting the world’s most influential consumer group: women. With women controlling a staggering 75% of global discretionary spending, fintech providers… South Africa boasts a vibrant financial sector, yet green SMEs, those championing sustainability and circular economy, often struggle to access the funding they need… South African CEOs are swiftly embracing generative AI solutions, aiming to boost operational efficiency and innovation, according to a recent IBM study. However, this… C-CONNECT, South Africa’s latest virtual mobile network operator (MVNO), has launched nationwide, targeting the country’s savvy prepaid users with a fresh approach to mobile… © Memeburn 2024, a Burn Media publication. No article may be published or reproduced without prior written permission from Memeburn. To improve your experience, deliver personalised content and advertising. Find out more by reading our cookie policy. Sign up to our newsletter to get the latest in digital insights. sign up Sign up to our newsletter to get the latest in digital insights. By signing up for this email you agree to receive the latest info from Burnmedia Group. Learn more via our Privacy Policy.