We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Medical News Today only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. Neck and shoulder heating pads may help loosen stiff joints and ease muscle aches and pains. Most of these devices warm up quickly, helping alleviate soreness within minutes. Please note that the writer of this article has not tried these products. All information presented is purely research-based and correct at the time of publication.  *Price may vary.  This large electronic heating pad covers the neck, shoulders, and the full length of the back. The company states it is fully adjustable and caters to most body shapes and sizes.   It features a velcro strap allowing a person to use the product hands-free. The velvety cover is machine washable.   In addition, it has four therapeutic heat settings ranging from 110–140°F (43.3–60°C) and an automatic shut-off feature.   The company provides a 5-year warranty.   *Price may vary.  This weighted heating pad contains clay beads that retain heat for approximately 30 minutes. A person can heat the product by placing it in the microwave for around 90 seconds. It can provide heat therapy to the neck and shoulders.   The company claims that the product provides 10–15 minutes of deep heat and remains warm for an additional 10–15 minutes.   For additional heat, a person can increase the heating time in increments of 30 seconds for up to 4 minutes.   People can also chill the pad in the freezer and use it as a cold pack, making it a versatile option for people wanting to ease discomfort from sore joints and muscles.   Its fabric is a hypoallergenic, 100% polyester Minky fabric. Additionally, the company provides a 1-year manufacturing warranty.   *Price may vary.  This electric heating pad comes with a sponge that a person can moisten for moist heat therapy. It provides heat to the neck and shoulders.   The heating pad also has a rapid heating feature and four temperature settings. However, the company does not specify the temperature ranges for these.   The product features an automatic switch-off after 90 minutes for safety. It also has an adjustable neck collar with a magnetic clasp and weighted edges to keep the pad in place. It uses a soft, micro plush material that is machine washable.   It comes with a 2-year limited warranty.   *Price may vary.  This electric heating pad features a micro glass bead filling. The company claims this may help a person relax by creating the feeling of being hugged or held.   The company says it uses a sewing technology that ensures the micro-glass beads have even distribution throughout the wrap. The cover is soft and machine-washable, and the wrap weighs 2.2 lb overall.   It features nine heat settings. However, the company does not specify the temperature ranges.   It has 11 automatic shut-off timers, ranging from 0.5 to 9 hours. The product also comes with a multifunctional controller with a backlight and countdown display.   The company offers a 5-year warranty, a 365-day free replacement policy, and a 90-day free returns period.   *Price may vary.  This microwaveable heat wrap contains a filling of natural products, including organic flaxseed, organic millet, and clay beads. It also contains lavender, chamomile, peppermint, and lemongrass to create a relaxing scent.   The product can deliver both heat and cold therapy to the neck and shoulders. A person needs to place it in the microwave or in the freezer before using it.   The cover is a soft Minky fabric, which the company claims is skin-friendly and durable enough to withstand frequent use. However, the fabric is not washable.   There is no information about the product’s warranty on its Amazon listing.  The table below provides a snapshot of how the best neck and shoulder heating pads compare to each other. Medical News Today chooses products that meet the following criteria: Medical News Today follows a strict product selection and vetting process. Learn more here. In addition to safety features, a person may wish to consider the following before purchasing a heating pad: Neck and shoulder heating pads are relatively safe products. However, they do pose some risks and require users to take precautions. People should consider a product’s safety features, including: Anyone experiencing chronic neck and shoulder pain should consider seeing a healthcare professional for a diagnosis and appropriate treatment. People may consider other products for relieving neck and shoulder pain, including: A person may also wish to try a massage with a professional massage therapist. Learn more about the best neck and shoulder massagers. Heat therapy helps to boost circulation, which increases the delivery of oxygen and nutrients to the body’s tissues. According to the Arthritis Foundation, this can help to loosen stiff joints and alleviate sore muscles. A 2021 meta-analysis into heat and cold therapy for delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) found that applying heat therapy within 1 hour of exercise could promote recovery. Both heat and cold therapy were effective in reducing DOMS pain. The researchers concluded that higher-quality research is necessary to determine whether heat or cold therapy is more effective. Research from 2018 states that using heat or cold therapy alongside ibuprofen was mildly and immediately effective in reducing neck and back pain. However, this pain relief may be attributable to ibuprofen. Importantly, people should not use heat therapy to replace more conventional forms of treatment. A person should talk with a doctor about any long-term aches or pains and whether heat or cold therapy will be more suitable. Learn more about heat and cold therapy. Below are answers to some frequently asked questions about heating pads. Heating pads boost circulation. This, in turn, increases the delivery of oxygen and nutrients to tissues, easing pain and discomfort. Most neck and shoulder heating pads warm up quickly and may help alleviate soreness within minutes. Both heat and ice can help to alleviate neck pain. Applying heat boosts circulation, helping to alleviate stiffness and soothe aching muscles. In contrast, applying cold reduces blood flow, helping to reduce swelling and associated pain following an injury.  A person can ask their doctor or pharmacist for further advice on which type of treatment is right for them.  Heating pads are generally safe. Many electric pads have an automatic switch-off feature for safety reasons, and they do not heat up to dangerous temperatures. People should not use heating pads with damaged wiring or on damaged skin. Pregnant people should speak with a doctor before using a heating pad. For microwavable products, particularly, a person may be at risk of injury if the heat pad bursts or if the stitching comes undone. It is also more difficult to control the temperature with microwaveable products. Advice varies on how long a person should leave a heating pad on their shoulders. However, leaving it on for around 20 minutes can help the muscles in the shoulder warm up and benefit from the heat. People should not use heat pads for longer than 20 minutes. Heated neck wraps may boost circulation and help ease stiff, sore muscles and pain, but there is limited research on this topic. If a person’s neck pain does not improve with home remedies like heated neck wraps, they should contact a doctor. Neck and shoulder heating pads can help to loosen stiff joints in the upper body and alleviate sore muscles. People can choose between microwaveable heating pads offering moist heat or electric heating pads offering dry heat.  When choosing a heating pad, people may wish to consider various factors, including product size and adjustability, temperature control, and product cost.  A person should speak with their doctor if they are experiencing ongoing pain in their neck or shoulders. They may also wish to ask them if heat therapy or cold therapy would be more suitable as a treatment. Share this article Massagers can help ease neck and shoulder pain. Learn more about benefits of massage therapy, where to buy massagers online, and alternative remedies. Hot massagers can relieve neck and shoulder pain by widening blood vessels and increasing blood flow. Read on to learn more about the health benefits… Neck massagers can help soothe neck aches and pains. Read on to learn more about what neck massagers are, where to buy one, and how they can help. Text neck syndrome may occur when someone spends a lot of time using a phone. Learn about the symptoms, causes, complications, and treatment options. There are a few conditions that cause carotid artery neck pain, such as carotidynia and carotid artery dissection. Learn more here. OUR BRANDS