News and resources on payments systems, innovations and initiatives worldwide. This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. Revolut, the global financial super app with 30 million customers worldwide, launches its new ultimate membership plan, Ultra. With over 430,000 people on the waiting list in the UK and Europe, this new top-tier plan boasts exceptional perks and aims to spearhead a new category of refined luxury. 
16 June 2023
Be the first to comment
 This content is provided by an external author without editing by Finextra. It expresses the views and opinions of the author. Platinum lifestyle When it came to designing its most precious card ever, Revolut had only one thing in mind - platinum. The platinum-plated card speaks for itself, and it comes with an extended list of elite benefits including subscriptions with Ultra partners such as Financial Times, NordVPN, WeWork, ClassPass and more, unlimited fee-free international money transfers, 1.2% cashback on Revolut Pro, and 24/7 member support.Ultra cards will be exclusively Mastercard, marking another milestone for the partnership, in which Mastercard is supporting Revolut's expansion. Ultra also offers purchase protection of up to 10,000 GBP/EUR a year on stolen or damaged items within a year of purchase, cancelled event protection of up to 5,000 GBP/EUR and refund protection of 600 GBP/EUR on eligible purchases within 90 days of purchase (Insurance T&Cs apply). Best-in-class travel companion Ultra is designed to be the ultimate travel companion, making every step of the journey smoother. Ultra members will have unlimited access to 1,400+ airport lounges worldwide which include food, drink and exceptional service. And if travel plans change, Ultra offers ‘Cancellation for Any Cause’ insurance. This gives customers freedom and flexibility when travelling, and it’s worth £420* based on estimated travel activity. Regardless of their reason for cancellation, Ultra members will be refunded up to £5,000/€5,000 per year for flights, trains, accommodation or events (Insurance T&Cs apply).Ultra account holders will also be able to travel the world with peace of mind knowing they have worldwide emergency medical and dental cover, including winter sports. Ultra travel insurance also includes cover for car-hire excess, lost or damaged baggage, delayed flights and personal liability (Insurance T&Cs apply). Additionally, Ultra members that book accommodation with Revolut Stays (Revolut’s accommodation booking feature) will receive up to 10% cashback. Ultra customers can spend like locals with unlimited foreign currency exchange in 30+ currencies, and transfer unlimited amounts of money at great exchange rates, with no fees between Monday and Friday. Customers are also offered 2,000 GBP/EUR in ATM withdrawals with no extra fees charged by Revolut worldwide saving an estimated £40*+ worth of fees per year. Subscription bundles for elevated lifestyle experiences Ultra also allows customers to access an ultimate subscription package, gathering a range of brand memberships together. This offer is unique to the market, with lifestyle features and benefits that if fully used by a customer will effectively earn back the cost of the plan for customers. These include access to subscriptions from brands including Financial Times Premium, 3 entries per month with WeWork, 20 credits per month with ClassPass, a NordVPN Complete plan and more - with a total retail value of £2,100*+ a year. Unlock wealth potential Ultra also offers the best wealth limits by Revolut: annual interest paid daily on savings in the UK (3% AER/Gross (variable) in GBP and 3.54% AER/Gross (variable) in USD) and in Poland (5% in PLN).Crypto fees have also been reduced with 0.49% per crypto trade versus 1.99% on Standard (Not regulated or protected. Value can go down. Tax may be payable). Attainable luxury Ultra's price is £540 per year for UK (Ultra fees details) customers to access this incredible range of benefits, which offer up to £4,100 of benefits in return, including exclusive lifestyle and travel benefits. On top of this, customers joining the annual plan via the waitlist will receive 5% cashback on purchases within their first month (capped at the monthly plan price, T&Cs apply). After this initial period, Ultra members can earn up to 0.1% cashback within Europe and the UK and 1% everywhere else in the world. Last but not least, freelancers and Revolut Pro users will enjoy 1.2% cashback on their Pro card payments. Tara Massoudi, Revolut General Manager of Premium Products, said: “An increasing number of our customers are interested in travel, lifestyle & investment products that offer top-of-the-line experiences. This growing consumer market is redefining luxury, making it more functional and present in day-to-day life. They want to build a steady passive income, but also enjoy life, keep up to date with the latest trends and travel the world.” “In response to our customers’ demands, we’re launching this new bespoke membership that we envision as the ultimate travelling and lifestyle companion. Revolut has put together a one-of-a -kind offering, second to none in Europe. This unique card and membership plan was ultimately designed for those who enjoy the finer things in life.” Scott Abrahams, Executive Vice President Channel Partnerships, Mastercard added: “This unique premium offering will connect Revolut customers to the travel and lifestyle benefits that they love. It’s the latest milestone in our partnership, creating innovative products and safe, secure ways for Revolut customers to pay.”  Welcome to Finextra. We use cookies to help us to deliver our services. You may change your preferences at our Cookie Centre. Please read our Privacy Policy. © Finextra Research 2024 Terms of usePrivacy PolicyCookie Centre