By Francesca Washtell, Financial Mail On Sunday   Updated:  08:09 EDT, 9 April 2023      3 View  comments  Humility: Matt Moulding When faced with the question of what to buy the boss who has everything, Matt Moulding's wife chose a striking photograph of a wildebeest leaping into a river. When Moulding came to write about it on Instagram, he opted to muse about leadership.  As well as talking yet again about the difficult time his company – online retailer THG – has had on the stock market since listing, he also discussed humility.  This is a 'rare quality' all leaders should have, said the protein shake sage. 'Too many people change as their careers progress. Egos grow and self-appreciation spirals out of control.' Perhaps someone could remind him of this the next time he is considering posting a topless selfie of his toned 50-something physique on social media? And anyone familiar with wildebeest knows that the first ones to cross a river are the quickest to be eaten. Watch out, Matt. Another week gone without Revolut getting its banking licence.  In late February The Mail on Sunday reported that the coveted stamp of approval from regulators was widely expected to be just weeks away.  Then, a few days later when it released its delayed annual accounts, finance boss Mikko Salovaara said the licence was due 'imminently'.   So will it be in days or are we still talking weeks? It is not clear.    There is a get-out-of-jail free card here, though, in that technically any length of time longer than a fortnight can be 'weeks away'.  Britain's shoppers may increasingly be turning to German discounters Aldi and Lidl to buy their groceries, but investors are still lining up to stock up on Sainsbury's shares. The value of its stock is up by a quarter so far this year after it reported a bumper Christmas. And another group in the City has also taken note of Sainsbury's success: short-sellers. The number of shorts – which are bets that a company's share price will fall – targeting Sainsbury's has roughly halved to 2.2 per cent of outstanding stock since the start of 2023. This is a four-year low and far less than the 9 per cent clocked up in early 2021. Looks like Sainsbury's is forcing City hedge funds to go on their own bargain hunts. Harbour Energy made headlines last week when it slashed a fifth of its workforce in the wake of the Government's windfall tax on oil and gas groups. The decision will have been tough for the biggest company in the North Sea.  But Whispers can reveal that other drastic measures have been discussed. After the energy profits levy was ramped up last November, a Harbour board meeting discussed moving its listing to the US.  The conversation is said to have been tentative and informal, but the idea was mooted as one of a number of 'options' available. Harbour declined to comment, but has so far stuck to the LSE while a host of other firms have defected to New York. Some links in this article may be affiliate links. If you click on them we may earn a small commission. That helps us fund This Is Money, and keep it free to use. We do not write articles to promote products. We do not allow any commercial relationship to affect our editorial independence. MORE HEADLINES Work out how a lump sum or regular monthly savings would grow Find the top deals in our independent best-buy tables This is Money is part of the Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday & Metro media group