UK Edition Revolut is considering a plan to bolster its presence in France or Spain as the financial technology group’s longed-for British banking licence looks increasingly in doubt. Bosses at the London-based business believe it would be prudent to set up another regulated entity in western Europe to support its growth there, whether it wins the UK licence or not. Any sign that Revolut, last valued at $33 billion, might drift away from London would be a blow to the government’s hopes to make Britain a global hub for technology. France and Spain are the most likely jurisdictions because both countries have made overtures to the company. Revolut already has a banking licence in Lithuania and from the European Central Bank. A Revolut spokesman declined to comment on potential plans in Europe and said: “We are a British company and London is our home.” It emerged this week that its ambition to secure a UK banking licence from City regulators was in question. The government is expected to hold a meeting with Revolut bosses in the next few weeks, at which the company’s place in ministers’ wider plans for economic growth are likely to be discussed. Nik Storonsky, the Revolut chief executive, has been critical of Britain as a place to do business, saying this month that there was “very little action” about making the country a technology and science superpower. Revolut, considered one of the crown jewels of Britain’s financial technology industry, was valued at $33 billion at its last fundraising round in 2021, making it one of Europe’s largest fintech businesses. It has more than 28 million customers worldwide, including more than six million in the UK. It was founded by Storonsky and Vlad Yatsenko in 2015 as a cross-border money transfer business and is now involved in everything from cryptocurrency trading to pet insurance. The company has been dogged by turbulence, however. A string of executives have left Revolut in recent months, including James Radford, its UK banking chief. Mikko Salovaara, the group’s finance chief, is also leaving. Revolut has attracted scrutiny for its overdue 2021 figures, which were filed at Companies House in March. In the accounts, BDO, the group’s external auditor, raised concerns about the controls and procedures behind about £477 million of Revolut’s £636 million in annual revenues that year. A UK banking licence is key to its growth plans. Not only would it allow Revolut to expand its business in Britain by taking customer deposits and lending, but also it would bolster its international growth ambitions. Approval from Revolut’s lead regulators at home would help it to secure the backing of watchdogs in other countries. Revolut bosses were taken by surprise when it emerged on Thursday that the Prudential Regulation Authority had told the Treasury it was minded to reject Revolut’s protracted licence application. Neither the regulator nor the Treasury commented. © Times Media Limited 2024. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.