Revolut has launched a course to make cryptocurrency more accessible to customers.  

Launched in partnership with crypto platform Polkadot, users will be able to learn about staking and given the opportunity to collect DOT tokens – the native token of Polkadot – by staking directly in the Revolut app. 

This is the fourth cryptocurrency education course that Revolut has launched to increase literacy and engagement within the area. It explains the process of staking and the process of multichain interaction with visual materials, interactive cards and videos.

The course is available to Revolut customers in the UK and EEA who can get up to eight DOT tokens by taking the course and passing the final quiz. The customer can then stake these tokens in the app. At time of writing, one DOT token is valued at $5.64.

Revolut said that millions of its customers have completed a ‘learn and earn’ course since they were launched in the app in July 2022. Revolut said it plans to add more courses this year to help people manage their finances.  

Emil Urmanshin, crypto general manager at Revolut, said: ““We believe that the only way customers can make informed decisions about their finances is by making sure that they have all the right tools to understand how crypto works.” 

Revolut recently revealed its first full year of profitability. The delayed accounts for the 12-months ended 31 December 2021 demonstrate that the company made £26.3 million in profit over the period.    Monzo tops CMA poll for UK banking customer satisfaction Payments Awards 2024 shortlist announced  HSBC to tackle quantum cyber threats in new consortium  Swedish FinTech giant Klarna unveils new banking features Texas adds NatWest to energy ‘boycott’ list over financing restrictions Apple gives developers access to Tap to Pay tech after pressure from EU Citi’s head of digital assets to exit after 14 years  Revolut valuation hits $45bn after share sale HSBC joins Nationwide and Lloyds Bank in sharing digital property data Mastercard to axe 1,000 jobs RAKBANK partners with Bitpanda  Mastercard to axe 1,000 jobs Revolut valuation hits $45bn after share sale UBS to divest quantitative investment unit to Manteio Partners PSR outlines next steps in expanding VRPs  Swedish FinTech giant Klarna unveils new banking features Monzo tops CMA poll for UK banking customer satisfaction Science Card launches debit card to help fund scientific research Apple gives developers access to Tap to Pay tech after pressure from EU Texas adds NatWest to energy ‘boycott’ list over financing restrictions PQ.Hosting: The Cornerstone of Reliable and Secure Hosting for Fintech Innovators Intelligent finance: Redefining resilience for the digital era Revolutionising financial services: The path to intelligent banking in the digital age Huawei's Approach to Build a Strong and Digital Software Foundation for Smart Financial Services Why financial services leaders must reframe their perception of cybersecurity The power of digital transformation: How SCB added 45,000 new customers to its Digital Loan business Critical requirements for tomorrow’s intelligent finance — acceleration of technology application 4 Simple steps to securing your Microsoft 365 environment    