Revolut are joining the insurance game and will be offering premiums of up to 30% cheaper than the next best provider in the market with the option for Smart Driving Revolut is set to offer 30% cheaper car insurance than other providers in Ireland. The baking app announced that they will have competitive pricing, flexible product options, and a quick and easy user experience. People can join their waitlist and be in with the chance to win €2,500. Read more: Cheapest cars to insure in Ireland revealed In a statement to RSVP Live, Revolut explained that their insurance will be launching in the coming months. They said: “From today, the waitlist for Revolut Car Insurance is being rolled out to customers in Ireland - which will launch this spring. “Focused on flexible and transparent pricing, Revolut’s refreshed price benchmarking offers premiums of up to 30% cheaper than the next best provider in the market. “Additionally, Revolut will offer eligible customers additional discounts of up to 25% off if they enable the Smart Driving feature through easy installation of a device that plugs directly into the car’s accessory socket.” Those who choose the Smart Driving option, will be given a price individually based on their driving behaviour. Revolut stated: “Once Revolut Car Insurance is launched, customers using Smart Driving will have the ability to get better rates every year.” The company is the first in the market to provide an app-based Car Insurance journey. They shared: “The quick and easy onboarding journey is fully digital with less than 5 minutes to get a quote for those eligible - several times faster than the market standard. “With both annual and monthly payment options available, Revolut Car Insurance will offer customers flexible payment options with no hidden fees such as interest rates on monthly payments, widespread in Ireland today. “The in-app policy management offers customers an end-to-end digital journey . As a truly flexible service, customers can cancel at any time without incurring any extra costs.” Balazs Gati, Revolut General Manager Insurance, said, “We’re delighted to announce that Revolut Car Insurance will soon be available in our superapp, offering our customers in Ireland a convenient way to insure their vehicles. We have worked to provide great pricing, flexible and bespoke plans, and a hassle-free user experience. “We’ve taken a fresh approach to car insurance, and we’re looking forward to hearing feedback from our customers over the coming weeks.” If you are an existing Revolut customer, you can sign up to the waitlist in the Revolut app by 13th April 2023 and buy a policy from Revolut by 30th May 2024 will get a chance to win €2,500. Those who aren’t already Revolut customers, can download the Revolut app, open an account, and join the waitlist by 13th April, 2023 to get a chance to win €2,500. People can join the waitlist and learn more about it here. Get the latest RSVP headlines straight to your inbox for free by  signing up to our newsletter READ MORE