
			Discover the cheapest ways to withdraw and spend your money overseas
		 Before going abroad, it’s important to make sure you have the best payment card with you, or your holiday spending could quickly start racking up hefty fees. Some providers issue fees of around 3pc added to all foreign purchases, and ATM withdrawals can also attract instant fees and interest. Fortunately, a range of debit and credit cards offer fee-free spending and cash withdrawals abroad. Some even offer additional perks including cashback, meaning banks will pay you to spend rather than the other way around. Rachel Springall, of financial analyst Moneyfacts, said: “Holidaymakers looking to make their cash go further should apply for a credit card designed for use abroad, or open a current account with a debit card which does not charge for making withdrawals.” Here, Telegraph Money takes a closer look at the best bank cards to take on your next holiday. There are three charges that could be added to your foreign transactions by your credit or debit card provider: Some might charge just one of these, while others will charge all three.  For credit or debit card purchases – such as buying a meal at a restaurant – non-sterling transaction fees are usually around 3pc. This may be charged in addition to a spending charge, which is usually between 50p and £1.50.  Paying £100 for a meal while you’re away, for example, could therefore cost you up to £104.50. These fees can seriously add up, especially when making smaller purchases. If you make five transactions in a day, you could be looking at £7.50 in spending charges alone, plus the non-sterling transaction fee. ATM fees vary between providers, but you could end up paying a cash advance interest – and in some cases this is charged every day until you pay it off. A non-sterling cash fee is usually around 3pc, with a minimum charge of £3. This means even a small cash withdrawal of £20 could cost £23 plus interest. The good news is, there are lots of ways to avoid these charges altogether – you just need to have the right card for the job. The key to finding a good travel debit or credit card is making sure it doesn’t charge any of these foreign spending fees. Chase’s debit card fits this criteria, and it also pays you 1% cashback on most purchases, even when you’re abroad. This means that for many, it’s likely to be the best pick for which card to use abroad. Monzo and Starling – two very popular current account providers – also don’t charge fees on spending and cash withdrawals abroad.  However, Chase lets you take out up to £500 per day, and £1,500 per month, with Starling, there’s a cap of £300 a day, and Monzo only allows fee-free ATM withdrawals of up to £250 over a 30-day period. If you go over this you are charged 3pc. You may prefer to use a credit card while abroad due to the Section 75 protection they offer. If something goes wrong, you can reclaim the value of purchases between £100 and £30,000 from your credit card provider. The top credit cards to use abroad right now include the travel-friendly Barclaycard Rewards Card, and Halifax Clarity credit card. Andrew Hagger, of personal finance website MoneyComms, said: “Unlike most credit cards, Barclaycard Rewards doesn’t charge any fees or interest charges on purchases overseas or cash withdrawals, provided you pay your statement in full by the due date.” As a small added bonus, you also get 0.25pc cashback on your spending. Halifax’s Clarity card is another favourite with holidaymakers, as there is no exchange rate mark-up for purchases or ATM transactions. That said, you will pay up to 28.94pc interest on any cash withdrawals. This begins the moment they are made. Mr Hagger added: “On a £100 ATM withdrawal, this will work out at around £2.30 over 30 days.” If you don’t want to take out a new credit card or open a new bank account, Currensea might be the best option for you. Mr Hagger says: “Currensea provides you with a Mastercard that you link to your existing current account. The beauty is, you don’t have to worry about pre-loading with euros or dollars before you set off.” According to its website you can currently only link up with 14 providers – though most major British banks are signed up – and the card does come with some charges.  There are three price plans to choose from. The essential package has no annual fee, but charges 0.5pc foreign exchange charge on both purchases and ATM withdrawals. There are no additional charges for the first £500 cash withdrawals each month, but anything above this monthly limit attracts a 2pc fee. The premium plan is £25 annually and the elite plan costs £120 per year. Mr Hagger said these might suit frequent travellers as they come with lower foreign exchange rates and additional features. Another option you might want to consider for your overseas trip is a prepaid card. These can be particularly beneficial if you want to stick to a budget, as you can load up the card before you go – either in sterling or your chosen currency – and then it’s ready to spend while you’re away. A classic choice is the Post Office Travel Money Card. It allows you to carry up to 22 currencies, and can be managed via an app should you want to move your cash around. It also syncs up with Apple Pay and Google Pay if you want to make transactions via your phone or smartwatch. You’ll use the Post Office exchange rate and there are no spending charges. Elsewhere, among its other features, Revolut’s card can be handy to take abroad. If you sign up to its free plan, you can exchange up to £1,000 per month fee-free – but only from Monday to Friday. There’s a 1pc exchange fee at weekends. You can also get free ATM withdrawals up to a maximum of £200 over a 30-day period. Over this, there is a 2pc charge. The FairFX multi-currency card is another good alternative, as there is no exchange rate mark up for the 20 currencies available to load on the card. There is, however, a £1 fee on all ATM withdrawals. Another fee to watch out for is inactivity fees. This card charges £2 per month on any remaining balance if it’s left loaded after its expiry date. The similarly named EasyFX card doesn’t charge for ATM withdrawals or to load your card. However, if you lose it and need a replacement there is a £6 charge, and it will also take £2 per month if the card hasn’t been used for more than 12 months. If you’re given the option of paying in sterling, as opposed to the local currency, whether you’re in a shop, restaurant or other outlet during your holiday, you should always say no. Opting to pay in sterling means you’re giving the card payment provider the chance to decide the exchange rate, via a process known as “dynamic currency conversion”. The rate is unlikely to be in your favour. Matt Sanders, of Go.Compare Money, said: “In most cases you will get a better currency rate from your card provider, so if you are presented with the option of paying in pounds, opt against it, as it may cost you more.” Wind the clock back 10 or 20 years ago, and hardly anyone would be considering regularly using your debit or credit card abroad – instead, travel wallets would be stuffed with foreign currency, and even a few traveller’s cheques. Cash use is in decline in the majority of holiday destinations, but is it still worth taking at least a little cash with you? This will largely depend on the destination; you probably won’t need as much cash if you’re visiting Sweden than, say, a remote town that is yet to catch up with the contactless revolution. “There’s not a great need to carry a large quantity these days,” said Mr Hagger, “although some people like to carry a little for tipping taxi drivers, room cleaners or in bars or restaurants.”