If not listed, please contact your TV provider. Rewind to the 2005 NFL Draft, and the Dallas Cowboys are on the clock with the 11th overall pick. They only had 33 sacks in 2004, the seventh-fewest in the league, so they were looking to boost their pass rush. Their front office was split between two prospects: Maryland's Shawne Merriman and Troy's DeMarcus Ware. Then-head coach Bill Parcells, a Pro Football Hall of Famer, was on Team Merriman, while owner Jerry Jones, another Pro Football Hall of Famer, was on Team Ware.  Jones had final say, and the Silver and Blue went with Ware. But in doing so, the two agreed on a bet -- one in which Ware made Jones all of one dollar as he produced a Hall of Fame career. Jones honored that career on Sunday by inducting Jones into the Cowboys Ring of Honor at halftime of their Week 8 contest against the Los Angeles Rams, a game Dallas leads 33-9.  "[Jones] and then-Cowboys head coach Bill Parcells had a bet for one dollar saying I had to average eight sacks for three years, or I would be a bust," DeMarcus Ware said during the Hall of Fame Game between the Cleveland Browns and New York Jets on NBC. "That's because Bill Parcells wanted Shawne Merriman. When I averaged about 11 or 12 sacks for 12 years, Jerry Jones won that bet. It's so cool because I have that dollar that he gave to me to signify that I won that bet. That's why he's announcing for me, presenting me into this Hall."   The #DallasCowboys officially enshrine Pro Football Hall of Famer DeMarcus Ware into their Ring of Honor, unveiling his name next to Pro Football Hall of Fame offensive lineman Larry Allen. pic.twitter.com/CE1FdMY3OH That undying faith Jones displayed in Ware is why the Dallas owner presented Ware for his Hall of Fame enshrinement as well as his Ring of Honor induction on Sunday. He more than earned his induction on the field with the following accolades: That resume provides Ware and Jones with all-time bragging rights over Merriman, who went one pick later (12th overall to the Chargers) and Parcells. Ware also has bragging rights of his own as his legacy will live on forever at the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio and at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas.  Seasons 12 (2005-2016) 8 (2005-2012) All-Decade Team selections 1 (2000's) 0 First-team All-Pro selections 4 1 Pro Bowl selections 9 3 Sacks 138.5 45.5 Seasons to lead the NFL in sacks 2 (2008 & 2010) 1 (2006) Super Bowls 1 (won Super Bowl 50 with Broncos in 2015) 0 © 2004-2024 CBS Interactive. All Rights Reserved. CBS Sports is a registered trademark of CBS Broadcasting Inc. Commissioner.com is a registered trademark of CBS Interactive Inc. The content on this site is for entertainment purposes only and CBS Sports makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy of the information given or the outcome of any game or event. There is no gambling offered on this site. This site contains commercial content and CBS Sports may be compensated for the links provided on this site. Images by Getty Images and US Presswire