Schneider Electric TeSys 19/08/2024  Easyfairs - London Packaging Week 19/08/2024  Renishaw PLC 19/08/2024  Tezmaksan 20/12/2022  Novotek AB Move delivers far reaching and complex skills to help manage the modern industrial IT and automation ecosystem ~ Novotek, the multinational industrial IT and automation company, has acquired Astec IT Solutions, an operational technology, industrial IT and IoT systems integrator (SI) based in Staffordshire. The move expands both companies’ ability to deliver innovative smart manufacturing solutions. As a result of the acquisition, Astec IT Solutions has changed its name to Novotek Solutions UK & Ireland Limited. Astec has been a key UK partner for Novotek since the 2000s, delivering solutions based on GE Digital software across industry. This relationship has continued to strengthen over the years and recently the two businesses agreed that an even closer collaboration could deliver more customer value. The complexity and range of the product offerings provided by the major global vendors, such as GE Digital and PTC, has become increasingly broad and deep over the last decade. As a result, the minimum set of skills and experience required to provide these services at a high level of excellence has developed over that same period. The newly re-branded Novotek Solutions UK & Ireland Ltd will play a key role in delivering vendor-led expert services, to ensure that customers benefit from modern architectures and deployment methods as they adopt the current generation of edge tech, automation, data management, and analytics solutions. This acquisition is part of Novotek’s quest to elevate UK Plc and allow manufacturing and industry to fulfil their digital needs.   “This acquisition means we can work more effectively, with the rest of the systems integration community,” explained George Walker, managing director of Novotek UK & Ireland. “It will add strength and increased expertise benefiting our customers, vendors and partners as well as our SI network.” “At their very core, the team at Astec are brilliant engineers,” added Tobias Antius, CEO of the Novotek group of companies. “Joining forces with them in this way allows us to accelerate how end users and the integrator community that serves them can take on the newest solutions and the implementation approaches that are evolving alongside them. “That translates to our ultimate customers getting the productivity, innovation and sustainability advantages that are behind their investments in the first place.” System integrators with whom Novotek UK and Ireland already work will be unaffected by the move and Novotek’s pre-existing goals to drive organic growth remain unchanged, with hiring in both the sales and solutions arms actively underway. “Novotek has been a brilliant partner to us over nearly two decades,” explained Andy Tripp, managing director at Novotek UK & Ireland Solutions Ltd, formerly Astec IT Solutions. “This new phase of our relationship is the beginning of a step change in the value and power we deliver to our customers, as part of the Novotek family.” Print this article For more information, please contact:Novotek ABHojdrodergatan 18212 39 MalmoBox 16014200 25 MalmoSwedenTel: +46 (0)40 31 69 00Email: info@novotek.comWeb: https://www.novotek.com   Visit company profile page Lindsley Ruth steps down as CEO, RS Group Login or Register Process and Control Today are not responsible for the content of submitted or externally produced articles and images. Click here to email us about any errors or omissions contained within this article. eNewsletter sign-up View our eNewsletter Archive Sign-up for our weekly eNewsletter Connect with us: Advertise with us | Media pack © Copyright 1999-2024 Process and Control Today LtdRegistered in England No. 3733110 - studio44