Video Gamer is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Prices subject to change. Learn more The Starfield Ryujin Industries faction is a mega-corporation intent of chasing profit whatever the cost, even if that involves leaving a trail of bodies or sabotaging competitors in dubious fashion. We’ll cover everything you need to know about the Starfield Ryujin Industries faction, what they’re about, and whether you can join them. There’s a massive range of factions in-game, from the law-and-order Starfield United Colonies faction to the chaotic piracy of the Starfield Crimson Fleet faction. But Ryujin Industries presents a different direction to explore entirely. Ryujin Industries is a mega-corporation faction in Starfield. They’re one of the most powerful corporate entities in the game. Profit is their endgame goal above all else, led in part by highly advanced technology such as neuroamps, brain implants that allow users to influence and control others. Ryujin Industries operates out of the city of Neon on Volii Alpha in the Volii System. It’s not a capital per se, but is home to their corporate headquarters. Neon was once a fishing dock, but after the discovery that the fish there had psychotropic properties, a booming narcotics trade sprang up, turning it into a pleasure city.  Yes, you can join the Starfield Ryujin Industries faction. To join, interact with a Ryujin Industries kiosk and apply for a job at the corporation. You’ll find kiosks throughout the Settled Systems, but for ease, there’s one opposite the elevator that leads to the Neon Core when you enter via the spaceport. From there, you’ll climb the corportate ladder, capitalising on your ability to deal with sticky situations with stealth and underhand tactics. Expect the churn through corporate dirty work, climbing the ranks as you improve your reputation. But joining is certainly worth doing, with Lead Quest Designer Will Shen describing the Ryujin Industries story as ‘one of the best starts of all the factions in Starfield.’ That’s everything you need to know about the Starfield Ryujin Industries faction, who they are, and how to join them. Be sure to take a look at some of the other factions available, like the Starfield Freestar Collective faction, to see what they can offer you as well. Alternatively, if you want a Starfield factions list to get a full but succinct overview of every faction we know about right now, we’ve got you covered. For help starting your stellar journey in style, check out our Starfield tricks and tips, where to get Digipicks, the best Starfield reactor, the best Starfield spacesuits, the Jemison Mercantile location, and our walkthrough for the Sabotage and Absolute Power side quests. Fin is a Guides and Reviews writer for Videogamer.com. He's worked previously with Startmenu, The Loadout, and more. He plays everything from strategy and sandbox titles to FPS and souls-likes.  
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy and may receive occasional deal communications; you can unsubscribe anytime.
