Astec Industries, Inc. announced Wednesday its financial results for the second quarter of 2023. "Our execution with a focus on creating stability and profitability was effective as we achieved sales growth and margin expansion in the second quarter compared to the same quarter in 2022," said Jaco van der Merwe, chief executive officer. "I commend our employees for their dedication and hard work. Consistent with our first quarter results, we realized prior pricing actions to offset inflation.						
						


















						
						 Backlog trended downward in the quarter supported by fulfilling parts orders more efficiently, experiencing fewer supply chain disruptions and driving manufacturing lead times. Our ERP implementation continues to be on schedule and on budget as we transform how we connect people, products and processes to operate more efficiently as OneASTEC. We have now integrated our first manufacturing site and corporate in addition to our human capital management modules. We are encouraged by our results as we execute our strategic initiatives. Our strong balance sheet and the multi-year federal highway bill are expected to continue to provide stability as we grow." (a)Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior period financial information to conform to the presentation used in the financial statements for the three months ended June 30. Net sales were driven by favorable net changes in volume, pricing and mix that generated increases in service and equipment installation, equipment sales, parts and component sales and used equipment partially offset by freight and other revenue. Demand was strong domestically while international sales declined. Sales reported by foreign subsidiaries in U.S. dollars for the second quarter of 2023 would have been $3.5 million higher had second quarter 2023 foreign exchange rates been the same as second quarter 2022 rates. The backlog continues to be elevated, while decreasing from historically high levels in 2022. Sales delivery outpaced new orders. The company expects backlog to continue to normalize as customer order patterns adjust to the current environment of diminished supply chain constraints that caused prior manufacturing throughput disruptions. Additionally, the company is focused on prudent expansion of production capacity. It anticipates this will allow it to convert backlog more quickly to sales in the future. Operating income increased as favorable net volume, pricing and mix of sales outpaced inflation, manufacturing inefficiencies, increased selling, general and administrative expenses and restructuring charges. Selling, general and administrative expenses were lower as a percentage of sales.
 Adjusted net income and Adjusted EPS exclude $6.8 million and $0.29, respectively, of incremental costs, net of tax, primarily driven by our transformation program initiatives to optimize the company for long term value creation. Segments Results						
						            Infrastructure Solutions – Road building equipment, asphalt and concrete plants, thermal storage solutions. Net sales of $218.1 million increased 4.1 percent due to favorable net volume, pricing and mix of sales that generated increased service and equipment installation revenue, parts and component sales and used equipment sales. These increases were partially offset by seasonally lower new equipment sales and freight revenue. Segment Operating Adjusted EBITDA of $26.7 million increased 67.9 percent primarily due to gross margin impacts for net positive volume, pricing and mix. Segment Operating Adjusted EBITDA margin of 12.2 percent increased 460 basis points. Materials Solutions – Processing equipment to crush, screen and convey aggregates. Net sales of $130.2 million increased 21.2 percent due to favorable net volume, pricing and mix of sales. The increase was driven by higher new equipment sales and parts and component sales, partially offset by the increased utilization of our interest subsidy programs offered to certain of dealer customers. Segment Operating Adjusted EBITDA of $18.3 million increased 92.6 percent due to increased net volume, pricing and mix of sales and foreign currency translation losses in 2022 that did not recur in 2023. The increase was partially offset by higher inflation on materials, labor and overhead costs and manufacturing inefficiencies. Segment Operating Adjusted EBITDA margin of 14.1 percent increased 530 basis points. Balance Sheet, Cash Flow and Liquidity The company ended the quarter with balance sheet cash of $44.5 million, a 12.1 percent decrease from June 30, 2022. Net cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, was $2.5 million as the company carried additional inventories on hand to satisfy customer demand for products. Net cash provided by investing activities for the six months ended June 30 was $2.6 million due to the net proceeds from the sale and purchase of property and equipment. Net cash consumed by financing activities for the six months ended June 30 was $22.0 million primarily due to higher net repayments on outstanding debt obligations and funding the dividend payment. Second Quarter Capital Allocation Capital expenditure investments to increase capacity and improve efficiency were $9.1 million.						
						            Dividend payment of $0.13 per share.   Chris Hopkins, co-founder and principal of Apogee Wealth Partners, shares his career highlights - all the way back to age six when he was selling vacuums with his grandmother, to being a plant ...  more Here are the new business licenses from the County Clerk's office: 
 423 SMOKE SHOP LLC ABDEL R BABIKIR 3734 RINGGOLD RD CHATTANOOGA TN 37412 
 
ALL CITY BARBER COMPANY CHRISTOPHER A STERCHI ...  more Clint Powell interviewed Dylan Rivera, director of policy planning and implementation for the office of Chattanooga Mayor Tim Kelly. 
 He discussed why he got into politics, living in California ...  more