Alef Model A flying car's Oct. 19 2022 unveiling.[Photo: All rights Alef Aeronautics Inc.] Aamer Charania
President and Founder 
Dallas AI
.…on the promise of artificial intelligence, via the Dallas Regional Chamber. Aamer Charania Sunday was national AI Appreciation Day, so to mark it, the Dallas Regional Chamber did a Q&A with Charania and Babar Bhatti, co-founder and EVP of DallasAI, a nonprofit forum to accelerate learning and adoption of artificial intelligence. The co-founders addressed both the promise and perils of AI. So let’s start with the fun part: the promise.  “Just recently the FAA awarded a special airworthiness certificate to Alef Aeronautics for its Model A flying car (above),” Charania noted, pointing out one of the AI-powered marvels that could one day be part of our daily lives. Babar Bhatti “People (including myself) are both excited and concerned of the risks” of AI, Bhatti told the DRC, “especially impact to competition for jobs the jobs themselves. People with knowledge about AI tools and how to use them will have advantages.” The co-founders said AI will have as transformational an impact as the advent of electricity, the Internet, and smart phones, all of which Charania said “have forever changed the world.” But they join others in their concern about things like ChatGPT’s misuse for deep fakes and election meddling, along with the impact of “ultra-personalized social media on kids.” For more on how they see AI impacting our world, read the Q&A by going here. For more of who said what about all things North Texas, check out Every Last Word.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   North Texas has plenty to see, hear, and watch. Here are our editors' picks. Plus, you'll find more selections to "save the date." Welcome to the pulse of North Texas, where creativity and innovation converge to shape the future of business and beyond. Peruse Dallas Innovates' special once-a-year magazines. Each edition is a keeper. Read “who said what” in our roundup of quotes about all things North Texas, including ENO8's Jeff Francis; MyndVR's Chris Brickler and Ted Werth; Axxess' John Olajide; the Urban Land Institute's Ron Pressman; Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson; the Mavs Foundation's Katie Edwards; UT Arlington's Yi Hong; HomeUSA.com's Ben Caballero; ParkHub's George Baker Sr.; and more. Don't miss your chance to get our biggest-ever Dallas Innovates magazine. Request a complimentary copy of the once-a-year limited edition now. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.