
Published: May 2, 2023 01:00 pm 
 With the 2023 Mid-Season Invitational update in the rearview mirror, Riot Games is now turning its focus to League of Legends ranked play balance and the champions and items that have seen spiking win rates in season 13’s early months. The League pro scene may be taking a deep breath before MSI 2023, but battles across Summoner’s Rift certainly don’t stop for anyone or anything. The next update cycle, 13.9, began properly on Monday, April 23. While the development boss Matt “Phroxzon” Leung-Harrison is normally the one unveiling all the planned buffs, nerfs, and changes coming in the first May patch, the preview was released by the League of Legends Dev Team account. The headlining gameplay change comes in the form of a rework: Neeko, the Curious Chameleon is getting a new lease on life after a week of heavy testing on the League PBE—and the results are already looking very fun. Here’s everything you need to know about League Patch 13.9. The next update of 2023 will roll out on Wednesday, May 3, according to Riot’s patch schedule. As per usual, the patch will roll out worldwide across the day, starting in Australia at around 10am (AEDT). Here are the key patch rollout times for some of the major League servers: There will be several hours of downtime once the patch begins. Matchmaking and competitive queues will be disabled across all League servers three hours before the update is officially deployed and set live. Neeko is set to become one of the trickiest champions in League with her mid-scope update, with her passive now allowing her to become characters, plants, minions, and more. The Curious Chameleon was released in 2018 and has struggled to find a strong spot in the metagame ever since. Though these solid changes to her Q, W, E, and ultimate, as well as the new tricky upgrades in her passive, should turn her into a fighting force on the Rift toward the backend of the 2023 League season. Related: Neeko’s huge mid-scope League update gives her more tools to fool The changes set to roll out in Patch 13.9 are pretty small compared to previous updates since the League dev team is preparing for Patch 13.10. The devs said 13.10 will be the most significant patch since the start of the season. The focus for this patch has mainly been to make certain champions, like Neeko, feel relevant, useful, and viable in the meta. With these changes, Neeko, among other champions, may find a spot in the meta. The Riot devs are also working on several Kayle changes that they loaded onto the League PBE early, including Divine Ascent (passive) and Starfire Spellblade (E) tweaks and a variety of changes for her Divine Judgment ultimate. After more than a decade on the roster with one of her earliest League splash arts, Sivir is finally getting an update. What’s notable about this change, and why many players are talking about it, is that Sivir’s vintage loading screen image had what appeared to be a bent-in-half spine—a posture problem this 2023 change avoids. Related: Long-awaited Sivir update finally kills one of League’s oldest memes This time around, seven champions are getting Inkshadow skins, including Master Yi (who gets a premium cosmetic), Volibear, Aurelion Sol, Yone, Yasuo, and more. On top of these seven variants, Yasuo will get a Prestige version. It will be available in the 2023 MSI Event Pass for 2,000 MSI tokens. Here are all the new skins coming in this patch: These murky new skins are set to go live during the League Patch 13.9 cycle. Here are the official patch notes for the May 3 update.  Updated April 26 11:57pm CT: Added all League patch details, as shared by @LoLdevs.