Login Instant bragging rights. Updated on December 20, 2:10 p.m. (GMT+8): Added Silver Kayle, King Rammus, and UFO Corki skins. There are over a thousand skins in League of Legends, but only a handful of these can be considered exceptional and rare. Yes, we’re talking about those that only appeared in the store for special occasions and skins that were only available for one time from special events. 8. Medieval Twitch7. UFO Corki6. Black Alistar5. Silver Kayle4. Young Ryze3. King Rammus2. Riot Squad Singed1. PAX Twisted Fate and PAX Jax Long-time League of Legends players will remember Riot Games‘ Refer-A-Friend program, which ran from 2012 to 2015. Summoners were able to earn rewards in exchange for recruiting players to the game. The ultimate reward from the program is the Medieval Twitch skin, which required players to recruit a whopping 350 friends. Medieval Twitch features the Plague Rat in metal armor with matching royal robes in red and gold. His Chem Crossbow has been transformed into what looks like a primitive weapon made out of wood and metal, with tons of spikes on the bow itself. This Twitch skin is no longer as rare as it was before, however, for players who hit the highest honor level — honor level five — will receive a token that lets them redeem the skin from the honor shop alongside Gray Warwick. Released in 2009, the UFO Corki skin was given to all League of Legends players who signed up to play the game before January 14, 2010. This makes UFO Corki an exceptionally rare skin — if you have it, you’re already entitled to a LoL senior citizen card! The skin shows the bombardier manning an unidentified flying object (UFO) while wearing spiked, bright green headgear. Black Alistar skin was given away to earlier League of Legends players as a thank-you gift for getting the game. Only players who pre-ordered the League of Legends Digital Collector’s Edition in 2009 own this skin, which has never appeared in the store. The Black Alistar skin features the minotaur in a coal-black skin tone, with matching gold accents. His hair has been dyed a golden color as well. Another League of Legends Digital Collector’s Edition preorder bonus, Silver Kayle is a limited-edition skin that will never be sold via the in-game client according to lead champion designer August “August” Browning. However, in 2019, the skin was made available for purchase on Garena servers via Lucky Crates for 125 RP apiece. Silver Kayle features the champion in a simple yet elegant silver armor that emphasizes her large, white pair of wings. The skin uses blue particle effects following the champion’s rework in 2020. The only skin that shows the Rune Mage Ryze in his human form is the Young Ryze skin. This skin was given to those who pre-ordered the League of Legends Retail Collector’s Edition before October 27, 2009, the game’s global release. Like Black Alistar, this skin has never appeared in the store. Young Ryze highlights the mage about a thousand years before he became the master magician we know today. As a mage apprentice, Ryze sports a mohawk hairstyle tied neatly as a man bun. Even as a youngster, Ryze carries his humongous, iconic scroll on his back. It’s a-me, King Rammus! This skin was only given exclusively to players who participated in LoL’s closed beta testing from April to October 2009, making it one of the rarest skins in League of Legends. The skin seems to be heavily inspired by another popular spiked video game character, presenting the champion in yellow and green colors with an accompanying crown effect in his Defensive Ball Curl ability. The top two skins on this list are in a tier of their own in terms of rarity and were only given out at game conventions early in LoL’s life. Riot Squad Singed was given away during Gamescom 2010 as a redemption code handed out by roaming Riot Games employees. It was also handed out at a few other game conventions in 2011, and was made briefly available in the League of Legends client store during PAX Prime 2011. Riot Squad Singed displays the Mad Chemist in clothing and accessories marked with the 2011 Riot Games logo. Aside from his suit, Singed’s Poison Gas and Empowered Bulwark bear the classic company logo. The latter has been transformed into a huge riot shield which even has Riot’s signature fist logo on top. Given out 11 years ago during League of Legends’ first event at PAX 2009 in Seattle, Washington, PAX Twisted Fate (TF) and Jax are probably the game’s rarest skins. Twisted Fate was given away to PAX’s first 20,000 attendees and has never appeared in the LoL store. And even if you do manage to grab an unused code somewhere, you won’t be able to claim it as redemption for these skins were disabled in 2014. PAX Twisted Fate shows our favorite Card Master in sleek fashion, sporting an all-black outfit with blue and silver details. His cape on the outer part shows the PAX 2009 event logo. PAX Jax was given away the following year during PAX East 2010, PAX Prime 2010, and PAX East 2011. He shares a similar color theme, wearing a yellow and blue robe. Follow ONE Esports on Facebook and Twitter for more LoL news, guides, and highlights. Just a heads up, some of the links on ONE Esports are affiliate links. This means if you click on them and make a purchase, we may earn a small commission at no additional cost to you. It’s a way for us to keep the site running and provide you with valuable content. Thanks for your support! READ MORE: Ranking the League of Legends World Championship skins Sign up for a free ONE Esports account and start engaging with other fans! You'll also receive a monthly newsletter and other goodies!