Here's "Greater than One" by ericdoa, the new music track dedicated to Valorant's new Agent Gekko. 👀  
Published: March 5, 2023 3:25 PM /
 
By: Giuseppe Nelva
 Today Riot Games revealed the new music track associated with Gekki, the new Agent that will debut in Valorant next week.  The new track is titled "Greater than One" which is a reference to Gekko's pets named Dizzy, Wingman, Thrash, and Mosh. It's performed by ericdoa.  The Los Angeles native Gekko was officially revealed yesterday with a new trailer providing a look at his daily life alongside his friends until things take a mysterious turn when he secretly meets Reyna.  You can check out the music in the video below.  Gekko will be released as part of Act II of Episode 6, which is supposed to release on March 7. It's likely that we'll see more about him before the update launches, including his gameplay, which will certainly be interesting due to his little friends. Valorant is currently available exclusively for PC. If you want to learn more about what's coming for the game, Riot Games recently released a developer diary video to kick off 2023 providing some interesting developer commentary.  Recently, Riot Games made a deal with Microsoft to offer some perks to Game Pass members, including all current Agents, Day-one access to every new Agent as they're released, and 20% Match XP Boost applied to Battlepass, Event Pass, and active Agent Contract progress. That being said, this applies only to PC, and at the moment there has been no word about any release of the game on Xbox.  Have a tip, or want to point out something we missed? Leave a Comment or e-mail us at tips@techraptor.net Started as News Editor at TechRaptor in January 2023, following over 20 years of professional experience in gaming journalism both on print media and on the… More about Giuseppe News Guides Reviews Opinions Features Previews Interviews News Guides Reviews Features Previews Interviews TechRaptor is a games media website that covers topics around video games and tabletop games for gamers.  Whether it is news, reviews, features, or guides – we're your source for high quality game coverage since 2013. Copyright © 2013-2024 TechRaptor LLC - All Rights Reserved