Area of Study
Computing and
Information Sciences At RIT, you’ll find yourself at the epicenter of sophisticated, game-changing computing solutions. We cultivate the next generation of great minds who will advance computing in amazing ways. Whether we’re escalating cybersecurity practices and protocols, developing better ways to mine and analyze big data, or pushing the boundaries of software and hardware design and development, you’ll find yourself in an exciting, enterprising environment at the forefront of the field. 


													Undergraduate
											



 
 Associate Degrees and Pre-Baccalaureate Studies
(For qualified deaf and hard-of-hearing students) 
All RIT Undergraduate Degree Programs
                  
 


													Immersions and Minors
											



 
 
All RIT Immersions and Minors
                  
 


													Graduate Degrees
											



 
 
All RIT Graduate Degree Programs
                  
 


													Doctoral Degrees
											



 
 
All RIT Graduate Degree Programs
                  
 
		    	MetroGnome
		     Tinkering, testing, designing, coding – it's what he does. Through RIT's game design program, Campbell and his team created a game that garnered attention from 20th Century Fox, leading him to an internship with the company. 
		    	Headed to Google
		     The skills Lung learned in the new media design major prepared her for an internship at Google. This career-related work experience, which turned into a full-time job, is just one of the ways experiential learning shapes a student’s future. 
		    	Advancing the Success of Women
		     As head of public relations for Women in Computing, McHale strives to organize professional opportunities for its members, advancing women’s experience in computing majors, and giving back to a club that has given her so much. 
		    	The AI Gateway
		     Syed is pushing the world forward by developing algorithms that apply artificial intelligence to make everyday tasks easy and more efficient. 
		    	Online Face-Off
		     Trading gloves and helmets for a monitor and a mouse has ushered in a new era in sports: competitive, organized gaming. By mirroring professional eSports, the RIT eSports team pursues competitive gaming at the highest possible level, rivaling the excitement of traditional sports teams. 
		    	Improving Human-computer Interactions
		     Improving interactions with online platforms for those with disabilities is the ultimate goal behind Huenerfauth’s research. By training designers to create and develop more accessible websites and mobile networks, a wider audience can connect to and benefit from these technologies. 
		94%
 
				Graduate Outcomes Rate
			 
		94%
 
				Undergraduate Outcomes Rate
			 
		#7
	 
				"Top Schools for Video Game Design for 2019" – Graduate Programs
			 Princeton Review 
		#8
	 
				"Top Schools for Video Game Design for 2019" – Undergraduate  Programs
			 Princeton Review Cooperative Education: Career Experience that Sets you Apart RIT’s cooperative education program provides exposure, early and often, to a variety of engineering industries and environments. These opportunities are intentional and purposeful—and designed for you to apply your skills in real-world settings, interact with industry experts, and explore professional work environments. 
		100%
 
				Co-op Participation
			 All computing majors participate in co-op 
		5th
 
				Among top schools for co-op or internship programs
			 U.S. News & World Report, 2024 Learn more about computing co-ops 
			August 7, 2024
		 
						Alumnus to Join Boise State Faculty This Fall
					 This fall, alumnus Purab Sutradhar '24 (Electrical and Computer Engineering Ph.D.) will join the department of electrical and computer engineering at Boise State University as a tenure-track assistant professor. 
			August 6, 2024
		 
						Business Exploration Provides Business Exposure to First-Year Students
					 The business exploration program at Saunders College of Business is your opportunity to spend up to a year and a half taking fundamental business courses and meeting with faculty, staff, and career advisors before selecting from one of the college’s seven, nationally-ranked, business majors. 
			August 6, 2024
		 
						Work with Computers, Technology and People with the #1 NYS Management Information Systems Program
					 The bachelor of science in management information systems (MIS) at Saunders College of Business sits at the intersection of business and technology, people and computers, combining computing security, database design, networking, and IT. 
			July 30, 2024
		 
						Travel-enhanced game design and development course takes students to Japan
					 The two-week trip was the culmination of the Japanese Game Industry course, where students learned about the world’s third largest video game market. RIT students immersed themselves in the culture, participated in a game jam with Japanese students, and visited a major Japanese game studio. View More   Inquire Tour the campus Apply Address and Phone 
					One Lomb Memorial Drive
					Rochester, NY 14623
					585-475-2411
				 
				Copyright © Rochester Institute of Technology. All Rights Reserved.
Land Acknowledgment.
				Disclaimer.
				Copyright Infringement.
				Privacy Statement.
				Nondiscrimination.
				Accessibility.
				Emergency Information.
			