News Back Events Back Events Visit this section Media Pack Back Media Pack Visit this section Author: Dan Benn Job Title: Journalist Company: Public Sector Executive Published: April 28th 2023 Share this article The Department for Science, Innovation and Technology has announced that the Geospatial Commission has launched a pilot in commercial Earth Observation for public sector bodies as it looks to unlock the use of EO in delivering services. Earth Observation is the collection, analysis and presentation of data that relates to the physical, chemical and biological systems of the planet. This pilot is aiming to explore how this can be used to transform analysis in public sector policy areas such as land use, environmental monitoring and emergency response.  This is done through a range of satellite-based imaging equipment  that includes optical, radar, altimeter and atmospheric instruments. Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, Viscount Camrose, said: “This government is taking action to unlock the significant potential of fast-developing location technologies. The Earth Observation capability that is being piloted by the Geospatial Commission will test how we can drive innovation in the heart of government service delivery, from effective disaster response to enhancing the science behind our understanding of land use change.” The pilot will see a competitive tender process, with the EO pilot initiative being delivered in partnership with the winning supplier, to public sector organisations around the country. During the pilot, eligible public sector bodies will be able to access and test the data against a number of use cases for the entirety of the year-long pilot period. The pilot will be open to up to 35 organisations in the public sector. Thalia Baldwin, Director of the Geospatial Commission, said: “Our Earth Observation pilot is aiming to keep the UK in its high geospatial orbit, increasing public sector capability and the demand for market innovation through testing new applications of EO data and technologies.” Share this article 
PSE April/ May 2024
 Dive into our latest edition for April/May 2024!   
Five areas of London will be benefitting from investment from the Mayor’s Civic Partnership Programme, which aims to transform areas in need of...
 
The Department for Science, Innovation and Technology has announced that the government is boosting broadband speeds across rural communities, to...
 
Transport connections are integral to delivering economic growth, job opportunities, and improved outcomes for communities around the country. Whilst...
 
Manchester City Council has today published its State of the City Report for the last year. This report comes as the council works on its ‘Our...
 
Swansea Council is seeking feedback on the plans for its new public sector hub in the city centre, with the aim of the development being to drive new...
 
Funding from the government has been allocated to Devon County Council, to support research into how carbon emissions can be reduced. Investment comes...
 
Homelessness data released by the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government has revealed that there is now a record number of households...
 
West Yorkshire Combined Authority has confirmed that it is supporting the education of young people in the ‘deadly consequences’ of knife crime...
 
Darlington is set to expand its role as a government centre with the approval of a new five-storey office building. The 10,000 square metre hub, to be...
 
Presenting
 In partnership with our community of public sector leaders responsible for procurement and strategy across local authorities and the wider public sector, we’ve devised a collaborative calendar of conferences and events for leaders of industry to listen, learn and collaborate through engaging and immersive conversation. All our conferences are CPD accredited, which means you can gain points to advance your career by attending our online conferences. Also, the contents are available on demand so you can re-watch at your convenience. 
Public Sector Executive Podcast
 From government policies and public administration to education, healthcare, and infrastructure, we explore the challenges and innovations shaping our communities.   Join us as we speak with industry leaders, policymakers, and frontline professionals, providing you with valuable insights and perspectives to stay informed and engaged with the issues that matter most.  The need for impactful reskilling and onboarding programs for the public sector is more important than ever. 
 
With the next generation of employees coming into the working world, how does the public sector look to capitalise on new talent and nurture the future of their workforce to answer the questions to come?
 
 
 Phase 3 of the Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme is providing £1.425 billion of funding over the 2022/23-2024/25 financial years.
 
There are concerns about the UK’s ability to deliver on the 2050 Net-Zero target. Time is running out for the climate and there must be a concerted effort to achieve these targets, so what can be done to reach these milestones?  
 Copyright Cognitive Publishing Ltd 2020