Meghan Markle and Prince Harry debuted their annual holiday card on Friday. The paper-free Christmas card featured a black-and-white candid photo of the couple taken in NYC. The photo was from an event where Harry and Meghan were honored with a humanitarian award. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's 2022 holiday card is here and it contains a candid photo of the couple at a recent humanitarian gala where they were honored with a prestigious award. The card was released one day after the final three episodes of the couple's Netflix docuseries aired. On Friday, royal author Omid Scobie tweeted out a copy of the couple's paperless Christmas card. In it, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex appear in a black-and-white photo during their appearance at the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Gala on December 6 in New York. As Insider previously reported, Harry and Meghan were among the recipients of the Ripple of Hope award, given to individuals "for their transformative work in the pursuit of a more just and peaceful world." Other recipients include Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and the late Bill Russell, a former NBA Hall of Famer and civil rights activist. —Omid Scobie (@scobie) December 16, 2022 In the photograph, the couple appears to beam with smiles and holding hands. Meghan is wearing a custom-designed white off-the-shoulder long-sleeve dress from Louis Vuitton, according to WWD. Harry and Meghan wished recipients of their e-card a "joyful holiday season." "From our family to yours, and on behalf of our teams at The Archewell Foundation, Archewell Audio, and Archewell Productions, we wish you health, peace, and a very happy new year!" the card read. Harry and Meghan's holiday card came four days after Prince William and Kate Middleton released their first Christmas photo as the Prince and Princess of Wales. William and Kate, who were named the Prince and Princess of Wales after King Charles III ascended the British throne in September, shared the new photo on Tuesday. In the shot, William, Kate, Prince George, Princess Charlotte, and Prince Louis hold hands and walk down a path. The photo was taken in Norfolk, according to a statement Kensington Palace shared with Insider. Read the original article on Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.