General Motors has begun laying off more workers Tuesday as a result of the United Auto Workers strike against other GM assembly plants, noting that it now has more than 2,100 employees laid off as a direct result of the strike. In a statement, GM said it had to begun laying off an additional 163 employees at its Toledo Propulsion Systems. That facility manufactures transmissions for vehicles made at Wentzville Assembly plant in Missouri and Lansing Delta Township Assembly. The UAW went on strike at Wentzville — where GM makes its midsize pickups and cargo vans — on Sept. 14. It then went on strike at Lansing Delta Township — where GM makes its Buick Enclave and Chevrolet Traverse — on Friday. “It is unfortunate the UAW’s decision to call a strike at GM Lansing Delta Township Assembly continues to have negative ripple effects," GM said in a statement. "The impacted team members are not expected to return until the strike has been resolved. Since we are working under an expired labor agreement, there are no provisions for company-provided sub-pay in this circumstance." But those workers are expected to receive $500 a week in strike pay based on UAW President Shawn Fain's previous statements indicating the union would cover them. Toledo Propulsion Systems employs nearly 1,400 people and most will continue to work to provide parts to other GM assembly plants still in operation. This latest group of employees to be "idled," as GM phrases it, is in addition to the 138 previously laid off due to the UAW’s strike at Wentzville. GM said. "Additional impacts to 57 employees who support the affected departments brings the total to 358 impacted employees at Toledo Propulsion Systems."   Overall, impact from the UAW’s targeted strikes at Wentzville and Lansing Delta Township Assembly plants affect five of GM's other plants across four states and more than 2,100 employees. On Monday, GM started laying off 130 union-represented workers at GM’s Parma Metal Center in Ohio and 34 union-represented workers at Marion Metal Center in Indiana. Likewise, Ford Motor Co. said Monday that some 330 employees at Chicago Stamping Plant and Lima Engine Plant are laid off due to the UAW striking the Chicago Assembly plant. Here is the complete list so far of laid-off workers at GM facilities: More:UAW gives GM counteroffer to recent proposal More:GM reports 3rd-quarter gain of 21% with pickups, new SUVs driving sales "We have said repeatedly that nobody wins in a strike, and that effects go well beyond our employees on the plant floor and negatively impact our customers, suppliers and the communities where we do business, such as Toledo," GM's statement read. "What happened to our Toledo Propulsion Systems team members is a clear and immediate demonstration of that fact. We will continue to bargain in good faith with the union to reach an agreement as quickly as possible.” In reaction to the news, the UAW referred to a statement Fain gave the Detroit Free Press on Monday, "The decision to lay off workers is not a 'ripple effect,' it's a decision made by the company to put the squeeze on our members to accept a weak contract. GM owns it, and GM owns the fact that they took over a month to respond to our proposals, and have taken over another month to make serious progress." Contact Jamie L. LaReau: jlareau@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter @jlareauan. Read more on General Motors and sign up for our autos newsletter. Become a subscriber.