By Cydney Yeates   Published:  21:23 EDT, 23 March 2023   |  Updated:  03:50 EDT, 24 March 2023      20 View  comments  Rege-Jean Page and Justice Smith looked in good spirits as they attended the Dungeons & Dragons: Honour Among Thieves after party on Thursday night. The actors, who appear alongside each other in the upcoming American fantasy heist comedy drama, laughed and joked around following the star-studded premiere at Cineworld Leicester Square in London. Embracing his co-star, Rege, 34, placed an arm around Justice's shoulder and the pair shared a giggle as they enjoyed themselves at The Crypt. Dressed in a baby blue suit, Justice, 27, reciprocated the gesture and gently held onto the cuff of Rege's suit. In one photograph, Justice covered his face with his palm after sharing a hushed exchange with the former Bridgerton lead. Pals: Rege-Jean Page and Justice Smith looked in good spirits as they attended the Dungeons & Dragons: Honour Among Thieves after party on Thursday night  Party: The actors, who appear alongside each other in the upcoming American fantasy, laughed and joked around following the star-studded premiere at Cineworld Leicester Square  They also posed for snaps with I Am Not Okay With This and Sharp Objects' Sophia Lillis, 21, who takes on the role of tiefling druid Doric in the upcoming film. Dungeons & Dragons: Honour Among Thieves is set to hit cinemas up and down the country on March 31. Chris Pine takes on main role Edgin Darvis in the heist comedy, a dad who tries to care for his daughter Kira, played by Chloe Coleman, 14. The 42-year-old Star Trek actor described the process of making the movie as 'joyful and creative and imaginative'.  Meanwhile, Rege-Jean stars as Xenk Yendar, a paladin who ages slow, and Justice plays Simon Aumar, a wild magic sorcerer.  Love Actually's Hugh Grant, 62, also joins the cast and portrays con artist Forge Fitzwilliam, an ex-member of Edgin's gang.  Physical production on the movie began in April of 2021 with filming taking place in both Iceland and Ireland.  After several months of work, the project's crew wrapped in August of that year.  Animated: Both parties appeared to be having a whale of a time in each other's company Dream team: Justice and Rege-Jean posed for photos with their co-star Sophia Lillis Suited up: Actress Sophia, 21, cut a stylish figure in a black velvet suit and matching trousers   Looking sharp! After attending the film's premiere, Rege was seen leaving the afterparty solo Happy: Sophia was also seen heading home from the premiere in her eye-catching velvet suit Couples outing! Hugh Grant was accompanied by his wife Anna Elisabet Eberstein after walking the red carpet Altogether now: The cast posed together on the red carpet along with directors Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley (far right) Suited and booted: Rege-Jean oozed sex appeal as he went shirtless underneath his black suit Star: Michelle Rodriguez cut a casual figure in a black leather jacket and matching skintight trousers Suave: Chris Pine looked dapper in a grey suit with a bright orange tie Hard to miss! Daisy Head sported a colour pastel geometric blazer as she exited the premiere That's unusual! Michelle Rodriguez sported a bizarre plastic headpiece as she left the after party in the capital Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves was initially supposed to be released in 2021, although its premiere date has been pushed back several times. Earlier on in the night, Rege-Jean revealed that his first game of D&D was with his fellow co-stars and that they all sat down to play before filming started. Speaking to PA, he said: 'It's a natural place for actors to hang out, great game of improv, but with magic and dragons. 'Just think like the wildest, most magical thing you can do, and then you pass it on to the player next to you. 'Players (like) Chris Pine are so sharp, so witty, that it gets even more wild than magic.' Dungeons & Dragons: Honour Among Thieves is released in cinemas on March 31. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group