Correction: This article has been updated to correct the name of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Regulators shut down Silicon Valley Bank on Friday, marking the biggest bank failure since the 2008 recession and sending shockwaves across the tech world. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) created a National Bank of Santa Clara to hold deposits and other assets of the failed Silicon Valley Bank, but the abrupt closing is impacting tech firms that face immediate effects, like ensuring employees get paid. More than 93 percent of the $161 billion deposited at Silicon Valley Bank is not insured by the FDIC, according to a Bloomberg News analysis. Here’s how Fed rate hikes are hurting tech firms The closure will have further reaching impacts for the tech world and is spurring additional concerns for banks. Here’s five things to know about the Silicon Valley Bank collapse. Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), established four decades ago, catered to the startup and venture capital-funded tech world. Its clients included brands such as Shopify, ZipRecruiter and venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, according to the bank’s website. Wedbush analyst Dan Ives called it a “nightmare situation.” “This will have a massive ripple impact across the tech ecosystem and Silicon Valley private company artery. SVB is a foundational piece of the tech startup community and will have a constrained impact on funding for tech startups going forward,” Ives said in an email. Even businesses that aren’t clients are getting impacted by the closure, especially with the most immediate impact on delaying payrolls. Parker Conrad, CEO of Rippling, a payroll processor that used Silicon Valley Bank, said there would be payment delays of pay runs initiated earlier this week. The company is focused on “getting these employees paid as quickly as possible,” he said in a Twitter thread. Going forward, Rippling will use JPMorgan Chase & Co. Kevin Yun, co-founder of GrowSurf, told Semafor that he thought he had “nothing to do with SVB,” since his customer-referral software company used another bank, Mercury. But by using Rippling, his company is getting roped into the larger impact of the shutdown, too. Silicon Valley Bank was hit hard by the Federal Reserve’s series of rising interest rates. It’s the latest way the interest rates have hit the tech sector. Tech companies and the ecosystem they are created in are highly sensitive to increases in interest rates because many companies, particularly startups, operate on high levels of debt. Venture capital and other riskier forms investment also become less profitable as businesses face higher borrowing costs, and the steep decline in crypto values also sapped billions from many tech businesses. Big Tech bleeds tens of thousands of jobs after pandemic heyday Tech firms that had been spending high responded to the rising Fed interest rates with layoffs, including at some of the nation’s largest companies like Facebook parent company Meta, Google parent company Alphabet and Amazon. Those three companies alone have recently rolled out plans to lay off a combined 41,000 employees. But now even nascent startups, already facing headwinds from the rising rates, now have another hurdle in their way. It’s rare for the FDIC to take over banks as large as Silicon Valley Bank. It’s even rarer for the agency to take one over in the middle of the workday. Traditionally, the FDIC will announce its decision to take over and liquidate a bank after the stock market has closed on Friday to limit the potential damage to customers. But the speed of Silicon Valley’s collapse prompted bank regulators to jump into action, which stunned banking experts and sector analysts. The bank’s death spiral began Thursday, shortly after Silicon Valley executives announced plans to raise up to $1.75 billion in capital to shore up its books. As customers sought to pull out their funds hand over fist, the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation stepped in to end the bank run on Friday. The state agency seized the bank and handed it over to the FDIC, which will take the bank apart in an attempt to make its customers and debtors whole. Silicon Valley Bank was overseen by the FDIC, a federal agency responsible for making sure banks are sturdy and responsible enough to serve their customers. When an FDIC-regulated bank fails, its customers are insured to up to $250,000 per account with the bank. While some customers may get all of their money refunded by the FDIC, scores of businesses and individuals with millions of dollars in the bank may see little of it returned. The FDIC said Friday that customers will have access to their insured deposits no later than Monday morning. Uninsured depositors will receive a dividend and a certificate indicating how much money they are owed from the bank as the FDIC sells off its assets. Silicon Valley Bank was the largest bank collapse since the financial crisis in 2008 and its meltdown spurred concerns of a broader decline across the sector. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500 index and Nasdaq composite all closed with losses of more than 1 percent Friday as shares of banks big and small took a nosedive. Market operators froze shares of several bank stocks, including First Republic, PacWest and crypto-focused Signature bank due to high volatility, according to CNBC, and even Goldman Sachs and Bank of America shares took a hit. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen convened a meeting of federal banking regulators Friday, the Treasury Department announced, to discuss the ongoing damage caused by the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank. Even so, she “expressed full confidence in banking regulators to take appropriate actions in response and noted that the banking system remains resilient.” Cecilia Rouse, chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, also told reporters Friday she believed the banking forms imposed after the 2007-08 crisis will shield the economy from deeper harm. “Our banking system is far more resilient than it was in 2008, we learned a lot, we’ve got better tools specifically so we can protect the important investments of Americans,” Rouse said. While Silicon Valley Bank’s collapse could be devastating for scores of tech companies and thousands of industry workers, more banking experts are confident it won’t trigger a broader crisis in the industry. The bank was uniquely dependent on the growth of major tech firms and the financial health of the industry at large, which made it highly susceptible to damage from rate hikes. “[Silicon Valley Bank’s] balance sheet looks nothing like most US banks’,” wrote Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner at Federal Financial Analytics, in a Friday tweet. “This isn’t systemic, but it shouldn’t have happened,” Petrou continued. Alex Gangitano contributed.  For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to The Hill.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Meanwhile in Pittsburgh, the expected outcome still seems likely. In New England? Not so much.