Astronaut Matthias Maurer said he saw burning rainforests and dried-up lakes from space. Dark and light green areas distinguish the rainforests and agricultural activities, Maurer said. Astronauts can see from the ISS the impact that the climate crisis is having on Earth, he said. An astronaut who was onboard a SpaceX mission said he saw rainforests burning and dried-up lakes from space as a result of climate change. Matthias Maurer, a European Space Agency astronaut, said on Thursday during a talk at the World Economic Forum at Davos that people had asked him whether he could see the impact of the climate crisis on Earth from space. He said that although the climate crisis takes effect over a long period of time, he could see indications that Earth is suffering. When observing Earth from space, you can see dark green areas, which are rainforests, and light green areas, which are agricultural areas, Maurer said. "Somehow there are very, very many fires exactly on the border between the dark green and the light green," he said. "That's when you understand people are burning down the rainforests to create more room for agriculture." "Then you fly further on and you see like desert areas, and you think shouldn't there be a lake here? In my maps, there's a lake," he said. "And it's gone. You don't see anything." Rising temperatures across the world have triggered heatwaves, droughts, heavy rainfall, and wildfires, according to research. Astronauts understand that the climate crisis is happening, but satellite data can provide far more insights on the matter, Maurer said. Other astronauts have spoken out about how they've seen the damage that the climate crisis has done to Earth. NASA astronaut Megan McArthur previously told Insider's Morgan McFall-Johnsen she was "saddened to see fires over huge sections of the Earth, not just the United States." Maurer was part of SpaceX's Crew-3 mission, which shuttled four astronauts to the International Space Station (ISS) on behalf of NASA in November 2021. They remained on the ISS for six months, conducting scientific experiments, before returning back to Earth in May 2022. Read the original article on Business Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.