Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  If making a budget seems daunting, you're not alone. That's why there are many apps that do the grunt work for you. A good budgeting app can save you time and energy while helping you to spend smarter and save more. CNBC Select reviewed over a dozen budgeting apps to find the best ones. To narrow down our top picks, we focused on those with unique budgeting features, high user ratings and a free trial or refund to test the app out. (See our methodology for more information on how we chose the best budgeting apps.) $2.00 per month. No free trial, but users can request full refund within first 30 days. Users can run customizable reports based on their spending, income and savings. Personalized spending plan adjusts in real-time. Yes, but users can modify. Yes, bank, credit card and investment accounts and loans Offered in both the App Store (for iOS) and on Google Play (for Android) Financial data from bank servers transmitted using 256-bit encryption Terms apply. Who's this for? Simplifi by Quicken is ideal if you love using a budget to plan — be it saving up for a vacation or tracking your retirement nest egg. At any time, you can generate fully customizable reports based on your spending, income and savings to get a good look at where you stand and how you're tracking. Simplifi also gives you a personalized spending plan based on your income and expenses and adjusts it as you spend in real-time. You can also add that month's planned spending, like birthday dinners. [ Jump to more details ] 34-day free trial then $99 per year or $14.99 per month (college students who provide proof of enrollment get 12 months free) Instead of using traditional budgeting buckets, users allocate every dollar they earn to something (known as the "zero-based budgeting system" where no dollar is unaccounted for). Every dollar is assigned a "job," whether it's to go toward bills, savings, investments, etc. No Yes, bank and credit cards Offered in both the App Store (for iOS) and on Google Play (for Android) Encrypted data, accredited data centers, third-party audits and more Terms apply. Who's this for? If you are a determined budgeter, you should consider the app YNAB. YNAB stands out for its zero-based budgeting system where every dollar is essentially assigned a "job." Whether it be to pay off your student loans, to cover that month's car payment, etc., users allocate every dollar they earn to something so no dollar goes unaccounted for. [ Jump to more details ] App is free, but users have option to add investment management services for 0.89% of their money (for accounts under $1 million) A budgeting app and investment tool that tracks both your spending and your wealth Yes, but users can modify Yes, bank and credit cards, as well as IRAs, 401(k)s, mortgages and loans Offered in both the App Store (for iOS) and on Google Play (for Android) Data encryption, fraud protection and strong user authentication Terms apply. Who's this for? Empower is a budgeting and net worth tracker all in one, making it the perfect choice if you want an investment tool that tracks both your spending and wealth. [ Jump to more details ] $8.33/month (billed $99.99 yearly); $14.99/month (billed monthly) Net worth tracker, investment portfolio tracking, goal creation and progress tracking, budgeting and expense tracking Yes, but users can modify Yes, bank and credit cards, as well as IRAs, 401(k)s, mortgages and loans Offered in both the App Store (for iOS) and on Google Play (for Android); web version also offered Utilizes industry-leading security practices, according to Monarch's website Terms apply. Who's this for? Monarch is ideal if you're searching for an easy-to-use platform. Its website and app are both easy to navigate for a first-time user. Information in the platform is presented clearly and the platform doesn't feel overly crowded with information. [ Jump to more details ] Free for 20 total envelopes; $10/month (or $80/year) for unlimited envelopes Allows couples to use the envelope system digitally for budgeting, and allows couples to track their debt Yes, but users must manually input transactions since the app does not sync to your bank account No, users must manually input purchases and transactions Offered in both the App Store (for iOS) and on Google Play (for Android) and as a version for laptops Information is secured using bank-grade 256-bit SSL Terms apply. Who's this for? Goodbudget is the app to use when you're dipping your toes into budgeting. The app stands out for helping users utilize a digital version of the tried-and-true envelope budgeting method — a method where you budget by divvying up your cash into different spending categories with each category having its own envelope. [ Jump to more details ] Upgrade to a Pocketguard Plus monthly subscription, for $12.99 per month, or a yearly subscription for $74.99 per year, which broken down equals $6.25 per month giving members an over all 50% savings.  Taking into account your estimated income, upcoming expenses and savings goals, "In My Pocket" feature uses an algorithm to show how much you have available for everyday spending Yes, but users can modify Yes, bank and credit cards Offered in both the App Store (for iOS) and on Google Play (for Android) Major bank-level encryption, PIN codes and biometrics like Touch ID and Face ID Terms apply. Who's this for? If you need something to hold you accountable and prevent you from spending beyond your means, PocketGuard is for you. The app notifies you whenever one of your spending categories is almost over its limit and when you've gone over budget. With these alerts, you can get a better idea of how much you can afford to spend. [ Jump to more details ] Free Allows couples to see both partners' bank accounts, credit cards, loans and investments (and each partner can select what to share with the other) so you can manage money together and see everything at one glance Yes, but users can customize Yes, you and your partner's bank and credit cards Offered in both the App Store (for iOS) and on Google Play (for Android) Data encryption, Touch ID and multi-factor authentication Terms apply. Who's this for? Couples looking to budget better together can use the Honeydue app. Honeydue allows both partners to view each other's bank accounts, credit cards, loans and investments, if they choose to share. It's easier this way to see everything together versus logging into separate accounts, and it allows couples to see their progress on shared goals like saving up for a vacation or a down payment on a home. Plus, partners can use the app's chat feature to text each other about specific bills directly within the app itself. [ Jump to more details ] Cost $2.99 per month; no free trial, but users can request a full refund within the first 30 days if not satisfied Links to accounts Yes, bank, credit cards, investments and loans Categorizes your expenses Yes, but users can modify [ Return to summary ] Cost 34-day free trial then $99 per year or $14.99 per month (college students who provide proof of enrollment get 12 months free) Links to accounts Yes, bank and credit cards Categorizes your expenses No [ Return to summary ] Cost App is free, but users have the option to add investment management services for 0.89% of their money (for accounts under $1 million) Links to accounts Yes, bank and credit cards, as well as IRAs, 401(k)s, mortgages and loans Categorizes your expenses Yes, but users can modify [ Return to summary ] Cost $8.33/month (billed $99.99 yearly); $14.99/month (billed monthly). Links to accounts Yes, you can also sync your partner's bank accounts and credit cards to the platform Categorizes your expenses Yes, and users can customize the categories as needed [ Return to account summary ] Cost Free for 20 total envelopes; $10 per month (or $80 per year) for unlimited envelopes Links to accounts No, users must manually input purchases and transactions Categorizes your expenses Yes, but users must manually input transactions since the app does not sync to your bank account [ Return to summary ] Cost The app offers a free version, but users can upgrade to a Pocketguard Plus monthly subscription, for $12.99 per month, or a yearly subscription for $74.99 per year, which broken down equals $6.25 per month giving members an overall 50% savings. Links to accounts Yes, bank and credit cards Categorizes your expenses Yes, but users can modify [ Return to summary ] Cost Free Links to accounts Yes, you and your partner’s bank and credit cards Categorizes your expenses Yes, but users can customize [ Return to summary ] You don't always need a complex spreadsheet to create a solid budget. In fact, the simpler you can make the process for yourself, the better. CNBC Select has a five-step strategy for creating a budget. To choose the budgeting app that's right for you, you'll need to consider your budgeting style. Some apps follow a particular budgeting method like the cash envelope system or the zero-based budgeting approach. You'll want to figure out which method best aligns with your needs. From there, you can also consider what app features are most important for you. For instance, some people love the convenience of syncing all their accounts into one place. Some apps also provide premium services like investment management. Not all apps have all features, so make sure you're picking one that has the ones you want. And of course, be sure to consider the price. It can sound a bit counterintuitive to spend money on an app that's supposed to help you budget and track your money. But it can be well worth the cost for many people. If you don't want to spend more than a certain amount for a budgeting app then the pricier ones may not be for you. Budgeting apps help you track your money. The basic budgeting apps show you how much you earn and organize your expenses into separate categories so that you can see where and how much you spend. Many budgeting apps offer much more than that, however. The best ones come with other services, such as monitoring your savings, your investments, your debts and/or your credit score. They will offer alerts when you have an upcoming bill due or recommend ways you can save. Budgeting apps often sync with your bank accounts so they can automatically track your spending. Some require that you input your transactions manually. Many budgeting apps are free, offer a free version or have a free trial for users to test out before signing up. After a free trial, or if you want to upgrade beyond the free option, budgeting apps can cost anywhere between $1 per month for very basic budgeting features to $15 per month for more advanced tools and customized tips for users. Sometimes, you can get a discount if you pay an annual fee instead of monthly. You don't need to pay for a budgeting app. There are plenty of free budgeting apps on the market if you don't want to invest in one. Free budgeting apps can, however, have limited features or a bunch of in-app ads. If you want a more robust budgeting app that offers a variety of premium services (such as a retirement planner tool) or if you simply can't stand all the ads, consider a subscription-based app where you pay a monthly or annual fee. You might find that paying for an app encourages you to use it more since you have some monetary stake in it. If that means you get serious about trimming your spending and saving more, the fee could be worthwhile. Be sure to check if the app offers any sort of free trial so you can test it out before paying for it. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every budgeting app review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of personal finance products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best budgeting apps. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. To determine which budgeting apps offer the best user experience, CNBC Select analyzed over a dozen apps offered by the top companies in this market and looked at their pricing, features, user reviews and ratings. We narrowed down our ranking by only considering apps that offer unique budgeting features and at least a free trial or refund to test the app out. We looked for apps that are easy to use and accessible on multiple devices, as well as considering apps' syncing with bank accounts, their security features, user customization and educational tools offered. We favored those with a considerable number of user reviews and high ratings. The apps we selected for this ranking are either free, offer a free version, have a free trial or offer a full refund within the first month. All of the apps in our round-up have a sizable number of user reviews and high ratings. Each app on this list has at least 3,500 reviews in both the App Store (for iOS) and on Google Play (for Android) combined, as well as a rating of over 4 stars (out of 5) on either platform. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.