Conflicts in a family between adult siblings are a real headache. What to do?Shutterstock CLEVELAND, Ohio – I received this email from Sally (not her real name): “I’m the oldest of three girls. My youngest sister is now in her 40s, dying of cancer. She has been living with my parents for the past 18 months after suffering one of many near-death episodes caused by decades of living as a chronic alcoholic, drug user, etc. She’s been in jail. “My sister was the only one of the three to have graduated from college, which my dad constantly reminds us ... He spends a lot of time looking back at what could have been if she only did this or only did that. “My other sister and I have gone on to create very successful and relatively happy households with our own families – much of which has been overshadowed by my youngest sister’s troubles. I can’t begin to explain how many holidays and family gatherings were ruined. There also is the deterioration of my parents’ relationship as they continued to blame each other for her lot in life. “My parents gave her financial support, lawyers, repeated rehab, etc. My other sister and I have spent countless hours trying to explain to my parents that they can’t continue helping someone who doesn’t want to help herself ... you know how that goes. “I feel compelled to not judge too harshly ... but there is still that part of me deep down that is, for lack of a better word, resentful for all the time and attention she has taken from our family over the years.” Anthony Parker is the pastor of Rhema Fellowship Church in Cleveland and a magistrate in North Randall. Photo by Judah Early, Special to Cleveland.com A COMPLEX PROBLEM Sally’s situation is more extreme than the usual sibling-problem stories I hear. But the major theme is common. The “problem child” wears down the family in several destructive ways. I called Anthony Parker, who is the Magistrate at the Village of North Randall. He is the pastor of Rhema Fellowship Church in Cleveland. I read him Sally’s email. “There’s a lot going in a family like this,” he said. “First of all, I was a criminal defense attorney for 16 years. So I dealt a lot with people like Sally’s parents.” Parker said parents can become obsessed with “helping” the child. Can the lawyer keep the child out of jail? Can he get the child into a rehabilitation program? Should they spend more money to appeal the guilty verdict? And the cycle repeats and repeats. “They think if they try one more time, it will work,” he said. “But something else is happening.” SOME PARENTS HAVE MIXED MOTIVES Parker explained that some parents are embarrassed by the actions of the troubled child because they believe it reflects poorly on them. They want to “fix” the child not only for her sake, but also their own. “It drains their time, their emotions and their money,” he said. “I have told parents that the child’s failure is not their failure. But it’s hard to see it that way. They’re enabling the situation, making it worse.” As Dr. Jeffrey Bernstein wrote in Psychology Today on July 10, 2022: “I see parents overly rescuing their children from their problems. This does not help their emotional health. While it may feel good for parents to do this, the implicit (or even explicit) message to the child is, ‘You’re not competent to make it on your own.’ “Parents in these situations need to be mindful of how damaging it is to enable their adult children. Whether you’ve got a 33-year-old son who keeps asking for money while falsely claiming he will pay you back, or a 27-year-old daughter who just can’t keep a job – adult children who behave immaturely and irresponsibly can be stressful.” Problems between siblings can make it hard to see the light in families. Photo By Terry Pluto / Cleveland.com WHAT ABOUT THE OTHER KIDS? In the meantime, people such as Sally caught in this swamp of family mess wonder, “Why is she getting all the attention when she is causing all the problems?” “As a pastor, I have counseled people in Sally’s situation,” said Parker. “This goes right back to Cain and Abel in the Bible. Cain was jealous of Abel and killed him. Abel did nothing wrong.” Sally and her other sister were “the good kids.” But they felt ignored because the “bad sister” sucked up so much energy in the family. “It’s hard for them to understand, but I tell the ‘good kids’ the parents don’t intend to hurt them,” Parker said. “But then the ‘good kids’ start talking to each other about the ‘bad kid’ and their parents.” Parker pointed out how the resentment and anger spill over into the spouses, children and friends of the siblings who have been hurt. It’s like a virus, spreading from one branch of the family tree to another. Proverbs 14:30 reads: “A heart at peace gives life to the body, but envy rots the bones.” LOOKING FOR LOVE It’s why Parker said this has to be dealt with on a spiritual level. It takes prayer and seeing the situation beyond our limited vision. Just as God has forgiven us, we can forgive them. It doesn’t justify what they did was right. It does mean we let it go or it will take over our emotional lives and make those close to us miserable. Yes the “bad kid” has received a lot of attention from the parents. But would any of us want to live their life? We can’t “make” our parents love us as we’d like. They have free will, just like all of us. “But we can go to God and feel His love and the love of others around us,” Parker said. “We should never take that for granted.” RECENT TERRY PLUTO FAITH & YOU COLUMNS The Power of Today: A message from the funeral of John Adams Does sports gambling impact the joy of sports? All those sports gambling commercials, how dangerous is it?  Fans send in their memories of former Tribe pitcher Jim Grant A lesson from the life of Jim “Mudcat” Grant for all of us Buying a very purple car and other things we really didn’t want Hai Karate aftershave, a pink tree, oysters for Christmas Prune Pierogies, Black & White TV, Midnight Christmas Mass The most frustrating, discouraging four letter word You’ve watched Wayne Dawson on TV-8 for 40 years, but do you really know him? A dozen ways to deal with holiday stress Thankful for a health crisis? A different Thanksgiving column. On this day, thanks to you – my readers. A stem cell transplant, being adopted, staying sober  Marty The Robot & Me: We have a few problems Tired of feeling stuck, here’s a way to get out  Antietam Battlefield: A place time treats gently after a blood history. 10 ways to feeling more content about your life. People Pleaser Warning: Think about this before you say ‘YES’ to something No longer banging his drum, the heart of John Adams still beats strong for his favorite baseball team Who is the hardest person in your life to deal with?  Finger Pointing, Parent Blaming, looking for peace of mind Making a fool of myself and knowing it Late Night Phone Call, Death of a Pet The daily stupid things that belong in a stupid box Looking for an elusive moose How to deal with the dark night of the soul God, Sunsets & favorite places on Lake Erie Someone died, am I always supposed to say nice things? Why all the pain & suffering, looking at life’s big questions What about those same dreams you have over and over? A voice from the grave: Do Not Be Afraid Father’s Day: Backyard whiffle ball, a teacher steps up, knowing Dad’s hand Mom died of drugs, dad is an alcoholic. Coping with parents and addictions A lonely snoopy, taking Rocky Colavito’s advice A letter to my younger self, what I wish I knew back then When we look at people, do we really “see” them? Guess what? You are not going to be able to “fix” people. On Mothers Day, we remember all kinds of moms How to talk to a dying friend: Advice from Rocky Colavito How do deal with regrets: Yes, we all have some A walk through the desert, thinking of Easter and the cross. When things are hard, don’t make them harder Time to drop the ‘You Owe Me’ baggage Watch out for the Energy Vampires! Watching the Cavs, holding hands, trying to remember If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices