
Customers and their families can conveniently get routine immunizations at select Rite Aid locations
 PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--With fall routines and busy schedules in full swing, it can be tough to focus on your health. Rite Aid (OTC: RADCQ) makes it easy to keep your health a priority by offering an After Work Wednesday clinic at select stores, providing families a convenient opportunity to walk in and get the immunizations they need to protect themselves against the flu, COVID-19, RSV, and other viruses.

  
Rite Aid’s upcoming After Work Wednesday event offers families the flexibility of a walk-in clinic, allowing them to conveniently receive routine immunizations. The event will take place from 5 to 9 p.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 1 at select locations.

 
“The health of our communities is always top of mind for Rite Aid, especially as we approach the holiday season,” said Karen Staniforth, Chief Pharmacy Officer at Rite Aid. “With the help of our trusted pharmacy experts, we’re excited to offer families an opportunity to get the immunizations they need, at a time that fits their schedules.”

 
Rite Aid pharmacists can immunize adults and children three years of age and older. Immunizations for After Work Wednesday include routine vaccinations that provide critical protection against certain diseases, some of which are required for certain ages, activities, or for overseas travel. These include shingles, tetanus, pertussis, RSV (Respiratory Syncytial Virus), among others, depending on age and state regulations, in addition to the available flu and COVID-19 (2023-2024) vaccines.

 
A full list of participating stores can be found here. Customers who are unable to attend After Work Wednesday can schedule an appointment for immunizations at their local Rite Aid through the online scheduling tool.

 
To help customers determine which routine immunizations are right for them, Rite Aid offers an Immunization Evaluation Questionnaire on its website. The questionnaire guides customers to ensure they are up to date with all necessary immunizations based on their age, conditions, or occupation.

 
About Rite Aid Corporation
 
Rite Aid is a full-service pharmacy that improves health outcomes. Rite Aid is defining the modern pharmacy by meeting customer needs with a wide range of vehicles that offer convenience, including retail and delivery pharmacy, as well as services offered through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Elixir, Bartell Drugs and Health Dialog. Rite Aid’s pharmacy benefits and services company, consists of accredited mail and specialty pharmacies, prescription discount programs and an industry leading adjudication platform to offer superior member experience and cost savings. Health Dialog provides healthcare coaching and disease management services via live online and phone health services. Regional chain Bartell Drugs has supported the health and wellness needs in the Seattle area for more than 130 years. Rite Aid employs more than 6,300 pharmacists and operates at more than 2,300 retail pharmacy locations across 17 states. For more information, visit www.riteaid.com.

 
Catherine Carter
717-975-5718
Press@RiteAid.com
 
Catherine Carter
717-975-5718
Press@RiteAid.com
