By Nate Raymond BOSTON (Reuters) - A member of a wealthy family that has held investments and leadership roles in retailers like DSW owner Designer Brands Inc and American Eagle Outfitters Inc was sentenced on Tuesday to a year in prison for insider trading. Prosecutors had urged U.S. District Judge Douglas Woodlock in Boston to sentence David Schottenstein to nearly four years in prison, saying he and two friends made $4.5 million trading on inside information he gleaned from members of his family. Schottenstein originally agreed to cooperate and testify against those friends, Kris Bortnovsky and Ryan Shapiro. But he backed out of his cooperation deal in November, leading prosecutors to drop the charges against them. His lawyers contended he had no choice but to stop cooperating after anxiety made him suicidal and argued home confinement would be sufficient punishment after he pleaded guilty last year to conspiring to commit securities fraud. Prosecutors said Schottenstein made more than $600,000 trading in 2017 and 2018 on information he gleaned from a relative about merger and earnings announcements involving DSW, now called Designer Brands; Aphria Inc; and Rite Aid Corp. Prosecutors said he traded ahead of a 2017 DSW earnings announcement; on news about a 2018 merger agreement between Albertsons and Rite Aid that they later terminated; and a 2018 bid by Green Growth Brands for Aphria Inc, which failed. He learned that information from a second cousin, Joey Schottenstein, who sat on the board of Designer Brands and Green Growth Brands. His father is Jay Schottenstein, Designer Brands' executive chairman and American Eagle's chief executive. Jay and Joey Schottenstein have previously through a spokesperson expressed shock about "the illegal conduct and breach of their confidences." Prosecutors said David Schottenstein also tipped Bortnovsky, the co-founder of hedge fund Sakal Capital Management, and Shapiro, who founded inmate money transfer service provider JPay and sat on the board of a Florida synagogue with Schottenstein. While prosecutors have dropped criminal charges against Bortnovsky and Shapiro, a civil case by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission remains pending. They deny wrongdoing. (Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston; Editing by Chris Reese) New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.