By Jarret Thomas Sackman For Dailymail.Com   Published:  01:42 EDT, 27 December 2022   |  Updated:  03:23 EDT, 29 January 2023      30 View  comments  Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom have enjoyed some holiday 'merriment' in Tokyo as they spent Christmas in Japan.  The pop superstar, 38, and Pirates of the Caribbean heartthrob, 45 – who passionately kissed Cara Delavigne for season two of Carnival Row – took a dreamy couple's picture in a dazzling hall of mirrors. 'Tokyo,' wrote Orlando, captioning a collection of photos from their trip. 'Happy merriment. Love to all.' Tokyo holiday: Katy Perry, 38, and Orlando Bloom, 45, have enjoyed some holiday 'merriment' in Tokyo as they spent Christmas in Japan. The pop superstar and Pirates of the Caribbean heartthrob took a dreamy couple's picture in a dazzling hall of mirrors Dressed in a red flannel dress, Katy interlaced her fingers with Orlando, who was sporting in blue overalls and a backwards ball cap. The A-listers stood barefoot on a mirrored floor, surrounded by a dazzling maze of colored light.  Both Perry and Bloom wore satisfied smiles on their relaxed, stress-free faces, epitomizing peace and happiness.  The pair began dating in 2016, briefly parting ways in 2017 before resuming their relationship the following year.  Their 2019 engagement was followed by the birth of their first child – a daughter named Daisy Dove – in 2020.  Devout reader: The Lord of the Rings star went on to include some random pictures from his journeys through Tokyo. Most notably, Bloom visited the World Seikyo Center, which is the headquarters for the 'Seikyo Shimbun' – the Soka Gakkai's daily newspaper. Orlando is a devout adherent of Soka Gakkai Buddhism The Lord of the Rings star went on to include some random pictures from his journeys through Tokyo. Most notably, Bloom visited the World Seikyo Center, which is the headquarters for the 'Seikyo Shimbun' – the Soka Gakkai's daily newspaper.  Orlando is a member of the UK branch of Soka Gakkai International, which is a Buddhist organization devoted to the religious teaching a 13th-century Japanese priest named Nichiren.  Soka Gakkai – or 'Value-Creation Society' – reportedly seeks to support 'peace, culture and education.' Bloom has officially been an adherent of Soka Gakkai Buddhism since 2004, but says that he has been a practicing buddhist since the age of 16. His daily routine: 'I chant for 20 minutes every day, religiously,' Orlando told The Sunday Times last year, describing his daily rituals as 'quite LA.' The Hobbit star described how likes to 'earn' his breakfast by taking a hike and listening to 'some Nirvana or Stone Temple Pilots' Traditional touches: Bloom indulged in some gingerbread men and shared a picture of their stunning little Christmas tree 'I chant for 20 minutes every day, religiously,' Orlando told The Sunday Times last year, describing his daily rituals as 'quite LA.' The Hobbit star described how likes to 'earn' his breakfast by taking a hike and listening to 'some Nirvana or Stone Temple Pilots.' And once he's earned that delicious breakfast, he allows himself to savor 'some green powders' that he mixes with 'brain octane oil, a collagen powder for [his] hair and nails, and some protein.' Main course for breakfast is 'usually porridge.' 'I'm 90 percent plant-based,' he explained. 'I'll only eat a really good piece of red meat maybe once a month. I sometimes look at a cow and think, that's the most beautiful thing ever.' Hidden gems: The Kingdom of Heaven star saw the beauty in the local architecture and a random antique car Blowing smoke: Orlando indulged in a gourmet dish of caviar served under a glass dome that released a plume of fragrant vapor when removed And when it comes to time to start the work day, Bloom said: 'I spend a lot of my time dreaming about roles for myself and others – for minorities and women. I'm trying to be a voice for everybody.' Perhaps the Kingdom of Heaven star dreamed up a few ideas during his Tokyo holiday.  Orlando posted shared images ranging from gingerbread men and Christmas trees to architecture and cars. He also dined on a gourmet dish of caviar served under a glass dome that released a plume of fragrant vapor when removed.  The happy couple: Katy and Orlando began dating in 2016, briefly parting ways in 2017 before resuming their relationship the following year. Their 2019 engagement was followed by the birth of their first child – a daughter named Daisy Dove – in 2020 Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group