One of three over-the-counter Narcan displays at Kinney Drugs on Nottingham Road in DeWitt. Pictured on Aug. 31, 2023. Syracuse, NY -- Narcan, the drug that can save a life during an opioid overdose, is no longer restricted to behind the pharmacy counter. Chain drug stores, such as Walgreens, Rite Aid and Kinney’s, are now rolling out ways for people to buy over-the-counter Narcan. A two-pack of nasal spray can now be purchased anywhere available for the suggested retail price of $44.99. That comes after federal approval of an over-the-counter version earlier this year.  It’s the latest way that naloxone HCI -- the drug’s generic name -- has become more accessible to New Yorkers, following a state health department order a year ago that made it available at any pharmacy without a prescription. More than 100 people die each year in Onondaga County from opioid overdoses, with 80,000 a year across the country. Naloxone has been credited for saving the lives of 75% or more of people who receive the drug in time. Here’s what you need to know about the drug’s newest form of distribution: Where to find it: Locally, Kinney Drugs rolled out its over-the-counter displays last Thursday, which was National Overdose Awareness Day. The boxes of Narcan are available in the pain aisle, while some stores may also stock it on the pharmacy counter (not behind) and in larger displays throughout the stores, said Kinney’s President John Marraffa. “It’s not going to be locked up, you don’t have to ask for it,” Marraffa said. “You can literally put this in your shopping cart and pay for it.” Walgreens said it will have its stores stocked with over-the-counter Narcan by the end of the week. Rite Aid said only that it would be available in “early September.” In the future, the drug might be stocked by corner stores and other businesses close to people at risk for overdose. It will also be more widely available via online order from places like Walmart, Target or Amazon, which needed to ship through their pharmacies before now. Cost: Maybe the biggest drawback to over-the-counter Narcan is the price tag of $44.99, something that many of the most vulnerable in society cannot afford. Other generics are seeking approval to enter the market at lower prices, but those will likely not be available until next year. For many, getting Narcan via the pharmacy will actually be cheaper. That’s because anyone with prescription drug coverage -- including through Medicaid or Medicare -- is eligible to have the state pay for $40 of any co-pay. Each prescription insurance plan varies, but many people can obtain Narcan free from a New York State pharmacy using the state subsidy, or pay only a small amount of $5. The over-the-counter price of $44.99 is still cheaper than the pharmacy’s non-insurance price for naloxone, which cost at least $75. Amazon’s online pharmacy, for example, was selling Narcan for $119.26 without insurance. Why pay for over-the-counter? The biggest advantage to buying the drug out-of-pocket is that it can be purchased by anyone with no questions asked. If you have insurance, your carrier will not be alerted to your purchase. You won’t have to ask a pharmacist about it. You won’t have to divulge any personal information. Instead, you can pick it up and go. “Right now, one of the biggest things is the risk of stigma of Narcan,” Marraffa said. “This reduces that stigma.” Where else can you get Narcan? Drug treatment providers will continue providing free naloxone as before. Onondaga County’s health department has a map of “naloxboxes” throughout the county that are stocked by the Prevention Network with free naloxone. There’s also a schedule of mandated training for anyone who wants to be prepared to use the drug. Or, you can take an online naloxone training.  You can also get Narcan free from the Onondaga County health department by calling or texting (315) 418-5365. Find out more about using Narcan, how to get help and when to call 911: Where to get free Narcan: How Central New Yorkers can help halt surge of deadly overdoses Will I get arrested in NY if I call 911 for overdose help? Staff writer Douglass Dowty can be reached at ddowty@syracuse.com or (315) 470-6070. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices