Dear Editor, Many people have consulted me about their spiritual problems so they can be set free. When I ask them if they have visited places of witchcraft, such as satanic temples; engaged in evil practices; indulged in sinful acts; etc at any time in their lives before coming to me, their answer is always “no”. However, God would show me legs in basins of water with blood or a pool of blood water while they bathe in it. When I tell them, they are always shocked, saying, “…uum, but that’s a long time ago. I remember when I was very small my dad took me there so I could pass my common entrance,” or “Oh, it was my aunty that took me there when I was very sick,” or “I was in a relationship and it wasn’t working, so a friend told me about a prayer mada, I went and she gave me a bath.” In some cases the parents took them there when they were babies and God revealed it to me. They would then say, “Well, I was told that when I was a baby I was a sick child.” That was the beginning of setbacks, sorrows, failure, joblessness, poverty, sleeplessness, headaches, breakthrough edge syndromes (inability to have breakthroughs or succeed), and the list goes on. Some people have drank blood or got it sprinkled on their bodies as the Obeah man or woman pronounced some words or statements over their lives which they could not understand. And some had got blood sprinkled at some part of their houses, in their body lotion or hair cream, etc. If this has happened to you, I pray the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed on the cross of Calvary destroys every other blood rituals of any kind in this nation and globally in Jesus name! The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 6:17: “Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you.” If only these people knew that when they go to seek help in the aforementioned places they are going to the gates of hell. It is satanic deception to put them in spiritual bondage and he has assigned his agents to destroy the people and their generations. Ignorance is not an excuse. Spiritual implications include: *opening up your entire life to spiritual attacks *Soul oppression *You become a target for powers of darkness *It will set limitations on your life or underachievement *Frequent attacks on your life, businesses, relationship, etc *Poverty, lack *Sleep problems *Spiritual weaknesses *Family problems *Bed wetting *Mental retardation, failure *Eating in dreams The Bible says in John 8:32: “…and ye shall know the truth and the truth shall set you free”. Recently, during one of my Zoom prayer meetings, God showed me in a church setting a person sitting on a chair who was bound with a rope, and blood water was pouring from her body into a basin underneath the chair. The Lord showed me to indicate that some people in our churches have done this or are still doing it. God hates it and wants it to stop! Dr Grace Ade-Gold  Founder and bishop  Arise Shine Apostolic and Deliverance Ministries 64 Seaward Drive, Kingston 10  graceadegold@gmail.com HOUSE RULES