OR WAIT null SECS 







 







 



 © 2024 MJH Life Sciences and Pharmaceutical Technology. All rights reserved. © 2024 MJH Life Sciences™  and Pharmaceutical Technology. All rights reserved.  Novo Nordisk receives the full rights to develop and commercialize the lead program.  On Aug. 28, 2023, Embark Laboratories announced it has been acquired by Novo Nordisk, including its lead metabolic program, in addition to entering a three-year research and development collaboration to discover and develop novel pharmaceuticals to treat obesity and related comorbidities, according to the press release.  Under the acquisition agreement for Embark Biotech, Novo Nordisk receives the full rights to develop and commercialize the lead program. Additionally, the research and development collaboration with Embark Laboratories provides Novo Nordisk with the option to acquire selected assets based on the Embark Biotech findings across several indications, including obesity and type 2 diabetes, according to the release.  “Novo Nordisk has been engaged in obesity research for 25 years, and we continuously search for new ways to address this serious chronic disease. We are excited about the opportunity to advance Embark Biotech’s lead program and look forward to co-creating novel treatments for cardiometabolic diseases with Embark Laboratories to complement our in-house R&D,” said Brian Finan, vice president of Obesity Research at Novo Nordisk, in a press release.  “There is a clear strategic fit between the novel biology we have discovered and Novo Nordisk’s expertise and focus on developing new drugs in the cardiometabolic space. We are thrilled to pass on the baton for our lead metabolic program to Novo Nordisk. This deal and Embark’s success are direct outcomes of the unique and innovative ecosystem in Denmark that has been cultivated by the BioInnovation Institute and the University of Copenhagen and through initiatives from the Novo Nordisk Foundation and the Innovation Fund Denmark,” said Zach Gerhart-Hines, chief technology officer at Embark Laboratories in the release.  Source: Embark Biotech Related Content: