This photo provided by Scott County (Iowa) Sheriff’s Office shows Justin Wright. Wright, a songwriter and music industry entrepreneur from Atlanta, was sentenced Wednesday, June 14, 2023, to life in prison without parole for killing his girlfriend. (Scott County Credit: AP DAVENPORT, Iowa — A songwriter and music industry entrepreneur from Atlanta has been sentenced to life in prison without parole for killing his girlfriend in Iowa. Justin Wright was found guilty of first-degree murder in April in the death of 20-year-old Wilanna Bibbs, and was sentenced Wednesday, the Quad-City Times reported. Wright, 34, also known as J Wright, founded Camp Entertainment Worldwide in 2011. His company worked with artists that included Bow Wow, Timbaland, Kash Doll and DJ Khalid, and he became a multi-platinum songwriter working with those acts. Bibbs, an aspiring singer from Durham, North Carolina, was shot to death on May 9, 2021, at a home in Davenport, Iowa. At the sentencing hearing, Bibbs' father, Thomas Bibbs, said Wright killed his daughter over $70. The two had been dating for a few months. Scott County Attorney Kelly Cunningham said Wright and Bibbs were in Davenport visiting Wright's relatives. Get the latest breaking news as it happens.  By clicking Sign up, you agree to our privacy policy. Wright did not speak during the sentencing hearing. When his mother asked if she could say goodbye to her son as he was being escorted out, a deputy shook his head no and kept walking.  Suffolk state of emergency after wild weather ... Santos' house of cards collapses  ... Sentencing in dog death case ... Sled hockey in Calverton Get more on these and other NewsdayTV stories  Suffolk state of emergency after wild weather ... Santos' house of cards collapses  ... Sentencing in dog death case ... Sled hockey in Calverton Get more on these and other NewsdayTV stories The Newsday app makes it easier to access content without having to log in. Unlimited Digital AccessOnly 25¢for 5 months Privacy Policy |Terms of service |Subscription terms |Your ad choices |Cookie Settings |California Privacy Rights |About Us |Contact Newsday |Reprints & permissions |Advertise with Newsday |Help Copyright ©2024 Newsday. All rights reserved.