
Home
 Don't miss out Subscribe to STAT+ today, for the best life sciences journalism in the industry By Adam Feuerstein , Damian Garde ,  and Allison DeAngelis March 10, 2023 Silicon Valley Bank, which does business with roughly half of the nation’s tech and biotech companies, failed on Friday. Now, as federal regulators step in to clean up SVB’s mess, biotech startups are left wondering: What happens to their money, and who’s going to finance the industry? On Friday morning, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation took control of SVB and is presiding over a sale of the firm’s assets to cover clients’ deposits. Its parent company, SVB Financial, had lost more than 66% of its market value over two days after dumping billions of dollars of bonds to shore up its balance sheet. SVB has halted trading of its own stock amid reports that it is trying to sell itself to a larger financial institution. advertisement The XBI, a closely watched index of biotech companies, fell about 3.5% on the news of SVB’s failure. The S&P 500 banks index declined more than 4% amid fears of a broader crisis. STAT+ Exclusive Story Already have an account? Log in Already have an account? Log in Already have an account? Log in Monthly $39 Totals $468 per year Totals $468 per year Starter $30 for 3 months, then $39/month Then $39/month Annual $399 Save 15% Save 15% 11+ Users Custom Savings start at 25%! Savings start at 25%! 2-10 Users $300 Annually per user $300 Annually per user 
						Get unlimited access to award-winning journalism and exclusive events.					 Senior Writer, Biotech Adam Feuerstein is a senior writer and biotech columnist, reporting on the crossroads of drug development, business, Wall Street, and biotechnology. He is also a co-host of the weekly biotech podcast, The Readout Loud. National Biotech Reporter Damian Garde covered biotech, was a co-writer of The Readout newsletter, and was a co-host of "The Readout LOUD" podcast. Biotech Startups and Venture Capital Reporter Allison DeAngelis is the East Coast biotech and venture capital reporter at STAT, reporting where scientific ideas and money meet. She is also co-host of the weekly biotech podcast, The Readout Loud. biotechnology finance STAT+ 
					STAT encourages you to share your voice. We welcome your commentary, criticism, and expertise on our subscriber-only platform, STAT+ Connect
 To submit a correction request, please visit our Contact Us page. advertisement Reporting from the frontiers of health and medicine Company Account More