 Simply register at no cost.   Questions or problems? Email [email protected] or call 0711 046 000.  The artist, who became famous with the hit Mwema, dismissed claims that the country's gospel music industry is on the decline. "The gospel industry shows the real picture that anyone goes through, there are ups and downs," she said. Gospel artist Mercy Masika has asked her fans to focus on the good side of everything. Speaking on Radio Jambo's Massawe Japanni, Masika said people stopped watching music online. "It is something we are working on. Nowadays, most people go online to watch comedy and what they want. I have not stopped singing," she said. Last month Masika released a song titled Evidence. "I have been fortunate enough to visit many African countries and I can say that in Kenya we are very lucky, we are blessed but we cannot know until we get there," she said. She also told Kenyans to be thankful that they live in a peaceful country. "You go to other countries and you find people walking around armed with guns until you get a shock. Kenyans should stop complaining about everything. Most media tend to only take negative things and invest a lot of time there." The artist, who became famous with the hit Mwema, dismissed claims that the country's gospel music industry is on the decline. "The gospel industry shows the real picture that anyone goes through, there are ups and downs," she said. "It is possible that there is a relaxation in places, but that does not mean that the gospel is fading, I feel that there is a greater liberation at this time than at any other time."  Masika was responding to a recent rant by comedian Eric Omondi, who called out several gospel musicians for allegedly killing the industry with controversy. The controversial comedian came out guns blazing and criticised former and current gospel artistes for no longer singing and keeping the industry relevant. In a video that he posted on his Instagram page, Omondi said the most immoral people in Kenya are former gospel artists. In a rebuttal, Lady Bee Annastacia Mukabwa and Rosemary Njage said they are busy "winning for Christ". "We are not looking for fame by walking naked," Annastacia said. "We take a break to recharge and get something to bring to the people. The industry has changed many of us." Guardian Angel said some artists have taken years to build their brands. "We have served God for a long time and you can't just come to speak bad things about people who have spent years serving God," he said. "God does not send anyone via social media to pass a message. He sends you directly to the intended person. "God is not in the business of chasing clout. We listen to the voice of God through His ministers and we pray. No human being can be sent to tell us what to do." Advertise with us: Call 0711 046 000 · [email protected]  