
					By Bruce Haring  pmc-editorial-manager 
	Radio and music industry trade All Access has announced it is shuttering as of Tuesday, Aug. 15.  
	Citing “severe financial headwinds,” All Access announced its demise in a posting late Friday afternoon. The publication said it faced “a marked decrease in revenues that makes moving forward impossible.” The website will remain online for now.   
	“This is without question the saddest and most heartbreaking moment of my professional life,” founder, pesident and publisher Joel Denver said. 
	 “The dollars are just not there to support our operation and staff any longer,” the notice said.

	








 
	Denver founded All Access in 1995.  “We’ve weathered many changes and obstacles in the industry over these years,” Denver said. “We’ve carved an incredible path and have taken each part of our operation to amazing levels of success through honesty, hard work, and passion for the radio industry, the music, the artists and our many readers, marketing partners, clients and our many contributing editors. Thank you all so much — we could not have done any of this without you.”

 
	 All Access currently has 25 employees.  Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	