         Nashville Roadhouse Live has moved into the Pierce Arrow Theatre for the remainder of the 2023 show season, while simultaneously launching a brand new series for television.  Formerly at The Branson Star Theatre, the Stevie Lee Woods-led Branson production found themselves seeking a new home after the venue was sold and the new owner was ready to move in immediately. “We’ve known for a while Jerry Franklin, the owner of the Branson Star Theatre, was trying to sell it and he actually did sell it to a magician that is coming to town,” Woods said. “We thought we’d be getting to finish up the rest of the year, but because he has big cats in his show he wanted everyone out before he got there, which was coming in October, coming now.” As the search for a new stage began, Woods connected with the Founder of Pierce Arrow Dan Britton.  “Dan’s a great guy. We sat down and just talked to him about our vision of everything and he was very accommodating and just super cool,” Woods said. “We find ourselves there and it’s a great theater. It’s prepared well, it’s nice, it’s a beautiful theater, so I’m sure we’re going to have a great time. All the people that have season passes with Nashville Roadhouse, I’ll honor those and everything’s basically the same, it’s just a different house.”      With the 2023 show season coming to a close in approximately two months, Woods said they had already been planning to move to a new location in 2024.  “The reasons for the move were just wanting to get a better location,” he said. “That theater is hard to promote. Where it’s located, it’s hard to find even if you go on Google Maps, it sends you to Silver Dollar City. We wanted to get more mainstream Branson, so we’re now at the Pierce Arrow Theatre. The rest of this year it’s going to be at 3 p.m. show on Friday and Saturday. Then next season we’ve got some big announcements that I can’t make yet, but we’ll be in the mainstream Branson; so it’s going to be really cool.” Woods teased these big announcements will be coming soon, and will likely be shared by November. While the mid-season theater switch is big news, Woods shared the even bigger news is the kick-off of their new television show: “Stevie Lee Woods Presents-Nashville Roadhouse Live.”  “On Sept. 16, our television show did launch and it is across the country coast to coast on network television. We did list all the networks you can find it on,” Woods said. “We’re in 192 million homes across the country, which is great and we’re expanding on that. Coming up in the next couple of weeks, it’s being taken international.” Woods said he wants to utilize his new show to shed a new light on Branson and the entertainers performing here.  “We need to get back to the entertainment and everything that originally started Branson, MO,” Woods said. “There’s a lot of guest stars here from Branson that are coming on and we hope many more will, to not only promote their shows across the country, but also put the limelight back on Branson and bring the attention back here.” The great thing about the new television program, Woods explained it’s the only variety show that’s Rated G, so the entire family can enjoy the music. “We’re for all audiences and you can sit your little kids or granddaughters or grandsons down and watch it as well as your Grandma and Grandpa. They can watch it and enjoy themselves. There’s a lot of fun. It’s all about the music and it’s not about hee-haw and slapstick comedy. I don’t mean that with disrespect, I’m just saying we’re trying to appeal to a newer demographic in Branson,” Woods said. “It’s a more mainstream concert style. It’s developed that way and produced that way and that sound quality is that way. It’s something you would directly see and hear in Nashville, because I’ve performed in Nashville quite a bit and I know that to be true.”           The series is being produced by Telco Productions and put out by PMI, who is also the distributor for many well known series including “Law & Order,” “Judge Judy,” “Jimmy Kimmel LIVE,” and many others. “They distribute all those shows, so we’re in good company,” Woods said. “My pursuit was to make it a big deal for Branson, because I wanted Branson to have that hit. Fortunately, I was able to make that happen. I hope we get the support of everyone else to try and help us.” Most recently, episodes of the series were shot at The Copeland Theatre at The Shoppes at Branson Meadows, which were free and open to the public to attend.  Nashville Roadhouse Live will be hosting shows every Friday and Saturday at 3 p.m. now through Saturday, Dec. 16. For additional information or to get tickets for the show visit nashvilleroadhouse.com.     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Would you like to receive our daily news? Signup today! Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: