By Action games are perhaps the most popular genre on Roblox. They rack up millions of players, looking to let off some steam. You’ll find wide-ranging action games on Roblox, spanning first-person shooters to training simulation games. Each one offers steamy moments of thwarting the opponent or decimating hordes of enemies. If you’re keen on taking the best action games on Roblox for a ride, you may want to start perusing from the list below. 10. Counter Blox: Remastered If you haven’t already, check out the FPS game Counter Blox: Remastered. It has racked up quite a following for its snappy combat. You’ll team up in 5v5 firefight matches across multiple maps, which take you to real-life-inspired places worldwide. With each victory, you’ll accumulate rewards, allowing you to access new abilities, gear, and grenades. Currently, over 1 billion players have visited the game. Another FPS game you can check out is Bad Business. It comes equipped with all the moving parts you may expect in an FPS. Multiple combat scenarios test your aim and reflexes in tough spots. You can also access various weapons that pack different punches and reload times. Meanwhile, you’re free to customize your play style and gear to make the most of your experience in the game. You can, instead, dive into a face-off with human opponents. In Phantom Forces, you choose between the ghosts and phantoms team. Each team has its own perks and weapons, but at their core, they have balanced gameplay. Thus, fights are fair, with only your skill and reflexes determining whether you scoop up the crown. Being multiplayer, you can either work together with online players or survive. Alternatively, you can branch out on your own but still scoop up the win for your team. Tower of Hell is perfect for gamers looking to enjoy non-stop action. Rather than short bursts of combat, you can hop onto the first tower that, once completed, sends you to another, and another, until you reach the end of the game. Each tower has its unique challenges and missions, and they randomly regenerate, making each run-through fresh and fun. Becoming a member of the SWAT team has to be one of the most challenging feats you can pull off. And S.W.A.T Simulator effectively pulls the difficulty off with its tough scenarios. To make it more authentic, it crafts training challenges that assess your growth and skill level. Once you’ve passed all the training scenarios, you’re deemed ready for the field. Even one slight mistake in the field can cause irreparable damage and even loss of life, making your playthrough a highly intense affair. Flee the Facility is single-minded in its objective, ensuring every minute spent in the game is focused on the end goal. You’ll evade a beast on the loose at all costs, whether running through multiple rooms or hiding when the beast catches up with you. Thankfully, the game has a map that shows you where possible hiding spots like vents are. It also shows you where the exit doors are because, in the end, you’ll need to escape the facility to get away from the beast for good. Fans of anime will have, at one point, imagined a world where all of the main characters meet and battle it out in an arena for the crown. Which anime character do you think will win? In Anime Battle Arena, you can confirm your hypothesis with nearly all of your favorite anime characters represented on the roster. Further, each character comes equipped with their own unique skills and abilities. That way, you have limitless options to experiment with and find the ones that best match your play style. Day by day, more anime characters are added to the ever-growing roster, from Naruto, Dragon Ball, My Hero Academia, Bleach, One Piece, and more franchises. Regardless of how much more time you need to serve in prison, Jailbreak demands that you break out of jail now. There’s no specific way you can escape, provided you watch out for the guards and steal key cards to unlock doors. Meanwhile, guards patrol prison grounds, keeping prisoners in jail. If you succeed and make your escape, though, then the true test of crime begins. You’ll orchestrate dangerous heists to earn money and build a reputation on the streets. But guards will still be hot on your tail, looking to catch you in the act and throw you back in prison. Some of the most popular battles in history incorporated clever tactics to achieve victory. Others were simply overpowered. Regardless, Bleeding Blades offers the chance to relive and rewrite history. You can do so directly, pushing enemy forces from the frontlines of war. But you can also command your own army, employing clever offence and defence strategies that keep your soldiers alive. Thanks to the various historical battles featured in the game, you can experiment with different strategies while also sharpening your skills as an army commander or one of the soldiers. The road to becoming a master ninja takes a lot of hard work and discipline. Ninja Legends is determined to prove that, with tough battles to take on against more powerful ninjas. You’ll start as a rookie and build your swordsmanship. With each victory, you’ll unlock a higher badge that comes with upgrades and new abilities. Moreover, you’ll always have more powerful ninjas to hone your newly unlocked skills, thanks to a booming player base. And you can always flaunt your achievements on the global leaderboard. While it’ll take some time to climb the ranks, the hard work will prove well worth the effort.  Evans I. Karanja is a freelance writer who loves to write about anything technology. He is always on the lookout for interesting topics, and enjoys writing about video games, cryptocurrency and blockchain and more. When not writing, he can be found playing video games or watching F1. 5 Best Anime Games on Roblox 5 Best Roblox Avatars 5 Best Roblox Display Names 5 Best Roblox Games Like All-Star Tower Defense 5 Best Roblox Games Like Anime Adventures 5 Best Roblox Games Like BedWars Advertiser Disclosure: Gaming.net is committed to rigorous editorial standards to provide our readers with accurate reviews and ratings. We may receive compensation when you click on links to products we reviewed. Please Play Responsibly:   Casino Games Disclosure:  Select casinos are licensed by the Malta Gaming Authority. 18+  Copyright © 2024 Gaming.net