George Tickner, who was the original guitarist and co-founding member of the American rock group Journey, has died at the age of 76 Journey's original guitarist George Tickner has died at the age of 76, it has been announced. The news was confirmed by the Don't Stop Believin' American rock band's guitarist and sole member Neal Schon, who penned a tribute on Facebook. It read: "Journey Junkies, I have some very sad news. George Tickner, Journey’s original rhythm guitarist and songwriting contributor on their first three albums, has passed away. He was 76 years old. "Godspeed, George… thank you for the music. We will be paying tribute to you on this page indefinitely. Out condolences to his family and friends, and to all past and present band members. So heartbreaking..I think we need to do a group hug, JJ’s!" Journey is best known for its hits Don't Stop Believin' and Any Way You Want It. The group formed in 1973, with George as one of the founding members.  The original line-up consisted of Neal Schon, Ross Valory, George Tickner and drummer Prairie Prince. As the news was confirmed, fans flooded social media with tributes to George. One wrote: "Rock on George Tickner #GeorgeTickner #Journey". "Oh no!! Such sad news!!! Praying for his family and friends, my condolences to you. Will put that first Journey vinyl on now in his honor," a second added. A third typed: "So sorry Neal and Journey for your loss of George. May he fly high with the Angels. R.I.P George." A fourth commented: "I'm so sorry for the loss Neal. Now all those very early memories of Journey will be even deeper etched in my heart. Sending love, hugs and prayers to you and his family and friends. Rest in eternal peace George." The news of George's passing comes two years after the death of Journey's manager Herbie Herbert. The manager of the famous rock band died of natural causes at the age of 73 at his home in Orinda, California on Monday, according to Variety. The music mogul, who was born Walter James Herbert II began his career in the industry as a roadie for Santana, but was best known for his managerial role for Journey. Following his death, his wife told Variety: "He made so many people’s lives and careers truly better, and as a manager, he always made decisions based on what was for the greater good."  All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out. Celeb obsessed? Get a daily dose of showbiz gossip direct to your inbox