Menu The Oregon Division of Financial Regulation (DFR) announced today that it has joined a multi-state settlement with Robinhood Financial LLC, which will pay up to $10.2 million in penalties for operational and technical failures that harmed investors, including some in Oregon. The settlement stems from an investigation spearheaded by state securities regulators in Alabama, Colorado, California, Delaware, New Jersey, South Dakota and Texas coordinated through the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) regarding Robinhood’s operational failures with respect to the retail market. The investigation was sparked by Robinhood platform outages in March 2020, a time when hundreds of thousands of investors were relying on the Robinhood app to make trades. In addition, before to March 2021, there were deficiencies at Robinhood in its review and approval process for options and margin accounts, weaknesses in the firm’s monitoring and reporting tools, and insufficient customer service and escalation protocols that in some cases left Robinhood users unable to process trades even as the value of certain stocks was dropping. “This multi-state settlement is another example of states working together to protect investors,” said DFR Administrator TK Keen. “DFR is committed to holding companies like Robinhood accountable when it failed to protect those who have entrusted them.” The order sets out the following violations: Robinhood neither admits nor denies the findings as set out in the orders. Robinhood will provide access to a Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)-ordered compliance implementation report to settling states. Robinhood retained an independent compliance consultant who made recommendations for remediation, which Robinhood has generally implemented. One year after the settlement date, Robinhood will attest to the lead state, Alabama, that it is in full compliance with the FINRA-ordered independent compliance consultant’s recommendations or has otherwise instituted measures that are more effective at addressing the recommendations. If you have questions or concerns about your investments or financial professional, please contact DFR at 1-888-877-4894 (toll-free) or email dfr.financialserviceshelp@dcbs.oregon.gov. ~COMING OCTOBER 4th, 2024~ 11th ANNIVERSARY WHAT IS ANGEL GLOW?     Anabelle’s Angel Glow started as a project of pure love by Becki Doden, who saw a family in desperate need and pulled off a miracle BrightSide’s Paw Crawl Fundraiser Event, sponsored by Roth Home, takes place on Saturday, September 7th in Redmond! For a $30 donation, enjoy a special logo cup, gift card to Local Paws, beverage token, and BrightSide hat. Start COME JOIN US FOR OUR 40th ANNUAL OREGON HIGH DESERT SWAP MEET and CAR SHOW + Antiques in Redmond Oregon. Saturday September 7, 2024 Always the first Saturday after Labor Day! Time 7AM – 3:30PM Deschutes County Bend Fire & Rescue responded to a reported house fire on Cherrywood Lane in the Woodriver Village neighborhood just before 2am. First arriving crews found the fire in the attic that had vented through the roof. Crews At approximately 5:03 a.m., Bend Police responded to a 911 call reporting an assault. The caller, identified as a 66-year Bend man, told dispatchers that he’d hit his roommate in the head with a bat. When officers