
Menu
 
Search

 
Menu
 
Search

 

                                                                                        Sam Altman's Worldcoin Expands to Malaysia for Digital ID Verification, Boosting National Security                                         

                                                                                        Why American investors are pouring money into European football                                         

                                                                                        How investing in green buildings, including cheaper home loans, is a win for banks, people and our planet                                         

                                                                                        FxWirePro- BTCUSD Daily Outlook                                         

                                                                                        Vanguard Bans Clients From Buying Bitcoin ETFs; Users Respond With a Threat to Shut Accounts                                         

                                                                                        Honduras’ Prospera Special Economic Zone Accepts Bitcoin as Standard Monetary Unit                                         

                                                                                        TikTok Fights U.S. Ban, Claims Misrepresentation in China Ties and Data Security Allegations                                         

                                                                                        Major crypto levels and bias summary                                         

                                                                                        Tesla Cybertruck Hits 400-Mile Range with Core Wheels, New Owner Reveals                                         

                                                                                        Fall Flavors Arrive: New Seasonal Menus from Krispy Kreme, Cracker Barrel, and The Human Bean                                         

                                                                                        Tesla Marks 400 Superchargers in Hong Kong with Specially Wrapped Stall, Celebrating a Decade of Growth                                         

                                                                                        Be wary of the ‘vibes’: positive investor sentiment doesn’t necessarily match the true value of stocks                                         

                                                                                        Bitcoin's First Bull Signal in 2 Years Sparks Predictions of 2x Price Surge                                         

                                                                                        AAVE - Blockchain for Decentralized Finance                                         

                                                                                        U.S. EV Sales Surge in June, Outpacing Overall Auto Market Growth: Report                                         

                                                                                        The Future of News: Embracing the Paradigm Shift                                         

                                                                                        Brian Armstrong: AI ‘Should Have Crypto Wallets,’ Coinbase’s $15K Grants to Spur Innovation                                                 Robinhood will operate in Nevada following its partnership with Shiba Inu. Grayscale, FTSE Russel Sign Partnership Deal to Create 5 New Crypto Indexes Solana-Based Marinade Finance Ceases UK Operations Amid FCA Compliance Concerns Bitcoin Surges Past $30,000; Coinbase Chief Predicts SEC Approval of ETF Robinhood Markets Inc. has expanded its cryptocurrency services to Nevada state through its latest collaboration with Shiba Inu (SHIB), a decentralized cryptocurrency based on Ethereum that features the Shiba Inu hunting dog as its mascot. The altcoin is also being widely seen as an alternative to Dogecoin. With Robinhood’s expansion to the said U.S. state, it is set to offer Shiba Inu and other cryptocurrencies. This operation is expected to fire up enthusiasm for the crypto market in the territory. Robinhood in Nevada - What Its Operation Will Cover  According to Crypto Potato, once the California-headquartered financial services company starts its business in Nevada, it will facilitate buying, selling, and real-time market data for about 15 digital currencies and assets such as Bitcoin (BTC) and Ether (ETH). As it has also teamed up with Shiba Inu, it is also on the list as well as Dogecoin. Some other crypto coins accessible on Robinhood’s platform are Aave and Chainlink. At any rate, this notable shift and expansion of cryptocurrency in the United States - this time to Nevada - comes amid the growing market optimism over the anticipated approval of Bitcoin Spot ETF. Reaction to Robinhood’s Shiba Inu Arrival in the State Residents of Nevada can easily trade, sell, and buy Shibu Inu now through Robinhood. One of the good things about this is that there is no commission, and people can initially invest as low as $1. Meanwhile, CoinGape reported that despite Robinhood’s announcement of the availability of crypto in Nevada, DOGE and SHIB did not show big reactions, and in fact, for the most part, there was no reaction to it at all. The only response observed is that the prices of the two digital currencies have slightly retraced after the announcement. This is also known as a retracement, which means a temporary reversal in the crypto market trend.   Photo by: Robinhood Media Resources Breathing through your nose when you exercise may make your runs easier Entrepreneurs are facing a mental health crisis — here's how to help them Are fish oil supplements as healthy as we think? And is eating fish better? Will AI kill our creativity? It could – if we don’t start to value and protect the traits that make us human Does AI have a right to free speech? Only if it supports our right to free thought How can I lower my cholesterol? Do supplements work? How about psyllium or probiotics? Why we need to set limits on sperm donation Aging with a healthy brain: How lifestyle changes could help prevent up to 40% of dementia cases Seven techniques to avoid weight regain, approved by experts  
                                                                                                Krispy Kreme Expands Nationwide with McDonald’s, Modernizes Operations for Massive Rollout  
                                                                                                The Secret Behind McDonald’s Perfect Fries: The Four Potato Varieties They Use  
                                                                                                Donald Trump's Nephew Sparks Concern, Suggests Ex-President Shows Early Signs of Dementia: 'It Runs In The Family'  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Sparks Mental Fitness Concerns After Mistaking Pennsylvania for North Carolina at Rally  
                                                                                                Russia-Ukraine war spills into west Africa: Mali attacks signal dangerous times ahead  
                                                                                                Tesla Marks 400 Superchargers in Hong Kong with Specially Wrapped Stall, Celebrating a Decade of Growth  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Mocked as Supporter Falls Asleep During Pennsylvania Rally: Critics Call Him 'Boring AF'  
                                                                                                Tesla Cybertruck Hits 400-Mile Range with Core Wheels, New Owner Reveals  
                                                                                                Huawei Export Restrictions Set for Potential US Relaxation as Lawmakers Warn of Economic Fallout  
                                                                                                SpaceX Prepares for Risky Tower Capture in Upcoming Starship Flight 5 Test 
Back to Top ▲
 
                        

                        
                        ©Econometrics LLC . All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.                     Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results. Sign up for daily updates for the most important
            stories unfolding in the global economy. 