
Published: Sep 27, 2023 07:05 pm 
 Everyone knows Roblox: the ultimate hub for players looking for games made by other gamers, all on one platform. There are plenty of different genres to choose from, including intense mystery games, relaxing tycoons, or even tricky parkour levels that will test the very limits of your dexterity and finesse. Continue reading if you would like to learn about some of our favorite games of 2023! Image via Roblox Corporation All-Star Tower Defense has been a popular game on Roblox for a while now — and for good reason. You are tasked with using a variety of different units to hold back a horde of enemies. In classic tower defense style, these enemies will come at you in waves. However, watch out because the waves will become harder and harder as time goes on! You can unlock new units as you progress, meaning you’ll always have new abilities to test out against your relentless foes. Image via Roblox Corporation Are you a fan of the One Piece anime show? Well, then this game is perfect for you! Blox Fruits takes the idea of Devil Fruit from the original anime and calls them Blox Fruits in this fan-made RPG adventure. Use the many different Blox Fruits to help you on your journey to become the most powerful warrior in the world! Take on different bosses and work together with other players to accomplish goals — or fight with others to reach the top! Just make sure that you don’t run too low on your Blox Fruits since they need to be harvested or purchased from dealers found around this magical world. Image via Roblox Corporation Ever wondered how you would do in a natural disaster? Now you can find out and put your survival skills to the test! As the game’s description says, “Run around in circles! Your life depends on it!” Dodge flaming lava from an erupting volcano, run from ravaging tornadoes and earthquakes, and look for high ground as tsunamis come in to sweep you and your friends away! There are many unique and challenging maps that you can play on, which means the game stays fresh for a long time as you deal with disasters in different environments! Good luck out there, and keep an eye on the sky! Image via Roblox Corporation If you’re looking for something that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat, try out Doors! This new horror game is pretty unique since it lets you use trial-and-error to traverse the scary world. Make full use of your memory to remember your path as you work to survive. Don’t get too distracted by the fantastic graphics that have earned this game over 3 billion visits since its release! In order to be fully immersed in the game, make sure to wear headphones and turn your graphics to their maximum setting so that you can get the best lighting and experience this game has to offer. Image via Roblox Corporation This game works exactly how it sounds! Click to win, and win to increase your base speed. Basically, the more you click while racing, the faster you’ll be boosted towards the finish line. As you earn wins, your speed will increase and you can go on to unlock new cosmetics, pets, and other items. Race against your friends or join random competitions to take on strangers and climb the leaderboard as you click your way to the championship. Just make sure that you don’t hurt your fingers too much along the way! Image via Roblox Corporation Adopt Me! is one of the most popular games of all time, and it has remained on top for good reason. Adopt a menagerie of beautiful and exotic pets, trade with other players, and grow your collection of animals! You can also build a home in the game, so put your designing skills to the test and get ready for an RPG adventure with all of your friends! The game has received more than 34 billion visits since its release in 2017 and consistently reaches the most active game of the day across all of Roblox. Hop in to start making friends with new animals! Image via Roblox Corporation Murder Mystery is a flagship game that has had a massive following on Roblox since its inception in 2014. At the time of writing, the game has an impressive 90,000 players online, all in servers of just 12 people. There are three different roles in this game, but two teams. The first team is composed of only the Murderer, who is trying to eliminate everyone else in the lobby while staying undetected. The other team has two different roles, the Sheriff and the Innocents. If you are randomly chosen as the Sheriff, your task is to find the Murderer and take them out before they can finish off the whole server. As an Innocent, try to figure out who the Murderer is so your team can work to bring them down before they get to you! Watch your back, and trust no one! Image via Roblox Corporation Ever wondered what life is like behind prison walls? You can find out in this RPG adventure, where you choose to either be a hardened criminal living out their sentence or a guard who just wants to do their job and make it through the day. Work to escape the prison with other inmates, or defend it alongside fellow guards. This is another Roblox classic that is still popular to this day, since it never gets old — who doesn’t love the thrill you get from outplaying the guards, or shutting down a prisoner’s escape plot? Image via Roblox Corporation This creative game takes the childhood classic to the next level and lets you play with 13 others across a wide variety of different maps. Hide and Seek Extreme is played exactly like normal Hide and Seek, except for one special twist. The player who is ‘It’ gets a special ability after they have been randomly chosen. These special abilities will make the game very different, since the superpowers are designed to help the ‘It’ player catch and detect others. If you’re feeling brave, taunt the ‘It’ player by pressing the ‘1’ button, but be careful since they could choose to target you! Image via Roblox Corporation Another anime game that we believe is one of Roblox’s best in 2023 has to be Anime Fighters Simulator. This game allows you to explore a world filled with treasures and riches as you train your character. Collect resources and unlock all of the unique characters that are available in this RPG adventure. We found the combat animations to be extremely fluid, and the graphics in Anime Fighters Simulator are a huge reason it beats out all of the competition in the genre. Image via Roblox Corporation Looking for a game that can help you relax? Or maybe you just want to hang out with your friends in a stress-free environment? No matter what, Berry Avenue is the place for you! Enroll in Berry Avenue’s high school, find work with stores or join the police force, and even treat patients visiting the hospital! You can do almost anything in this beautiful utopia, and the server size of 30 players allows plenty of gamers to join in on the fun! Although on the newer side, Berry Avenue has quickly become a place for Roblox gamers of all stripes to unwind and chill. Image via Roblox Corporation Are you a fan of the FPS game CS:GO? Well, this Roblox adventure takes plenty of inspiration from that wildly popular game’s Arms Race game mode and pits you against 15 other players inside intricately-designed maps. Work to rack up 32 eliminations before any of your opponents can in order to win. However, for every person you take down, your loadout will switch. You will need to be an expert with many different types of weapons if you want to have a chance in this fast-paced, thrilling deathmatch! Use the in-game currency BattleBucks to unlock unique kill effects, fresh skins, and new characters as you play! Image via Roblox Corporation Another peaceful place for you to relax while you play Roblox is Brookhaven RP, a town filled with potential and a place that has adventure waiting around every corner! You can own fancy vehicles, buy your dream house, and live life how it was meant to be — on your own terms. Play with your friends and work to carve out the life that you’ve always wanted, all in one server! With the capacity to host 18 players per server, and having reached over 37 billion visits, Brookhaven is a great pick if you’re looking for a more social game that doesn’t involve as much violence or action as other fan favorites. Image via Roblox Corporation Speaking of driving fancy vehicles, this fast-paced racing game has it all! With a selection of over 250 cars that you can use to participate in races or simply drive around, Driving Empire has a lot of variety to offer. Race against your friends and grow your car collection with your winnings, then bring them to the many community events to show them off to others! The game has almost reached 1 billion visits since its release in 2019 and the realistic graphics are a cut above most other racing games that you’ll come across in Roblox. Just make sure not to run any red lights as you race to the top! Image via Roblox Corporation The tycoon genre is a classic on Roblox, with many popular games dating back from its earliest days. However, Mega Mansion Tycoon is a newer addition, providing a breath of fresh air to the aging game mode. With plenty of features that allow you to build a mansion to your heart’s desires, this game is sure to catch the eye of every tycoon lover! You can visit your friends’ creations in the game, invite people over to your mansion, and enjoy all of the fancy gadgets that come with your mega mansion. For example, try boat races across a scenic lake, or race down the city roads! With autosaving enabled, your progress will stick around forever and there is no need for you to worry about losing all of your hard work! Other Roblox articles