businessLocal Companies By  Alexandra SkoresAviation Reporter By  Alexandra SkoresAviation Reporter 5:00 AM on Feb 11, 2023 CST Dave & Buster’s is joining the metaverse with a new digital experience on Roblox that reimagines classic arcade games. The Coppell-based company says the virtual experience “reflects the energy and excitement of the actual Dave & Buster’s.” It’s being dubbed “Dave & Buster’s World.” The company wanted to launch the virtual world ahead of the Super Bowl to promote two football-themed games, said Pete Thornfield, vice president of marketing at Dave & Buster’s. Young adults remain a key demographic for the chain and Roblox says 17- to 21-year-olds are its fastest-growing age segment. “Dave & Buster’s is the pioneer in midway and arcade games,” said Dave & Buster’s CEO Chris Morris in a statement. “That creativity and innovative spirit continue[s] to drive us to explore new ways to expand our leadership in interactive experiences for our guests.” In simplest terms, the metaverse is a combination of new technologies under one bucket. It uses virtual and augmented reality to depict different scenarios. Experts predict the metaverse could have industrial uses, too. Camelot Strategic Marketing & Media partnered with Dave & Buster’s to create the experience. The world on Roblox was developed by MELON, a mainstay studio and creator on Roblox that has collaborated with Chipotle, the NFL, Pacsun and other top brands. Become a business insider with the latest news. Or with:  By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy Dave & Buster’s isn’t the first Dallas-Fort Worth company to incorporate the metaverse in its plans. Telecommunications giant Nokia, which also has offices in Coppell, sees the metaverse becoming an all-consuming technology by 2030. Dallas-based commercial real estate giant CBRE Group is also experimenting with ways the metaverse could help it bring employees together, through virtual reality experiences in the office. Dave & Buster’s Thornfield said it was important for the company’s metaverse version to fully capture the energy of a game-filled brick-and-mortar location. “The digital world is becoming increasingly important to our guests,” Thornfield said. “By connecting with them in innovative ways, we can continue to deepen our brand connections while also driving visits to our IRL (in real life) Dave & Buster’s.” In the virtual world, users can buy “power drinks” for greater speed and added strength in arcade games. Users can also trade in tickets earned at D&B locations for in-game customizations. “We understand the power of multiplayer experiences, and we are proud to invest in technology and partnerships that deepen digital connections with our guests and complement the real-world experience that we are famous for,” Thornfield said. Dave & Buster’s is back in growth mode following the COVID-19 pandemic. In April, it acquired privately-owned competitor Main Event in an all-cash deal valued at $835 million. Alexandra Skores, Aviation Reporter. Alexandra Skores is the aviation writer for The Dallas Morning News, covering airlines, air travel and the aerospace industry. She's a graduate of the University of Iowa. Alexandra has previously worked at the Oregonian in Portland, Oregon and The Gazette in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 