Build, battle, defend. Anime World Tower Defense is a Roblox game that fans of All Star Tower Defense should enjoy. Both experiences are tower defence games where you recruit iconic anime characters to help defend your territory from wave after wave of enemies. AWTD has a roster of over 100 characters that are based on iconic shows like One Piece, Dragon Ball Z and Bleach. To get new characters you'll have to pull for them using the game's gacha-style system, which offers random characters when you exchange Puzzle Pieces. If you're running low on this in-game currency you can always redeem a couple of Anime World Tower Defense codes to top up your account and get free Puzzle Pieces. Not sure how to redeem codes in Anime World Tower Defense? Here's a step-by-step guide: If you entered in an active code the text in the textbox will change to 'Redeemed Code!' A notification will also appear above the Settings menu letting you know what goodies you've claimed for free. If you get an 'Invalid Code' error message instead then that means the code is no longer working. Codes for Anime World Tower Defense, like other Roblox games, are time sensitive so if you see a code you like the look of don't delay. Looking to play other anime-inspired games on Roblox? Then check out our lists of Blox Fruits codes, Peroxide codes and Type Soul codes to earn plenty of useful freebies. For help with other popular Roblox games head to our Blade Ball codes, Untitled Boxing Game codes and Arm Wrestle Simulator codes pages. 
Roblox
 
          Video Game
       
        Sign in and unlock a world of features
       
        Get access to commenting, homepage personalisation, newsletters, and more!
       

Jujutsu Chronicles codes                    
 

Bad Business codes                    
 

Arm Wrestle Simulator codes                    
 

Meme Sea codes                    
 

Cake Off codes                    
 

Anime Last Stand codes                    
 

Car Dealership Tycoon codes                    
 

Anime Fighters Simulator codes                    
 VG247 is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.