Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Chris Markoch
          

            Dec 28, 2022
          
 
          Share         
    This story originally appeared on MarketBeat
  The industrial sector will be one to watch in 2023. And in this article, you'll get three industrial stocks that present an opportunity for investors of all styles. You'll get one small-cap stock, one mid-cap stock and one large-cap stock for your consideration.   The effects of government policy take time to filter into the economy. And so it is that many corporations are only now beginning to experience the benefits of the infrastructure act passed in Congress in 2022. Investors are beginning to see this activity in the stock prices of heavy equipment makers like Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE: CAT).   The three companies in this article have different industrial applications. But each aligns with a segment of the economy that will lead into the future. Here are the three picks:  LSI Industries Inc. (NASDAQ: LYTS) is the small-cap stock on this list. The company has a market cap of just over $330 million as of December 27, 2022. LSI Industries makes commercial lighting and retail display solutions. It has one niche. However, that may be a game changer.   The company's REDiMount system promises to reduce "the time necessary to install a canopy fixture by over 50%." The company claims it will be a new standard for canopy lighting solutions. What's even more promising is that one of the applications for this product will be in refueling stations.   As a small-cap stock, LSI Industries doesn't enjoy the same analyst coverage as larger stocks. But the company does hold a Buy rating even as LYTS stock is trading near its 52-week high. The stock is trading at an attractive P/E ratio of just 18x earnings, and the prices have been consolidating lately, pointing to the possibility of a strong move higher.   Belden, Inc. (NYSE: BDC) is the mid-cap option of this trio. Belden provides specialized networking solutions to a global client base. The company has two business units: the Enterprise Solutions segment and the Industrial Solutions segment.  A bullish consideration for Belden in 2022 is its link to cybersecurity. The company's products are essential to protecting a company's network. This is particularly critical for data centers – a prime target for cybercriminals.  BDC stock is up 12% in the last 12 months, and analysts tracked by MarketBeat suggest it has an upside of another 13%. The stock is also near its 52-week high, which is significant because the S&P 500 is near its 52-week low. And Belden stock has heavy institutional ownership, which has the benefit of keeping it more stable than some other stocks.   Emerson Electric Co. (NYSE: EMR) is the large-cap stock of this trio. For most of 2022, EMR stock has been caught in the general malaise of the broader market. Before October, the stock was down 21%. But in the last quarter, the company has found its stride. It's up approximately 32% and is now trading at the upper end of its 52-week range.  Emerson Electric is pivoting to becoming a pure-play automation company that can compete with Rockwell Automation, Inc. (NYSE: ROK). This restructuring has come at the expense of earnings and may continue to be a slight drag in 2023.   That has some analysts skeptical of buying the stock, which has a consensus rating of Hold. However, in 2023 the opportunity in Emerson Electric is likely to come from the company's dividend. Emerson is part of the exclusive Dividend King club. It has increased its dividend in the last 65 consecutive years and yielded around 2.18%. That makes EMR stock an appealing choice for investors looking for gains wherever they can get them.  
                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.

 
          Christy Dawn, founder of her namesake regenerative fashion brand, says she's always been on a mission "to create beauty in everything I do."
         
          Attract more customers to your small retail business with these actionable marketing tips.
         
          The 88-year-old investor is worth over $6 billion. 
         
          Ray Kelly's journey from financial struggle to founding TERSA, a multimillion-dollar wellness brand, offers key lessons in vision and resilience.
         
          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
         
          Get lifetime access to the latest version of MS Office Pro with no recurring fees, just powerful productivity tools for your business.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
