In the October 2023 issue of AEROSPACE: Topics include: Wing of the Future, Phasa-35, space launch shortfall, JetZero, fighting for the high ground, and recycling composites. All this as well as the monthly NOTAM podcast from the AEROSPACE Editorial team rounding up the highlights of aviation, aerospace and spaceflight news.  Listen to AEROSPACE Editor in Chief TIM ROBINSON FRAeS, Deputy Editor STEPHEN BRIDGEWATER, Features Editor BELLA RICHARDS preview the October 2023 edition of the magazine in this podcast - AEROSPACE NOTAM.    AeroSociety Podcast · AEROSPACE NOTAM - October 2023 * Transmission - Your letters, emails, tweets and social media feedback. * Pushing the envelope – Rob Coppinger looks at metallic origami. * Wing of tomorrow - How Airbus’ Wing Technology Development Centre is taking inspiration from nature. * Going stratospheric  - A UK team has performed the first stratospheric flight of a new solar-powered drone using a new weather and turbulence modelling system. * Will launch capacity fall short? Satellite development is growing, but launch capacity is falling short. How did we get here? * Defence in depth - All the news from the biennial DSEI exhibition, held at the ExCEL, London. * Fighting for the high ground - With increasing reliance on satellites, what is the likelihood of a future space war and what can be done to protect orbital assets? * Reduce, Reuse, Recycle - As the first composite airliners begin to reach the end of their lives, we ask how these airframes can be safely recycled? * Looking for the right blend - How the USAF announcement that it is helping fund a prototype blended wing body aircraftcould affect the future US aerospace industry. Afterburner * Message from our President * Message from our CEO * Young Professionals Conference 2023 * New Fellows Reception * Book Reviews * Royal Aircraft Establishment Aero Reports * Additions to the National Aerospace Library * Obituaries * RAeS Diary * New Member Spotlight * Elections * The Last Word – This month, Keith Hayward looks at the NATS meltdown and asks, who is going to pay for the disruption? Download your copy now or join the Royal Aeronautical Society to access it. AEROSPACE is the flagship monthly publication of the Royal Aeronautical Society and is free to all members as part of their membership. AEROSPACE is features-led, agenda-setting, global in outlook, dynamic and forward looking. Each issue contains news and analysis as well as Society news and events, book reviews and news of members. Letters and feedback are positively encouraged. Enjoyed reading these but not a member? Click here to find out about joining the RAeS. Can’t wait for the printed copy to arrive? Click here to view the latest edition online, or email subscriptions@aerosociety.com for assistance setting up your online account. For non-member subscriptions please contact publications@aerosociety.com. 

                        News Team
                    


                            29 September 2023
                        
 In the September 2023 issue of AEROSPACE: This edition of the magazine is a Future of Flight special, coinciding with the President's Summit, which takes place at the RAeS on 20-21 September. Topics include: Prepare for take-off, a fresh take on supp... In the August 2023 issue of AEROSPACE: Measuring 'soft skills' on the flightdeck, Q&A with RAF Chief, the shift to True North, designing new missiles, protecting your Lunar IP and Paris Air Show report. All this as well as the NOTAM podcast from the ... In the July 2023 issue of AEROSPACE: Martin-Baker, Airbus safety centre, Aeralis modular aircraft, Saudi Arabia's aviation plans and the RAF C-130 retires. All this as well as the NOTAM podcast from the AEROSPACE Editorial team rounding up the highli... Charity Number: 313708