By Afsaneh Khetrapal BSc (Hons) West Syndrome is characterized by infantile spasms, developmental reversion, and a specific chaotic brain activity pattern called hypsarrhythmia. The definitive pathophysiology of the syndrome still remains unclear. One hypothesis proposes a dysregulation of the GABA transmission process whilst another suggests elevation in the production of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is responsible. Both of these hypotheses are supported by the effect of pharmacological treatments devised for the syndrome. West syndrome can be classified as symptomatic, cryptogenic, or idiopathic. One of the characteristics of West Syndrome is a specific chaotic brain activity pattern called hypsarrhythmia. Image Credit: peterschreiber.media / Shutterstock.com Symptomatic West syndrome is diagnosed when a cause has been determined as responsible. Between 70-75% of patients with West syndrome are diagnosed with this form and virtually any disorder that can produce brain damage can be an underlying cause. These causes are divided into prenatal, perinatal and postnatal disorders, some of which are listed below. Problems with the brain's blood vessels like brain ischemia and intracranial hemorrhage can cause West Syndrome. Image Credit: Alex Mit / Shutterstock.com A diagnosis of Cryptogenic West syndrome is made when there are no apparent causes identified in a child with developmental delay or another cognitive impairment before the onset of infantile spasms. The incidence of cryptogenic cases ranges greatly from 8-42%. This might be explained by variations in the definition of the term cryptogenic and the age of patients at diagnosis because the assessment of developmental level is difficult to do in early infants. Patients are diagnosed with Idiopathic West syndrome when they have normal psychomotor development prior to the onset of spasms. They also present with no abnormal findings during any form of examination and there is no evidence of a presumptive trigger for the spasms. The percentage of idiopathic cases is approximately 9-14% however fewer children are being diagnosed with this form due to advances in medicine. Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a rare, autosomal dominant genetic condition that is known to cause the growth of benign tumors in the brain and other organs. It is also a major symptomatic cause of infantile spasms. Image Credit: joshya / Shutterstock.com Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a rare, autosomal dominant genetic condition that is known to cause the growth of benign tumors in the brain and other organs. It is also a major symptomatic cause of infantile spasms; up to 50% of patients with TSC eventually present with infantile spasms at 4 - 6 months of age. The ARX gene and CDKL5 gene – known to have a role in normal brain development and function - have been shown to cause the early onset of infantile spasms when mutated. This form of the disorder is called X-linked West syndrome because these genes are present on the X chromosome. West syndrome due to a mutated ARX gene is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. While one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to induce the syndrome, males are more severely afflicted than females who may have a healthy copy of the gene on their second X chromosome. On the other hand, a mutated CDKL5 gene is inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. This means one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the syndrome with equal severity in males and females. 
                        Last Updated: Jun 14, 2023
                     me llena de gran alivio saber aun mas cada dia sindrome west criptogenico  tengo un niño en casa de 11 años.... Cancel reply to comment John Yates In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024, we spoke to Professor John Yates about capturing cardiomyocyte cell-to-cell heterogeneity via shotgun top-down proteomics. Tim Simpson Hologic’s Tim Simpson Discusses the Future of Cervical Cancer Screening. Maria Marco In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024 in San Diego, Maria Marco discusses her research on the health benefits, safety, and waste reduction potential of fermented foods, and the microbial processes involved in their production. 

                                                  
                                                        News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                                        with these terms and conditions.
                                                        Please note that medical information found
                                                        on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                                        between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
                                                  
                                                  

                                             Last Updated: Tuesday 20 Aug 2024  News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site Owned and operated by AZoNetwork, © 2000-2024 
                Your AI Powered Scientific Assistant
             Hi, I'm Azthena, you can trust me to find commercial scientific answers from News-Medical.net. A few things you need to know before we start. Please read and accept to continue. Great. Ask your question. 
                Azthena may occasionally provide inaccurate responses.
Read the full terms.
             Terms 
            While we only use edited and approved content for Azthena
            answers, it may on occasions provide incorrect responses.
            Please confirm any data provided with the related suppliers or
            authors. We do not provide medical advice, if you search for
            medical information you must always consult a medical
            professional before acting on any information provided.
         
            Your questions, but not your email details will be shared with
            OpenAI and retained for 30 days in accordance with their
            privacy principles.
         
            Please do not ask questions that use sensitive or confidential
            information.
         Read the full Terms & Conditions. Provide Feedback