
August 25, 2023 at 3:16 p.m.
 by
Grant Lancaster
 North Little Rock police on Friday morning shot and killed an armed man who took refuge in a North Little Rock post office after authorities confronted him, the city’s chief of police said. Three officers involved in the incident were placed on administrative leave following the standoff with the man, which “evolved rapidly” and led to a lockdown of the nearby North Little Rock High School for safety, Chief Patrick Thessing said. He did not identify the dead man, saying authorities needed to first notify the next of kin. Police did not permit any questions at a Friday afternoon news conference.    Placing officers on administration leave while they are subject to an internal investigation is in line with the department’s policy. U.S. Marshals searching for the man, who was under investigation after bail bondsman was shot at on Monday and was wanted on outstanding warrants, notified North Little Rock officers when they spotted him near Pershing Boulevard and Main Street around 8:05 a.m., Thessing said. The man flashed a weapon at the marshals as they tried to arrest him and ran into the U.S. Post Office at 300 West Pershing Boulevard. Officers were able to safely evacuate bystanders from the post office, and SWAT officers were able to get an employee out of the post office. Negotiators and a mental health professional working for the department were also on the scene. Thessing did not give details about what led to officers opening fire, saying those facts are part of the ongoing investigation. Officers attempted to give first aid to the wounded man, but he died of his wounds, Thessing said. No one else was injured in the incident, he said.   11:50: North Little Rock police end standoff with armed subject in the 300 block of West Pershing Boulevard A standoff between law enforcement and an armed, wanted subject in the 300 block of West Pershing Boulevard has ended, according to a news release from the North Little Rock Police Department. According to the release, all lockdowns have been lifted.  The Police Department has scheduled a news conference at 1 p.m. at the North Little Rock Justice Center.  10:16 a.m.: North Little Rock police in standoff with armed subject in the 300 block of West Pershing Boulevard Police responding to an armed, wanted subject in the 300 block of West Pershing Boulevard led to a standoff at the U.S. Post Office early Friday morning, according to a North Little Rock Police news release. North Little Rock High School, the Hays Center and the North Little Rock Community Center were locked down and traffic was closed on Pershing from Main Street to Percy Machin, the release said. Police said the subject fled from a bail bondsmen and was spotted by the post office. Authorities then got a call from the post office saying that the subject was inside. Police then secured the area and called in special operations teams and negotiators, according to the release. The lone employee in the post office at the time was safety extracted, the release said. At 9:30 a.m., North Little Rock School District issued the following statement:  “The community incident has been resolved. North Little Rock High School, the Center of Excellence and Central Office sites will now resume normal operations.  The staff parking lot at the high school building is currently closed until emergency crews clear the area around the incident.  The safety of students and staff is our top priority.” This story is developing. Check back for more details.  This story has been updated to reflect a change in time for the North Little Rock Police Department's news conference.  Copyright © 2024, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc. All rights reserved. This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc. Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2024, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.