By Kwak Yeon-soo Blending the Korean metal-stringed zither yanggeum with modern Western sounds, progressive rock band Dongyang Gozupa, whose name translates to “eastern high frequency”, have created a trailblazing sound. The trio, playing bass guitar, percussion and the yanggeum, fuse gugak (traditional Korean music) with progressive rock, experimental music and heavy metal. What sets them apart from other fusion bands that reinterpret gugak is that there are no vocals. Instead, they try to create a percussion-driven sound with the yanggeum at the centre. “We wanted to focus more on the rhythms than the vocals. Vocalists are often the focus of a band, but music without vocals can be beautiful. I think instrumental compositions are enough to communicate with our fans,” percussionist Jang Do-hyuk says. After their debut in 2018, the trio gained attention through global tours. They were the first Korean band to be invited to the Worldwide Music Expo (Womex) for two years running, in 2020 and 2021. Since then, their global presence has increased through international festival appearances and headline shows, including the Rainforest World Music Festival (RWMF), the largest music festival in Malaysia, and Womad Chile, in 2022. The band’s London debut at the Southbank Centre, part of their international tour this year, will be followed by performances in Denmark. The band recently wrapped up their North America tour – performing at Winnipeg Folk Festival, Vancouver Island Musicfest, Mission Folk Festival in Canada and the Lincoln Centre for the Performing Arts in the US. “We received more attention than we expected. We were able to gear toward audiences of all ages because the Winnipeg Folk Festival attracts young audiences, whereas Vancouver Island Musicfest is [more] family-friendly. A gig at Lincoln Centre was an opportunity to level up our performance,” Jang says. Jang, 37, started Dongyang Gozupa with yanggeum player Yun Eun-hwa, 40, and Choi Woo-young, a bassist. In 2020, Choi left the band and was replaced by Ham Min-hwi, 38. “I wanted to create a new band with the yanggeum at its centre and no vocalist. I initially reached out to Yun, asking her to introduce some of her students. But Yun said she was interested in joining the band,” he says. “So I visited her studio and listened to her live performance, which caught me off guard. I imagined she would have a typical gugak stage presence with sad but beautiful melodies. But, she was so charismatic; it felt like she was going to destroy her instrument.” Ham, who joined the band in 2020, was surprised by the band’s high-energy shows that are physically daunting. “Before I joined the band, I knew Dongyang Gozupa was an extreme band that practices dark yet plaintive music. But I didn’t expect it to be this hard,” he says. Yun started learning the yanggeum at the age of seven in China. The instrument was introduced to South Korea from Persia via China and North Korea. Jang says they are fearless when it comes to making music – mixing old and new or East and West. “There is a similar folk instrument in the West called the dulcimer, so our music won’t be completely new to listeners. However, Yun’s gugak background and our different musical tastes bring together a unique sound,” he says. Yun adds: “Because we have a gugak background, we were able to collaborate with orchestras, which is very rare for a rock band”. Asked about the most memorable moment as Dongyang Gozupa, Yun and Jang pick the North America tour. “I have always dreamed of performing at Lincoln Centre,” Yun says. “In Canada, we received positive feedback and I felt like a celebrity because everyone knew who we were at festivals.” Jang says, “I remember an old lady who gave me C$20 (US$14.90) at Vancouver Island Musicfest and told me, ‘Great work, now go get some ice cream.’ Because we are Asians, it’s hard to guess our ages. But it was fun to engage with seniors at festivals.” Ham, who finds moments of inspiration everywhere, doesn’t feel the burden of creating new sounds. “We only released two albums so far, so we want to branch out and try different genres. We could lean into our musical tastes and impulses,” he says. This November, Dongyang Gozupa will embark on a tour of China, where many South Korean artists are prohibited from performing. “We collaborated with a Chinese label in 2019, so we are able to perform in China. We will be performing in Guangzhou and a few other cities,” Yun says.