A man could face prison for his alleged disabling of a medical helicopter in LaPorte with a rock. Duane Lowery 44, is charged in La Porte Circuit Court with felony criminal mischief, misdemeanor resisting law enforcement and misdemeanor public intoxication. Police said an infant with severe injuries had to wait more than one hour for a back-up helicopter to arrive to be transferred to another hospital for more specialized life-saving care. According to court documents, the Medflight helicopter from South Bend landed Saturday on a concrete surface outside Franciscan Beacon Hospital at 1010 W. Indiana 2. The infant with life threatening head injuries and medical personnel tending to his needs were inside the helicopter about to take off. According to court documents, the investigation says the LaPorte man approached on a bicycle then picked up a landscaping rock. He walked to the edge of the landing zone and tossed the rock at the helicopter. La Porte Fire Chief Andy Snyder, whose department was called to help mark the landing zone, said the rock put a dent in one of the spinning propellers. Crew members hearing a “loud bang” and feeling the aircraft shaking aborted the flight. Another helicopter arrived slightly more than one hour later to transfer the infant to the University of Chicago Hospital, according to court documents. Police said the mother reported her baby suffered a head injury, which caused his skull to fracture and brain to bleed. No explanation was provided on how the injuries resulted. According to court documents, a firefighter ran after Lowery and detained him until the arrival of law enforcement officers. Police said officers spotted Lowery beside a half empty 24 ounce can of beer and detected alcohol on his breath. Officers placed the man into a police vehicle but not until after a profanity laced struggle. The medical helicopter remained outside the hospital for a few days until the damaged propeller was replaced at roughly $100,000, according to court documents. Lowery was still being held Wednesday in the LaPorte County Jail on $755 bond.