Jersey City, New Jersey, Dec.  07, 2022  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Verified Market Research® recently published a report, "Wearable Medical Devices Market" By Device Type (Diagnostic And Monitoring Devices, Therapeutic Devices), By Application (Sports And Fitness, Home Healthcare), By Product Type (Watch, Trackers), By Distribution Channel (Pharmacies, Online channel), and By Geography. As per the deep research carried out by Verified Market Research®, the global Wearable Medical Devices Market size was valued at USD 23.1 Billion in 2021 and is projected to reach USD 81.3 Billion by 2030, growing at a CAGR of 15.5% from 2022 to 2030. Download PDF Brochure: https://www.verifiedmarketresearch.com/download-sample/?rid=28612 Browse in-depth TOC on "Wearable Medical Devices Market" 202 - Pages 126 – Tables 37 – Figures Global Wearable Medical Devices Market Overview Wearable medical devices are portable devices that can be worn by the person, allowing them to monitor their vital signs like heart rate and rhythm, respiration rate, blood pressure, and many others. As these devices are portable, they are extremely comfortable for the patient. Because of their functions, these devices are also used as therapeutic devices. There are various types of wearable devices such as smartwatches, smart bands, and finger rings. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the demand for these devices skyrocketed as they proved to be significantly useful in managing infection. Because of their comfort and wide range of applications, wearable medical devices are getting more popular.  Technological advancements are the largest driver for the wearable medical devices market. The rapid adoption of technologies such as smartphones, tablets, personal health applications, etc. has increased the demand for wearable medical devices. The growing awareness of healthy and active lifestyles has also significantly boosted the demand for these devices. Implementation of AI and better internet connectivity such as 5G have increased the applicability of wearable devices. Along with technological advancements, the COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to increasing the acceptance of monitoring devices such as sugar monitors, temperature sensors, respiratory monitoring devices, etc. Verified Market Research® narrows down the available data using primary sources to validate the data and use it in compiling a full-fledged market research study. The report contains a quantitative and qualitative estimation of market elements which interest the client. The "Global Wearable Medical Devices Market" is mainly bifurcated into sub-segments which can provide classified data regarding latest trends in the market. Key Players The "Global Wearable Medical Devices Market" study report will provide valuable insight with an emphasis on the global market.  The major players in the market are Phillips, Fitbit, Apple, Lifesense, Medtronic PLC, Koninklijke Philips N.V., Omron Corporation, Xiaomi Inc, and Samsung. Based on the research, Verified Market Research® has segmented the global Wearable Medical Devices Market into Device Type, Application, Product Type, Distribution Channel, and Geography. Browse Related Reports: Heart Rate Monitor Market By Product (Wearable (Chest Strap, Wrist Strap, Strapless), Non-Wearable), By Application (Hospital & Clinics, Sports Medicine Centers), By Geography, And Forecast Biosensors Market By Type (Embedded Device, Sensor Patch), By Product (Wearable Biosensor, Non-Wearable Biosensor), By Technology (Electrochemical Biosensor, Optical Biosensor), By Application (Point of Care, Home Diagnostics), By Geography, And Forecast mHealth Apps Market By Type (Disease & Treatment Management, Wellness Management), By Connected Medical Device (Heart Rate Meters, Wearable Fitness Sensor Device), By Application (Monitoring Services, Fitness Solutions), By Distribution Channel (Google Play Store, Apple App Store), By Geography, And Forecast Wearable Neurorehabilitation Devices Market By Product (Wrist Wear, Neck Wear), By Application (Hospitals/Clinics, Rehabilitation Centers), By Geography, And Forecast Top 5 Wearable Technology Companies: Apps are just a click away on wrists Visualize Wearable Medical Devices Market using Verified Market Intelligence -: Verified Market Intelligence is our BI Enabled Platform for narrative storytelling in this market. VMI offers in-depth forecasted trends and accurate Insights on over 20,000+ emerging & niche markets, helping you make critical revenue-impacting decisions for a brilliant future. VMI provides a holistic overview and global competitive landscape with respect to Region, Country, Segment, and Key players of your market. Present your Market Report & findings with an inbuilt presentation feature saving over 70% of your time and resources for Investor, Sales & Marketing, R&D, and Product Development pitches. VMI enables data delivery In Excel and Interactive PDF formats with over 15+ Key Market Indicators for your market. About Us Verified Market Research® is a leading Global Research and Consulting firm servicing over 5000+ customers. Verified Market Research® provides advanced analytical research solutions while offering information-enriched research studies. We offer insight into strategic and growth analyses, Data necessary to achieve corporate goals, and critical revenue decisions. Our 250 Analysts and SMEs offer a high level of expertise in data collection and governance and use industrial techniques to collect and analyze data on more than 15,000 high-impact and niche markets. Our analysts are trained to combine modern data collection techniques, superior research methodology, expertise, and years of collective experience to produce informative and accurate research. We study 14+ categories from Semiconductors & Electronics, Chemicals, Advanced Materials, Aerospace & Defense, Energy & Power, Healthcare, Pharmaceuticals, Automotive & Transportation, Information & Communication Technology, Software & Services, Information Security, Mining, Minerals & Metals, Building & Construction, Agriculture industry and Medical Devices from over 100 countries.   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.