New York, USA, Dec.  21, 2022  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Global Active Implantable Medical Devices Market to Surpass USD 41 Billion Mark by 2027, Assesses DelveInsight As per DelveInsight analysis in the active implantable medical devices market, the demand for these devices is projected to rise exponentially owing to the growing prevalence of various diseases such as neurological disorders, cardiovascular disorders, hearing disabilities, and others across the globe. Additionally, the escalating burden of the aging population who are susceptible to developing the above disorders is likely to propel the market for active implantable medical devices in the forthcoming years. DelveInsight's Active Implantable Medical Devices Market Insights report provides the current and forecast market analysis, individual leading active implantable medical devices companies' market shares, challenges, active implantable medical devices market drivers, barriers, and trends, and key active implantable medical devices companies in the market. Key Takeaways from the Active Implantable Medical Devices Market Report To read more about the latest highlights related to the active implantable medical devices market, get a snapshot of the key highlights entailed in the Global Active Implantable Medical Devices Market Report Active Implantable Medical Devices Overview Active implantable medical devices such as pacemakers, defibrillators, infusion pumps, ventricular assist systems and devices, cochlear implants, and neurostimulators, among others are the devices intended to be totally or partially introduced into the human body for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes and is to remain in place. These devices rely on a power source not provided by the body or gravity.  Active Implantable Medical Devices Market Insights Geographically, the global active implantable medical devices market is studied for North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and the Rest of the World. In terms of revenue share, North America currently leads the global market and is projected to hold its active implantable medical devices market position during the study period. This domination is owing to the increase in various lifestyle-associated disorders such as obesity, and hypertension, among others, that increase the risk of various other life-threatening disorders to many folds. For instance, in the US, the high obesity rates among the population are also a factor that will lead to the demand for active implantable devices. This is because obesity is associated with an increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease (CVD), particularly coronary heart disease (CHD) and heart failure (HF).  Moreover, the rising strategic business activities by the key manufacturers present in the region to maintain their position in the region could boost the active implantable devices market.  To know more about why North America is leading the market growth in the active implantable medical devices market, get a snapshot of the Active Implantable Medical Devices Market Outlook  Active Implantable Medical Devices Market Dynamics The global active implantable medical devices market is likely to witness noteworthy growth due to the growing burden of the old age population who are more susceptible to developing various chronic disorders, growing approvals and launches of many active implantable medical devices, growing investment and fundraising by key companies developing innovative and technologically advanced active implantable devices, among others. However, the high cost of the devices and the stringent regulatory approval process are some of the factors that may hamper the global active implantable medical devices market. Additionally, the unprecedented COVID-19 outbreak has impacted the global active implantable medical devices market during the initial phases. This is owing to the nationwide lockdown, canceled or postponed surgeries, and patient reluctance to visit the hospitals, among others. According to various studies, there was a significant reduction in pacemaker implantation surgery during the pandemic. However, due to the launch of various vaccines and mass vaccination drives across the globe, the active implantable devices market is expected to regain normalcy in the post-COVID situation. Get a sneak peek at the active implantable medical devices market dynamics @ Active Implantable Medical Devices Market Dynamics Analysis Active Implantable Medical Devices Market Assessment Which MedTech key players in the active implantable medical devices market are set to emerge as the trendsetter explore @ Active Implantable Medical Devices Companies  Table of Contents  Interested in knowing the active implantable medical devices market by 2027? Click to get a snapshot of the Active Implantable Medical Devices Market Trends Related Reports Implantable Cardiac Monitors (ICM) Market Implantable Cardiac Monitors (ICM) Market Insight, Competitive Landscape, and Market Forecast – 2027 report delivers an in-depth understanding of market trends, market drivers, market barriers, and key implantable cardiac monitors (ICM) companies, including Abbott Laboratories, Boston Scientific Corporation, Biotronik SE & Co. KG, among others. Cardiac Biomarkers Testing Market Cardiac Biomarkers Testing Market Insight, Competitive Landscape, and Market Forecast – 2027 report delivers an in-depth understanding of market trends, market drivers, market barriers, and key cardiac biomarkers testing companies, including Beckman Coulter, Inc, Siemens Healthcare GmbH, Abbott, among others. Angio Suites Market Angio Suites Market Insight, Competitive Landscape, and Market Forecast – 2027 report delivers an in-depth understanding of market trends, market drivers, market barriers, and key angio suites companies, including Siemens, Koninklijke Philips N.V, Lam Vascular and Associates, Hitachi, Ltd., ESAOTE SPA, IMRIS, Onex Corporation, among others. Hearing Aid Devices Market Hearing Aid Devices Market Insight, Competitive Landscape, and Market Forecast – 2027  report delivers an in-depth understanding of the market trends, market drivers, market barriers, and key hearing aid devices companies, including Amplifon, Audina Hearing Instruments, Inc., Sonova, Demant A/S, audifon GmbH & Co. KG, GN Store Nord A/S, among others. Age-related Hearing Loss Market Age-related Hearing Loss Market Insight, Competitive Landscape, and Market Forecast – 2027  report delivers an in-depth understanding of the market trends, market drivers, market barriers, and key age-related hearing loss companies, including Advanced Bionics, Cochlear, MED-EL GmbH, among others. Sensorineural Hearing Loss Pipeline Sensorineural Hearing Loss Pipeline Insight – 2022 report provides comprehensive insights about the pipeline landscape, pipeline drug profiles, including clinical and non-clinical stage products, and the key sensorineural hearing loss companies, including Pipeline Therapeutics, Otonomy, Sound Pharmaceuticals, Sensorion, Frequency Therapeutics, among others. Other Trending Reports Goitre Market | Thymus Cancer Market | US Healthcare Outlook Report | Venous Stenosis Market | Negative Pressure Wound Therapy Systems Market | Metrorrhagia Market | Dysfunctional Uterine Bleeding Market | Hypereosinophilic Syndrome Market | Age-related Vision Dysfunction Market | Dental Lasers Market | CRISPR Therapies Pipeline Insight | Cell And Gene Therapy For Multiple Myeloma Market | Drug Hypersensitivity Market | Dysthymia Market | Persistent Depressive Disorder Market | Cancer Vaccines Market | Weight Loss/Weight Management (Obesity) Market | Food Allergy Market | Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder Market | Tumor Ablation Market | Physiotherapy Equipment Market | CAR-T Pipeline Insight | Anti-hypertension Market | Radiofrequency Ablation Devices Market | Global Messenger RNA (mRNA)-based Vaccines and Therapeutics Market | Gastro Intestinal Bleeding Market | Trastuzumab Biosimilars Insight | Varicose Veins Market | Germ Cell Tumor Market | Intracardiac Echocardiography Devices Market | India Healthcare Outlook Report | Crows Feet Market Insight | Seborrhoeic Dermatitis Market | Injectable Drug Delivery Devices Market | Structural Heart Devices Market | Substance (Drug) Abuse Market Related Healthcare Blogs Upcoming Cardiovascular Diseases Drugs Key Companies in the Cardiology Segment Heart Failure Market Top Cardiac Devices in the Market Hearing Loss Treatment Market Hearing Loss Market Age-related Hearing Loss Market  Hereditary Deafness Market Related Healthcare Services Healthcare Business Consulting Healthcare Competitive Intelligence Services Healthcare Asset Prioritization Services About DelveInsight DelveInsight is a leading Business Consultant, and Market Research firm focused exclusively on life sciences. It supports pharma companies by providing comprehensive end-to-end solutions to improve their performance.    © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.