BREA, Calif. — Service Champions Group, a national platform provider of plumbing, heating, and air conditioning services, announced the signing of a definitive agreement under which it has agreed to acquire locally owned and family operated M and M Heating, Cooling, Plumbing and Electrical of Longmont, Colorado. Established in 1998 by Eric Meiers, M and M specializes in indoor air quality solutions for residential and commercial properties. This acquisition marks Service Champions' continued expansion and strengthened market position in the Denver metropolitan area adding to its 2021 acquisition of Swan Heating and Air Conditioning Inc. an established player in the Loveland and Denver metro areas. Frank DiMarco, Service Champions' CEO continues to be firmly focused on the future and speaks of the M and M acquisition as well as new business opportunities with genuine excitement.  "There is a common thread running through all the things we focus on at Service Champions and the companies we look to acquire. Growing our national footprint with the right partners is a must," DiMarco said. "The dedicated customer experience is paramount. Being the best in the business is in our DNA. There is a real meaning about what differentiates you and what makes you authentic. We look for those qualities and practices in the companies we look to partner with. M and M has been built from the ground up on those principles. Their day-to-day high standards of operation echo our culture and operating philosophy. The acquisition of M and M expands our ability to better deliver compelling services to more consumers in greater Denver." M and M founder and president, Eric Meiers said he was honored by the Service Champions partnership.  "We have long been admirers of Service Champions and have seen first-hand the level of service and professionalism surrounding their work. Their teams continually strive to provide effective strategies to ensure immediate and long-term improvement to the homes of their customers," said Meiers. "They also take care of their own. It's about respecting and honoring, but also about what drives the future. We carefully thought-through possible partners and did our due diligence when considering this acquisition. The Service Champions history, mission, values and culture speaks for itself. We look forward to playing a role in the future growth of this exceptional organization. It's a privilege to join Frank DiMarco, his team and the impressive legacy of Service Champions." The acquisition of M and M continues Service Champions' commitment as a home services company to further enhance and grow its national footprint throughout the United States. Service Champions is a portfolio company of Odyssey Investment Partners. Clew Partners originated the transaction and served as advisor to Service Champions.  You must have JavaScript enabled to enjoy a limited number of articles over the next 30 days. 
	Sponsored Content is a special paid section where industry companies provide high quality, objective, non-commercial content around topics of interest to The News audience. All Sponsored Content is supplied by the advertising company and any opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily reflect the views of The News or its parent company, BNP Media. Interested in participating in our Sponsored Content section? Contact your local rep!
 On Demand Don’t miss your chance to learn from industry thought leaders and gain valuable insight on how the A2L transition will affect your HVAC business!
 During this webinar, we will discuss what acidic condensate is, how it’s formed, and the damage it can cause if not properly treated—while hitting on the latest regulations that are driving the adoption of condensing technology.
 Copyright ©2024. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing