CONTRIBUTED CONTENT — Nobody wants to deal with plumbing problems, but unfortunately they’re bound to happen sooner or later. When you need repair, replacement or remodeling services, you can count on the reliable professionals at Red Rock Plumbing & Drain Cleaning to get the job done right the first time. Red Rock is a local, family-owned business dedicated to providing friendly and efficient service at a fair price. They provide a wide range of residential and commercial plumbing services throughout the greater St. George area as well as more rural areas in Iron, Kane and Garfield counties. “We want to be your go-to plumbing company,” owner Chandlyr Tebbs said. “We’ll get our hands dirty so you don’t have to.” Red Rock is fully licensed and insured in the state of Utah. The crew, which includes a master plumber, has over 40 years of combined plumbing experience and is prepared to handle anything from a leaky faucet to a complete indoor plumbing remodel. The company specializes in plumbing service for existing buildings, including remodeling. They also fix water leaks, service faucets and drains, and repair or replace water heaters and water softeners. “Any plumbing issue inside of a house – no matter what it may be – it’s our job to come in and get it taken care of at a fair price,” Tebbs said. “You can count on the fact that it’s going to be fixed right, fixed up to code.” Red Rock is available 24/7 for emergency calls. They offer a free consultation, either in person or via video chat, for regular service calls to explain all of the available options so customers can make the best choice for their home or business. The company stands by its products and services and provides a one-year warranty on all work. “We strive to be in constant communication with our customers until the plumbing service job is done,” Tebbs said. “You can trust us to do the right thing.” Tebbs recognizes that every customer’s time is valuable and takes pride in being efficient as possible. Red Rock vans are stocked with a variety of parts, allowing many service calls to be completed while the plumber is on-site. Tebbs, a licensed journeyman plumber, grew up in Southern Utah. He has worked in the plumbing industry for the past six years and knew that when he decided to start his own business, there was no better place than St. George. “It’s my home, and people come from all over the world to see it,” he said. “Plus, there’s just something about a locally owned business. I’d much rather have someone who’s local working on my home.” Red Rock offers a variety of money-saving solutions, and every dollar they charge customers goes right back into the community. The company uses the highest-quality parts and equipment and is dedicated to delivering exceptional work that exceeds expectations. Visit RedRockPlumbingGuys.com or call 435-215-7553 for a free plumbing service quote. Written by ALEXA MORGAN for St. George News. • S P O N S O R E D  C O N T E N T •  Resources Copyright St. George News, SaintGeorgeUtah.com LLC, 2023, all rights reserved. Sponsored content may be submitted to or developed by St. George News for publication on behalf of the sponsor and in the sponsor's interest. It may include promotional pieces, features, announcements, news releases and advertisements. Opinions expressed in sponsored content are those of the sponsor and not representative of St. George News. Sponsors have no influence over St. George News reporting and product apart from their own sponsored content. Would you like to have the day's news stories delivered right to your inbox every evening? Enter your email below to start! Would you like to have the day's news stories delivered right to your inbox every evening? Enter your email below to start!