Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
                      Khristopher J. Brooks
 
    Edited By
                        
              Irina Ivanova
 
April 13, 2023 / 12:46 PM EDT
          / MoneyWatch
         The past year has seen 2,000 retail store closures, with the likes of Bed Bath & Beyond, Foot Locker and Walmart shuttering locations as they look to save money. But that trickle is set to turn into a flood in the next five years, according to one Wall Street analysis that predicts 50,000 stores will close. If the economy falls into a prolonged recession, closures could reach 90,000, analysts at UBS said in a research note published  Tuesday. Smaller operations that employ 500 or fewer people are most likely to close, they wrote.  The U.S. currently has roughly 940,000 stores and the UBS prediction "simply implies that there will be 5% fewer stores by the end of 2027," analysts said.  The forecast is particularly troubling because, according to the National Retail Federation, about 70% of retail sales still come from brick-and-mortar stores, meaning retailers could suffer greater losses once they close off the places where customers physically stroll and shop.  UBS pointed to three factors causing retail locations to close: the ever-growing prominence of online shopping; increased borrowing costs and customers tightening their wallets due to inflation.  Stubbornly high inflation in recent months has pinched household budgets, causing consumers to pay elevated prices for everyday staples like gas, groceries, clothes and housing. Clothing, electronics and home furnishing stores will likely bear the brunt of closings in the coming years because more of their shoppers will opt to purchase those items online, UBS said. They project closures of 13,840 clothing stores, 9,190 electronics locations and 4,090 furniture stores. By comparison, UBS expects home improvement stores to lose only 210 locations and auto parts stores to stay steady. Both job growth and year-over-year sales have increased at home improvement and auto parts stores, UBS said — two reasons why that sector of retail likely won't suffer as many closings in the future. Major retailers — including Costco, Home Depot, Lowe's and Target — stand to benefit the most from the predicted store closings, UBS said. The closings of smaller operators would mean roughly $210 billion in retail sales would be up for grabs, analysts said.  "This translates to $1,600 annual spend per household that has the potential to shift to the leading retailers," UBS analysts said. Some major retailers are already well into the closing spree. Companies shuttered about 1,500 stores last fall, UBS noted. Bed Bath & Beyond said it plans to close nearly 240 stores this year as part of a larger effort to avoid bankruptcy. Walmart is closing more than a dozen low-performing locations in major cities like Atlanta, Chicago, Portland and Washington, D.C. Foot Locker said last month it plans to close 400 mall-based stores by 2026 and open more than 300 free-standing locations. Khristopher J. Brooks is a reporter for CBS MoneyWatch. He previously worked as a reporter for the Omaha World-Herald, Newsday and the Florida Times-Union. His reporting primarily focuses on the U.S. housing market, the business of sports and bankruptcy. 
© 2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 ©2024 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by ICE Data Services. ICE Limitations. Powered and implemented by FactSet. News provided by The Associated Press. Legal Statement.