Four men have been formally charged for partaking in two organized shoplifting sprees at Los Angeles area Ross Dress for Less stores in late August. The two thefts took place on Aug. 25 at a store in Los Angeles and Aug. 28 at a store in Culver City. The Los Angeles incident happened at a store on the 8900 block of Venice Boulevard, in which two men, identified by the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office as 22-year-old Valentino Skinner and 31-year-old Marquis Marshall, allegedly entered the store and immediately began taking merchandise from the store in front of employees. The Culver City theft took place at the Ross store located at 108181 Jefferson Blvd. Again Skinner and Marshall entered the store and began taking merchandise, alongside a third man, 32-year-old Isaiah Tobias. As the three ransacked the store, a fourth person, 42-year-old Avery Tywann, allegedly waited outside in a getaway vehicle. After the crime, the four men allegedly traveled to an area of the city that is known to law enforcement as a place where stolen items are regularly resold. The four suspects were eventually arrested by members of the Los Angeles Police Department’s Organized Retail Crime Taskforce. They each face one count of conspiracy to commit a crime and two counts of second-degree robbery. Skinner and Marshall face additional charges for grand theft. All four men have pleaded not guilty and are due back in court on Sept. 13, according to the District Attorney’s Office. “The Organized Retail Crime Taskforce and my office’s Organized Crime Division is continuing to aggressively bring those responsible for committing these brazen crimes to justice,” said District Attorney George Gascón, adding that thefts like these cause an “enormous burden” on local businesses and the community. Anyone with information about this particular crime spree or other similar crimes is encouraged to contact the LAPD Retail Crime Task Force at 818-374-9420.  For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to KTLA.  New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. It's position preview week at Yahoo Fantasy and the pod and there may be no other position discussed, debated and passionately watched in fantasy more than the wide receiver position. Matt Harmon is back in the host chair and joined by Dalton Del Don to break down every angle of the WR position in 2024. Harmon and Del Don attempt to identify the potential league winners, sleepers and fades at the WR position this season. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run.