



Sign in or Subscribe 
See Offers



  Account Subscription: ACTIVE Questions about your account? Our customer service team can be reached at circulation@metln.org during business hours at (207) 791-6000. You are able to gift 5 more articles this month. Anyone can access the link you share with no account required.  Learn more. With a Lewiston Sun Journal subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. It looks like you do not have any active subscriptions. To get one, go to the subscriptions page. With a Lewiston Sun Journal subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. LISBON FALLS — Lisbon Art Works, a community-based retail store selling creative products from Lisbon-based artisans, is launching at 14 Main St. A ribbon-cutting is set for 3 p.m. Friday, as well as a grand opening during the Fall in the Falls art walk from noon to 8 p.m. Saturday. Lisbon was selected in 2020 as one of three pilot communities to receive funding from the Maine Community Foundation, with the support of the Maine Downtown Center and National Main Street Center, to analyze the current need and plan and implement a program for supporting entrepreneurs in the community. While several positive options were identified, roadblocks including COVID, property access and personnel changes forced a new course this April. Ross Cunningham, Lisbon’s economic and community development director, identified a need for local artisans, who worked from their home, to have access to retail space and gathered a group of them to discuss the options. It was decided that a local nonprofit, The Lisbon Artist Collective, would be formed to promote the arts in Lisbon and support Lisbon-based artists through holding classes and offering retail space as part of a new storefront. The Lisbon Artist Collective has connected with over 50 local artists and worked to create energy around the project. The collective is holding classes at the Lisbon Library and has worked to make the storefront a reality. “Not only is this store an opportunity to support local artists by providing them with a place to sell their work, but it’s a place in our community where people can view and be inspired by art,” Kelsie Vosburgh, president of the Lisbon Artist Collective and manager of Lisbon Art Works, said. Comments are no longer available on this story Send questions/comments to the editors. 

			« Previous		
 

			Next »
		
