To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories. Products are independently selected by our editors. We may earn an affiliate commission from links. There’s a reason that so many of our favorite skin-care trends (on TikTok and otherwise) hail from Korea, where they know a thing or two about how to create the juiciest skin. But what’s trending now? Vogue spoke to aesthetic doctor and K-beauty expert, Dr. Christine Hall, to learn about the latest ingredients, routines, and rituals coming from the place where it all begins—and how to work them into your skincare regimen with products we can shop stateside.  We know how good fermented foods are for our guts, but our Korean counterparts know how good they are for their skin. “They ferment most of their ingredients—for example, red rice, lactic and glycolic acid, are all fermented byproducts,” she says. “Fermenting an ingredient makes it something like four times more potent than it would be in its normal state.”  SK-II Facial Treatment Essence DERMSTORE  COSRX Galactomyces 95 Tone Balancing Essence AMAZON  Fresh Kombucha Cleansing Treatment SEPHORA  Sunday Riley Pink Drink DERMSTORE Even the Koreans are now shunning the 12-step skincare routine they made so popular. “There’s been a shift away from the very old school multi-step routine,” says Hall. “Skip-care is basically a fancy way of saying that you skip some of the steps. They do that by using products that house a combination of ingredients.” Step hybrid formulas, like Tatcha’s Vitamin C formula, combine different active ingredients (like vitamin C and fruit acids) in one formula, or their new Silk Serum, which teams silk, upcycled cranberry extract, and sea fennel together to firm and smooth skin as a retinol alternative. They work harder for the skin and save money and time—what’s not to love? Tatcha Violet-C Brightening Serum TATCHA SEPHORA  Tatcha The Silk Serum TATCHA  Sulwhasoo First Care Activating Serum NORDSTROM  Yon Ka C20 Serum AMAZON “In Korea, there’s a real focus on products that don’t have much water in them, which is where the term ‘waterless beauty’ comes from. The idea is that you get way more than what you pay for because they last longer due to the minimal water in the product,” says Hall. Look at many ingredients lists, and you’ll notice “aqua” is often at the top, but the idea with waterless formulas is that, instead of being filled by water, they are packed with more efficacious ingredients and less filler. You’ll often find them in powder format or oils. For the latter reason alone, they’re not for every skin type, but Hall says this move has come from a more earth-friendly approach to beauty in South Korea.   Chanel N°1 de Chanel Powder-To-Foam Cleanser CHANEL  Dr. Barbara Sturm Enzyme Cleanser NORDSTROM  Glow Recipe Watermelon Glow Pink Juice SEPHORA  Lancer Skincare Omega Hydrating Oil NORDSTROM You may have heard about “skin flooding” on TikTok—the term has a cool 2.1 billion views on the platform. The idea really originated with that aforementioned multi-step Korean skincare regime, where layer upon layer of hydration (using different formulas in different textures) was applied to the skin to quench its thirst. To “skin flood” is a similar affair; it involves applying a number of different hydrating products, from serums to lightweight lotions to thicker moisturizers, to deeply moisturize and lock it all in. “Double moisturizing is also a big trend for those who are time-poor,” adds Hall.  Huxley Grab Water Essence AMAZON  Sisley Paris Ecological Compound Advanced Formula SAKS FIFTH AVENUE InnBeauty Project Slushy Serum Moisturizer SEPHORA CREDO BEAUTY  Sulwhasoo Concentrated Ginseng Renewing Cream SEPHORA And if doubling up on your moisturizer isn’t enough, have you also tried applying your SPF twice? “There’s a real interest in blue light, so the Koreans are finding SPFs that concentrate on blue light, then using another SPF—one that has light-reflecting filters and so on—on top,” says Hall. “This second SPF often comes in the form of makeup, and they’ll wear that as their base instead of applying foundation.” All in the name of excellent sun protection.   Glow Recipe Watermelon Glow Niacinamide Sunscreen SPF 50 SEPHORA  Ilia Blue Light Protect + Set Mist ILIA  Supergoop! Glowscreen SPF 40 DERMSTORE  Innisfree Daily UV Defense Sunscreen SPF 36 AMAZON Martha Stewart’s Skincare Routine, According to Her Dermatologists The Secret to Blake Lively’s Incredible Hair? Stop Using Conditioner The Blush Hack Every Woman Over 40 Should Know How To Get the Viral Glass Manicure Marc Jacobs Tells Us Everything About His Nails Sign up for Vogue’s beauty newsletter to receive the insider’s guide to all things beauty and wellness Never miss a Vogue moment and get unlimited digital access for just $2 $1 per month. By signing up you agree to our User Agreement (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions), our Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement and to receive marketing and account-related emails from Vogue. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More from Vogue See More Stories © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty