Kansas City Chiefs wide receiver Kadarius Toney practices during OTAs on May 24, 2023. (Photo by ... [+] Scott Winters/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images) After Kadarius Toney underwent arthroscopic knee surgery Tuesday, Kansas City Chiefs head coach Andy Reid said there’s a chance that the wide receiver could return for Week One on Sept. 7. But when Toney returns to action will be dictated by which kind of procedure he underwent to treat the torn meniscus, which is a C-shaped ring of cartilage attached to the shin bone, and it acts as a shock absorber. If the surgery just cut out the torn part of the meniscus, he can be back in four to 10 weeks, which makes a Week One return very much in play. “The trimming out or snipping out of the torn piece is much easier, much quicker,” Dr. James Gladstone, chief of the sports medicine division at the Mount Sinai Health System in New York, exclusively shared. “You remove anything that’s torn, you smooth it down and you’re left with healthy meniscus.” Although that procedure represents a quicker return, it’s not the preferable one. That’s because if you have more than 50% of the meniscus removed, it represents a much greater chance of long-term arthritis. Surgical option No. 2 allows the patient to salvage the meniscus by stitching together the torn piece. But with that kind of operation, you have to protect the surgically-repaired meniscus, meaning Toney would likely be out of athletic competition for 12 weeks. “If it was a repair,” Gladstone said, “my guess would be he’d be back toward the beginning of November.” Toney suffered the knee injury during a punt-return drill on Sunday. “He might have had a little something in (his knee) anyways,” Reid said. “And it just caught a little bit more.” Gladstone, who has not treated Toney as a patient, compared the initial sensation as the knee’s version of a hangnail or pebble in one’s shoe. “It sort of catches between the bones,” he said, “and causes pain.” A potential complication is that the Chiefs have not revealed which knee Toney injured. The wide receiver had arthroscopic knee surgery during the offseason of 2022 while with the New York Giants. So it could be another procedure on the same knee and potentially something more chronic. “If he had a surgery last year and had hard cartilage damage and now it’s the same knee,” Gladstone said, “that’s probably more concerning.” Kansas City Chiefs wide receiver Kadarius Toney eludes defenders during his game-changing punt ... [+] return in Super Bowl LVII between the Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs on Feb. 12, 2023.  (Photo by Nick Tre. Smith/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images) Even though Toney has been injury-plagued, missing three of his 10 regular-season games in his short career with the Chiefs, he represents great value for Kansas City. The Chiefs acquired him on Oct. 27 for 2023 third- and sixth-round picks, and he’s in the third year of his four-year, $13.7 million rookie contract. That compensation is well worth it, considering his impact in the Chiefs’ 38-35 victory in Super Bowl LVII against the Philadelphia Eagles. He scored a five-yard touchdown on the first possession of the fourth quarter to give the Chiefs their first lead, 28-27, of the game. After the Eagles went three and out on their next possession, Toney returned the punt 65 yards to the Eagles’ five-yard-line. That was the longest punt return in Super Bowl history and set up the Chiefs’ final touchdown of the game. “Everybody knows how talented he is,” Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes said. Because last year’s mid-season’s acquisition was poised to have a full offseason to learn a playbook that often takes wide receivers one to two years to master, the Chiefs were expecting big things of Toney, who they viewed as a No. 1 wide receiver and potential deep threat. The Chiefs emphasize that Toney, who excels at being elusive after the catch, still can use training camp to become more comfortable in Reid’s offense. But he also will have to focus on rehab. For the trimming option, Toney post-operatively would want to minimize swelling and optimize quadriceps muscle function. For the repair option, the rehab would be similar, but Toney would not let the knee bend more than 90 degrees for four weeks and try not to bear weight initially. The Chiefs remain optimistic and noted it’s preferrable to suffer this kind of injury early in training camp rather than during the middle of the season. “Getting it done now is a good thing as opposed to it lingering and then getting worse and worse,” Reid said. “It happened this early where he can get himself back, and we have a lot of time still left. He’s a smart kid, he picks this stuff up fairly easy. I don’t think he’s going to have a tough time getting back.”  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.