Partly cloudy this evening with thunderstorms becoming likely overnight. Low 73F. Winds WSW at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 70%.. Partly cloudy this evening with thunderstorms becoming likely overnight. Low 73F. Winds WSW at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 70%.  Updated: August 18, 2024 @ 7:58 pm             Our newsletter catches you up with all the business stories that are shaping Charleston and South Carolina every Monday and Thursday at noon. Get ahead with us - it's free.         A pre-Revolutionary War house in Charleston's pricey South of Broad district is now under new ownership after fetching the highest price on the peninsula so far this year. Built after 1740, the four-story Anne Boone House at 47 East Bay St. changed hands for $8.6 million on Feb. 28. The previous owners were Nathan Berry and interior designer Ceara Donnelley. Donnelley is a granddaughter of the late Gaylord Donnelley, who served as president and chairman of the Chicago-based printing company R.R. Donnelley & Sons. She restored the historic residence after purchasing it for $2.9 million in 2012, according to Charleston County land records. The new owner is Brad A. Adams, a trustee of the Morrison Trust, according to a deed filed on March 2. The new owners have multiple houses, but this is their first in the Charleston area, according to Helen Geer, who represented the seller through William Means Real Estate. She called the Anne Boone House "one of the finest homes in historic Charleston." The four-story house at 47 East Bay St. features a backyard pool. The home sold Feb. 28 for $8.6 million. Keen Eye Marketing/Provided Chuck Sullivan of Carriage Properties represented the buyers. The 7,075-square-foot residence, across the street from the entrance to Carolina Yacht Club, includes five bedrooms and six bathrooms as well as a heated pool, piazzas, garden and multiple outdoor seating areas. The north wall of the Georgian-style Charleston single house includes original stucco and arched staircase windows that remain almost intact from their original construction, according to the Historic Charleston Foundation. The other facades have some alterations, including replacing an earlier porch with the present piazza in 1840, adding an old balcony from another house in the early 20th century, and rebuilding the gable end in its 19th-century, closed-pediment profile after its collapse in Hurricane Hugo in 1989. 
Email


 
Sign Up!
 The interior of the house features custom-painted floors and Venetian plaster walls. The ceiling medallions were inspired by Drayton Hall in the Ashley River Historic District. The property's name derives from a link to part of the city's early history. Anne Boone was the daughter of the landgrave Daniel Axtell, son of a Puritan leader who is said to have played a role in executing King Charles I, according to a history of the property from the Historic Charleston Foundation. Charleston historian Robert Stockton disputes that assertion, saying there is no proof that Axtell was a son of Col. Daniel Axtell, who Stockton said provided security at the trial where Charles I was ordered to be beheaded for treason in 1649. While the home's selling price is the highest so far this year on the peninsula, it's not the most ever paid for a residential property in the downtown area. A painted floor is shown with the staircase and an arched window in the home at 47 East Bay St. in Charleston. The historic house, which was built after 1740, sold Feb. 28 for $8.6 million. Keen Eye Marketing/Provided The main 8,596-square-foot house at 10 Legare St. and a nearly 3,000-square-foot carriage house in the rear sold in 2021 for $13.5 million. The highest-priced residential transaction in the Charleston area is the Vanderhorst Mansion on Kiawah Island. It sold for $20.5 million in 2021. Note: this story was updated on March 3, 2023. 
Email


 
Sign Up!
 Reach Warren L. Wise at wwise@postandcourier.com. Follow him on Twitter @warrenlancewise.  With low inventory and high demand, South Carolina home sales are expected to see little impact after Aug. 17, when the National Association of Realtors settlement takes effect.  Read moreReal estate brokers break down how new agent commission rules could affect SC home sales Holy City Halloween LLC leased the former Meddin Bros. Meat Packing House for a short-term haunted house in downtown Charleston while HBO's "Righteous Gemstones" show leases a vacant Rivers Ave. store.  Read moreFormer Charleston slaughterhouse becomes haunted venue; TV "church" leases Gas Lite space Town Council is considering adding outdoor home-based instructional businesses to an existing ordinance and limiting lessons to four hours a day. Read moreMount Pleasant considers updates to home-based business rules, particularly swim lessons Some homes in the area including Charleston, Dorchester and Berkeley counties are still being snatched up quickly, but outliers with inflated prices are skewing the market, according to agents.  Read moreHigh prices stifle Charleston home sales The Post and Courier
148 Williman Street
Charleston, SC 29403 Phone: 843-577-7111 News tips/online questions: newstips@postandcourier.com Delivery/subscription questions: subserve@postandcourier.com Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: 
, Post and Courier, an Evening Post Publishing Newspaper Group. All rights reserved. | Terms of Sale