Columvi is a CD20xCD3 T-cell engaging bispecific antibody designed to treat R/R DLBCL. Roche Group member Genentech has secured approval from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for its Columvi (glofitamab-gxbm) to treat adults with relapsed or refractory (R/R) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The approval has been granted for patients with R/R DLBCL not otherwise specified or large B-cell lymphoma (LBCL) caused by follicular lymphoma, after two or more systemic therapy lines. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 It is based on accelerated approval supported by the durability of response and response rate in the Phase I/II NP30179 trial. Sustained approval for this indication may depend upon validation and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory study. Columvi will be available in the US later this year. It is a CD20xCD3 T-cell engaging bispecific antibody designed to treat R/R DLBCL, and is given for a specific time period. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Treatment with Columvi eliminates the treat-to-progression approach, in which the patient is treated indefinitely until their cancer grows or the therapy cannot be tolerated. Columvi is given in 13 intravenous infusions for a maximum of 12 cycles, including step-up dosing, or until disease progression or intolerability of the treatment, whichever happens first. The therapy is part of Genentech’s T-cell-engaging bispecific antibodies portfolio in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, which also features the newly approved Lunsumio for the treatment of follicular lymphoma. Roche chief medical officer and global product development head Levi Garraway stated: “People with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma who have gone through multiple lines of therapy have a poor prognosis and desperately need additional treatment options. “As an off-the-shelf, fixed-duration treatment providing durable response rates, we believe Columvi could change the way this aggressive lymphoma is treated, reinforcing our dedication to bringing innovative treatment options to people with critical unmet needs.”  
                                This content was updated on 25 January 2024                                 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Pharma Technology Focus : Pharmaceutical Technology Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the pharmaceutical industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024