Gum Fa Ng expands role at Doxim to boost product capabilities, support global growth DETROIT, May 25, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Doxim, the leading customer communications management ("CCM") and engagement technology provider serving highly regulated markets, today announced that Gum Fa Ng has accepted the role of Senior Vice President of Product and Solutions Consulting. Ng brings a wealth of experience in the Customer Communications Management (CCM) industry to her role. Her past four years at Doxim have been spent working intently with Doxim's customers and executive leadership team to drive operational improvements, expand solution capabilities and actively demonstrate how Doxim can support companies with their CCM goals. Prior to joining Doxim, Ng worked for RR Donnelley for nine years, providing strategic product and solutions management with an emphasis on omni-channel communications. "Gum has deep domain expertise, plus a track record of impactful leadership here at Doxim, and I look forward to the momentum her expanded role will bring," said Jeff Clarke, Interim CEO of Doxim. "Her deep understanding of the rapidly evolving customer communications market will help us grow the business, stay ahead of industry trends, and provide the most innovative CCM solutions to our clients." As Senior Vice President of Product and Solutions Consulting, Ng will accelerate Doxim's product strategy by leading roadmap development and execution in alignment with business goals, client feedback, industry trends, and overall market opportunity. Her team will define and deliver the next generation of Doxim solutions and services to ensure they meet the needs of the company's 2000+ clients in highly regulated industries. About Doxim Doxim is the customer communications management and engagement technology leader serving highly regulated markets, including financial services, utilities, and healthcare. Doxim provides omnichannel communications and payment solutions that maximize customer engagement and revenue, while reducing costs. Its software and technology-enabled managed services address key digitization, operational efficiency, and customer experience challenges through a suite of plug-and-play, integrated, SaaS software and technology solutions. Learn more at http://www.doxim.com. Media Contact Susan Henry, Doxim, 866.475.9876, shenry@doxim.com Twitter, LinkedIn   SOURCE  Doxim © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.