Genius tips, tricks & beautiful things, straight to your inbox every day. © 2010-2021 Wow Media Products, Inc doing business as PureWow. All rights reserved. HBO has finally revealed when the second season of House of the Dragon is expected to premiere on Max and (spoiler alert) it's sooner than I expected. Following the development of the writers’ strike (which has now been resolved) and the actors' strike, author George R.R. Martin addressed the elephant in the room and gave a major update on House of the Dragon season two. Even better, the author hinted that the saga of House Targaryen will continue beyond season two, thanks to a massively successful first season.   But the most exciting news of all is that HBO head Casey Bloys recently confirmed the second installment is now “done shooting and in post,” which means we’ll be able to see the aftermath of the Targaryen civil war sooner rather than later. In fact, the House of the Dragon season two release date will be on—drumroll, please—June 16, 2024. As June slowly approaches, House of the Dragon fans (like myself) were given a surprise just weeks before the season two premiere: the official trailer. Not only did we get a sneak preview of what's to come in the highly anticipated season, but we also got a chance to see the return of our fave characters, from Rhaenyra Targaryen (played by Emma D’Arcy) to Alicent Hightower (Olivia Cooke). Keep reading for more details on the cast, plot, premiere date, spoilers and what Martin and Bloys had to say about House of the Dragon season two. House of the Dragon is based on Martin’s book, titled Fire & Blood, and takes place 200 years before the events in Game of Thrones. It follows House Targaryen, the family who currently controls the Iron Throne and the Kingdom of Westeros. In his 5-star review, Phil Mutz, PureWow’s vice president of entertainment and news, said there are "many Easter eggs hidden throughout," adding, "The new show stays true to the style, feel, drama and excitement of its predecessor in the tone of the writing and in the plot points." “So many things happen over the course of an hour that Game of Thrones likely would have spread over multiple episodes,” Mutz wrote. “The reason for this is there is a more focused story to tell (though it’s no less grand).” In August 2022, HBO confirmed on Instagram that the series was renewed for a second season. The caption read, "Fire reigns. #HouseoftheDragon has been renewed for Season 2." The renewal news shouldn’t come as a huge surprise to GoT fans. (FYI, House of the Dragon broke the record for the largest audience of a premiere in HBO history.) In a statement, Francesca Orsi (executive vice president of HBO programming), said, “We are beyond proud of what the entire House of the Dragon team has accomplished with season one. Our phenomenal cast and crew undertook a massive challenge and exceeded all expectations, delivering a show that has already established itself as must-see-TV.” In April 2023, the network announced that production had begun on the show’s second season. New episodes were being filmed at Leavesden Studios in the U.K. “House of the Dragon has returned. We are thrilled to be shooting again with members of our original family as well as new talents on both sides of the camera,” said series co-creator Ryan Condal. “All your favorite characters will soon be conspiring at the council tables, marching with their armies and riding their dragons into battle. We can't wait to share what we have in store.” In July 2023, the author revealed that House of the Dragon season two wasn’t affected by the Writer’s Guild Association (WGA) strike. (FYI, Martin isn’t serving as a writer on HOTD, but he’s an insider nonetheless.) “One of the few shows still shooting is House of the Dragon, as you may have read,” Martin wrote in a blog post on his website at the time. “That’s true. I am told the second season is half done. ALL of the scripts had been finished months before the WGA strike began. No writing has been done since, to the best of my knowledge.” He continued, “HOTD is shot mostly in London (and a little bit in Wales, Spain and various other locations), which is why filming has continued. The actors are members of the British union, Equity, not SAG-AFTRA, and though Equity strongly supports their American cousins (they have a big rally planned to show that support), British law forbids them from staging a sympathy strike.” *Warning: Spoilers ahead* Since HBO’s House of the Dragon is based on George R.R. Martin’s published book, Fire & Blood, it’s more than likely the narrative will continue where the first season left off. In the shocking season one finale, Aemond and Vhagar murder Rhaenyra’s son, Luke, which marks the first major death of the civil war. While the House of Dragon season two plot is being kept hush-hush, I can assume that fans will see more violent acts of war play out in the future installment, following along with Martin’s book. So, you may be wondering: What happens next in Fire & Blood? Since the novel details the full history of the Targaryen family, I am confident the series will detail the events following the death of Lucerys (Elliot Grihault). In addition, according to Screen Rant, “There are several tragic deaths and injuries on the horizon in the story, a clash between twins, and the ‘Blood and Cheese’ event which could be the event behind [how] Rhaenyra Targaryen earned the nickname Rhaenyra the Cruel.” What I do know for sure is that the main cast for House of the Dragon is set to return for the second season, including Matt Smith (Prince Daemon Targaryen), Emma D’Arcy (Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen), Phoebe Campbell (Rhaena Targaryen), Bethany Antonia (Baela Targaryen), Olivia Cooke (Lady Alicent Hightower), Rhys Ifans (Ser Otto Hightower), Ewan Mitchell (Aemond Targaryen), Tom Glynn-Carney (Aegon II Targaryen), Phia Saban (Helaena Targaryen), Steve Toussaint (Lord Corlys Velaryon), Harry Collet (Jacaerys Velaryon), Eve Best (Princess Rhaenys Targaryen), Fabien Frankel (Ser Criston Cole) and Graham McTavish (Ser Harrold Westerling).  The younger versions of Rhaenyra and Alicent, who were played by Milly Alcock and Emily Carney, respectively, are not going to return for the second installment.  Deadline confirmed that House of the Dragon is adding four new cast members: Simon Russell Beale (Simon Strong), Freddie Fox (Gwayne Hightower), Gayle Rankin (Alys Rivers) and Abubakar Salim (Alyn of Hull). While little is known about their involvement, the newcomers are all connected to the story line through various season one characters. It’s reported that House of the Dragon season two will have a total of eight episodes, which is shorter than the 10-episode lineup for season one. According to Deadline, a spokesman from HBO shared the reason behind the decision is purely “story-driven.” At Morgan Stanley’s Technology, Media and Telecom conference, J.B. Perrette (Warner Bros. Discovery streaming and gaming chief) confirmed that House of the Dragon season two will premiere on June 16, 2024. This news came after HBO CEO Casey Bloys attended an event held at Warner Bros. Discovery headquarters in New York City back in November 2023. While there, he shared an exciting new update about the second season. Though the HBO head kept additional details about House of the Dragon season two under wraps, he did share details about the return of the series. “They are done shooting and in post. We hope to have that early summer,” Bloys said, according to Entertainment Weekly. On May 14, Max released the official trailer for House of the Dragon season two across their social media channels. Watch the full trailer above.  Back in March, Max also released dueling trailers for House of the Dragon season two. The first clip (titled “Official Black Trailer”) is from the perspective of the Black Council, and the second one (titled “Official Green Trailer”) highlights the Green Council. The streaming service also released a combined trailer (see above), which offers a glimpse of what’s to come.  He sure did. On his website, when responding to the news of the series getting eight Emmy nominations, Martin wrote, "I would have loved to see some of our writers, directors, and actors on the final ballot as well.  You don’t get to contend for Best Dramatic Series unless you have some great actors, directors, and writers working of you. Most of our team will have other shots at the prize in seasons to come." The author also added, "Keep watching. The best is yet to come." Before the Hollywood writers’ and actors’ strikes, HBO was in the middle of producing another Game of Thrones spinoff titled Knight of the Seven Kingdoms: The Hedge Knight. Since then, the production has been put on hold.  When asked to give a status update on the series, Bloys reassured fans that he hoped to start filming the new spinoff once the actors’ strike ends.  As for any other spinoffs? Bloys shared that they “always have got scripts in development.” He continued, “I wouldn't say there's anything else in that world that is close to a green light.” Stay up-to-date on every celebrity and entertainment story by subscribing here. Does the ‘House of the Dragon’ Cast Look Familiar? Here’s Where You’ve Seen Them Before