| Written by  Venture capital is essential for startups that need investors willing to fund their businesses, creating an opportunity to expand and prove their profitability and potential growth. Therefore, knowing what real estate venture capital firms are legit, established, and trustworthy is crucial for choosing an experienced, credible investor. While investors provide venture capital to clients with unproven records, they may also offer financial support to established firms. Read on to determine what real estate venture capital firms are in high demand. Whether you’re interested in consulting with an investment corporation or about venture capital and its prominence, this article highlights firms investing in real estate and PropTech startup businesses. Consider checking out these top recommendations to learn more about their investment statuses. Disclaimer: With so many venture capital firms around the world, we aren’t able to cover them all. Furthermore, the following VC firms are not officially ranked and are listed in no particular order. Seeking Startup Funding? Systematic connects startups and investors on one AI-powered platform. Sign up today to receive an exclusive, limited-time discount of over 50% off—don’t miss out! RRE Ventures is a prominent institutional investment capital firm based in the Metropolitan area of New York City, primarily focusing on real estate tech companies in the US and Canada. It operates in a wide-spaced area, which allows it to expand its team to accommodate its growing clientele. The RRE investment team has financed over 400 companies specializing in real estate, robotics, and several other industries.  Backed by the National Association of REALTORS, Second Century Ventures (SCV) is a Chicago-based venture capital firm dedicated to investing in real estate technology. Since its inception, the firm has invested in more than 100 startups including DocuSign, LeaseUp, and Courted.io. SCV invests primarily in real estate tech and SaaS startups with strong market traction and proven product market fit. The firm also offers a growth accelerator, REACH, to support early-stage startups and new founders in the real estate tech sector. Operating in San Francisco, California, Brick and Mortar Ventures invests in early-stage startups developing both software and hardware to support the architecture, engineering, construction, and facilities management sectors. The firm’s hyper-focused quality allows it to progress and builds connections due to its engaging approach as a preferred investor. Camber Creek is a prominent institutional investment capital firm with locations in New York, Washington D.C., and Palm Beach, primarily focusing on real estate tech companies. Its investors have extensive experience leveraging expertise, giving them an advantage over many competitors. The firm has invested in over 60 companies specializing in property management, development and leasing, and construction. The stage and needs of an organization determine the firm’s precise investment amount. Krillion Ventures is a venture capital firm investing in early-stage tech startups innovating within the real estate, healthcare, and financial services sectors. Founded in 2014, they are a Miami-first fund, investing a majority of their capital into South Florida-based businesses. This venture capital group provides funding for seed and Series A as well as connections and counsel to early-stage entrepreneurs within their portfolio.  Lefrak Ventures is a family-owned investment firm in greater New York City. The firm consistently makes diverse investments, spanning various businesses while targeting significant real estate companies (commercial and private companies). Its investors are committed to long-term ownership and ongoing community development in the realty industry. Out of Lefrak Ventures’ 70+ investments, 10 of the firm’s portfolio companies have exited. Fifth Wall Ventures is a qualified capital firm located in the greater Los Angeles Area, hyper-focused on technology in real estate. The corporation maintains a positive track record of global industry connections with property owners and operators. This firm provides seed and Series A funding and invests for an undisclosed amount. Companies such as Neighbors, Lime, Picasso, and Clutter are also in Fifth Wall’s growing portfolio, including more than 160 investments. Alpaca VC is a New York City-based capital investment business specializing in real estate technologies. The firm boasts extensive experience in the real estate tech sector providing invaluable support and guidance to portfolio companies. Investments are between $500,000 and $5 million depending on the startup’s stage with the firm investing in a variety of stages starting with pre-seed. Additionally, the firm also runs a private equity real estate firm, Alpaca Real Estate, boasting more than 100 investments and $3 billion in equity deployed since its inception.  JLL Spark Global Ventures is a reputable venture capital organization with headquarters in the Bay Area. The firm backs founders innovating within the commercial real estate (CRE) industry. The JLL Spark investment team has funded over $390 million to 50+ early-stage protech startups. The firm arms portfolio companies with vast CRE experience, go-to-market strategy support, and a global network to help startups achieve global scale.  Based in the Midwest and coasts, Heartland Ventures is a venture capital firm that funds companies specializing in construction and real estate and has made over 15 investments. In addition to deploying capital into portfolio companies, Heartland works to help founders create an effective go-to-market strategy, nail product market fit, and scale sales and distribution.  Operating from its headquarters in the Bay Area, Citi Ventures is a well-known venture capital business that funds startups in several industries including proptech. The company offers early-stage entrepreneurial enterprises seed and Series A funding. Additionally, they empower developing entrepreneurs with a mixture of capital, mentoring, and industry contacts. While the company prefers to keep its investment range confidential, it has 128 investments. Building Ventures operates as a capital investment company in the greater Boston area. The organization doesn’t restrict its investments by funding round, instead opting to select portfolio companies, in part, based on the projected impact of the firm’s experience, expertise, and network.  The firm invests in startups within the design, construction, and real estate sectors, seeking companies with mission alignment. Once a company receives investment from Building Ventures, they also gain access to capital and guidance throughout the entire lifecycle of the startup.  Red Swan Ventures is a Manhattan-based seed and Series A to Series B venture capital group in the greater New York area. The team invests in real estate, innovative infrastructure, and construction. Red Swan aims to be a startup’s first institutional investor. The firm invests $500,000 for pre-seed rounds and $1 million for seed rounds with potential for follow-on investments for their portfolio companies. They are industry-agnostic, looking to make investments in companies creating their own internal momentum by way of flywheel effects, network effects, or product-led growth. Founded by NFL Hall-of-Famer Joe Montana with partners Mike Miller and Michael Ma, Liquid 2 Ventures operates from its headquarters in the Bay Area. Since its inception in 2015, the firm has made over 900 investments and boasts 66 exits from their portfolio companies. The firm aims to empower innovative founders with capital, experience, and community to create a long-term partnership that encourages growth for each company.  New Stack Ventures, a venture capital group operating from its headquarters in Chicago, offers seed investments to businesses in the pre-revenue, general aviation, premature production, and marketing areas. Investors also support early-stage companies in the technology and retail sectors. This firm frequently issues checks between $500,000 and $1.5 million to fintech, proptech, and ecommerce businesses. It has invested in over 50 companies and has only two exits throughout its entire portfolio. Also, its other notable investments include Phood, Scope AR, and Hologram. American Family Ventures finances startups innovating within the insurtech sector with offices in New York City, Boston, Madison, and Philadelphia. The firm invests from the earliest stages to growth stage with first checks ranging from $250,000 to $10 million. The team behind American Family Ventures boasts over 50 years of combined VC experience and more than 120 years of combined experience in insurance.  Zigg Capital, a venture firm in greater New York, invests in companies disrupting the real estate industry with technology. The goal of the firm is to accelerate the connection between real estate and tech to improve the quality of life, work, and community across the globe. Zigg Capital boasts several investments in rapidly scaling startups such us Tend, Snapdocs, and JoyLab.  Miami-based LAB Ventures is a venture capital fund and startup studio offering companies both capital to scale existing ventures and meaningful support to launch disruptive ideas. The firm invests and works with early-stage real estate tech and construction startups through their PropTech Fund. While LAB Ventures provides seed to Series A financing and frequently co-invests with other firms to help founders gain industry knowledge.  Moderne Ventures is a downtown Chicago-based investment firm focused on funding technology and digital investment platforms. Investors back companies in real estate, finance, insurance, and sustainability while dedicated to providing financial support to unproven businesses, making an effort to stand out among other companies in their industries. The firm also offers accelerator programs, Moderne Network and Modern Passport Program, for startups looking to scale their companies through expert guidance. NFX Capital Management is a venture capital firm that invests in companies in the US, Israel, Latin America, and Europe. Primary industries of interest include bio, gaming, generative AI, proptech, and fintech. On average, NFX provides seed and pre-seed funding between $1 million and $5 million per round and determines viable companies by assessing the potential of the startup team as well as the market opportunity.  Further Reading Topics to Explore Browse Tags reviews Best LLC ServicesBest Registered Agent ServicesBest Banks for StartupsBest Website BuildersBest Business Plan SoftwareBest Press Release ServicesBest Incorporation ServicesBest Payroll Services startups Company ProfilesTop Startups to WatchStrategy StoriesFeature NewsPodcast how-to guides Start a StartupStart a Small BusinessStart an LLCStart a CorporationGet a DBAStart an S Corp topics Startup IdeasStartup ResourcesStartup FundingStartup LeadershipStartup Marketing connect with us! sign up for ournewsletter © 2024 TRUiC, All rights reserved About Us | Terms of Use | FTC Disclosure | Privacy Policy | Contact Us This website is meant to be opinion and information based, not legal advice of any kind. We spend hundreds of hours per month updating and refining our content as things change, but to be used as-is. For questions while starting a business, we recommend consulting with an attorney or accountant. Names, trademarks and logos mentioned all belong to their respective owners. Some of the links may be affiliate links, earning us a small commission if you decide to use them, allowing us to continue creating content.