This site is part of the Informa Connect Division of Informa PLC This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 3099067. Find out about our industry events, digital content, and on-demand experiences, providing you with exceptional insights, connections, and commercial edge.  one of our 450 international events and elevate your career with over 800 courses Attend our next events, either in person, online or on-demand. CenterStage, the resource and reward program for subject matter experts, dedicated to placing talent in spotlight. A multi-hyphenate Emmy award winning showrunner, writer, actor, director, and producer who has built his career telling vibrant and comedic stories. The 60th Mayor of Atlanta, Georgia, and a visionary leader in bringing equitable outcomes to the forefront of government and commerce.  The daughter of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Dr. Bernice Albertine King is a connector, communicator, community builder and CEO of The King Center. Keynote speaker, actor, activist, philanthropist, and author. Winner of two Oscars, and Emmy nomination for the longest-running series on Netflix. Attend our training courses, either in person, online or on-demand. with more than 698,000 industry peers more than 600 expert videos alongside more than 11,000 global experts more than 2,800 expert articles See what your industry is talking about right now. Providing professionals with access to extraordinary people and exceptional insight. Our people frame our thinking and guide our work Diversity brings more experience, more voices and more talent We embrace our responsibility for our planet and our fellows We are taking steps to become a more sustainable company Our people frame our thinking and guide our work Diversity brings more experience, more voices and more talent We embrace our responsibility for our planet and our fellows We are taking steps to become a more sustainable company Our people frame our thinking and guide our work Diversity brings more experience, more voices and more talent We embrace our responsibility for our planet and our fellows Copyright © 2024 Informa Connect Limited. Registered in England & Wales with number 01835199, registered office 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.