Comment Mythos Ventures, an early-stage venture capital firm started by Vishal Maini, closed $14 million in capital commitments for its first fund that will invest in transformative AI companies. Metaplanet, Delphi Ventures and The Operating Group are backers alongside a group of individual investors, including Phil Black, co-founder of True Ventures; Walter Kortschak, managing director of Summit Partners; Tom Shaughnessy, co-founder of Delphi Digital; and Anna Counselman, co-founder of Upstart. The solo general partner firm, based in San Francisco, joins the likes of Connect Ventures, Fuse and Unconventional Ventures in announcing a new fund this month. Maini is joined by partners Jonathan Eng and ‍Paul Gu, the latter he has known since young adolescence. They grew up together, even studying together at Yale. All three worked together at Gu’s startup Upstart, a fintech company focused on lending. Most recently, Maini was at DeepMind working on safety and artificial general intelligence deployment. “It was pretty clear from being in the trenches that we were just about to cross the chasm from research to product ready,” Maini told TechCrunch. “We’re not even in the full swing of it yet. I started this now because I believe that in the next decade, a wave of companies will be built that will be genuinely history-defining in terms of the types of transformation that are achieved. It felt like the right time to bring a team together to focus on that.” However, before you sigh about yet another VC firm targeting AI companies, Maini does understand. Not only did he say it was “a bad time to start a fund,” he doubled down and said it was “arguably an even worse time to start an AI fund.” Why? Because everyone is moving into the AI space, of course. Ultimately, though, Maini was able to get the commitments in about six months and more than double his initial target of $6 million. Here’s how: leaning into its differentiation of “transformative AI.” He explained that it’s a term used by Open Philanthropy, an early funder in OpenAI. The definition has two parts: One is impact-based in terms of reaching a certain level of advanced AI systems. The second is around the capability of frontier systems and having AI that is as good as a human at cognitive tasks. The term is still catching on, he added. “That will change in the next few years because, in my view, it’s the correct term to be used to describe the space rather than generative AI,” Maini said. Elicit is building a tool to automate scientific literature review  Maini intends to write check between $100,000 and $1 million for companies raising at the pre-seed and seed levels. Mythos is going after startups in areas Maini considers underhyped. For example, companies that don’t heavily rely on generative AI, but instead use machine learning paradigms and artificial cognition to upend industries. Another is artificial general intelligence-proof companies that will be relevant five or 10 years from now when he said there won’t be a need to call a company an “AI company” anymore. The firm has invested in four companies from the new fund, including Elicit, which is building an AI research assistant to automate scientific review, and which announced its first funding round this week. Others are Monumental, building AI-enabled robotic stone-carving factories, and ValueBase, which is automating real estate valuations. “We want to be there from the idea stage, and we’re with the founders all the way through to the end,” Maini said. “I honestly don’t think that there will be many AI companies in 10 years. It’ll be a weird thing to say. Everyone’s going to use AI in 10 years. We will invest in the companies that will ride that tailwind as that transition plays out.” Have a juicy tip or lead about happenings in the venture world? Send tips to Christine Hall at chall.techcrunch@gmail.com or Signal at 832-862-1051. Anonymity requests will be respected.  Questions every VC needs to ask about every AI startup’s tech stack  Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP