As the year 2022 rounds off, an aspiring entrepreneur should be thinking on how to survive in 2023, the kind businesses he or she can do get the best investment returns and how to be a creator of jobs rather than compressing the already saturated job market. And with the country battling high unemployment rate, experts have suggested the need for Nigerians, especially, graduates to continue to look inward to be entrepreneurs. It is of their belief that if most of the people can create jobs, they will be able to absorb more unemployed people, thereby, not only reducing unemployment rate, but also eradicating poverty and creating wealth in the process. For those  willing to pursue their entrepreneurship career, however, seeking a business idea, this piece highlights business opportunities for potential entrepreneurs who are determined to be successful and be independent, especially, as job opportunities in existing firms continue to shrink day by day. To set up a business has its own challenges, but aspiring entrepreneurs must be able to dare and navigate the challenges to soar in their respective endeavours. To this end, here are some of the top emerging business easy to set up with promises of good profit.   eCommerce  Online shopping business is the new deal. People find it easy and convenient to buy things online. You can market products from your bedroom and also sell them from your bedroom while you make a profit. Online shopping business has opened opportunities for cart deals and shipping agencies. This is something to consider and it is fully based on trust.   Training Centres This is one of the most lucrative businesses ever. People who venture into this usually create some powerful titles for themselves that market what they do. This business idea is well diversified. It could be training centres for sports, business growth, lifestyle, education, emotional health, elocution, voice-over, choreography, writing, and so on. As long as you possess some knowledge in that area, you can set up a training centre for it. This may require you travelling from place to place and people would pay high for that knowledge you are marketing.   Day Care  Establishing a daycare centre is a good idea and you will never lack customers because children are being born every day. Working-class parents would find it convenient to enrol their children into a daycare centre. To excel in this business, the environment must be tidy and the children must be well-taken care of. If you don’t like children, you shouldn’t try this business because it wouldn’t be good.   Farming Farming is a very lucrative business. It meets a need peculiar to everybody. There is nobody that doesn’t eat. Exploring this idea is no waste of time. Various persons have devised a means of making farming more enjoyable. For example, Samuel Ogbole soil-less farming ideas is gaining momentum. Nigerians are waking up to the call and there is no regret.    Photography  Birthday shoots, pre-wedding shoots, pregnancy shoots, among others, are revenue spinal for those who are ready to invest in it. Professional photography is a cool business to invest in. People organise parties and events every day and this is not restricted to just individuals, organisations and the marketing industry are well aware of the importance of having good quality pictures on their website, social media page and roll-up banners. This is for sure a very lucrative business.   Security Firm The need for security is well emphasised in the wake of the current upheaval in the country and the need to secure one’s family and properties is becoming more pronounced. The security agency provides a means of employment for many individuals. The agency invests in training of individuals so that they are fit and able to handle situations and for crowd control. The services of security agencies are in high demands among companies, schools, industries, and others who need constant protection.    © 2024 Leadership Media Group - All Rights Reserved.  © 2024 Leadership Media Group - All Rights Reserved.