MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  Legal and Compliance must keep pace with this dispersed technology landscape in order to implement and enforce appropriate controls to ensure compliance with privacy, security, regulatory and legal requirements. February 03, 2023 at 02:00 PM  7 minute read Legal Technology At the same time that organizations work to simplify and minimize their data footprint to address privacy and cybersecurity risks, there has been a simultaneous rise in the decentralization of technology and dispersal of business data across rapidly changing mobile and cloud technologies. That distribution has been accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic and the greater adoption of remote work. These mobile and cloud technologies are easy to implement and update and provide undeniable business benefits. However, they also exist outside the organization’s firewall, are difficult to monitor, manage and control, and bring with them a host of new privacy and cybersecurity risks. Legal and Compliance must keep pace with this dispersed technology landscape in order to implement and enforce appropriate controls to ensure compliance with privacy, security, regulatory and legal requirements. Ever-increasing innovation has led to a paradigm shift in the technology services market. Full suite offerings by large providers have begun to give way to tailored, focused, and smaller providers. These providers offer specialized services that can be readily implemented and adopted, and often are not easily replicated in existing systems. The rapid adoption of such technologies—particularly with customers—creates enormous business pressure to demonstrate technological savvy and keep pace with customer demand. But with the sprawling use of third-party applications outside the firewall, business, legal, and regulatory risks mount. To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Carol C. Villegas, Michael P. Canty, Danielle Izzo and Gloria J. Medina By Ellen Bardash By Brian Mannion By Geoffrey D. Ivnik, Esq. at LexisNexis Legal & Professional 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Simpson Thacher to Face UK Tribunal Over Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Allegations International Edition Simpson Partner Heads to Paul Hastings, as Firm Plots Growth in Banking, Finance The American Lawyer Presented by BigVoodoo  The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. Consulting Magazine identifies the best firms to work for in the consulting profession. 
                                        SALARY/STEP INCREASES 3% Annual Across the Board Salary Increases on February 2025/2026 (Salary Increases contingent upon assessed values fo...
                                 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join New York Law Journal now! Already have an account? Sign In The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.