E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
For information on submitting an obituary, please contact Reading Eagle by phone at 610-371-5018, or email at obituaries@readingeagle.com or fax at 610-371-5193.
 
Most obituaries published in the Reading Eagle are submitted through funeral homes and cremation services, but we will accept submissions from families. Obituaries can be emailed to obituaries@readingeagle.com.
 
In addition to the text of the obituary, any photographs that you wish to include can be attached to this email. Please put the text of the obituary in a Word document, a Google document or in the body of the email. The Reading Eagle also requires a way to verify the death, so please include either the phone number of the funeral home or cremation service that is in charge of the deceased's care or a photo of his/her death certificate. We also request that your full name, phone number and address are all included in this email.
 
All payments by families must be made with a credit card. We will send a proof of the completed obituary before we require payment. The obituary cannot run, however, until we receive payment in full.
 
Obituaries can be submitted for any future date, but they must be received no later than 3:00 p.m. the day prior to its running for it to be published.
 
Please call the obituary desk, at 610-371-5018, for information on pricing.
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 In a split vote, the Cumru Township commissioners narrowly approved a zoning change that allows warehouses and distribution centers to be built along a strip of Lancaster Pike.The new rules permit warehouses, freight terminals, and wholesale and distribution centers within the mixed use and general commercial zoning district — an area of Lancaster Pike (also known as Business Route 222) from the Ollie’s Bargain Outlet lot to Paolo’s Restaurant and Bar.Commissioners voted 3-2 to approve the change at a hearing Wednesday, with David Batdorf, Sam Kalbach and William Miller voting yes, and Ruth O’Leary and Lisha Rowe voting no.Batdorf and Miller said the township needs to find ways to generate funds, considering the upcoming loss of $500,000 in annual tax revenue when the Western Berks Landfill closes in 2024.“We were challenged with bringing business to the township,” Miller said. “They (warehouses) are the only type of business that are coming to the township.”Miller said he solicited other businesses to come to Cumru, including Costco, Trader Joe’s and Wegmans.He said those companies declined because the township doesn’t have the desired income potential.Bill McKay, Gov. Mifflin School District superintendent, also cited the need for a stronger tax base in a statement supporting the zoning change.

“The school board is genuinely concerned that if our community does not promote the right combination of commercial and residential properties, township residents will shoulder more and more of the tax burden to pay for our schools,” McKay said.He brought up the Tulpehocken School District, which he said reduced its tax rate in recent years due to new commercial development along the highway corridor in that area.Representatives from BARTA said they supported the zoning change because of a separate clause in the new rule that allows for the placement of ads and signs on bus shelters.They said allowing the advertising would generate the funds needed to clean and maintain the shelters.Critics oppose the changeRowe and O’Leary said they agreed with several residents who spoke against the change at the hearing, citing the possibility of warehouses increasing truck traffic and making Lancaster Pike unsafe, among other concerns.“I didn’t like the idea of all the extra trucks,” Rowe said.Resident Andrew Donnell contested McKay and the school board’s portrayal of warehouses and distribution centers as a tax boon for the township.“I’m a software engineer specializing in systems automation, so when I hear about a warehouse coming in, the first thing that occurs to me is that these jobs that are supposed to be improving the tax base are at threat of automation,” Donnell said. “These companies are trying to get rid of the employees that are doing these jobs.”Donnell also emphasized what he said were major differences in how warehouses affect the community versus commercial developments.“We’re not talking about commercial developments here,” Donnel said to the board. “We’re talking about 18-wheelers blowing black smoke through our communities, disturbing the natural habitat that I hope you don’t take for granted.”The zoning change also contained new rules on gates, maximum heights and distances from property lines for residential fences.The full text of the zoning ordinance is available on the Cumru Township website. The new rules permit warehouses, freight terminals, and wholesale and distribution centers within the mixed use and general commercial zoning district — an area of Lancaster Pike (also known as Business Route 222) from the Ollie’s Bargain Outlet lot to Paolo’s Restaurant and Bar. Commissioners voted 3-2 to approve the change at a hearing Wednesday, with David Batdorf, Sam Kalbach and William Miller voting yes, and Ruth O’Leary and Lisha Rowe voting no. Batdorf and Miller said the township needs to find ways to generate funds, considering the upcoming loss of $500,000 in annual tax revenue when the Western Berks Landfill closes in 2024. “We were challenged with bringing business to the township,” Miller said. “They (warehouses) are the only type of business that are coming to the township.” Miller said he solicited other businesses to come to Cumru, including Costco, Trader Joe’s and Wegmans. He said those companies declined because the township doesn’t have the desired income potential. Bill McKay, Gov. Mifflin School District superintendent, also cited the need for a stronger tax base in a statement supporting the zoning change. “The school board is genuinely concerned that if our community does not promote the right combination of commercial and residential properties, township residents will shoulder more and more of the tax burden to pay for our schools,” McKay said. He brought up the Tulpehocken School District, which he said reduced its tax rate in recent years due to new commercial development along the highway corridor in that area. Representatives from BARTA said they supported the zoning change because of a separate clause in the new rule that allows for the placement of ads and signs on bus shelters. They said allowing the advertising would generate the funds needed to clean and maintain the shelters. Rowe and O’Leary said they agreed with several residents who spoke against the change at the hearing, citing the possibility of warehouses increasing truck traffic and making Lancaster Pike unsafe, among other concerns. “I didn’t like the idea of all the extra trucks,” Rowe said. Resident Andrew Donnell contested McKay and the school board’s portrayal of warehouses and distribution centers as a tax boon for the township. “I’m a software engineer specializing in systems automation, so when I hear about a warehouse coming in, the first thing that occurs to me is that these jobs that are supposed to be improving the tax base are at threat of automation,” Donnell said. “These companies are trying to get rid of the employees that are doing these jobs.” Donnell also emphasized what he said were major differences in how warehouses affect the community versus commercial developments. “We’re not talking about commercial developments here,” Donnel said to the board. “We’re talking about 18-wheelers blowing black smoke through our communities, disturbing the natural habitat that I hope you don’t take for granted.” The zoning change also contained new rules on gates, maximum heights and distances from property lines for residential fences. The full text of the zoning ordinance is available on the Cumru Township website. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group