Rapyder Cloud Solutions, an established player in the cloud-tech space and an Advanced Consulting Partner for AWS, today announced it has achieved Amazon Web Services Managed Service Provider (AWS MSP) status. This badge recognizes and validates partners within the AWS Partner Network (APN) who have the expertise to provide full lifecycle cloud solutions to customers in every stage of their cloud journey. The recognition process is based on an extensive independent audit to establish the organization is sound both in terms of business growth and technical strength. The services can range from planning and design, building and migration, operations and support, and automation and optimization. Commenting on this latest achievement, Amit Gupta, CEO and Co-founder, Rapyder Cloud Solutions, said, ''We are indeed proud to be receiving this AWS Managed Service Provider designation. With the support of such recognitions, our team is further encouraged to help customers to achieve their strategic business goals at record speed despite the increasing technical complexities and market dynamics. Such deliveries are made possible with the agility, pace of innovation, and breadth of services that are provided by AWS.'' He further added, ''This recognition from AWS further reiterates our ability to help our clients to explore multiple opportunities leveraging the cloud for innovation, higher productivity, operational efficiency, and better business outcomes.'' This AWS MSP competency status is the latest recognition from AWS for the organization in addition to Migration & Modernization Competency it won recently. Among several recognitions from AWS, Rapyder was awarded AWS Consulting Partner of the Year 2021 India and Migration Success Partner of the year 2022 for its exceptional contributions towards its customers. It has continuously exhibited its capabilities and offerings in AWS cloud migration, adoption, and optimization for businesses across industry verticals. The expert team at Rapyder enables its customers to overcome all complicated cloud-related challenges effectively and has been providing Managed Service Support to several customers since its inception. Rapyder's customers span education, healthcare, retail, manufacturing, financial services, and other industry verticals. Besides Cloud Computing, the organization is continuously expanding its capabilities in other areas too, such as Big Data and Analytics, Marketing and Commerce, and DevOps. Rapyder's high growth, year-on-year reflects the robust business and financial performance in addition to maintaining a high customer retention rate. The organization's proven track record further reinforces Rapyder's commitment to its customers. About Rapyder Rapyder is an agile, innovative born-in-the-cloud company that makes Cloud work for you. With a young, passionate team and expertise in Cloud Computing Solutions, Big Data, Marketing & Commerce, DevOps, and Managed Services, Rapyder is the leading provider of Strategic Cloud Consulting. Solutions provided by Rapyder are seamless, secure, and scalable. Rapyder was awarded AWS Consulting Partner of the Year 2021 India and Migration Success Partner of the year 2022 for its exceptional contributions towards its customers. With headquarters in Bangalore and sales & support offices in New Delhi and Mumbai, Rapyder provides optimal technology solutions to reduce costs, streamline business processes and gain business advantages for its customers. Along with providing 24*7 support and monitoring for the services, Rapyder has 100% AWS-certified cloud engineers who work seamlessly to make the cloud a business benefit for customers. In its journey of being a premium cloud service provider, Rapyder has successfully gained 392+ satisfied customers, 300+ cloud deployments, and 163+ managed services clients across working sectors. Rapyder is an ISO/IEC 27001-2013 certified organization and recently achieved AWS audited Microsoft Workloads Competency.  (This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)  Email: info@devdiscourse.com Phone: +91-720-6444012, +91-7027739813, 14, 15  © Copyright 2024