By Connie Rusk For Mailonline   Published:  04:55 EDT, 13 January 2023   |  Updated:  10:37 EDT, 13 January 2023      3 View  comments  She is best known for her iconic shoulder length brown bob and heavy fringe.  But Dawn French showed off her new look on Instagram having donned a bright purple wig for her role as Dame Trot in Jack and the Beanstalk.  The actress, 65, who reportedly bagged a whopping £220,000 for her stint at London Palladium, celebrated the end of the pantomime season by sharing an entertaining video on Instagram.  Panto stint: Dawn French showed off her new look on Instagram having donned a bright purple wig  for her role as Dame Trot in Jack and the Beanstalk Dawn shimmied in a silver beaded sparkly fringed dress and matching metallic heels which were part of her costume as the Dame.  The Vicar of Dibley star sported a heavy make-up look and styled her bright purple hair in curls.  She also took to her Instagram stories from her dressing room to share a cheeky selfie enjoying a Gary Barlow beer.  Different: Dawn had swapped her grey locks for a bright purple do after previously giving up her brown hair dye  Cheers: The comedian also took to her Instagram stories from her dressing room to share a cheeky selfie enjoying a Gary Barlow beer Signature look: Dawn is best known for her iconic shoulder length brown bob and heavy fringe Back in June, Dawn showed off her hair transformation after ditching the brown hair-dye.  She told her social media followers at the time that she trimmed off more of her locks, with her husband Mark Bignell even comparing her to The Chase star Anne Hegerty.  Sharing a duo of snaps of her new shorter tresses, Dawn penned: 'Hair update. 3 shades of grey (working up to the 50) Dancing: The actress, 65, who reportedly bagged a whopping £220,000 for her stint at London Palladium, celebrated the end of the pantomime season Silver: Back in June, Dawn showed off her hair transformation after ditching the brown hair-dye 'I’ve chopped even more off. I’m thinking I’m giving it solid Jamie Lee Curtis. Husband says I’m giving it full Anne Hegerty…. Righto. 'In your face husband, coz BOTH are Ishtar…' Dawn initially ditched her trademark style in favour of a bold new look to embrace the fact that she's going grey and shared her hair transformation with her followers. In the first picture, Dawn showed off the natural colour transformation. Even more dramatically, in the second picture, Dawn lifted up her locks to reveal her brand new undercut - with the silver colouring in line with her approach to embrace going grey. Captioning her two new photos, Dawn wrote: 'Going lighter bit by bit to happily welcome the grey… with an undercut surprise..! Hello there woman in her 60s….' 'Happily welcoming the grey': Dawn initially ditched her trademark style in favour of a bold new look to embrace that she's going grey and shared her hair transformation with her follower Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group