By Connie Rusk For Mailonline   Published:  20:48 EDT, 11 May 2023   |  Updated:  20:50 EDT, 11 May 2023      21 View  comments  Catherine Zeta-Jones looked the epitome of chic as she touched down in Venice on Thursday.  The actress, 53, jetted to the Italian city with her husband Michael Douglas, 78, daughter Carys, 20, and son Dylan, 22.  Catherine brandished a large pink umbrella as she sheltered herself from the rain after a trip in a water taxi.  The Wednesday star nailed airport style in a linen stone coloured outfit with a scarf draped over her shoulder.  She complemented the look with a straw hat with black ribbon trim, cat eye sunglasses and a Hermes Evelyne cross-body bag.   So stylish: Catherine Zeta-Jones looked the epitome of chic as she touched down in Venice on Thursday  Arrival: The actress, 53, jetted to the Italian city with her husband Michael Douglas, 78, daughter Carys, 20, and son Dylan, 22 Michael, meanwhile, cut a casual figure in a black leather jacket and baseball cap.  He didn't let the rain dampen his spirits as he was seen touching down in the city with Dylan before grabbing a water taxi to their hotel.  Dylan is a Brown University graduate. Michael is also son to Cameron, 44, with his ex-wife Diandra Luker. Catherine and Michael met in 1998 and wed in 2000 at the Plaza Hotel in NYC. They have grown into one of Hollywood's most enduring couples. Dylan, who recently accompanied his father and mother to the Ant-Man 3 premiere earlier this year in February, told Entertainment Tonight at the time that he was 'very, very proud' of his parents. He said: 'I mean, obviously, they're great actors, both Academy Award-winning actors, but they're great parents. 'And that's a side that not everyone gets to see, but I get to see every day, in and out. So on that front, they do great. And they also do good work on the screen.' Casually-clad: Michael cut a casual figure in a black leather jacket and baseball cap. He didn't let the rain dampen his spirits as he was seen touching down in the city with Dylan  Chic: The Wednesday star nailed airport style in a linen stone coloured outfit with a scarf draped over her shoulder Holiday: Late last month, Carys celebrated her 20th birthday and now the family are in Venice  Late last month, Carys celebrated her 20th birthday. The couple paid tribute to their little girl on social media as they added throwback videos and photos of the budding model and actress. Dad Michael called his child darling while mum Catherine added she was 'beautiful.' Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group