By Connie Rusk For Mailonline   Published:  07:19 EDT, 14 January 2023   |  Updated:  08:24 EDT, 14 January 2023      128 View  comments  Laura Anderson and Gary Lucy have reportedly split after a one-year whirlwind romance.  The Love Island star, 33, and Footballers Wives actor, 41, are 'unlikely to get back together' according to sources, after deciding they 'want different things' in life.  Laura sparked speculation she was newly-single on Friday night as she revealed  she's going through 'a very difficult time', with eagle-eyed fans also noticing she was no longer following Gary on Instagram.   Break-up: Laura Anderson, 33, and Gary Lucy, 41, have reportedly split after a one-year whirlwind romance 'They are calling it a break but it looks unlikely they will get back together. They want different things at the end of the day,' a source told The Sun.  Laura and Gary first met on Celebs Go Dating and their romance went from strength-to-strength as they spent their first Christmas together.  But the former air hostess sent tongues wagging when she seemingly hinted about a  break-up in a string of social media posts.  Tough: Laura sparked speculation she was newly-single on Friday night as she revealed she's going through 'a very difficult time', Festive couple: Laura and Gary met on Celebs Go Dating last year and recently spent their first Christmas together Sharing a selfie with her dog Buddy to her Stories, Laura penned: 'I know I've been quiet on here and not myself this week or so. 'I'm going through a very difficult time, I actually don't think I've ever felt so stressed in my life. 'As we know Instagram isn't real life but over sharing negativity has never been something I like doing. Anyway my thought of the day for us all is - Never lose yourself or your voice.'  Tough: Sharing a selfie with her dog Buddy to her Stories, Laura penned: 'I know i've been quiet on here and not myself this week or so Cryptic: And before the post, she re-shared another which wrote about 'the quality of attention' rather than the speed of a person's replies And before the post, she re-shared another which wrote about 'the quality of attention' rather than the speed of a person's replies.  Laura has also wiped all traces of the Hollyoaks actor, from her social media, and even appears to have unfollowed him on Instagram. While the actor also continues to follow Laura on Instagram, who no longer follows him.  A representative for Gary told MailOnline that the speculation that he has split with Laura is not true. Laura's representatives are yet to comment.  'Someone was watching over me': The break-up comes after Laura helped nurse Gary back to health when he was involved in a horror car smash over the Christmas holiday period Awful: The details of the accident remain unknown, the front of Gary's Range Rover had come clean off in the crash while the windscreen was cracked  The break-up comes after Laura helped nurse Gary back to health when he was involved in a horror car smash on Boxing Day.  The accident happened at around 10am in the morning, with the actor in hospital by 11am with an extremely swollen knee. Thankfully ending up without serious injury, he was discharged later in the evening with a brace over his knee and two crutches to aid walking. Split: Gary joined Celebs Go Dating after struggling to find love following his divorce to ex-wife Natasha Gray four years ago (pictured in 2010)  Romance: The pair confessed their attraction to one another on Celebs Go Dating, having first struck up a friendship on the show And Gary previously admitted he wanted Laura to move to Essex and meet his four children. He said: "Well, everyone on the show keeps talking weddings and kids and all that… It's lovely. I mean, long may that continue really. I enjoy every part. "I want to bring her back to mine, roast dinner with my mum, because her approval is important, and then chill. I want to get her down to Essex with me. I think she's an Essex girl at heart."  Unfollowed? Gary still follows Laura, but it doesn't appear to be mutual Laura's love life has been turbulent in recent years, having first risen to fame on Love Island she reignited her romance with boyband singer Dane in 2017.  After their split earlier this year, Laura moved back to Scotland after spending several years out in Dubai.  She told the Mirror at the time: 'I'm good. Just being positive. Moving forward with life, you've got to. Happy to be back in the UK and just working. I feel really good.'  All over: Laura joined the show after her split from Dane Bowers Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group