Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website. Wednesday March 15, 2023 , 2 min Read Creator aggregator ﻿One Impression﻿ said it has raised $10 million in a Series A funding round from Krafton, the maker of popular video game PUB-G.   The South Korea-based firm has so far backed Pratilipi, a publishing platform, and digital content platform Rusk Media, among others, in India.   The funds raised will be used to accelerate product development, and expand presence in other markets starting with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Southeast Asia (SEA), the company said in a statement.  "We have started making in-roads in these markets. But the foray is very small as of now," Apaksh Gupta, Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), One Impression, told YourStory in an interaction.  Founded in 2018 as creator discovery platform, One Impression currently operates as a marketplace connecting brands with content creators.   The platform has worked with about 500 brands—including Cetaphil, and Mamaearth—across India, the US, and Australia, besides other countries.   The COVID-led lockdowns accelerated the digital adoption, with people turning to the internet for a number of activities including shopping and entertainment. This also led to a crop of creators popping up to entertain viewers, who inturn earned money through brand partnerships.   "A brand can connect with creators without having to go through multiple agencies," says Gupta. One Impression also provides the rates charged by creators for brand partnership formats including short videos, static posts, and long videos.   The platform currently claims to be working with 7 million creators, including several micro creators—that is creators with a few thousand followers on the platform.   “The creator ecosystem is at the cusp of a revolution. It holds massive untapped potential," Sean Hyunil Sohn, CEO of KRAFTON, Inc. India, said in a statement.   1 2 How Nike Outsmarted Adidas at the Olympics Without Sponsorship 3 [YS Exclusive] Lightspeed set to lead $150M round in PhysicsWallah 4 Government likely to release draft data protection rules within a month: Vaishnaw 5 [Weekly funding roundup Aug 10-16] VC inflow nearly triples