By Mark Mcgreal For Dailymail.Com and Connie Rusk For Mailonline   Published:  21:55 EDT, 13 January 2023   |  Updated:  17:50 EDT, 14 January 2023      19 View  comments  Sofia Richie looked relaxed while stepping out in Los Angeles on Friday afternoon.  The 24-year-old socialite and fashion designer donned a simple gray sweater, the sleeves of which she rolled up to her elbows. She highlighted her muscular legs in navy blue leggings and she strolled the sidewalk in what appeared to be cozy brown slippers.  Casual: Sofia Richie looked relaxed while stepping out in Los Angeles on Friday afternoon She pulled her dirty blonde hair back in a tight bun, and she carried a brown leather purse in the crook of her arm.  Rose-colored glasses covered her eyes, and she carried a tall, reusable water bottle with her as she strutted into the parking lot.  The sighting comes just a couple days after she painted the town red with her soon-to-be husband Elliot Grainge.  Richie showed off her fashion credentials in a brown leather jacket with a shearling collar for the Midnight in Los Angeles event.  Sweater: The 24-year-old socialite and fashion designer donned a simple gray sweater, the sleeves of which she rolled up to her elbows Flattering fit: She highlighted her muscular legs in navy blue leggings and she strolled the sidewalk in what appeared to be cozy brown slippers  She donned black trousers, burgundy heels and added a pop of color to her outfit with a hot pink handbag. Sofia layered the chocolate brown jacket atop of a black polo neck and wore her long blonde locks in soft waves.  Music executive Elliot, 29, meanwhile, cut a casual figure in a cream hoodie and baseball jacket.  The couple put on a united display as they posed for a photo before Sofia chatted to Lauren Ireland and Marianna Hewitt.  Couple: Sofia Richie cosied up to fiancé Elliot Grainge as they enjoyed a night out at celeb hotspot Delilah on Wednesday Cool: The model, 24, showed off her fashion credentials in a brown leather jacket with shearling collar for the Midnight in Los Angeles event Although the couple keep their relationship relatively private, the social media personality and Grainge went Instagram official in April 2021.  A year later, Sofia announced her engagement to the music executive in April 2022. The engagement was a surprise to some fans, but the couple reportedly knew each other for years before they started dating. Chic: Sofia teamed the look with black trousers, burgundy heels and added a pop of colour to her outfit with a hot pink handbag, while Elliot kept in casual  Here come the girls: Sofia chatted to Lauren Ireland and Marianna Hewitt at the event  According to People, Sofia's father Lionel - who has been dating model Lisa Parigi, who is 40 years his junior, since 2014 - was a frequent collaborator and friend of Elliot's father, Sir Lucian Grainge. Nearly a week after their engagement announcement, Lionel told Access Hollywood his daughter's fiancé was a 'nervous wreck' when asking for permission to marry her and when he gave his approval. 'I love Elliot,' he said. 'I've known him since he was 12 ... It was one of those things where I don't have to go back and check out the kid. I know who it is.' Previously, Sofia dated Scott Disick, 39 — reality star and father of Kourtney Kardashian's children — from 2017 to 2020. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group