 If you have been infected with human papillomavirus (HPV), the chances are good that you will clear the virus spontaneously. In fact, 90% of HPV infections are cleared by the immune system within two years, and many people who were asymptomatic (without symptoms) and cleared the virus may never even realize they had it.
  While there isn't anything specific you can do to help your body clear the virus, staying healthy and maintaining a strong immune system may help to prevent disease. There is no guarantee you won't still experience a chronic HPV infection, and as yet there's no cure for that, but there are no risks to maintaining a strong immune response.
  This article discusses practical ways to boost your immune system to help your body fight infections like HPV.
 Illustration by Ellen Lindner for Verywell Health  Having a strong immune system is essential to fighting any infection, and HPV is no exception. While research is ongoing, some studies have shown that people under 35, who generally have a stronger immune response, have better odds of clearing HPV than those older than 35.
  There are four simple ways to boost your immune system if you have HPV:
 According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), you can also boost your immune system by cutting back on alcohol, maintaining your ideal weight, getting plenty of sleep, and being physically active.  If you are a current cigarette smoker and you have HPV, you should do your best to quit smoking.
  Smoking is thought to decrease your immunity, which impacts your body's ability to fight off illnesses, including the HPV infection. Those who smoke are also at a higher risk for getting multiple HPV infections.
  When your body's stress hormone levels increase, your immune system doesn't work as well as it should. This means you can't fight off infections, like HPV, very effectively.
  Making changes in your life to reduce your stress level is very important. Activities like yoga, connecting with friends, and meditation can help decrease the effects of stress on your body.
  There is some disagreement among experts on whether or not diet plays a role in helping your body get rid of HPV.
  There is some thought that certain B-complex vitamins are effective in boosting your immune system. These include riboflavin (B2), thiamine (B1), vitamin B12, and folate. Making sure your diet includes foods rich in these B vitamins is certainly not harmful, and there's some evidence that folate (vitamin B9) may have anti-HPV properties.
  Some good dietary sources of these vitamins include:
  Being diagnosed with a sexually transmitted infection can be very stressful, but you should not be embarrassed about having HPV. You might be surprised that once you open up to trusted family or friends about your diagnosis, you will find that many people have dealt with this infection.
  Talk with your healthcare provider about local resources for individuals diagnosed with HPV. For online support groups, you can check out the American Sexual Health Association website.
  Remember that HPV is the most common sexually transmitted infection and you are not alone.
 Get our printable guide for your next healthcare provider's appointment to help you ask the right questions. Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you live your healthiest life. Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up. There was an error. Please try again.  Being diagnosed with HPV is not a fatal blow to your sex life. You may just need to sit out a few weeks if you are being treated for genital warts. If you are sexually active, though, you should be aware of the fact that you could contract another type of STI, which could also weaken your immune system. Be aware of how to protect against sexually transmitted infections.
  Having one sexual partner and using protection can help lower your risk of getting another sexually transmitted infection.
  Because genital warts are so easily transmitted from skin-to-skin contact, your current sex partner may also want to get checked for them.
  While self-care and immunity-building steps can help you fight HPV, it's important to see your healthcare provider for specific medical treatment such as topical creams that may be needed. You should also plan to see your provider regularly and get follow-up care based on your symptoms as needed.
 HPV is not typically a lifelong infection. HPV infections often go away without treatment within a few months, and most HPV cases go away without treatment within two years. However, some individuals may have long-term symptoms or develop cervical cancer.  You may also want to speak with your doctor about getting the HPV vaccine. Even if you already have HPV, getting the vaccine can help prevent you from getting other types of it, including ones that can lead to cancer.
  Researchers are evaluating plant-based treatments for HPV and related cancers that can follow chronic HPV infection. For example, results from a small clinical trial of a medication derived from edible mushroom extract show promise in boosting the immune response to HPV.
  There isn't yet a natural treatment per se, but studies point to compounds like basant (a blend that includes aloe vera gel and turmeric-based curcumin) that have shown anti-HPV properties.
  Other possibilities in the fight against HPV are plant-based elements found to offer antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and other immune benefits to human health. They include:
  Other studies focus on the anti-HPV activities of Bryophyllum pinnata extract (used in traditional medicine), Brucea javanica oil, and others with the potential to fight HPV-related cancers.
  Vitamin intake, including vitamins A, C, D, and E, also may be good for clearing HPV and offer benefits in fighting HPV infection.
 Research studies on natural treatments for HPV and related cancers show promise, but more study is needed before nature-based remedies can be recommended.  If you've been diagnosed with HPV, you should know that most cases of the condition clear up on their own within two years. To help you fight HPV and stay healthy, you can take steps to build your immune system by quitting smoking, decreasing your stress level, and altering your diet.
  Your doctor may also recommend treatment for your specific symptoms, as well as support resources.
  Keep in mind that HPV is very common and you are not alone.
 Most people with HPV don't show any symptoms. A gynecologist can test for HPV during a routine pap smear. There is no male test for HPV. However, if you or your partner notice genital warts, you should reach out to a doctor right away. If you don't have symptoms, you may not know when the infection has cleared your system. If you have symptoms, your doctor will be able to tell you when you no longer have the infection. Having routine pap smears can ensure that you check for signs of HPV. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. About genital HPV infection. Bashaw AA, Leggatt GR, Chandra J, Tuong ZK, Frazer IH. Modulation of antigen presenting cell functions during chronic HPV infection. Papillomavirus Res. 2017;4:58-65. doi:10.1016/j.pvr.2017.08.002 Feng T, Cheng B, Sun W, Yang Y. Outcome and associated factors of high-risk human papillomavirus infection without cervical lesions. BMC Womens Health. 2023;23(1):599. doi:10.1186/s12905-023-02764-8 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Healthy habits: enhancing immunity. Lugović-Mihić L, Cvitanović H, Djaković I, Kuna M, Šešerko A. The influence of psychological stress on HPV infection manifestations and carcinogenesis. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2021;55(S2):71-88. doi:10.33594/000000395 Eldridge RC, Pawlita M, Wilson L, et al. Smoking and subsequent human papillomavirus infection: a mediation analysis. Ann Epidemiol. 2017;27(11):724-730.e1 doi:10.1016/j.annepidem.2017.10.004 Ono A, Koshiyama M, Nakagawa M, et al. The preventive effect of dietary antioxidants on cervical cancer development. Medicina (Kaunas). 2020;56(11):604. doi:10.3390/medicina56110604 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually transmitted infections treatment guidelines, 2021: anogenital warts. World Health Organization. Cervical cancer. Smith JA, Gaikwad AA, Mathew L, et al. AHCC supplementation to support immune function to clear persistent human papillomavirus infections. Front Oncol. 2022;12:881902. doi:10.3389/fonc.2022.881902 Massa S, Pagliarello R, Paolini F, Venuti A. Natural bioactives: back to the future in the fight against human papillomavirus? A narrative review. J Clin Med. 2022;11(5):1465. doi:10.3390/jcm11051465 Franconi R, Massa S, Paolini F, Vici P, Venuti A. Plant-derived natural compounds in genetic vaccination and therapy for HPV-associated cancers. Cancers (Basel). 2020;12(11):3101. doi:10.3390/cancers12113101 
By Andrea Chisholm, MD

Dr. Chisolm is a board-certified OB/GYN in Wyoming. She has over 20 years of clinical experience, and even taught at Harvard Medical School.
  Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up. There was an error. Please try again.