The WiiM Mini is a compact music streamer and ideal for updating almost any music system to the ... [+] digital age. Last month, I reviewed the excellent WiiM Pro digital music streamer from Linkplay Technology. This month, I’m reviewing its far smaller sibling, the WiiM Mini and the WiiM Voice Remote. A remote control was the only thing I thought was missing from the WiiM Pro. This handy remote can work with the Mini and the Pro products. It turns either system into a fully controllable streamer that sells for a fraction of the price of a full-size hi-fi digital streamer costing a lot more. The WiiM Mini is a circular device that’s slightly smaller than a hockey puck and has all its connections ranged around its circumference. On the top of the WiiM Mini are touch controls for pausing the music and altering the volume levels if you have the Mini set up with the variable output option. This clever little device comes with all the cables necessary for connecting the WiiM Mini to virtually any audio device, that includes an optical cable. The WiiM Mini is also Alexa and Siri compliant so it can be controlled with something like Amazon’s Echo Dot speaker, any other Alexa device, or even an iPhone. The WiiM Mini has touch controls on its surface while all the connections for linking to a hi-fi are ... [+] round the outside of Mini. Setting up the WiiM Mini is simple using the WiiM smartphone app. Just choose the Wi-Fi network you want the WiiM Mini to work with and off you go. The Mini can be connected to almost any audio device using either the Aux Out 3.5mm jack for analog connections or the optical TOSLink SPDIF output. The analog output uses the Mini’s onboard DAC to process the digital signal. You can feed the Mini’s signal to a DAC or audio device with an optical input using the optical output. You might want to do this if you have a high-quality external DAC or hi-fi system. That said, the analog output from the Mini is produced by a Burr-Brown PCM5121 DAC chipset which produces excellent-quality sound and will be fine for most people’s needs. As well as the two outputs, the Mini has an analog input port that you can use to attach something like a turntable, cassette deck or FM tuner. The input converts the analog signal into a 16-bit 48kHz digital signal which it then sends to the SPDIF or analog output, depending on which device you’re using. The WiiM app is a polished piece of software and enables the user to control every aspect of the ... [+] WiiM Mini The WiiM Mini can handle 24-bit digital files up to 192kHz over Wi-Fi with a signal-to-noise ratio of 106dB. That’s enough for most people’s needs and the Mini is fine for streaming using AirPlay 2 with support for 16-bit files up to 48kHz resolution. That’s slightly better than CD quality and will be fine for most people. In addition, the WiiM Mini supports Alexa Casting, Spotify Connect, TIDAL Connect, Qobuz, Amazon Music, TIDAL, Deezer, TuneIn and iHeartRadio, all with gapless playback if that is what you want. That’s most bases covered. You don’t get support for more exotic file types like DSD, AIFF and MQA. As well as a 24-preset graphic equalizer, the WiiM Mini also includes adaptive equalization for shaping the sound to suit the speakers or audio system playing the music. Using the information stored in the MP3 tags of the music file, the adaptive EQ will vary the tone of the playback to suit the genre of music playing. It works, but I would leave it switched off and rely on the tone controls of the host speaker or music system if necessary. The WiiM system supports a wide range of music streaming services and is embedded in the WiiM app.  The sound quality produced by this little streamer is exceptionally good for the money. All it needs to operate is a 5V DC power supply. You could use almost any USB power adapter. WiiM provides a power supply and cable in the box. Alternatively, you can use the USB power outlet from a host audio device if it has one-. The choice is yours. One omission of the WiiM Mini is the absence of a headphone socket. However, you can stream music from the WiiM Pro to Bluetooth headphones or speakers. There’s only support for SBC and AAC codecs, so if you want aptX HD or Lossless etc., the Mini falls short. In theory, you could plug a pair of headphones into the analog output as it uses the same 3.5mm TRS jack plug as a pair of headphones. However, the amount of volume you can get out of it will depend on the impedance of your headphones. To control the WiiM Mini and WiiM Pro more easily, you can buy the optional WiiM Voice Remote. This well-made little remote can pair with only one WiiM device at a time, so if you have more than one WiiM, you might want to buy a second remote. I think the remote probably should be bundled with the WiiM Pro as it is handy for when you need to quickly mute the music or alter the volume without picking up and unlocking your smartphone. The optional WiiM Voice Remote is an essential accessory for the WiiM Mini.  The WiiM Voice Remote has a push-to-talk button that can be pressed to issue commands to Alexa, so the Mini will do whatever you want, whether changing the input or skipping a track. As well as offering all the usual music transport controls that you’d expect to see on a remote control, this little device also includes four preset buttons that can store your favorite radio stations or streaming service. If you want a multi-room music system in your home, the WiiM lineup is a very cost-effective way of doing it, as you can use your existing speakers and hi-fi. The system enables you to play different music in different rooms, or you can opt to play the same music throughout the house and the WiiM system will ensure all the separate speakers are kept in perfect sync. Verdict: The WiiM Mini is an incredibly affordable digital music streamer supporting all the popular streaming services most people will likely need. It is an ideal receiver for streaming music over Apple AirPlay or Bluetooth. A few shortcomings include the lack of a high-quality headphone output and limited Bluetooth audio codec support. Also, the WiiM Mini can’t play DSD or AIFF files. However, with those provisos in mind, the WiiM Mini is an incredibly affordable digital music streamer that is the ideal replacement for Apple’s old AirPort Express, which was once the only way to stream music via AirPlay to a hi-fi system. Recommended. Pricing & Availability: The WiiM Mini streamer is available now from Amazon and costs $99. The WiiM Voice Remote is available from Amazon and costs $19.99. More info: wiimhome.com Tech Specs:    One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.