The former Safaricom CEO Michael Joseph has officially resigned as the Safaricom Board Director after serving in the company for more than two decades.  In a press release dated August 8 and titled ‘Change in the Board’, the telecommunications company announced that Michael Joseph’s resignation was effective from August 1. He has been acknowledged as the company’s founding CEO and credited for steering the telco into success. Read Also: Bamboo to Receive Ksh 4.5M From Safaricom After 9-Year Lawsuit  Join us in expressing our heartfelt gratitude to our esteemed founding CEO, Michael Joseph, for his unwavering dedication and remarkable service to the company. @michaelj2 retires as a director to the Safaricom PLC Board effective 1st August, 2023. We extend our warmest wishes… pic.twitter.com/NW9I0rq6ta According to the notice, Michael Joseph resigned from the board to concentrate on other endeavors in his life, such as continuing to serve as Kenya Airways’ chairman and as a director for several different companies. Since 2000, he has held several positions within the company, including General Manager, Chief Executive Officer, Director, and Chairman of the Board.  Michael Joseph is also acknowledged for being the driving force behind the establishment of the Safaricom Foundation and M-PESA Foundation alongside Bob Collymore, which have funded several initiatives across Kenya. His resignation comes just over a year after Safaricom changed the composition of the board when John Ngumi stepped down as chair.  Subscribe to our YouTube channel Switch TV  The board, through the company’s secretary Kathryne Maundu wished the outgoing director future success. 

So Insecure! Zari Calls Out Hubby Shakib As Diamond Drama Deepens 
 

Why I picked Bahrain over Kenya – Olympic 2024 Gold Medalist Winfred Yavi 
 

Ruto Announces 11 Nominees for Cabinet 
 

Kenyans React to New Arsenal Kit Resembling Flag 
 

Euro, Copa America, Afcon or Asian Cup? Who Earns the Most in Prize Money, Why and How 
 

Kenya Loses Over Ksh 6 Billion Due to Recent Protests, Government Spokesperson Says 
 

Earthquake Hits Nairobi: Is a New Ocean Forming in Africa? 
 

Suicide or Foul Play? Mysterious Death of Video Vixen Sarah Gwan 
 

After Sex, Your Spirits are Bonded: How to Break Soul-Ties 
 

Eddie Butita’s YouTube Channel Disappears Days after Rejecting Finance Bill 
 

Bien Admits to Having Played The Field in the Presence of His Wife 
 

A Heartfelt Plea For Nairobi National Park’s Dwindling Wildlife 
 

 Sailing to the African Continent: Online Silk Road Connecting China and Africa 
 

Manchester United Beat Fulham 1-0 in EPL Opener 
 

KAA Assures Uninterrupted Airport Operations Despite Strike Notice 
 

President Mahmoud Abbas Vows to Stand by Gaza 
 

Auditor General Uncovers Major Corruption in Health Ministry 
 

Kenya to Receive Ksh 2 Billion from WHO to Combat Mpox 
 

Researchers Develop a Self-Powering Smart Fabric That Monitors Health and Harvests Energy 
 

Douglas Kanja Vows Reforms in Police Service 
 

WHO Declares Global Health Emergency Over New Mpox Variant in Africa 
 

What’s with Police in Unmarked Cars and Plain Clothes 
 

Eliud Kipchoge: Why I Withdrew from the Paris Olympic Marathon 
 

Your Petition Touched My Heart – De Ligt Bids Bayern Munich Fans Farewell  
 

Use Condoms or Get Babies – Zari Tells Young Women 
 Get the latest and greatest stories delivered straight to your phone. Subscribe to our Telegram channel today! Switch Media © 2023. All rights reserved You cannot copy content of this page