To serve aspiring entrepreneurs within the skilled trades industry, The Home Depot Foundation is partnering with Bunker Labs to introduce an entrepreneurship program. The Home Depot Foundation revealed its new investments into skilled trades training, as well as new partnerships. Its main announcement was a new entrepreneurship program for military veterans.  According to the press release: The Home Depot Foundation announced an incremental investment    of more than $6 million in skilled trades    training and launched new strategic partnerships to address the nearly    400,000 job openings across the construction industry. With these    philanthropic grants, the Foundation's Path to Pro program launched a brand new entrepreneurship program and will    provide free, skilled trades training and scholarships for more veterans,    military families, high school students, and separating service members. To serve aspiring entrepreneurs    within the skilled trades industry, The Home Depot Foundation is partnering    with Bunker Labs to introduce an entrepreneurship program designed to guide    U.S. military veterans and military spouses through the process of    establishing a successful business foundation. During the eight-week program,    participants will gain industry-specific mentorship, learn about market    segmentation, how to address specific customer profiles and design a business    plan for launch. The program's virtual offering makes it accessible to    participants nationwide. The Foundation is also    expanding its Path to Pro scholarship program with grants to SkillPointe    Foundation, its partner since 2021, and through a new partnership with Folds    of Honor. Military scholarships through Folds of Honor extend financial    support to qualifying veterans and military family members entering or    enrolled in accredited skilled trade schools. "We're expanding our    current training programs and creating new avenues to steadily fill the    country's skilled labor gap with in-demand talent," said Shannon Gerber, Home Depot    Foundation's executive director.    "Diversifying our approach with additional entrepreneurship and    scholarship programs helps ensure we're reaching more communities with free    training opportunities and creating sustainable change for the    industry." The Home Depot Foundation    extended its grant to long-time partner Home Builders Institute to broaden    its Path to Pro high school and military programs. The two organizations will    continue to provide no-cost PACT curriculum certification for more than 1,200    separating military members annually, 11th and 12th grade students, and Title 1 schools nationwide. The Home Depot Foundation's    skilled trades training program, Path to Pro,    launched in 2018 with a $50 million commitment to    train the next generation of skilled tradespeople, diversify the trades    industry, and address the growing labor shortage in the U.S. The Foundation's    trades-focused partnerships have introduced more than 200,000 people to the    skilled trades and have trained more than 41,000 participants through    programming available to youth, high school students, underserved communities    and separating U.S. military. Beyond the Foundation's work    in this area, The Home Depot's Path to Pro Network connects skilled    tradespeople to professional contractors and job openings. The Path to Pro    Network has introduced more than 12,000 jobseekers to millions of The Home    Depot's Pro customers nationwide and has provided exclusive access to more    than 2,200 jobs. 