AFTER INITIAL hiccups, grape export has picked up with traders hoping for a better trade in comparison to the previous year. According to Vilas Shinde, chairman of Nashik-based Sahyadri farms, till Monday 2,002 containers of grapes have left the country. If the present weather conditions prevail, last year’s trade can be surpassed, Shinde said. The grape traders have been hit hard in the last two years by the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war and increased freight charges, among others, making export difficult. However, exporters are hopeful this time given the drop in freight charges. On a day-to-day basis, exporters are dispatching an average of 100 containers. “Europe, Russia and West Asia have shown a good interest in the Indian grapes,” the trader said. At present, export-quality grapes are being priced at Rs 60-70/kg. The prices are expected to remain on lower side as a good grape season has been witnessed leading to surplus supply. “If the pleasant weather continues prevails with no abnormalities, the export will continue till April,” Shinde said. On average, the country exports around 2 lakh tonnes of grapes yearly. Of these, more than 80 per cent of grapes come from Nashik, Pune, Ahmednagar and some districts in Marathwada. 
Click here to join Express Pune WhatsApp channel and get a curated list of our stories Kolkata rape-murder case: Why it’s not enough to hold protestsSubscriber Only Why PM Modi’s I-Day speech this year was uninspiringSubscriber Only Protests, suspensions to Chomsky: Decline of South Asian UniversitySubscriber Only UPSC Key | Mpox outbreak, Global Development Compact, Lateral entrySubscriber Only Why Bangladesh’s Mujib-focused history came under attackSubscriber Only IMD rain forecasts for Mumbai wrong by 42% in July.Subscriber Only China & supply of electronic components for ‘made in India’Subscriber Only After Hasina, the road ahead for BangladeshSubscriber Only All that freedom has given usSubscriber Only Anti-war protesters gathered in Chicago during the Democratic National Convention, with some breaking away to tear down a security fence and march as President Biden did a walk-through. Police were present and prepared for the smaller than expected turnout, which included speeches from Cornel West and a small pro-Israel group. Several arrests were made.  