Bolt Data Connect Wins Salesforce Demo Jam for Second Consecutive Year, Affirming Their Leadership in Connected Field Service Software NEW YORK , June 29th, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Bolt Data, a trailblazing provider of connected field service software and consulting solutions, is thrilled to announce that their cutting-edge application, Bolt Data Connect, has emerged victorious in the Salesforce AppExchange Demo Jam for Solution Engineers. This marks the second consecutive win for Bolt Data in this esteemed competition. Demo Jam, a software demo competition hosted by Salesforce AppExchange, invites app partners to showcase their most compelling solutions in a thrilling three-minute live broadcast. Bolt Data Connect, alongside several other innovative software solutions, demonstrated their app's innovative features and capabilities to the live audience of Salesforce Solution Engineers. After each demo, attending Solution Engineers posed insightful questions to the presenters and, at the competition conclusion, they voted for their favorite demo, ultimately reaffirming Bolt Data Connect as the returning champion. Led by Jay Bravo, Vice President of Sales at Bolt Data, the live demo of Bolt Data Connect showcased the immense potential for service organizations. Bravo led the audience through the application's ability to visualize asset data, monitor assets in real time, and automate work orders. Through a simulated asset, Bravo highlighted key features available, such as the digital twin hierarchy view, data livestream, automated response actions, and, new this year, the utilization of data insights through Salesforce Data Cloud. The demo emphasized Bolt Data Connect's unique capabilities, including recommending available service technicians and enabling the creation of servitization plans with simple clicks, eliminating the need for complex coding. "Building on the success of last year's winning demo, we've continued to enhance and expand the capabilities of Bolt Data Connect." said Bravo. "We continue to develop even more powerful features and functionalities that empower service organizations to take their efficiency and customer experiences to new heights. Winning Demo Jam again is a testament to our dedication to innovation and our commitment to delivering a cutting-edge solution for our customers." "We are honored to receive this recognition from our peers at Salesforce AppExchange Partner," expressed Rob Meredith, Chief Executive Officer of Bolt Data. "Our mission has always been to revolutionize the way service organizations harness their asset data, and winning the Demo Jam for Solution Engineers for the second time reaffirms that we are indeed accomplishing our goal." To experience the power and potential of Bolt Data Connect firsthand, click here to learn more and to schedule a live demo. About Bolt Data Bolt Data is a leading software and consulting firm that empowers service professionals to unlock their full potential through AI, IoT, and service implementations on the Salesforce platform. With over a decade of specialized experience in the service industry, Bolt Data has transformed service organizations worldwide by enabling them to service smarter. For more information, please visit www.bolt-data.com. Media Contact Morena Kubat, Bolt Data, 1 7853202722, hello@bolt-data.com, bolt-data.com Twitter, LinkedIn   SOURCE  Bolt Data © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.