Oct 7, 2023 During this national Digital Inclusion Week, Ohio Department of Development officials are focusing on making digital technology available and practical for all Ohioans — following the week’s theme “Building Connected Communities.” “You cannot have opportunities in a modern economy without access to broadband internet and the skills to use it, which is why our mission to make Ohio more connected is so important,” Lt. Gov. Jon Husted said Monday. “During this week, I encourage all Ohioans to take advantage of the resources available to become more knowledgeable and better able to use the tools that connect us across the state.” If they are able to connect at all, that is. Sure, the National Digital Inclusion Alliance hosted a series of webinars this past week, and the Columbus Metropolitan Library offered opportunities to develop digital skills and obtain affordable devices and internet connections. But what good does that do Ohioans who still don’t have even the possibility of reliable, high-speed broadband internet access, let alone the tools and skills they need to use it? BroadbandOhio has spent the past three years helping to “bridge the digital divide and ensure that all Ohioans have high-speed internet access,” according to the Department of Development. But according to research website Broadband Search, “Ohio has less internet accessibility than many other of the most popular states. … 5.7% of residents in Ohio have no internet connection at home or elsewhere.” And 22.9% do not have high-speed internet access. For those folks, touting the availability of digital skills classes is akin to showing them how to use all the features on their new refrigerator before their homes are wired for electricity. Yes, it was important this past week (and all the time) to think about giving low-income households, aging populations, incarcerated individuals, veterans, people with disabilities, people with language barriers, racial and ethnic minorities, and rural residents the skills and resources they’ll need to thrive in the digital age. But for the sake of our families, our schools and our communities, the push to bring the access they need to employ those skills must be officials’ top priority. Today's breaking news and more in your inbox Those who have been keeping an eye on the aftermath of last year’s Norfolk Southern derailment in East Palestine ... Ohio Rep. Jay Edwards, R-Nelsonville, is working on a piece of legislation that would let hard-working Ohio ... Bureaucrats and elected officials in Columbus have gotten quite good at using public money to create what they want ... Nearly 155,000 people were purged from Ohio’s voter rolls, in the latest wave of Ohio Secretary of State Frank ...  Ohioans can no longer pretend human trafficking is not a plague affecting our state as it does the entire country. ... With the official start of legal adult recreational marijuana sales in Ohio, there are plenty of people eager to ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Salem News | https://www.salemnews.net | 161 North Lincoln, Salem, OH 44460 |  