Home » Press Release 
Salesloft, provider of the first and only global AI-powered revenue workflow platform, today announced the appointment of Sam Loveland as its Chief Customer Officer. As a pioneer of modern-day customer success programs, Loveland will leverage her deep experience to accelerate time to value and drive exceptional business outcomes for Salesloft customers. 
“Salesloft is at the forefront of a global revolution that is redefining how revenue organizations do business,” said Sam Loveland, Chief Customer Officer at Salesloft. “From my earliest conversations, I was blown away by the company’s purpose-driven mission to transform the sales profession with a workflow solution that has a profound effect on sellers’ ability to build revenue for their company. I’m excited to ensure our customers derive the fastest and greatest possible value from the Salesloft platform while simultaneously delivering the best possible customer experience.” 
Loveland brings more than 20 years of experience to her new role at Salesloft. Her background includes powerhouse SaaS leadership positions, including Vice President of Customer Success at Salesforce, where her team defined and established the nascent role of Customer Success as it is widely known today. As Vice President of Customer Engagement at Yammer, she was instrumental in driving customer adoption that helped lead to the company’s successful acquisition by Microsoft. Most recently, Loveland was Vice President, Global Customer Success at ServiceNow, where she led a 500+ global team responsible for driving increased deployment, customer adoption, and value acceleration of its products. 
“Sam is joining the executive leadership team at Salesloft during an exciting time of innovation and global expansion,” said David Obrand, CEO of Salesloft. “Having personally worked with Sam at Salesforce, Yammer, and Microsoft, there was no question she was the right person to step into this role at Salesloft. Her pedigree of experience is simply unmatched; she has been responsible for driving some of the largest SaaS customer adoptions in the industry. Customer success is the one metric that rises above all others at Salesloft. This newly formed role of Chief Customer Officer reflects our conviction that the best way to serve our customers is through a combination of continuous product innovation and proactive customer engagement. Sam’s organization will be instrumental in working with both prospects and customers to ensure we establish trust and alignment, and have a clear path to driving value and predictable revenue outcomes for every Salesloft customer.” 
Loveland joins Salesloft on the heels of a number of market-leading innovations and announcements. In June 2023, the company launched Rhythm, a first-of-its-kind, AI-powered workflow solution that translates buyer behaviors into prioritized seller actions based on highest impact. Earlier in the year, the company introduced generative AI to unlock seller productivity. At the same time, Salesloft became the only revenue workflow provider to offer its full platform in French, German, and Spanish to better serve sellers around the world. 
About Salesloft 
Salesloft is the first AI-powered revenue workflow platform that brings certainty to every revenue action and customer interaction. Close more deals, forecast more accurately, and coach to success throughout your revenue organization. Thousands of the world’s top sales teams, like those at Google, 3M, IBM, Shopify, Square, and Cisco, drive more revenue with Salesloft. For more information visit salesloft.com.  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230810459036/en/