Salesloft, provider of the first and only AI-powered revenue workflow platform, today announced the launch of Rhythm. Powered by a proprietary, patent-pending AI engine called Conductor AI, Rhythm translates buyer behavior into the most immediate and impactful seller actions in a single prioritized workflow customized to each seller. Unlike anything else on the market, every prioritized action comes with an explanation of why the action is important, building trust and intuition in sellers. “Rhythm will transform how every seller in the world works by taking the complexity out of the revenue workflow,” said David Obrand, CEO of Salesloft. “Technology has forced sellers to work in a way that doesn’t serve them or their customers, but Rhythm does something that’s never been possible before: it closes that gap between buyers and sellers by bringing buyer signals directly into the seller workflow. This is a paradigm shift that will transform how B2B businesses drive revenue by making it faster, easier, and more predictable while also improving the buyer experience.” Rhythm seamlessly integrates with CRMs and other sales and marketing technologies so sellers can spend their day in one place instead of swivel-chairing from app to app, maximizing their productivity and outcomes. Here’s how it works: “The day of an account executive is fragmented and chaotic. Sellers are working across too many systems as they engage with buyers and drive opportunities forward,” said Ellie Fields, Chief Product Officer at Salesloft. “Technology hasn’t solved this problem – it’s made it worse by giving them more apps and inboxes to check. What we’ve done with Rhythm is build a signal-to-action system for sellers: a way to bring any kind of signal into the workflow and connect it to an action for a specific seller. This means sellers see all their actions, in one place and prioritized by AI, and can act on them in a few clicks. We designed the system to be open so sales teams can bring in whatever’s most important for their business.” Also Read: The Four Marketing Reports Essential for CMOs “Rhythm will help us make sure that everyone on the team is following our sales process through the full deal cycle,” said Justin Alsamarrai, Director of Sales, Financial Products at enterprise fleet management company Motive. “Salesloft helped us scale our prospecting. Our outbound reps are held responsible for following their Cadence steps because we know they work. Rhythm will allow us to scale that same accountability across our AEs working open deals, which will have a huge impact on our time to close and win rates.” “Salesloft will give visibility into meaningful buyer activity and significant intent detected on G2 right inside the Rhythm workflow. G2 Buyer Intent signals will provide sellers with relevant context of their buyers’ behaviors, so they can take action to build stronger engagement with a buying group at the right time, every time,” said Todd Detmold, G2’s Senior Director of Product Management. “With this integration, Salesloft and G2 mutual customers will be able to tap into the intelligence of G2 data in the Rhythm workflow and the collective value of our partnership with Salesloft later this summer.“ For more such updates follow us on Google News TalkCMO News.