DALLAS, Oct. 3, 2023 – LTK, the platform that powers Creator Commerce™, is introducing LTK Comments, a new tool for creators to deepen relationships with their community directly on their … Continue Reading → Tai’s industry-leading AI tools save brokers an average of 11 hours per week while securing their networks and improving data quality Huntington Beach, CA, Oct. 5, 2023 — As freight … Continue Reading → AI-powered bundling offering automatically curates product sets through proprietary algorithms Dallas, Oct. 5, 2023 — Monetate, the leading personalization platform that helps build personal and meaningful digital connections between brands … Continue Reading → Awards were presented following the ARF’s second annual Creative Effectiveness event NEW YORK, Oct. 4, 2023 – The ARF (Advertising Research Foundation) today announced Samsung’s “Unfold Your World: Samsung Foldables’ … Continue Reading → HARTLAND, Wisc., Oct. 4, 2023 – Batteries Plus, the nation’s largest and fastest-growing battery, light bulb, key fob and phone repair franchise, was recognized as one of the top 400 … Continue Reading → Sales Targets Will Likely Be Missed, as 46% Either Don’t Have Enough Cash to Finance Holiday Orders or Are Unsure If They Do, Reveals Creditsafe Study  Allentown, PA, Oct. 4, … Continue Reading → Munteanu will leverage experience leading product teams at B2B SaaS and supply chain logistics companies to continue to enhance Onfleet’s product suite San Francisco, Oct. 4, 2023 — Onfleet, the fastest … Continue Reading → Chicago, Oct. 4, 2023 — ReviewTrackers, an InMoment company and leader in providing online review management and online reputation management software solutions, announced today an integration with Apple Business Connect, … Continue Reading → Stord’s best-in-class, omnichannel fulfillment and last-mile services, coupled with its OMS technology, will help Athletic Greens deliver an exceptional customer experience as it continues scaling. New York and Atlanta, Oct. … Continue Reading → Rockaway, NJ, Oct. 4, 2023 – Consolidated Chassis Management (CCM), a leading cooperative chassis pool manager, announced the next generation of the South Atlantic Chassis Pool, SACP 3.0, began its … Continue Reading → Step Up Your Fraud Prevention Approach in 2024 Unleashing GenAI Magic: Transforming Visual Commerce for Unbeatable Customer Experiences Returns Challenges, Opportunities Covered in New Webinar Multichannel Merchant: Editorial Spotlight on Returns in 2023 Webinar: The Generative AI Genie is Out of the Bottle High-Touch Returns Become Point of Differentiation for 3PLs Goods-To-Person E-Fulfillment Technology: Flexing Along With Demand Foreign Trade Zones: A Hidden Gem for Retailers Automation and Robotics: Moving Past Limitations to Gains Shipping Capacity Management: The Outlook for 2022 Peak Season Content-Based Marketing: A Post-Cookie Evolution Generative AI in Customer Service: A Balanced Blueprint Why Digital Wallets are The Key to Modern Loyalty Marketing ESG and Your Supply Chain: 3 Steps to a Streamlined Strategy Retail Cyber Threats: 5 Ways to Protect Your Business