We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. The easiest route to thicker-looking hair  A day at the beach is firmly back on the cards (although you might need to venture further than Margate in the midst of the UK's most lacklustre summer). Not only are those trips great for the soul, but they work wonders with your hair. Sea water absorbs the natural oils secreted by your follicles and binds to your hair strands, helping them feel plumper and giving your hair thickness and texture. Throw in a nice hot sun and a sea breeze, and your hair will feel satisfyingly energised.  Sadly, most of us don’t live in California, so a morning surf before work is off the cards. However, a good sea salt spray allows you to achieve that surfer energy from the comfort of your bathroom. Most can be applied either to wet or dry hair and massaging into the scalp delivers serious volume at the roots while simultaneously killing frizz. Follow up with a blow-dry, or let your lengths dry naturally for maximum texture – an especially good move if you're growing your hair long. Here, see the best options on the shelf.  This sea salt spray is a mainstay in the kit of every Murdock London barber. Infused with grapefruit peel extract alongside sea salt, it'll make hair look, feel and smell really quite nice. An all-round winner.  This texturising hair spray from French grooming brand Horace features acacia extract which adds softness and shine, and panthenol, which protects the hair fibres from splitting and breaking. The brand makes an excellent everyday shampoo, too.  Those with fine, flat hair will enjoy this one. It plumps up lacklustre strands and gives lengths extra grit, so everything appears thicker and fuller in seconds.  With a matte finish and decidedly unisex scent, this one ticks a lot of boxes. It can be scrunched into wet hair before air-drying, or spritzed over dry lengths to amp up the volume. Iconic session stylist Sam McKnight knows exactly what makes a winning styling product. His latest launch is a sea spray that creates texture so light, it looks entirely natural. It's also boosted with UV protection, so is an ideal one to stuff in your suitcase.  What Davines saved on hiring a proper copywriter, they clearly spent on their sustainability plan. This planet-friendly sea salt spray is made from natural ingredients using renewable energy, and imparts mega volume to lifeless hair.  This stronger styling spray will add thickness, help control frizz, and help you get that lived-in, worked-through look. It matches the satisfyingly matte finish of a clay, yet is balanced out with jojoba oil that'll keep your strands in good nick. One of the lightest options on the shelves, Bumble & Bumble's classic salt spray is ideal for anyone who wants subtle styling support. It'll calm frizz and lift roots without making you look like you've just emerged from the ocean.  This one won't imbue you with Harry Styles-level body, but it is a good option for adding gentle lift without the oft-associated stickiness. It brushes out easily, and can be topped up on dry hair throughout the day.  The Mod Cut Is In. Here’s How To Do It In 2024 The Best Men's Facials To Book Now The New Bleu De Chanel Campaign Is Here Tom Hardy On Why He Loves London Thibaud Crivelli Bottles His Life Experiences  It's Time to Embrace Eye Cream  Nivea Soft Moisturiser or Crème De La Mer?  This Year, Get Your Moisturiser Right The Best Skincare Deal In Amazon's Spring Sale The Best Men's Shampoo For Every Hair Type An Expert Guide to Retinol Serums Skincare Is Good, but Concealer Is Quicker ESQUIRE, PART OF THE HEARST UK FASHION & BEAUTY NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.