Cut through the noise of the fitness sphere and train your whole body with this 30-day plan. Hey, Men's Health MVP. We know that you're in this whole fitness thing for the long haul. That's why you've invested in your health by subscribing for top-tier information, and you're willing to put the work in to train, too. You've gone beyond just working out to gain muscle and look good—your goals include now include moving well and honing your strength and stability for real life, too. Before you know exactly how to do that, you might have some issues with information overload. In a sea of functional bodybuilding, CrossFit, powerlifting, mobility, and calisthenics, it can be hard to decide where to apply your focus and effort. The good news is, you don’t need complicated workouts to build strength and stability.  That’s why we suggest you give our “Burn and Build” plan a little of your time—30 days, to be exact. Look at it as a smorgasbord of training approaches, something that will cover all of your fitness bases (without sacrificing results) and let you sample different styles and keep your mind and body guessing. Cycle through these three sessions in order for the next 30 days. Take time off as your life dictates for an effective, no-pressure program. You’ll layer on strength, reveal definition, and guard yourself against injury.  DOWNLOAD YOUR 30-DAY PLAN HERE And remember, as an MVP, you can use your exclusive members-only discount to our online shop to get much more from Men’s Health. How Raheem Mostert Hit His NFL Stride After 30 Myles Garrett's Performance Coach Shares Tips Take Just 5 Minutes for This Mobility Workout  Try This Hotel Workout to Get Shredded on Vacation The Summer Shred Core Burner Workout This HIIT Workout Will Help You Get Shredded Try This Workout to Build Strength and Move Better 10 Ways to Build Mental Toughness The Ultimate Summer Bodyweight Workout The 30-Day Eat Less Sugar Challenge This Guy Got Lean With Varied Workouts Consistency Helped This Guy Lose 33 Pounds A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.