Karyn Love, 39, only had 19 short months with her daughter before she died from breast cancer this week. Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter We have more newsletters Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter We have more newsletters A mum who was given a heartbreaking cancer diagnosis on the same day she gave birth to her baby girl has sadly passed away. Karyn Love, 39, only had 19 short months with her daughter before she died from breast cancer this week. On what should have been one of the best days of her life, the Australian mother was informed by doctors that she may only have weeks left to live, the Mirror reports. Her devastated family announced her passing on Instagram as they paid tribute to their loved one and confirmed a 'life celebration ceremony' will be held in honour of her memory.  The moving tribute read: "Karyn Louise Love. 1983 - 2022. Smile for me, I am free. Thank you for all your love and kindness throughout my journey, I will remember you.”  The 39-year-old announced that she wasn't well while pregnant with her daughter, Billi as she feared for her unborn baby's life at the time. At 29 weeks pregnant, she was rushed to hospital after suffering severe backpain and required an immediate emergency caesarean to save her and Billi's life, a friend revealed on a GoFundMe campaign. She said: "An hour after Billi was born Karyn was diagnosed with Stage 4 Breast Cancer that had spread to her liver, bones and optic nerve. She sat for endless hours in NICU giving Billi healing skin-on-skin time.  "She couldn‘t wait to bring her home and mother her the way she had always dreamt." Despite being told initially she may only have weeks to live, Karyn was able to celebrate her daughter's first birthday and posted on Instagram that she was so thankful to be alive to mark the milestone.  She wrote: "What an honour it is to celebrate my daughter’s birthday and a year of life. Love has been my secret weapon of choice. "The love I have for my daughter. The love I have for my own life. The love the greater community has poured into our life. The love I have for my cancer. “I have always been a believer that you need to feel to heal and I have definitely felt pain and sadness and I have also felt joy and pure presence. And that is something we all desire.  "To be present and live a life of gratitude. Life is a gift and I receive this gift with open arms.” Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond. Sign up to our daily newsletter here. 