Mental health parity has been a political applause line for more than three decades. And it’s been federal law since 1996, when President Bill Clinton signed the Mental Health Parity Act, a statute whose obligations were reiterated, expanded and refined in the 2008 Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act. But it is yet to be a reality in the lives of millions of Americans, who, grappling with complex rules written by private insurers, still far too often struggle to obtain the affordable, high-quality psychological and psychiatric help they need, when they need it. Indeed, the disparities in access are only widening in recent years. To the rescue, he hopes, comes President Joe Biden, with a proposed federal rule aimed at health insurers. It would demand health plans evaluate the real-world effects of their coverage rules to be sure that mental health and medical benefits are equivalent; demand plain-language explanations with specific examples of what health plans will and won’t cover; and close loopholes in order to ensure the federal parity law reaches another 200 health plans covering nearly 100,000 additional Americans. Assuming it all takes effect, Americans will soon enough be able to gauge for themselves whether they feel the difference in a meaningful way. Even before then-Second Lady Tipper Gore, who went public with her struggle with depression, equalizing access to mental health care has been an easy cause for the powerful to champion. New Yorkers remember well how then-First Lady Chirlane McCray talked up the billion-dollar ThriveNYC, which said many of the right things but did far too little to ensure people on the ground — and especially the most seriously mentally ill — get timely help, including, in some cases, court-ordered outpatient or even in-patient treatment plans. The disconnect remains. Not only do families need far easier access to psychologists and psychiatrists to get early and consistent help for depression or bipolar disorder or eating disorders or ADHD or whatever else they may be struggling with, but government and medical providers need stronger tools to ensure that the most seriously mentally ill on New York City’s streets, disconnected from support networks, get treatment for the psychoses that plague them. Any mental health parity agenda that addresses one without the other is incomplete. That’s why it’s long past time for Congress to end the “IMD exclusion,” a federal law prohibiting Medicaid payments for any “institutions of medical disease,” which means any “hospital, nursing facility or other institution of more than 16 beds that is primarily engaged in providing diagnosis, treatment or care of persons with mental diseases, including medical attention, nursing care and related services.” A provision intended to stop the warehousing of people in asylums has wound up cutting off the flow of federal funds to people in the throes of crippling psychological conditions. Ailments afflicting the mind are no less serious or worthy of care than those afflicting the body. Indeed, it may well be that authorities have even more reason to ensure treatment is provided in the former case, for all too often people suffering from serious psychological conditions are unaware that they need help. In those cases, it takes a concerted effort by friends of family members, or by the doctors and courts, to ensure that help reaches them. ___ New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.