Today's E-Paper Web Stories Shorts Updated on: 24 August,2023 05:55 PM IST  |  Mumbai 
 BrandMedia

								 |  
															    	brandmedia@mid-day.com

 Read this story on Inquilab.Com Experience the difference the one-of-a-kind CIBIL-powered offering by Bajaj Finserv can make in shaping your credit journey. 

 Bajaj Finserv 
 ADVERTISEMENTYour personal financial well-being is largely dependent on your credit health. It dictates your ability to secure loans, obtain credit cards, and make significant financial decisions. As such, it sets the pace for your financial journey. Enter the Bajaj Finserv Credit Pass – your key to monitoring and enhancing your credit health, ensuring a smoother ride towards your monetary goals.So, what’s the Credit Pass all about?Consider it your personal financial assistant, fuelled by India’s largest and oldest credit bureau, TransUnion CIBIL. It enables you to keep an eye on your credit health so you can always keep track of your financial fitness.
The perks of having a Credit Pass for your credit health
A robust credit health is reflected in a high credit score. Your three-digit credit score typically falls within the range of 300 to 900, and a score of 750+ is generally considered ideal by most lenders. Lenders consult your credit score when deciding whether to approve your credit application and at what terms. A high score means you’re acing money management, while a lower one could use some improvement. That’s where the Credit Pass swoops in to save the day! It’s your ticket to understanding your credit situation and making it better.
Here are some of the key benefits that the Bajaj Finserv Credit Pass offers:

 Personalised dashboard: Think of it as a crystal-clear map of your finances. Your personalised dashboard provides a complete overview of all your credit accounts and the factors affecting your credit score, such as your credit enquiries and repayment history. This information is a gold mine that allows you to monitor your credit health report in real-time and proactively amend your credit behaviours for the best possible outcome.
 Free credit score checks: The free monthly CIBIL Score updates are like regular health check-ups for your financial well-being. By regularly checking on your credit score, you can ensure that you’re always aware of how you’re doing in the credit game. Monthly tracking can help you catch any unexpected changes or discrepancies early and take the necessary steps to safeguard your score. Whether you’re planning to take out a loan or simply trying to boost your creditworthiness, these monthly check-ups allow you to stay informed and empowered.
 Interactive tools: Be confident in your financial decisions with the interactive tools that Credit Pass equips you with. The Credit Score Simulator shows you what could happen if you make certain financial moves. As for the EMI Calculator, it can help you plan your financial commitments before you even take the plunge. These nifty tools can help you peek into the potential future so you can make well-informed decisions to stay on top.
 Free unlimited access: When you sign up for the Credit Pass during the limited period offer, you gain access to all its benefits for free for the first 12 months so you can kickstart your credit management and improvement without any worries or limitations.

Easy steps to get started with Credit Pass
Signing up for the Credit Pass is a simple process that’s no more than three steps long:

When you visit the dedicated Credit Pass page, click on the ‘UNLOCK NOW’ button
Verify yourself with an OTP sent to your mobile phone number that you provided
Share your name and PAN card details before submitting

Once you receive your unique 12-digit Credit Pass number, you can use it to log in and explore your real-time dashboard and make the most of its many advantages.
Quick tips to boost your credit health with Credit Pass

Pay your bills on time, every time: With the personalised dashboard, you can easily track upcoming payment deadlines and improve your repayment history. Easily impress lenders with how responsible you have been with a solid repayment history.
Lower your credit utilisation ratio: With a complete overview of all your credit accounts laid out in front of you on your credit dashboard, you can keep tabs on how much of your available credit you’re using so you can maintain an ideal credit utilisation of under 30% easily.
Build your credit history length: The longer your credit history, the better it reflects on your credit management skills. Use the Credit Pass to keep old credit accounts open and in good standing.
Manage your credit enquiries: Ensure your credit status makes you eligible for the credit products you wish to apply for and use the interactive tools to help you plan your applications better to maximise the chance of success. This will help you keep your hard enquiries to a minimum and maintain your credit score.
Diversify your credit mix: Monitor your credit mix and take on new credit you need with confidence, knowing that the Credit Pass has your back when it comes to managing your different financial commitments.
Regularly review your credit health report: Real-time insights into your credit health report and regular CIBIL Score checks every month means you can easily identify areas of improvement as well as any errors that might have crept in.

With these quick tips and Bajaj Finserv Credit Pass by your side, you’re equipped to take charge of your credit health voyage. Steer with confidence towards smoother loan approvals, better financial options, and a brighter future with Credit Pass as your co-pilot.    ADVERTISEMENT Your personal financial well-being is largely dependent on your credit health. It dictates your ability to secure loans, obtain credit cards, and make significant financial decisions. As such, it sets the pace for your financial journey. Enter the Bajaj Finserv Credit Pass – your key to monitoring and enhancing your credit health, ensuring a smoother ride towards your monetary goals. So, what’s the Credit Pass all about?  Consider it your personal financial assistant, fuelled by India’s largest and oldest credit bureau, TransUnion CIBIL. It enables you to keep an eye on your credit health so you can always keep track of your financial fitness. The perks of having a Credit Pass for your credit health A robust credit health is reflected in a high credit score. Your three-digit credit score typically falls within the range of 300 to 900, and a score of 750+ is generally considered ideal by most lenders. Lenders consult your credit score when deciding whether to approve your credit application and at what terms. A high score means you’re acing money management, while a lower one could use some improvement. That’s where the Credit Pass swoops in to save the day! It’s your ticket to understanding your credit situation and making it better. Here are some of the key benefits that the Bajaj Finserv Credit Pass offers: Easy steps to get started with Credit Pass Signing up for the Credit Pass is a simple process that’s no more than three steps long: Once you receive your unique 12-digit Credit Pass number, you can use it to log in and explore your real-time dashboard and make the most of its many advantages. Quick tips to boost your credit health with Credit Pass With these quick tips and Bajaj Finserv Credit Pass by your side, you’re equipped to take charge of your credit health voyage. Steer with confidence towards smoother loan approvals, better financial options, and a brighter future with Credit Pass as your co-pilot. 

  Captcha Code > 

 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT 

 ADVERTISEMENT