
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- Mid-East.Info)  Feedback from participants will guide final adjustments to the user experience update ahead of its official release.
SEOUL, Korea– Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. today launched the One UI 6 beta program for users of its Galaxy S23 series. Based on Android 14, One UI 6 enables a more user-friendly experience, bringing a complete package of enhancements to Samsung apps and features including a more streamlined design and wider options for personalization. The beta program is an important precursor to the public release because it enables the collection and incorporation of real user feedback, ensuring the official software update delivers the best experience possible.
“Our mission with One UI is to reflect the unique preferences of our users in every aspect of their mobile experience,” said Janghyun Yoon, Executive Vice President and Head of the Software Office, Mobile eXperience (MX) Business at Samsung Electronics.“Every iteration of One UI responds to the needs of our user community, and we look forward to user feedback on One UI 6 as we create a richer, more intuitive experience for all.”
Simplicity and Ease of Access:
One UI 6 makes a compelling first impression with its beautiful simplicity. Many elements have been tweaked to create a more modern look and feel, such as the impactful new default font and the new emojis on Samsung Keyboard. The Quick Panel has been revamped with an updated layout that makes it effortless for users to access their most used features. It is easier than ever to adjust screen visibility on the go as the brightness control bar is available by default in the compact Quick Panel. Furthermore, there is also a new instant access option to the full Quick Panel, providing faster access to settings with a single downward swipe at the upper right corner of the screen.
More Ways to Personalize Your Experience:
One UI 6 is loaded with great new ways for users to customize the Galaxy experience based on their own habits and preferences, so it feels even more like an extension of themselves. For instance, it is now possible to set different lock screens according to specific Modes and Routines, such as a calming photo of a forest in Sleep Mode. There is also a new custom camera widget, which lets users preselect a camera mode and a storage location – like portrait mode and a folder just for headshots.
Join the One UI 6 Beta Program:
These innovations are just a few of the upgrades that come with One UI 6. In addition to enhanced aesthetics and higher levels of personalization, the software update simplifies everyday tasks to maximize productivity. One UI 6 also offers robust security and privacy, so users can enjoy mobile connectivity and convenience with total peace of mind.
Galaxy S23 series users are invited to join the One UI 6 beta program and be among the first to try out the latest enhancements and share valuable feedback. The program is available in the United States, Germany and South Korea starting today.
About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.:
Samsung inspires the world and shapes the future with transformative ideas and technologies. The company is redefining the worlds of TVs, smartphones, wearable devices, tablets, digital appliances, network systems, and memory, system LSI, foundry and LED solutions. For the latest news, please visit the Samsung Newsroom at news.samsung.com.
MENAFN13082023005446012082ID1106846013 Feedback from participants will guide final adjustments to the user experience update ahead of its official release. SEOUL, Korea– Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. today launched the One UI 6 beta program for users of its Galaxy S23 series. Based on Android 14, One UI 6 enables a more user-friendly experience, bringing a complete package of enhancements to Samsung apps and features including a more streamlined design and wider options for personalization. The beta program is an important precursor to the public release because it enables the collection and incorporation of real user feedback, ensuring the official software update delivers the best experience possible. “Our mission with One UI is to reflect the unique preferences of our users in every aspect of their mobile experience,” said Janghyun Yoon, Executive Vice President and Head of the Software Office, Mobile eXperience (MX) Business at Samsung Electronics.“Every iteration of One UI responds to the needs of our user community, and we look forward to user feedback on One UI 6 as we create a richer, more intuitive experience for all.” Simplicity and Ease of Access: One UI 6 makes a compelling first impression with its beautiful simplicity. Many elements have been tweaked to create a more modern look and feel, such as the impactful new default font and the new emojis on Samsung Keyboard. The Quick Panel has been revamped with an updated layout that makes it effortless for users to access their most used features. It is easier than ever to adjust screen visibility on the go as the brightness control bar is available by default in the compact Quick Panel. Furthermore, there is also a new instant access option to the full Quick Panel, providing faster access to settings with a single downward swipe at the upper right corner of the screen. More Ways to Personalize Your Experience: One UI 6 is loaded with great new ways for users to customize the Galaxy experience based on their own habits and preferences, so it feels even more like an extension of themselves. For instance, it is now possible to set different lock screens according to specific Modes and Routines, such as a calming photo of a forest in Sleep Mode. There is also a new custom camera widget, which lets users preselect a camera mode and a storage location – like portrait mode and a folder just for headshots. Join the One UI 6 Beta Program: These innovations are just a few of the upgrades that come with One UI 6. In addition to enhanced aesthetics and higher levels of personalization, the software update simplifies everyday tasks to maximize productivity. One UI 6 also offers robust security and privacy, so users can enjoy mobile connectivity and convenience with total peace of mind. Galaxy S23 series users are invited to join the One UI 6 beta program and be among the first to try out the latest enhancements and share valuable feedback. The program is available in the United States, Germany and South Korea starting today. About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.: Samsung inspires the world and shapes the future with transformative ideas and technologies. The company is redefining the worlds of TVs, smartphones, wearable devices, tablets, digital appliances, network systems, and memory, system LSI, foundry and LED solutions. For the latest news, please visit the Samsung Newsroom at news.samsung.com. MENAFN13082023005446012082ID1106846013 MENAFN13082023005446012082ID1106846013 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN