September 27, 2023  Samsung Ads, the advanced advertising division of Samsung Electronics, is partnering with advertising and marketing technology company Epsilon to offer brands advanced TV audience reach, precision activation, and measurement. The integration provides brands with unique audiences created from Epsilon’s demographic and transactional data, and a brand’s own first-party data, for activation across Samsung’s brand safe Smart TV, connected TV (CTV) and mobile inventory. The partnership also allows brands to leverage Epsilon audiences to activate campaigns across Samsung Ads’ Smart TV ecosystem in the US. “Samsung Ads’ platform, device ecosystem, and media assets, including Samsung TV Plus, are critical to reaching consumers across CTV. Through our direct integration with Epsilon, brands can leverage the Samsung TV universe and engaged audience to make CTV campaigns even more powerful,” said Courtney Howell, Head of Agency Development at Samsung Ads. “This partnership represents a milestone for Samsung Ads’ ongoing relationship with Epsilon to give even more brands and agencies the ability to immediately activate against our Smart TV footprint with improved measurement and attribution solutions,” Howell continued. “Our partnership with Epsilon also means that any brands working with Samsung Ads can expect a faster, more seamless execution, combined with the ability to leverage our leading TV data and scale to power CTV campaigns that drive significant performance.” Epsilon maintains a consumer database with insights into 250 million verified US consumers. The coverage and breadth of consumer data empowers brands to recognise and reach each person with the right message across channels and measure campaign performance while ensuring consumer data is respected and protected at the highest levels. “Epsilon’s partnership with Samsung Ads provides a seamless experience for marketers who are looking to activate Epsilon’s audiences and their first-party data in CTV environments,” added Dennis Self, General Manager of Data Solutions at Epsilon. “Our unique audiences provide marketers with confidence that they’ll reach the right people at the right time with messages that matter, removing barriers to activation while simultaneously creating increased demand for CTV campaigns.” Related posts:  Categories: Advertising, Articles, Services Tags: Epsilon, samsung, Samsung Ads Creative Media CentreHastingsEast SussexTN34 1HLTel: +44 7900 196870 Copyright © 2001-2024. Advanced Television Ltd.