
Menu
 
Search

 
Menu
 
Search

 

                                                                                        Popeyes Worker’s Chicken Seasoning TikTok Sparks Debate Over Hygiene and Preparation                                         

                                                                                        Krispy Kreme Expands Nationwide with McDonald’s, Modernizes Operations for Massive Rollout                                         

                                                                                        A double whammy of winter fuel payment cuts and scrapping a planned cap on social care costs is set to hit older people                                         

                                                                                        Japan Stocks Surge Over 2%, Leading Mixed Asia-Pacific Markets Amid Global Economic Uncertainty                                         

                                                                                        Hyundai Claims 10% of US EV Market, Closing the Gap with Tesla in 2024                                         

                                                                                        Mark Gonzales’ adidas Aloha Super Lands in 'Burnt Sienna' as Gazelle Indoor Sports Halloween Colors                                         

                                                                                        Cameroon spends 90% of Chinese development loans on its French region: this could deepen the country’s divisions                                         

                                                                                        Samsung Leads the Race to Make CXL Memory the Next Big Thing in AI                                         

                                                                                        Gold Surges Past $2,500 as Analysts Predict Further Gains Amid Fed Rate Cuts                                         

                                                                                        Bangladesh's Future Hinges on Muhammad Yunus as Interim Government Faces Economic Challenges                                         

                                                                                        Panasonic to End Fluorescent Lamp Production by 2027, Marking an Era’s Close                                         

                                                                                        Indonesia Targets Lower Budget Deficit in 2025 Amid Increased Spending on Social Programs                                         

                                                                                        McDonald's to Launch Yu-Gi-Oh Happy Meal in August as Pokemon Announces New Toy Line                                         

                                                                                        Apple’s $1,000 Tabletop Robot With Arm, Display Spotted in Supply Chain; Set to Rival Amazon and Google                                         

                                                                                        Dug up in Australia, burned around the world – exporting fossil fuels undermines climate targets                                         

                                                                                        Baskin-Robbins and Frankford Candy Unveil New Chocolate Candy Line for Summer’s End                                         

                                                                                        Fall Flavors Arrive: New Seasonal Menus from Krispy Kreme, Cracker Barrel, and The Human Bean                                                 Photo by: Samsung Biologics Newsroom Samsung Biologics, Samsung C&T invest in Araris Swiss biotech company Samsung Biologics investing $762M to build fifth CDMO plant in South Korea In a landmark move, Samsung Biologics and Pfizer Inc. have entered into a strategic $409 million contract manufacturing organization (CMO) agreement. This record-setting deal enlists Samsung Biologics to produce a range of biosimilar drugs originally developed by Pfizer, furthering global access to essential medicines. The Korea Times reported that under the contract, Samsung Biologics will manufacture biosimilars made by Pfizer. These are biopharmaceutical medical products that are identical to the original product, which means the Korean biotech firm will replicate certain drugs originally made by Pfizer. The biosimilars that Samsung Biologics will produce for the New York-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology firm include medical drugs for inflammation, tumors, and the immune system. The company built its fourth production plant in Incheon, South Korea, recently, so it is likely to be used for the fulfillment of the said CMO agreement. “We are pleased to extend the strategic collaboration with Pfizer as we share and support their strong vision to bring innovative solutions for patients around the globe,” Samsung Biologics’ president and chief executive officer, John Rim, said in a press release. “This new meaningful partnership comes just as our Plant 4 is fully completed early this month as we had previously committed and are on the move for future expansion into our second campus in order to provide our clients with even more flexible and advanced manufacturing technology.” Pfizer’s chief global supply officer, executive vice president, Mike Dermott, added, “Pfizer is excited to continue our strategic partnership with Samsung Biologics Ltd. that aims to enable greater access to medicines for more patients across the world. This commitment is a reflection of Pfizer’s trust in the Korean Pharmaceutical industry to address emerging health challenges.” Meanwhile, the partnership between Samsung Biologics and Pfizer has set a new record for the latter and the entire history of biopharma in South Korea. This is because it is the largest single contract to ever be recorded in the country.   Photo by: Samsung Biologics Newsroom Breathing through your nose when you exercise may make your runs easier Entrepreneurs are facing a mental health crisis — here's how to help them Are fish oil supplements as healthy as we think? And is eating fish better? Will AI kill our creativity? It could – if we don’t start to value and protect the traits that make us human Does AI have a right to free speech? Only if it supports our right to free thought How can I lower my cholesterol? Do supplements work? How about psyllium or probiotics? Why we need to set limits on sperm donation Aging with a healthy brain: How lifestyle changes could help prevent up to 40% of dementia cases Seven techniques to avoid weight regain, approved by experts  
                                                                                                Krispy Kreme Expands Nationwide with McDonald’s, Modernizes Operations for Massive Rollout  
                                                                                                The Secret Behind McDonald’s Perfect Fries: The Four Potato Varieties They Use  
                                                                                                Donald Trump's Nephew Sparks Concern, Suggests Ex-President Shows Early Signs of Dementia: 'It Runs In The Family'  
                                                                                                Russia-Ukraine war spills into west Africa: Mali attacks signal dangerous times ahead  
                                                                                                Mark Gonzales’ adidas Aloha Super Lands in 'Burnt Sienna' as Gazelle Indoor Sports Halloween Colors  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Sparks Mental Fitness Concerns After Mistaking Pennsylvania for North Carolina at Rally  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Mocked as Supporter Falls Asleep During Pennsylvania Rally: Critics Call Him 'Boring AF'  
                                                                                                Tesla Marks 400 Superchargers in Hong Kong with Specially Wrapped Stall, Celebrating a Decade of Growth  
                                                                                                Huawei Export Restrictions Set for Potential US Relaxation as Lawmakers Warn of Economic Fallout  
                                                                                                Tesla Cybertruck Hits 400-Mile Range with Core Wheels, New Owner Reveals 
Back to Top ▲
 
                        

                        
                        ©Econometrics LLC . All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.                     Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results. Sign up for daily updates for the most important
            stories unfolding in the global economy. 