This site uses cookies to enhance your user experience. By continuing to use this site you are agreeing to our COOKIE POLICY.
 
						ERROR 1
					 
						ERROR 1
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
							Password and Confirm password must match.
					 
							If you have an ACS member number, please enter it here so we can link this account to your membership. (optional)
					 
							ERROR 2
					 
						ACS values your privacy. By submitting your information, you are gaining access to C&EN and subscribing to our weekly newsletter. We use the information you provide to make your reading experience better, and we will never sell your data to third party members.
					 
						Already have an ACS ID? Log in here
   
           
               Already an ACS Member?
               Log in here
            
             
          $0 Community Associate
 ACS’s Basic Package keeps you connected with C&EN and ACS. $80 Regular Members & Society Affiliates ACS’s Standard Package lets you stay up to date with C&EN, stay active in ACS, and save. $160 Regular Members & Society Affiliates
$55 Graduate Students
$25 Undergraduate Students ACS’s Premium Package gives you full access to C&EN and everything the ACS Community has to offer. 
                                    
                                    Your account has been created successfully, and a confirmation email is on the way.
                                    
                                 
                                    
                                    Your username is now your ACS ID.
                                    
                                 Most Popular in Business


C&EN’s Global Top 50 chemical firms for 2024 


C&EN’s Global Top 50 chemical firms for 2022


What’s in sunscreen, and how does it protect your skin from the sun’s rays?


What are glow sticks, and what’s the chemical reaction that makes them light up?


Is ammonia the fuel of the future?


   Covestro is expanding in biotechnology as part of a company-wide push toward circular and biobased plastics. The German government will fund an enzymatic catalysis research group at Covestro’s headquarters in Leverkusen with $2.6 million over 5 years. The group will use enzymes to recycle plastics, treat wastewater generated during the production of plastics, and aid plastics biodegradation. In a related project also receiving German funding, Covestro is scaling up its biomass fermentation route to aniline, a polyurethane precursor that is currently made from petroleum. Article: 

 This article has been sent to the following recipient:  

 Contact the reporter 
 

 Submit a Letter to the Editor for publication 
 

 Engage with us on Twitter 
 Already have an ACS ID? 
                                    Log in
 Sign up for C&EN's must-read weekly newsletter  Copyright © 2024 American Chemical Society. All Rights Reserved.