Front page layout Site theme 
Corey Gaskin
    -    Feb 15, 2023 9:15 pm UTC
 Samsung is currently running a sale on a handful of its best storage solutions and wearables that matches their all-time low prices. We’ve featured all of them in various guides and deal posts for their solid performance and pricing, especially with discounts. Samsung’s original T series portable SSD has been a top pick of ours for years. The latest T7 improves speeds by nearly double over its predecessor, the T5. In our testing, we found that the T5 lived up to its hype in both speed and reliability. The T7 ups read and write speeds to 1,050MB/s and 1,000MB/s, respectively. The T7 Shield is a ruggedized version of the T7, tested to endure up to a 9.8-foot drop and rated for IP65 dust and water resistance. The 2TB version is on sale for $150, which matches the lowest price we’ve seen for it. It typically hovers between $180 and $170. The 1TB option is on sale for $90 ($10 more than its all-time low). If you’re building a high-performance gaming PC or upgrading the storage on your PS5, the Samsung 980 Pro has impressive options for both. The 2TB 980 Pro has hit a record-low price of $160 ($100 for 1TB) and can level up your more demanding gaming PC builds with write speeds Samsung rates at up to 7,000MB/s. For PS5 owners, you’ll need the 1TB or 2TB 980 Pro with heatsink, which are both on sale for record lows ($110 and $180, respectively). If you’re building a more casual gaming PC, the older 970 Evo Plus is still a good choice for a couple bucks less. They’re also on sale in 1TB and 2TB configurations. The former is going for $80 and the latter for $150. If you pick up one of these, just make sure to keep your firmware up to date. There have been some reports of the 980 and 990 series experiencing failures, but Samsung appears to have released an effective firmware update for this. Samsung’s microSD cards are always a reliable, typically fast option for portable storage on Nintendo Switches, GoPros, and more. The Evo Select, in particular, is U3- and V30-rated, and the 128GB version is at a record-low $13 right now, down from around $20. The 512GB version is also on sale for an all-time low of $45. Samsung’s Galaxy Watch 5 is the most highly equipped fitness-tracking smartwatch you can buy for Android phones. It has the requisite heart rate, GPS, and blood oxygen sensors we’ve come to expect from top-tier smartwatches, as well as bioelectrical impedance analysis. The latter is currently exclusive to Samsung watches. Unfortunately, that also only works when used with a Samsung phone. Otherwise, the Watch 5 offers a sleek interface that’s easy and intuitive to navigate, thanks to Samsung’s digital rotating bezel and close collaboration with Google. It’s also currently $70 less than the lowest price we’ve seen on Google’s Pixel Watch, while carrying more fitness sensors. This current sale price matches its year-long low. Ars Technica may earn compensation for sales from links on this post through affiliate programs. Join the Ars Orbital Transmission mailing list to get weekly updates delivered to your inbox. Sign me up → 
  CNMN Collection
  WIRED Media Group
  © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 1/1/20) and Privacy Policy and Ars Technica Addendum. Ars may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our affiliate link policy.
Your California Privacy Rights |  Do Not Sell My Personal Information
  The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices
