[Image: Chiken Brave/iStockphoto] Chris Long has been appointed chief revenue officer at New York City-based Gemini XIII, a leading provider of audio entertainment and advertising solutions, and will be based in the company’s Dallas office. Long will be responsible for driving revenue growth across all of its business segments, including United Stations Radio Networks (USRN) and the Gemini XIII Podcast Network, as well as digital partnerships and creative services at Infinite Agency. “Chris is a highly respected and experienced sales leader. His expertise and track record will be invaluable as we continue to grow our business and expand our reach.” CEO Spencer Brown said in a statement. The company said that Long brings more than 20 years of experience in the media industry to Gemini XIII, having held senior sales and leadership positions at Dial Global, Pandora and most recently as regional vice president of sales at SXM Media. Long is known for his deep understanding of the national audio market, his ability to develop and execute innovative sales strategies, and his proven track record of success, the company said. Long said he was eager to join “the growing Gemini XIII team to be a part of what they are building.” He added, “The audio entertainment and advertising space continues to grow and evolve which puts Gemini XIII in a position to create unique custom opportunities that will bring value to our clients and partners.” Gemini XIII serves the audio industry with premium sales, content, production, and marketing services for podcasting and radio. It has an office in Sydney, Australia.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   Pathlock's recent mergers, acquisitions, and capital raises have enabled the company to address the increasing risk in application security while establishing its leadership position as the industry's most complete 360-degree platform for application security and controls automation. Keith Scally has joined Richardson-based Cariloop, a comprehensive caregiver support platform that combines cloud-based tools and personalized, professional coaching services, as chief product officer. The company said that Scally will oversee its tech-enabled, human-powered innovation initiatives as they continue to create game-changing solutions that reduce the stress and burden felt by working caregivers and families. “Keith is a phenomenal product leader and brings a wealth of knowledge and experience to our team. He has such a bold, creative vision and a fierce passion for building products that have the potential to help families on a global scale,” CEO Michael Walsh… Yuvo Health, a New York-based technology-enabled administrative and managed-care solution provider for community health centers, announced Coppell executive Selase Dow as its new chief operating officer. Dow, who will remain based in the Dallas-Fort Worth city, brings more than two decades of managed care experience to the New York startup. Dow has worked closely with large physician organizations in North Texas to implement financial and care models and has a deep background in operations, ACO management, contracting, and more. Yuvo Health is a New York-based startup founded in 2021 by a BIPOC founding team. The company aims to provide administrative… The moves follow a recent infusion of $4.1 million in strategic financing as Stryve looks to fuel its growth in the consumer packaged goods sector. Fort Worth-based Operio Group has hired Deb Blackwell as chief revenue officer of the emerging holding company building a global body of brands that supply and support the solid dose manufacturing industry. The company called it a strategic move signifying its commitment to driving growth and operational excellence in the solid dose space, as Blackwell brings with her an impressive track record of revenue optimization and leadership. “I am really excited to have Deb Blackwell join our team,” Operio Group CEO Alastair Sanderson said in a statement. “I feel like she adds a perspective, background and experience to Operio Group… North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.