Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     These days, Qantas Group's primary business is commercial air transportation. The two leading airline brands in this group are Qantas and budget carrier Jetstar. Beyond transporting passengers, however, business activities also extend to the transport of freight, as well as insurance, credit cards, and more. 10 years ago, Qantas Group also included a subsidiary by the name of Qantas Defence Services. This division employed hundreds of workers supporting various major Australian Defence Force capability systems.
                         Qantas Defence Services (QDS) was established in 1999 to cater to the Australian defense industry. For some 14 years, the Qantas Group subsidiary provided a broad range of services, including but not limited to:
                         "Qantas Defence Services offers a wide range of services utilizing its own independent resources while drawing on the considerable strengths and resources of the Qantas Group. As one of Australia's largest defence services companies, Qantas Defence Services provides the vital link enabling the raise, train and sustain functions of Australia's military capability."
                         Outside of aviation, the company provided engineering consultancy services to the naval industry across critical operations in Sydney, Brisbane, and Canberra.
                         With the Australian Defence Force and the Royal Australian Air Force as primary customers, QDS supported aircraft such as the Lockheed C-130H Hercules and P-3 Orion. For jet aircraft, QDS supported types like the Boeing E-7A Wedgetail 737-700IGW and the Bombardier Challenger CL604 Special Purpose Aircraft.
                         The largest aircraft supported would have been the Airbus A330 MRTT, which for the Royal Australian Air Force is designated the KC-30A Multi-Role Tanker Transport (MRTT). Indeed, one of the central contracts secured by QDS was the conversion of several Airbus A330-200s into KC-30A MRTTs. Converted in Brisbane, the aircraft were built as standard A330-200s by Airbus in Toulouse but substantially modified over the course of approximately 10 months.
                         Get all the latest aviation news right here on Simple Flying.
                         On August 29th, 2012, Qantas announced that it would be selling QDS to Northrop Grumman Australia, a subsidiary of Northrop Grumman Corporation. The deal at the time was valued at A$80 million, but adjusted for inflation, it would be A$129 million today - or approximately US$87 million.
                         As per a public statement, Qantas Group Chief Alan Joyce stated:
                         "Since 1999, Qantas Defence Services has grown to provide extensive aircraft and engine maintenance services to the Australian Defence Force and international defence organisations...We have made it clear that in line with the Qantas Group's strategy, we would explore the sale of non-core assets where it makes commercial sense..."
                         Northrop Grumman Australia has indeed picked up where QDS left off, delivering long-term aviation maintenance support for the air force's fleet of KC-30As, as well as the Australian government's 'special purpose aircraft' (SPA) fleet of two Boeing Business Jets and three Dassault Falcon 7X aircraft.
      Did you know about Qantas Defence Services? Share your thoughts by leaving a comment!
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Alan Joyce is no longer CEO of the Qantas Group and his successor Vanessa Hudson officially takes over the controls tomorrow. The airline could secure the order for the new aircraft as early as this month.  After an absence of 20 years, Qantas is back in Paris as it keeps on whetting the appetite of Australians for the launch of Project Sunrise. However, Qantas has kept a single Boeing 787-9 flight between MEL and PER, with the type operating flight QF773 on Thursdays. Project Sunrise will certainly create some winners and losers. Qantas is due to receive its first Airbus A321XLR next year - where might it send the aircraft?