
Cultivating sustainable solutions to food processing and engineering
 Impact factor: n/a Time to first decision (all decisions): 33.0 days** Time to first decision (peer-reviewed only): 49.0 days*** Editor-in-Chief: Jorge Barros Velázquez Gold open access, APCs waived until mid-2025 Indexed in the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) and Scopus Read this journal Submit an article Sign up for regular email alerts View all journal metrics What can we do to ensure food security around the globe? How do we end world hunger? Where can we find the solutions to produce food more sustainably? Sustainable Food Technology seeks the answers to these big questions. While our companion journal, Food & Function, focuses on the purpose of food and its relation to health and nutrition, this new journal publishes high-quality sustainable research on food engineering and technologies. Key topics include food preservation methods, shelf life and the creation of greener packaging. Sustainable Food Technology publishes a number of themed collections every year, guest edited by members of the community on timely and important topics. Interested in contributing your work? Explore the latest open calls for papers in Sustainable Food Technology Sustainable Food Technology is a gold open access journal focused on cutting-edge strategies for food production, that aim to provide quality and safe foods in an environmentally conscious and sustainable way. We welcome novel green strategies applied to both crops and animal foods from every step of the food chain, “from farm to fork”. Circular economy strategies and life cycle analysis are particularly welcomed, from those adding value to food by-products to those focused on the appropriate reuse of food waste. Manuscripts submitted to Sustainable Food Technology should focus on either applied or fundamental science and cover the development and optimisation of technologies aimed at improving post-harvest supply-chain of food. All manuscripts must address environmental, economic and/or health challenges associated with food sustainability. The quantitative and/or qualitative aspect of sustainability e.g. water usage, energy efficiency, process intensification, by-product extraction, or benchmarking of proposed sustainable packaging against conventional should be demonstrated and discussed. Topics of interest include but are not limited to: Manuscripts without a foundation in sustainability, or studies that are purely descriptive in nature are not suitable for publication in this journal. Manuscripts must show significant novelty and exhibit cutting-edge technologies or engineering advances. Sufficient chemical, microbiological and/or nutritional analysis must be provided to justify claims of novelty, interest and applicability of the research presented. The following fields of study are not included in the scope of Sustainable Food Technology: We are delighted to introduce the Outstanding Early Career Research Award 2023. This award aims to acknowledge and celebrate exceptional contributions made by early career researchers within the Sustainable Food Technology field. It serves as a means of recognition for their dedication, innovation, and impactful research endeavours.  Submissions are initially assessed and taken through peer-review by our high-profile, internationally-recognised Associate Editors. The journal operates a single-anonymised peer review model, and a minimum of two reviewer reports are required. Meet Sustainable Food Technology Editor-in-Chief and board members. 
Editor-in-Chief University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain
 
Associate EditorRMIT University, Australia
 
Associate Editor Institute of Chemical Technology, India
 
Associate Editor University of Maryland, USA
 
Editorial Board Member University College Dublin, Ireland 
 Cristóbal N. Aguilar, Universidad Autónoma de Coahuila, Mexico Rafael Auras,  Michigan State University, USA Maria G. Corradini, University of Guelph, Canada Sakamon Devahastin, King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi (KMUTT), Bangkok, Thailand Tian Ding, Zhejiang University, China Hao Feng, North Carolina A&T State University, USA Elena Ibañez, CIAL-CSIC, Spain Joe P. Kerry, University College Cork, Ireland Olga Martín-Belloso, University of Lleida, Catalonia, Spain Maria Angela A Meireles, Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Brazil Manjusri Misra, University of Guelph, Canada Solange I. Mussatto, Technical University of Denmark, Denmark Indrawati Oey, University of Otago, New Zealand Umezuruike Linus Opara, Stellenbosch University, South Africa Federico Pallottino, CREA-IT, Italy Marco Poiana, Mediterranean University of Reggio Calabria, Italy Anet Režek Jambrak, University of Zagreb, Croatia Victor Rodov, Agricultural Research Organization - The Volcani Institute, Israel Andreas Schieber, University of Bonn, Institute of Nutritional and Food Sciences, Germany Juming Tang, Washington State University, USA Paula Teixeira, Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Portugal Long Yu, South China University of Technology, Institute of Chemistry, Henan Academy of Sciences, China Min Zhang, Jiangnan University, China Bhesh Bhandari, University of Queensland, Australia  Anna Rulka, Executive Editor, ORCID: 0000-0002-3236-9801 Audra Taylor, Deputy Editor Viktoria Titmus, Editorial Production Manager Angelica-Jane Kechinyere Onyekwere, Assistant Editor Shwetha Krishna, Assistant Editor Michael Whitelaw, Assistant Editor Alexander Whiteside, Assistant Editor ORCID: 0000-0002-1743-1531 Samantha Campos, Editorial Assistant  Brittany Hanlon, Publishing Assistant Neil Hammond, Publisher, ORCID: 0000-0001-6390-8874 We want the research published here to be easily accessible and beneficial to people globally. That’s why Sustainable Food Technology is gold open access with all article processing charges (APCs) paid by us until mid-2025 – so initially you can publish for free. We’re committed to increasing the visibility of your articles and making a difference around the world. As part of the submission process, authors will be asked to agree to the Sustainable Food Technology open access terms & conditions. We offer Sustainable Food Technology authors a choice of two Creative Commons licences: CC BY or CC BY NC. Publication under these licences means that authors retain the copyright of their article, but users are allowed to read, download, copy, distribute, print, search, or link to the full texts of articles, or use them for any other lawful purpose, without asking prior permission from the publisher or the author. Read our open access statement for further information.All published articles are deposited with LOCKSS, CLOCKSS, Portico and the British Library for archiving. Find out more about open access publishing routes Explore Royal Society of Chemistry open access journals Read our Researchers’ voice report in response to Plan S To support increased transparency, we offer authors the option to publish the peer review history alongside their article. Reviewers are anonymous unless they choose to sign their reports. Find out more about our transparent peer review policy. Sustainable Food Technology publishes:  Our Communication format is ideally suited to short studies - which can be preliminary in nature - that are of such importance that they require accelerated publication. Communications must contain original and highly significant work whose interest to the Sustainable Food Technology readership and high novelty warrants rapid publication. Authors should supply with their submission a justification of why the work merits urgent publication as a Communication. Referees will be asked to judge the work on these grounds. Communications are given high visibility within the journal as they are published at the front of an issue. Communications will not normally exceed the length of five printed journal pages. These must demonstrate an advance in strategies for sustainable food production and are judged according to originality, quality of scientific content and contribution to existing knowledge. Although there is no page limit for Full papers, appropriateness of length to content of new science will be taken into consideration. Reviews should be definitive, comprehensive and provide a critical evaluation of the chosen topic area. These are normally commissioned by the editorial board and editorial office, although suggestions from readers for topics and authors are most welcome and should be directed to the editorial office. Reviews must be high-quality, authoritative and state-of-the-art accounts of the selected research field. They should be timely and add to the existing literature, rather than duplicate existing articles, and should be of general interest to the journal's readership. All review content should consist of original text and interpretation, avoiding any direct reproduction. If a significant amount of other people's material is to be used, either textual or image-based, permission must be sought by the author in accordance with copyright law and must be made clear in the manuscript. We recommend that systematic reviews and meta-analyses should follow the PRISMA guidelines for the transparent reporting of these studies. All reviews undergo a rigorous and full peer review procedure in the same way as regular research papers. Comments and Replies are a medium for the discussion and exchange of scientific opinions between authors and readers concerning material published in Sustainable Food Technology. For publication, a Comment should present an alternative analysis of and/or a new insight into the previously published material. Any Reply should further the discussion presented in the original article and the Comment. Comments and Replies that contain any form of personal attack are not suitable for publication. Comments that are acceptable for publication will be forwarded to the authors of the work being discussed, and these authors will be given the opportunity to submit a Reply. The Comment and Reply will both be subject to rigorous peer review in consultation with the journal’s Editorial Board where appropriate. The Comment and Reply will be published together. For general guidance on preparing an article please visit our Prepare your article page, the content of which is relevant to all our journals. To learn more about the Royal Society of Chemistry's policies and processes, including licensing, publishing ethics, peer review, and formatting, please refer to our Resources for authors page. All submitted papers must include a cover letter that should specify the novelty of the work and give a justification for the publication of the paper.  All submitted manuscripts must include a Sustainability Spotlight Statement (120 words maximum) that should categorically state the sustainable advance of the work and how it aligns with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. This statement should be different from the abstract and set the work in a broader context regarding sustainability. It should aim to answer the following questions. This statement will be seen by the reviewers and will help ascertain the relevance of the article for a broad but technical audience and authors should use it to show that they have given serious consideration to problems that are sustainable in nature. If the paper is accepted this statement will also be published. Manuscripts cannot be reviewed without this statement. All articles published in Sustainable Food Technology are subject to external peer review by anonymised experts in the field and all manuscripts submitted are handled by a team of internationally recognised Associate Editors, who are all practicing scientists in the field. The peer review for all articles submitted to the journal consists of the following stages: Sustainable Food Technology is committed to a rigorous peer review process and expert editorial oversight for all published content. Please refer to our processes and policies for full details including our appeals procedure. All submissions to our Open Calls will undergo an initial assessment by the journal Editors and subsequent peer review as per the usual standards of RSC journals. Articles accepted for publication in Sustainable Food Technology are published online with citeable DOIs as Advance Articles after they are edited and typeset. Articles are then assigned page numbers and published in an issue. Issues of Sustainable Food Technology are published every other month. Please find our most recent issue here. Sustainable Food Technology authors, editors, reviewers and published works are required to uphold the Royal Society of Chemistry’s ethical standards. The Royal Society of Chemistry is a member of Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) and our ethical standards follow COPE’s core practices and best practice guidelines. In cases where these guidelines are breached or appear to be so, the Royal Society of Chemistry will consult with COPE. When a study involves the use of live animals or human subjects, authors must include in the 'methods/experimental' section of the manuscript a statement that all experiments were performed in compliance with the author’s institute’s policy on animal use and ethics; where possible, details of compliance with national or international laws or guidelines should be included. The statement must name the institutional/local ethics committee which has approved the study; where possible, the approval or case number should be provided. A statement that informed consent was obtained for any experimentation with human subjects is required. Reviewers may be asked to comment specifically on any cases in which concerns arise. For further guidance on author responsibilities and code of conduct, which apply to Sustainable Food Technology and to all manuscripts submitted to Royal Society of Chemistry journals, please visit our author hub. Sustainable Food Technology publishes a number of themed collections every year on timely and important topics, guest edited by members of the community. All submissions to our themed collections undergo an initial assessment by the journal's associate editors and subsequent peer review as per the usual standards of RSC journals. Sustainable Food Technology is fully gold open access – articles can be downloaded free from the website with no barriers to access. Online only: ISSN 2753-8095 Copyright is retained by authors when an open access licence is accepted, as with our standard licence to publish agreement. Full and accurate attribution to the original author is required for any re-use of the work. Find out more about copyright, licences and re-use permission. For the latest editorial board news, scope details and announcements, sign up for news and issue alerts by using the form below. For any other queries, please get in touch using the contact us form on this page. Please tick this box to acknowledge that: Edit your RSC contact preferences. **The median time from submission to first decision including manuscripts rejected without peer review from the previous calendar year ***The median time from submission to first decision for peer-reviewed manuscripts from the previous calendar year © Royal Society of Chemistry 2024. Registered charity number 207890. 