To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories An IT professional couple approached Amirah Ahamed, founder and Principal Architect of Bodhi Design Studio, to transform their lake-facing unit into an escapade where they could wind down and spend time with their two kids, aged 16 and 10. The spacious 1888 sq ft property features both, three bedrooms and bathrooms.  “In this lake-facing apartment, the master bedroom and daughter’s room have spectacular views of the nearby waters while the son’s bedroom looks out to the garden and the swimming pool. We conceptualised this home as a portrait of nature in an urban setting. Textures, art, biophilia and earthy materials steer the design direction," says Ahamed. “As per the client’s brief, we also accommodated space for recreational activities such as classical dance, yoga, art etc.” she adds. A curated wooden storage unit with tropical-theme printed shutters in the foyer is paired with a gilded mirror against a grey stucco wall. The storage unit is from House of Things, and the mirror is from Dekor Company. A multi-seater sofa set and lounge chair with footrest anchor the seating arrangement. The rug is from the Carpet Kingdom. Also read: This Ahmedabad farmhouse is a lush paradise with its own private lake The foyer opens into the living room with an earthy colour scheme. Given the space constraints of the urban dwelling, a practical design approach was adopted with ample space for practising yoga and dance. A unique storage/display shelf segregates the living and dining areas and houses a petite pooja unit with white CNC-cut shutters. The TV and crockery unit with cane detailing, sofas, dining table, and chairs are all custom-made. Reminiscent of the era bygone, this cane and wood cupboard offers storage and keeps the design scheme grounded. Tropical artwork in fabrics with colourful botanical prints and upholstered chairs punctuate this spot with colours. A perched bird chandelier adds character to the space. In the dining area, a brick-clad wall provides a neutral backdrop to the compact seating unit for four. An upholstered, multi-functional bench offers storage and seating. Light from the balcony and window swathes the cosy dining area. An all-white colour scheme with hints of green in the backsplash brightens the kitchen.  A wooden architrave frames the entryway to the kitchen. The white cabinets help brighten the space. Geometrically patterned hues of green in the backsplash enhance the spatial quality of the kitchen. It also resonates with the tropical theme that runs across the rest of the house. Also read: A functional yet cosy Bengaluru flat for a young family A custom headboard with minimal details and a board and batten pattern on the headwall catches the eye. The side table & study table are from Studio Ochre.  “While the general areas of the residence are a playful collage of colours, the three bedrooms have a more subdued tune. The son’s room is designed with a touch of industrialism and masculinity using leather furniture,” says Ahamed.  An elegant striped sage green and white wallpaper layers this bedroom with a Parisian charm. The daughter's room is on the other side of the apartment and is defined by playful pastels with an eye-catching velvet-upholstered purple headboard. A complementing flower-theme pendant light above the bedside table adds to the drama. Textured terracotta tiles adorn the wall behind the bed, complementing the Monstera light in the corner to create a visual sanctuary for the couple. The master bedroom features a wardrobe, workstation and concealed dressing area. Behind the floral curtains is the balcony, a spot for the couple to unwind and make the most of the pristine lake views. The maid’s room has been converted into a home office. Also read: This duplex apartment in Bengaluru is a sanctuary for the senses Connect With AD Associated Sites © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service (updated 1/1/20) and Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 18/11/20). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.