Sanctum has emerged as a company that intends to develop innovative next-generation blockchain solutions. The company will be conducting a crowdfunding capital raise through a Reg CF.       SANCTUM ECOSYSTEM  Sanctum Invicta is looking create a platform that rebrands crypto, NFTs, and the metaverse into something where users can focus on the limitless potential of the blockchain. Sanctum's business consists of several core utilities that build the foundation for its platform – a Web3 Browser, Marketplace, and Launchpad. The focus will be on building an intuitive user experience for non-web3 natives and creating a curated experience for exploring the web3 market. Web3 includes blockchain, metaverse, extended reality, and artificial intelligence.      SANCTUM COUNCIL  Investors and early adopters will have an opportunity to join the Sanctum Council which will play a key part in developing Sanctum's next-gen web3 platform. They will be able to mint Sanctum Council passes which are NFTs that can only be minted by investors. Sanctum Invicta is finalizing the details of their crowdfunding capital raise which will kickstart the next steps of the company.  Sanctum Invicta Council members will have multiple benefits for holding these tokens including:      NATIVE TOKEN  In the future, Sanctum Invicta is planning on coming out with a native token or blockchain.    A portion of these future tokens will be allocated to early investors and by owning the Sanctum Council NFTs, you'll be able to claim when it comes out.   Sanctum Invicta is planning on allocating Owning the Sanctum Council NFT enables holders to claim the native token when it comes out. We have connections and partnerships with some of the top tokenomics consultants that will be drafting the ecosystem.   NEXT STEPS  Over the next couple of weeks, Sanctum Invicta will be focused on community development as we aim to prepare people for our crowdfund raise.   1. Join our waitlist to get the latest news and reminders on Sanctum Invicta 2. Follow us on social media to take part in the discussion  3. Email subscribers will receive reminders and announcements for our Reg CF  Socials: Twitter:https://twitter.com/SanctumInvicta Discord:https://discord.gg/CNp6TsNR3U Telegram:https://t.me/sanctuminvicta Mailing List:https://linktr.ee/sanctuminvicta Media ContactCompany Name: Sanctum Invicta Labs, LLCContact Person: Jules Servius - CEOEmail: Send EmailCountry: United StatesWebsite: https://sanctuminvicta.com   Press Release Distributed by ABNewswire.com

To view the original version on ABNewswire visit: Sanctum Invicta Takes the Lead in the Race to Redefine Web3
 © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.