Have you been having problems with your electrical equipment but haven’t found the cause? For many users it turns out to be a very common, widespread problem called ground loop feedback--an electrical phenomenon which occurs when different electrical circuits are powering a system and its peripherals. Have you been having problems with your electrical equipment but haven’t found the cause? For many users it turns out to be a very common, widespread problem called ground loop  feedback--an electrical phenomenon which occurs when different electrical circuits are powering a system and its peripherals. When two or more connected electrical devices access more than one path to the ground, a loop forms which carries unintended current. Resistance then changes these currents into voltage fluctuations which cause signal noise which corrupts the devices’ program signals. This wiring issue accounts for a large share of all power quality problems with A/V devices and other electronic equipment. To help you identify any of these issues you might have, the Applications Specialists at CAS DataLoggers have put together a short list of typical interference problems. Are you experiencing any of these issues?  Correcting Signal Noise A ground loop problem can occur at several points in your system, and every instance of feedback has to be addressed on its own. You’re mostly likely to get ground loops in the ground conductors of your electrical equipment wherever two or more circuits share the same conductor or current path. Check to see if your system includes equipment connected to different grounded outlets in the same room. Low-current wiring is especially likely to pick up interference.  You need a good grounding layout to prevent ground loops and reduce electronic noise as much as possible, using the ground to contain signal interference. However, nothing is perfectly grounded--whenever current flows, this resistance allows an electrical voltage to travel between those grounding points, increasing feedback. While a ground always has some noise, you can significantly reduce ground loop problems. Proper grounding, wiring and an optimal facility layout will all contribute. Ground loops won’t create impactful feedback if the wires in the loop aren’t carrying current, although this might not be possible given your specific layout. If current is flowing in a wire, it will flow to other wires, and current can enter the loop from nearby fluctuating magnetic fields, so try to avoid these. Current can also flow directly into your electronic equipment through their cabling. Eliminate ground loops by sending all signal grounds to a common point. If you have to use more than one grounding point, the signal must be isolated on one side and grounding from its neighbor(s). You can use shielded cables for low currents. Also try to remove or lessen any nearby radio frequency interference, and if you have devices putting a high demand on your power, install them closer to a power supply. After taking these precautions, you should find that the above feedback symptoms are significantly reduced and your systems pick up much less noise. You’ll see this improvement in the form of more accurate data, faster data transfers and fewer equipment and process issues.