
Exhibiting at Southern Manufacturing & Electronics 2024 gives you access to over 9,000 key industry decision makers.  Visit www.industrysouth.co.uk to download the floorplan.
 Exhibiting at Southern Manufacturing & Electronics 2024 gives you access to over 9,000 key industry decision makers.  Visit www.industrysouth.co.uk to download the floorplan. ETES Ltd 
                                                                                                                        GLOBAL                                         If you find this article informative, consider subscribing digitally to PES Media for free.
                    Keep up to date with the latest industry news in your inbox as well as being the first to receive
                    our magazine in digital form.  Farnborough International Airshow 2024 cemented its positioning as the must-attend event in the aerospace calendar and delivered its busiest event in recent decades, with a 33% increase on visitors, 57% increase on delegation attendance and more than $105bn in commercial deals announced by industry titans. Farnborough International Airshow 2024 cemented its positioning as the must-attend event in the aerospace calendar and delivered its busiest event in recent decades, with a 33% increase on visitors, 57% increase on delegation attendance and more than $105bn in commercial deals announced by industry titans.    At this year’s Advanced Engineering UK, held at the NEC, Birmingham on 30th and 31st October, businesses servicing the aerospace supply chain will have the opportunity to meet with buyers from the sector’s leading original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). At this year’s Advanced Engineering UK, held at the NEC, Birmingham on 30th and 31st October, businesses servicing the aerospace supply chain will have the opportunity to meet with buyers from the sector’s leading original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).    Business and Trade Secretary Jonathan Reynolds has today (22nd July) announced over £100m of government-industry funding for cutting-edge aerospace tech projects to support greener air travel, at the launch of the 2024 Farnborough Airshow.  Business and Trade Secretary Jonathan Reynolds has today (22nd July) announced over £100m of government-industry funding for cutting-edge aerospace tech projects to support greener air travel, at the launch of the 2024 Farnborough Airshow.     As a leading designer, manufacturer, and supplier of quality, precision manual and CNC machine tools, Elland, West Yorkshire-based Colchester Machine Tools understand that its strength lies in its people. As a leading designer, manufacturer, and supplier of quality, precision manual and CNC machine tools, Elland, West Yorkshire-based Colchester Machine Tools understand that its strength lies in its people.    A new £12m training facility has opened in Glasgow to ensure Scottish shipbuilding has a thriving workforce for generations to come. A new £12m training facility has opened in Glasgow to ensure Scottish shipbuilding has a thriving workforce for generations to come.    Our Subcontractor Sourcing Guide (SSG) does what it says on the tin. Since we launched the publication in print and digital formats around five years ago, it has proven to be an invaluable resource, helping companies find the right manufacturing partner to transform conceptual designs into real products or simply provide additional manufacturing capacity.  Our Subcontractor Sourcing Guide (SSG) does what it says on the tin. Since we launched the publication in print and digital formats around five years ago, it has proven to be an invaluable resource, helping companies find the right manufacturing partner to transform conceptual designs into real products or simply provide additional manufacturing capacity.   