They are vivid, familiar sights in China: stationed in construction lots, clawing earth out of the ground so that office towers or apartment blocks can sprout on site. These diggers, or excavators, are often seen as a useful proxy for economic activity: more diggers sold means more construction projects and, by extension, more economic momentum.  Right now, though, that momentum is looking very sluggish. Sales of earth diggers in China are plunging. Data released (link in Chinese) by the China Construction Machinery Association shows that just over 9,500 diggers were sold in China last month, down from nearly 14,000 in March, and a 41% decrease from a year earlier. Read more A look back at BTS as it became the world's top-selling act Your anxiety brings 4 distinct superpowers Americans may have seen the last of big rent hikes datawrapper-chart-XZHwg Chinese exports of earth diggers are also slowing. In March, they’d jumped 34% from a year earlier, spurred by demand from infrastructure projects worldwide. But last month, digger exports slowed to just a 9% year-on-year increase, hinting perhaps that economic activity worldwide is slowing.  In another sign of China’s weakening domestic economic outlook, the Chinese construction machinery maker Sany Heavy Industry said it will target foreign markets for revenue growth as demand at home remains shaky. Last year, Sany’s overseas revenue overtook domestic earnings for the first time since the company’s founding in 1986. The digger sales numbers come on the heels of disappointing trade data released by the Chinese customs administration yesterday (May 9). China’s imports fell sharply in April, contracting by 7.9% on the year. Economists polled by Reuters had anticipated no growth in inbound shipments, so the surprise decline suggested weaker domestic demand than expected. Meanwhile, exports grew 8.5% last month on the year. But as Bloomberg noted, the increase was “largely due to a skewed year-ago comparison,” because there were widespread pandemic lockdowns in April 2022. “Don’t be fooled by headline export figures,” David Qu, of Bloomberg Economics, wrote in a note. Data for Chinese factory activity doesn’t offer cause for optimism either. The official manufacturing purchasing managers’ index (PMI) unexpectedly fell to 49.2 last month from 51.9 in March. The 50-point mark separates expansion in economic activity from contraction on a monthly basis. More from Quartz The world’s biggest banknote printer said the demand for cash hit a two-decade low Every fifth car sold worldwide this year will be electric Sign up for Quartz's Newsletter. For the latest news, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Click here to read the full article. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.