Sany launched three new excavators, including its largest  model ever, at ConExpo. The three new models in the medium to large size classes each  got nicknames from the company: The SY750H is Sany's new largest excavator, at 86.5 tons with a 6.5-cubic-yard bucket.SanySany has adopted the motto, ‘Fully loaded is the new  standard.” The company carried through on the slogan for the new excavators,  with the aim of achieving commonality in features across the lineup. Such standard new features include a 10.4-inch touchscreen  monitor inside a larger, redesigned climate-controlled cab. A new heated air-suspension  seat, primary and secondary auxiliary hydraulic lines, and quick coupler  plumbed to the end of the stick are other standard fare.   “There's a lot of commonality between everything,” says Jordan  Van Wie, product specialist excavators. “So what that's going to mean for  operators is being able to get in it and understand it quickly. There's not too  much in the cab that's going to overwhelm them.” Other standard features include blind-side and rearview  cameras, push-to-start ignition, and adjustable one-way or two-way auxiliary  hydraulic flow and pressure control through the touchscreen monitor. All daily  maintenance checkpoints are at ground level.  The SY750H also features standard retractable tracks, a seat  with adjustable independent control positions and an LED work light package.   Sany calls its new SY335C LC the "comeback kid."SanyThe Chinese manufacturer reports it has not experienced the  supply-chain challenges of larger, more popular brands, especially during the  early years of the pandemic, and that has helped it increase its U.S. brand presence. “Sany has done a really good job of navigating these challenges,”  says Devraj Patkar, Sany director of engineering. “We were one of the few OEMs  who had machines available for sale during this timeframe and were able to gain  market share because of that.” As that name recognition grows, Patkar says, more  contractors will be willing to try Sany excavators. “They see that, ‘Hey, we're  getting the same performance out of this machine with a lower cost associated  with it,’ and the close support that our dealers are able to provide.” SY335C LC SY385C SY750H    