SANY UK is pleased to announce that Rocket Rentals Ltd, a leading name in UK plant, access and tool hire has made a significant investment in its fleet with the procurement of 10 new SANY excavators. The decision to invest in SANY excavators aligns with Rocket Rentals' dedication to offering top-tier machinery that ensures safety, productivity, and reliability on job sites. SANY has earned a reputation for its efficiency, durability, and exceptional performance in the construction and excavation industries. The new excavators are equipped with powerful engines and advanced hydraulic systems and are also designed to minimise fuel consumption, empowering operators to tackle projects of varying scales with greater accuracy and speed. Leigh Harris, Business Development Director for the UK and Ireland commented “It’s fantastic that a high level and renowned UK hire company such as Rocket Rentals has decided to invest in SANY excavators as they strengthen their hire fleet. Our machines are continuing to receive great feedback across the country and this partnership is another excellent endorsement of our products.” The order which includes a range of machines from 2 to 8 tonne has been supplied by SANYs depot in the South East and will join an already extensive fleet of equipment that is available to hire from Rocket Rentals across the South West. Rocket Rentals Managing Director, Simon Tomblin said “We are delighted to have taken delivery of our first order of SANY excavators to support our continued growth plans in 2023”. “We’ve been in discussions with the team at SANY for a while and in the end our decision to invest was based on a number of factors that included the high specification of the machines, the industry leading 5-year warranty, price and the relationship that we have built with the team over these past 18 months”. Simon continued ‘In this industry it’s important to keep moving forward and SANY certainly aren’t standing still. They listen to the customer and make changes along the way, which is fantastic. The new machines have all performed really well since arriving and the feedback has been really positive”. Rocket Rentals is a family run business that has been providing specialist plant and tool hire services across the South West since 2003. Its comprehensive range of plant hire includes excavators, dumpers, rollers, telehandlers, attachments and access equipment. They are committed to buying machinery that provide safety, security and ease of operation to ensure that their customers receive the very best value for money.    Advertise With UsFacebookTwitter With market-leading print and digital platforms for the Recycling, Quarrying, and Bulk Material Handling Industries we provide a comprehensive, and virtually unique route to market.Our bi-monthly magazine is available in print or electronic mediums delivering the latest news on new product launches, and industry projects directly to individually addressed on-site locations throughout the UK & Northern Ireland. Such is the demand we enjoy a regular pass-on readership of 2.5 providing a total of in excess of 15,000 regular readers of the magazine. We work closely with companies to provide on-site editorials focusing on their clients feedback. All wrapped up with on-site recorded interviews, professional photography, delivering dynamic stories and images that enhance the stories. We also attend open days & events and promote these by writing engaging editorial pieces published in our magazine, website & e-newsletter. Let HUB-4 distribute magazines at your open day and we'll promote your event for you in the news and events section of our website prior to the event. Our bi-monthly magazine is sent directly to 6,000+ quarries, recycling sites and bulk handling plants, with a pass-on rate of 2.5 giving an estimated readership of 15,000 throughout the UK. © 2024 HUB Digital Media Ltd |Registered at Companies House, Company No: 5670516. Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy