Searching for your content... Phone 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110 from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 
Contact Us
 
 +44 (0)20 7454 5110

from 8 AM - 5:30 PM GMT
 News provided by 11 Sep, 2023, 09:56 GMT Share this article The "Global Facility Management Market Size By Offering, By Deployment Mode, By End User, By Geographic Scope And Forecast" report has been published by Verified Market Research®. The report provides an in-depth analysis of the global Facility Management Market, including its growth prospects, market trends, and market challenges JERSEY CITY, N.J., Sept. 11, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- The Global Facility Management Market is projected to grow at a CAGR of 5.0% from 2021 to 2028, according to a new report published by Verified Market Research®. The report reveals that the market was valued at USD 1234.55 Billion in 2020 and is expected to reach USD 1759.25 Billion by the end of the forecast period. Download PDF Brochure: https://www.verifiedmarketresearch.com/download-sample?rid=8855 Browse in-depth TOC on "Facility Management Market" 202 - Pages126 – Tables37 – Figures Global Facility Management Market: Key Players, Market Drivers, and Future Outlook The global Facility Management Market is poised for significant growth, driven by a combination of market drivers and key industry players who are at the forefront of shaping this dynamic sector. Notable companies such as CA Technologies, IBM Corporation, Oracle Corporation, SAP SE, Archibus, Trimble, Accruent, Planon, FM: Systems, iOffice, and Planon are actively contributing to the market's expansion. Facility Management Market Drivers: Facility Management Market Outlook: The global Facility Management Market is expected to experience robust growth over the forecast period. As technology continues to evolve and governments worldwide invest in infrastructure, the demand for efficient and sustainable facility management solutions is set to soar. Moreover, the market's outlook is characterized by: Facility Management Market Key Players: The global Facility Management Market boasts a roster of influential players, including: These industry leaders are driving innovation and shaping the future of facility management through their expertise and technological prowess. To get market data, market insights, financial statements and a comprehensive analysis of the Global Facility Management Market, please Contact Verified Market Research®. Based on the research, Verified Market Research® has segmented the global Facility Management Market into Offering, Deployment Mode, End User, And Geography. Browse Related Reports: Facility Management Services Market By Type (Soft Services, Hard Services), By Application (Commercial Buildings, Government Buildings, Residential Buildings), By Geography, And Forecast Healthcare Facility Management Market By Service Type (Hard Services, Soft Services), By End-User (Hospitals and Clinics, Long-Term Care Facilities), By Geography, And Forecast Building Management System Market By Service Type (Professional Services, Managed Services), By Software (Security Management, Facility Management), By Application (Commercial, Industrial), By Geography, And Forecast Facility Management Software Market By Offering (Solutions, Services), By Deployment Mode (On-Premises, Cloud-based), By End User (IT and Telecom, Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance (BFSI)), By Geography, And Forecast Top 7 Facility Management Companies managing properties reliably and professionally Visualize Facility Management Market using Verified Market Intelligence -: Verified Market Intelligence is our BI Enabled Platform for narrative storytelling in this market. VMI offers in-depth forecasted trends and accurate Insights on over 20,000+ emerging & niche markets, helping you make critical revenue-impacting decisions for a brilliant future. VMI provides a holistic overview and global competitive landscape with respect to Region, Country, Segment, and Key players of your market. Present your Market Report & findings with an inbuilt presentation feature saving over 70% of your time and resources for Investor, Sales & Marketing, R&D, and Product Development pitches. VMI enables data delivery In Excel and Interactive PDF formats with over 15+ Key Market Indicators for your market. About Us Verified Market Research® is a leading Global Research and Consulting firm servicing over 5000+ customers. Verified Market Research® provides advanced analytical research solutions while offering information-enriched research studies. We offer insight into strategic and growth analyses, Data necessary to achieve corporate goals and critical revenue decisions. Our 250 Analysts and SMEs offer a high level of expertise in data collection and governance use industrial techniques to collect and analyze data on more than 15,000 high impact and niche markets. Our analysts are trained to combine modern data collection techniques, superior research methodology, expertise and years of collective experience to produce informative and accurate research. We study 14+ categories from Semiconductors & Electronics, Chemicals, Advanced Materials, Aerospace & Defense, Energy & Power, Healthcare, Pharmaceuticals, Automotive & Transportation, Information & Communication Technology, Software & Services, Information Security, Mining, Minerals & Metals, Building & Construction, Agriculture industry and Medical Devices from over 100 countries. Contact Us Mr. Edwyne FernandesVerified Market Research®US: +1 (650)-781-4080US Toll Free: +1 (800)-782-1768Email: sales@verifiedmarketresearch.comWeb: https://www.verifiedmarketresearch.com/Follow Us: LinkedIn | Twitter Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/2015407/VMR_Logo.jpg The Global 3D NAND Flash Memory Market Size is projected to grow at a CAGR of 19.5% from 2024 to 2031, according to a new report published by... The Global Big Data Analytics in Banking Market is projected to grow at a CAGR of 13.5% from 2024 to 2030, according to a new report published by... Computer & Electronics Cloud Computing/Internet of Things Computer Software Computer Software