SAP and Red Hat, Inc., a provider of open source solutions, is expanding their partnership to significantly increase SAP’s use of and support for Red Hat Enterprise Linux. This collaboration aims to enhance intelligent business operations, support cloud transformation across industries, and drive holistic IT innovation, according to the vendors. This joint initiative to extend SAP software workloads on Red Hat Enterprise Linux is intended to make it easier for SAP customers to achieve greater business agility, accelerate cloud deployments and drive business innovation by building on Red Hat’s scalable, flexible, open hybrid cloud infrastructure. Customers can now more readily streamline cloud transformation projects based on SAP software, including SAP S/4HANA, based on the RISE with SAP solution underpinned by Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Building on the two companies’ long-standing collaboration, SAP is steadily migrating part of its internal IT landscape and the SAP Enterprise Cloud Services portfolio onto the standard foundation of Red Hat Enterprise Linux, a shift intended to better meet SAP’s evolving business and IT needs. SAP’s internal IT environments and SAP Enterprise Cloud Services adopting Red Hat Enterprise Linux can gain greater flexibility to address modern and future technology requirements. Paired with the RISE with SAP solution, Red Hat Enterprise Linux offers enhanced performance capabilities to support RISE with SAP solution deployments across cloud environments, smoothing the path towards cloud adoption and transformation for customers as they plan their next wave of IT innovation. Over the next year, Red Hat and SAP will collaborate closely to deepen support for RISE with SAP solution workloads on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and accelerate SAP’s adoption of Red Hat Enterprise Linux more broadly. To support SAP in more widely implementing Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Red Hat is providing dedicated product engineers and on-site resources to assist SAP engineering and technical teams in driving standardization on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and interoperability for SAP and Red Hat solutions. SAP associates can develop critical technical skills and deepen their knowledge of Red Hat’s hybrid cloud technologies through virtual and instructor-led Red Hat training courses and hands-on labs through Red Hat Learning Subscription Premium. For more information about this news, visit www.sap.com or www.redhat.com.