ABeam Consulting Ltd. was recently honored with an SAP(R) APJ Award for Partner Excellence 2023 for SAP Business Technology Platform. The awards, presented at SAP Customer Success Kick-Off 2023 in Singapore, were given out by SAP to the top-performing partners in the Asian Pacific Japan (APJ) region that have made outstanding contributions to driving digital transformation for businesses that use SAP solutions. Recipients who are in partnership with SAP help customers adopt innovation, gain results rapidly, grow sustainably, and run more simply with SAP solutions. ABeam Consulting Ltd. was recently honored with an SAP(R) APJ Award for Partner Excellence 2023 for SAP Business Technology Platform. The awards, presented at SAP Customer Success Kick-Off 2023 in Singapore, were given out by SAP to the top-performing partners in the Asian Pacific Japan (APJ) region that have made outstanding contributions to driving digital transformation for businesses that use SAP solutions. Recipients who are in partnership with SAP help customers adopt innovation, gain results rapidly, grow sustainably, and run more simply with SAP solutions. ABeam Consulting provides solutions and services for SAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP). SAP BTP is a PaaS platform bringing together data and analytics, artificial intelligence, application development, automation, and integration in one unified environment. The award was given in recognition of the achievements of ABeam Consulting in promoting corporate innovation. "We're honored and delighted by the award," says Supreeda Jirawongsri, Principal and Head of Digital Competency Group, ABeam Consulting (Thailand). "We are also thankful to SAP for recognizing our dedication to delivering the best services and solutions to our clients. This award is a statement that shows our dedication to pursuing our mission, which is leading our clients to new success through transformation contributing continual increased corporate value. And while we continue to support our clients, ABeam as an organization is constantly evolving and improving to make sure that we are capable of delivering new success to the clients." ABeam Consulting has partnered with SAP for many years and has helped many businesses achieve digital transformation across a wide range of industries in the APJ region. ABeam Consulting will continue to advance co-creation through its SAP partnership to help clients make corporate transformation a reality from a global perspective. ABeam Consulting received its award during the SAP Customer Success Kick-Off 2023 in Singapore, a gathering of SAP executives, SAP field employees, and partners. This is SAP's largest yearly sales meeting, focused on exchanging information on SAP's strategy, sales methodology, growth opportunities, and product innovations, as well as ways to drive success during the year. Selected from SAP's large and diverse partner base, nominations for the SAP Partner Excellence Awards are based on internal SAP sales data. A committee composed of regional and global SAP representatives determine winning partners in each category according to criteria such as sales achievement and performance. Awards are presented in a variety of categories, including overall sales, innovation, technology, services, and solution-specific areas. ติดต่อเราได้ที่ facebook.com/newswit