By integrating with SAP Commerce Cloud, Akeneo Product Information Management delivers a single place to collect, manage and enrich product information Boston, Feb. 2, 2023 — Akeneo, the global leader in product experience management (PXM) and product information management, announced that its Akeneo Product Information Management (PIM) solution is now available on SAP® Store, the online marketplace for SAP and partner offerings. Akeneo PIM, which helps improve product content contextualization and simplifies catalog management serving multiple channels and geographies through a flexible and intuitive platform, is built on the SAP Business Technology Platform and integrates with SAP Commerce Cloud to deliver compelling customer experiences that help drive conversion and reduce returns. “Our partnership with SAP and Akeneo PIM’s integration with SAP Commerce Cloud helps enable more businesses to upgrade how they manage product information and provides composable solutions to today’s market challenges in order to deliver streamlined omnichannel experiences,” said Mark Holenstein, Chief Operating Officer of Akeneo. “Integrating with SAP Commerce Cloud helps give our clients an even deeper layer of confidence in our product information management solutions, especially as they take a modular approach to commerce technology.” Akeneo PIM is purpose-built for ease of use while providing powerful technology to automate and govern the enrichment of product catalogs on SAP Commerce Cloud. With this integration, brands and retailers can deliver product experiences that increase sales. Akeneo PIM can help organizations: SAP Store, found at www.store.sap.com, delivers a simplified and connected digital customer experience for finding, trying, buying and renewing more than 2,200 solutions from SAP and its partners. There, customers can find the SAP solutions and SAP-validated solutions they need to grow their business. Additionally, SAP will plant a tree for every purchase made through the SAP store. Akeneo is also a partner in the SAP PartnerEdge® program, which provides the enablement tools, benefits and support to facilitate building high-quality, disruptive applications focused on specific business needs – quickly and cost-effectively. About Akeneo Akeneo brings a complete and composable SaaS-based solution for managing, orchestrating, activating, and optimizing the entire product record in order to drive compelling and consistent product experiences across all owned and unowned channels and routes-to-market. With its open platform, leading PIM for product data and asset management, and ecosystem connectivity with Akeneo App Store, Akeneo Product Cloud empowers commerce businesses to deliver world-class product experiences that unlock growth. Leading global brands, manufacturers, distributors, and retailers, including Thrasio, Staples Canada, boohoo, and Air Liquide trust Akeneo to scale and customize their omnichannel commerce initiatives. Using Akeneo Product Cloud, brands and retailers can activate product experiences in any channel, therefore driving improved customer experiences, increased sales, reduced time to market, accelerated expansion, and increased team productivity. © 2022 Akeneo. All rights reserved. SAP and other SAP products and services mentioned herein as well as their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of SAP SE in Germany and other countries. Please see https://www.sap.com/copyright for additional trademark information and notices. All other product and service names mentioned are the trademarks of their respective companies.   Step Up Your Fraud Prevention Approach in 2024 Unleashing GenAI Magic: Transforming Visual Commerce for Unbeatable Customer Experiences Returns Challenges, Opportunities Covered in New Webinar Multichannel Merchant: Editorial Spotlight on Returns in 2023 Webinar: The Generative AI Genie is Out of the Bottle High-Touch Returns Become Point of Differentiation for 3PLs Goods-To-Person E-Fulfillment Technology: Flexing Along With Demand Foreign Trade Zones: A Hidden Gem for Retailers Automation and Robotics: Moving Past Limitations to Gains Shipping Capacity Management: The Outlook for 2022 Peak Season Content-Based Marketing: A Post-Cookie Evolution Generative AI in Customer Service: A Balanced Blueprint Why Digital Wallets are The Key to Modern Loyalty Marketing ESG and Your Supply Chain: 3 Steps to a Streamlined Strategy Retail Cyber Threats: 5 Ways to Protect Your Business