magdal3na - Fotolia Babylon Health, which runs the controversial GP at Hand smartphone service, is looking to sell its UK business, in the hope it can save itself from going into administration. The company confirmed earlier this week (7 August 2023) that its intended merger with digital health company Mindmaze would not proceed, and Babylon Health is now exploring “new strategic alternatives in order to find the best possible outcome for its UK business”, according to a company statement. “Babylon remains focused on continuing the day-to-day operations of its UK business, providing accessibility of its healthcare services and the highest standards of care for its patients and members,” the statement said. “The group is pursuing the divestiture of its UK business to third parties that may provide financing to assure the continuity of the operations.” Babylon Health was started by Ali Parsa in 2013, and in 2017 its smartphone app, GP at Hand, was founded. The app’s GP service is funded by the NHS and run by NHS Hammersmith and Fulham Clinical Commissioning Group, together with NHS England. The app, which is essentially an online GP practice, has more than 100,000 registered NHS patients. It shot to success after then health secretary Matt Hancock sang its praises during a speech in 2018, where he called the app the future of healthcare, saying it was paving the way for other technology companies and that he wanted to help expand GP at Hand. In 2018, Babylon Health also invested £75m to build next-generation artificial intelligence (AI) healthcare technologies, and over the following years, it continued to grow both across the UK and the US, where it listed on the stock exchange in 2021. However, in May 2023, shares in Babylon Health fell drastically, as it announced a funding agreement with Albacore Capital, which would spend almost £30m to provide liquidity to the company. In July 2023, the company was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange, and Babylon said in its statement that it “cannot provide assurance that it will be able to secure sufficient liquidity to fund the operations of the group’s business”. It has already made the decision to exit its “core US business and plans to safely transition its US members to other providers”, the statement said. Should it not be able to sell its business, it will have to file for administration, both in the UK and the US, which would likely mean the end for its GP at Hand service. The service itself has been surrounded by controversy. In 2019, Hammersmith and Fulham MP Andy Slaughter wrote to the Health and Social Care Committee citing concerns over the app, including the software’s robustness and its ability to deal with the range of conditions it proposed to diagnose and treat. Slaughter said Babylon had created an “inverted pyramid” structure in which the tool is competing with GPs, and that there is no indication GPs and the NHS welcome such digitisation. He added that the app’s growth had created a funding problem for the CCG. In 2020, Babylon notified regulators of a “minor data breach” after users found they were able to view the consultations of other service users in the app. The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Data is one of the most important assets in any organization. To truly protect it, you need a DDR strategy. Here's what you need ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
