Apropos of recent coverage this column has seen on the intersection of hearing health and technology, that today marks World Hearing Day feels fortuitous. According to the World Health Organization, March 3rd every year is circled on the calendar as a means to “raise awareness on how to prevent deafness and hearing loss and promote ear and hearing care across the world.” In the United States, the CDC stands in solidarity with the WHO’s efforts, writing on their website the WHO reports more than 360 million people worldwide live with “disabling” hearing loss of some sort. In addition, more than a billion people ages 12 to 35 are susceptible to hearing loss due to “recreational noise exposure.” Widex and Signia are two companies that specialize in building solutions to help people hear better. Both are singularly focused on hearing health technology, which stands in stark contrast to how technology companies like Apple approach the issue. Whereas Apple is exceedingly cautious in disclaiming the hearing features in AirPods don’t make the earbuds a replacement for bonafide hearing aids, Widex and Signia exist in the inverse. They use technology as a means to an end, embracing the health-oriented part of their respective mission. In other words, a consumer tech company like Apple and bespoke hearing health companies like Widex and Signia more or less share a similar ideal—improving hearing—but the methods for getting there are diametrically opposed to each other. However divergent paths these companies take, the common thread is undeniably clear: hearing health has steadily become a big deal to more people. Dana Helmink is an audiologist at Widex.  “I think there’s a lot of things to that,” said Dana Helmink, an audiologist at Widex. “One of the things that jumped out at me is people are living longer, and their expectation is to live their life to its fullest—to remain socially active, to really be engaged in their lives. Hearing loss, when it’s present, can really get in the way of that. I think that the expectation of people today is that they’re out living their life doing as much as they possibly can… everything that they have done in the past. When something steps in the way of that, we’re ready to take action.” Widex was founded in 1956 by two Danish families who still co-own the company to this day. Helmink was succinct in describing Widex’s core mission: “Our guiding principle is to look at how technology can really restore natural hearing,” she said. There is no all-encompassing cure for hearing loss, but there are ways to mitigate it and augment whatever hearing is left. Widex is concerned with sound quality and how it affects the overall user experience. Widex strives to building hearing aid technology that, Helmink said, “doesn’t get in the user’s way.” They want wearers to have an optimal experience with the most organic sonic quality. “Hearing loss is complex. We can’t cure it, we can’t promise to restore normal hearing,“ Helmink said of medicine’s obvious limitations in this regard. ”But we set out to try to create this natural sound that enables the hearing aid wearer to really experience their environment: the people in it, their friends, their family. Sound [is] all around them. [We want to help people] live life to the fullest.” Part of the allure of hearing health amongst technology companies is because a hearing aid is essentially a tiny wearable computer, a stone’s throw from AirPods and Apple Watch. Helmink explained consumers want their devices—hearing aids included—to integrate with their other tech like their smartphone and, to lesser degrees, be fashionable since the hearing aid is literally on one’s body. It’s also true that the hearing-oriented features in uber-popular products like AirPods go a long way in, at a surface level at least, getting people to become more aware of their ears. To reiterate an earlier point, Apple is hellbent on absolving AirPods as a medical device; still, the sheer presence of the decibel meter and other software is a strong baseline for people to notice what their devices are doing to their bodies. Helmink believes both approaches are valid. There’s room for everyone. “I think that it [hearing features in consumer tech] brings attention and awareness to people to maybe think about what their hearing status is and to possibly pursue an answer to that if they have concerns and find solutions that are available,” she said of the advent of hearing health software. “People [have] all different degrees of hearing loss at different points in their hearing journey. Our focus at Widex is that prescriptive device. So prescriptive hearing devices, very high-end, very high advanced technologies, sophisticated devices that are fit professionally." Brian Taylor works at Signia as an audiologist.  Brian Taylor, a fellow audiologist at Signia, echoed many of Helmink’s points. “I think hearing loss falls under the radar—people don’t realize how important it is [and] we take it for granted,” he said of hearing health’s ever-burgeoning place in the mainstream consciousness as something that truly matters. “There’s a lot of misconceptions in the public and even in the medical community: hearing loss can’t be treated, that it can’t be prevented, that it’s this so-called ‘normal’ condition associated with aging. I found it to be a really fascinating field from when I was in college—it combined elements of medicine, engineering gadgetry, and the ability to help people. It’s that unique combination of things that really attracted me to the field and continues to motivate me in what I do.” Taylor believes society is “in the middle” of a tectonic shift in terms of moving away from long-ingrained preconceived notions about less-than-stellar hearing. The stigma associated with hearing loss is very real—yet, as Taylor explained, attitudes are changing rapidly thanks to the commensurate changes in technology. “That shift is happening right now,” he said. “I think it still hasn’t completely happened, but I think it’s gone from this kind of hidden handicap that’s mainly about people that are older that have hearing loss [to] where we, as a society, we kind of mock people that don’t hear very well. I think we’re moving away from that to thinking more about hearing loss holistically, as it’s really important part of the healthy aging process. And we need to do everything we can to help you communicate better day-to-day, but also we know that untreated hearing loss can negatively impact somebody’s quality of life. We want to be able to think of hearing loss as a public health concern that needs to be treated earlier, when people are younger, and offer them a variety of different types of solutions." Also like Helmink, Taylor strongly feels popular consumer technology like the iPhone and AirPods have spurred the interest in hearing health. It’s becoming increasingly popular to use smartphone apps and cloud computing and artificial intelligence to make hearing aids work better—and by extension, have cooler appeal to those who might need them. There’s a clear path to making these homely medical devices into bonafide computers with a top-shelf user experience to match. “I think the technology is allowing it [hearing aids] to look more consumer friendly and less like a hearing aid—less like a medical device [and] more like a consumer audio earbud,” he said of the hearing aid’s metamorphosis. “It’s allowing people to kind of take control of the day-to-day adjustments and [benefit from] the hearing aid actually does for them in their day-to-day activities.” In essence, the modern hearing aid can offer the best of both: tech and medicine. In terms of what Taylor calls “hearables” like AirPods, he is aligned with Helmink insofar as Apple’s ambitions to provide some baseline health tracking is admirable and sensible. In a medical context, however, Taylor made clear the tech found in consumer earbuds is relatively primitive compared to proper audiological testing. Features like Live Listen and Conversation Boost in AirPods, for example, are effective to an extent. Ultimately, they offer only “nominal amplification.” Taylor isn’t dismissive—he believes such software is significant in a holistic sense. “I think that is appealing for somebody who’s maybe younger, who has minimal hearing loss, or maybe situational hearing loss where they don’t hear in background noise,” Taylor said of hearing health software in consumer tech products. “Back to what I said earlier around hearing loss now becoming a public health concern and a quality of life issue, all of us should be encouraged by the fact that these devices, assuming that they meet a certain quality threshold, are a great way to add some sort of a gateway or an entry point into using devices to help you hear better. From that standpoint, those kinds of [consumer-facing] devices [use] some sensible approaches to trying to get people who otherwise, for whatever reason, wouldn’t use traditional hearing aids into the market sooner when they’re younger, and their condition or their hearing losses is milder [in severity].” Taylor continued: “I think those devices, these ‘hearables’ and AirPods, those are very basic amplifiers compared to what you find in what we call prescription hearing aids. I think there’s a place for both basic hearing aids, basic amplifiers, and prescription hearing aids in the market. They complement each other well." Unsaid by Helmink and Taylor are the accessibility gains (in the disability sense) these more computer-like hearing aids have for the disability community. Leaving aside convenience and medicine, the fact of the matter is the computerization of hearing aids is a boon disabled people. From a usability standpoint, the fact so many hearing aids can be controlled by one’s smartphone means controlling settings and the like is more accessible than ever before. This is especially true because, on iOS for instance, developers can make a hearing aid’s companion app play nicely with VoiceOver and other assistive features. Moreover, the motor and cognitive benefits are important as well; it’s plausible for hearing aids to be problematic to use in terms of adjusting volume via knob on the device itself. That all the “housekeeping,” so to speak can be done on the phone removes much of that friction, which can be non-trivial depending on a person’s needs and tolerances. All told, it goes to show that using hearing aids go beyond convenience and even medicine—accessibility is just as crucial in shaping a positive outcome. Looking towards the future, both in the short- and long-term, Helmink and Taylor are optimistic hearing health will remain an increasingly hot topic societally. Importantly, as technological progress inevitably marches forward, so too will hearing aids. Of course, research and medical science is inextricably tied to all this. “I think that that’s that’s sort of a mission for our profession and our company [Signia] is how we improve the awareness of getting your hearing checked and finding the proper treatment,” Taylor said. “Societally, I think what we need to focus on when it comes to technology inside of our hearing aids. I think it’s how we leverage all this great stuff around machine learning, artificial intelligence, cloud computing—how we continue to leverage that to make the hearing aid smarter so that it recognizes maybe the voices that you want to hear, or suppress or reduce the voices that you don’t want to hear. There are some exciting things that are gonna happen in the long-term around that. Then figuring out how we make that user-friendly so a person doesn’t have to have a Master’s in engineering to use it. [Make it such] that it’s seamless and can be used from their smartphone." For her part, Helmink concurs with Taylor on the big picture vision. “We’ve [Widex] pioneered artificial intelligence solutions within our hearing aids and within our apps to take that awareness of the environment and intent of the user and make it so that they can instantly customize their experience and meet their needs in a situation,“ she said. ”I think that goal we have of helping people expect hearing technology [and] experience the most natural sound, and then have success in every environment that really describes our past endeavors. What we continue to strive for in the future, because I think we’re never satisfied and say, ‘this is good enough’—we always think we can do better. My personal hope, as an audiologist, is that we facilitate the type of experiences that get people talking to their friends and their family, and saying all the amazing, wonderful things about their experience with with hearing healthcare so that we put an end to the stigma [surrounding hearing loss]. We really [want to] put an end to some of the hesitancy that individuals have to get on that road to hearing healthcare.”  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.