
UPDATED 15:55 EDT / AUGUST 15 2023

 
	                    		                        by 
Chad Wilson

 In a world propelled by the rapid evolution of analytics, the imperative for forward-thinking technologists to maintain their edge has never been more important. Developers, data scientists, analysts and IT professionals will take part in the upcoming SAS Explore event, happening in Las Vegas from Sept. 11-14. The event focuses on evolving enterprise technology, including generative artificial intelligence, ethical AI and real-time insights. “SAS Institute is a remarkable American business success story,” said Dave Vellante, industry analyst and theCUBE co-founder. “An early pioneer in statistical analysis, the company continued to evolve as the demand for high-fidelity data analytics rose, spanning six decades.” Join theCUBE, SiliconANGLE Media’s livestream studio, on Sept. 12 for our exclusive coverage of SAS Explore. Find out how SAS is working to level up AI and analytics through data management innovations. (* Disclosure below.) Check out theCUBE’s event trailer:  A leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Data Science and Machine Learning Platforms for eight years running, SAS has developed a wide array of data analytics and Kubernetes solutions, including the company’s Viya platform, a cloud-based, in-memory AI analytics engine that provides data visualization, reporting and analytics. Initially investing $1 billion to overhaul Viya during a three-year period in 2019, SAS is set to invest a second $1B cash infusion into advanced analytics and AI as part of its Viya overhaul. The company intends to allocate a significant portion of the recently acquired $1 billion toward the creation of additional industry-specific iterations of its platform, as well as enhancing those that are already in existence, according to the company. “Through this investment, SAS will continue to support companies using AI, machine learning and advanced analytics to fight fraud, manage risk, better serve customers and citizens,” said Jim Goodnight, chief executive officer of SAS. “We remain steadfast in our ongoing commitment to innovation while delivering the market’s best analytics.” AI was integral in the development of the Viya platform, which lowers operating costs by 86%, on average, and is 30 times faster than competitors, according to the company. SAS helps businesses capitalize on advancements in AI and embeds AI technologies, such as machine learning and deep learning, in solutions across the SAS portfolio. Helping organizations create a resilient business is SAS’ primary goal, according to Jay Upchurch, executive vice president and CIO of SAS, in a recent interview. “With all the uncertainty in the world around us, how can companies ensure that they are resilient? Analytics, AI and the cloud help create the foundation for resiliency. Now, we’re trying to figure out how to do that for industries at large,” he said. In a significant stride toward accessibility and flexibility, the company took a transformative step last September by introducing its Viya platform on the Microsoft Azure Marketplace, available under a pay-as-you-go model. This marked a shift in the company’s strategy, as users could now seamlessly provision the platform without the need for direct negotiations or monthly licensing fees. The move reflected SAS’s commitment to empowering users by streamlining the deployment process and aligning with modern business practices, according to the company. Alongside the Viya platform, SAS solutions include products such as SAS Data Management, SAS Data Quality and SAS Data Loader for Hadoop. “SAS is a founder-led and mission-driven company that has not only kept pace, but demonstrated leadership in fast-changing markets, including supply chain analytics, data quality, data science, sustainability, risk management and dozens of related solutions across every industry,” Vellante said. SAS’ main competitors include IBM Corp., Microsoft Corp. and Oracle Corp., among others. Despite competing against these global behemoths, the company continues to generate in excess of $3 billion in revenue each year, recording $3.1 billion in sales in 2022 alone. This revenue included a sales growth in SAS Viya of 23%. With an eye toward securing sustained expansion and attracting top-tier tech talent, SAS announced its intent to be IPO-ready in 2024, depending on market conditions. Following the initial announcement in 2021, the company has been strategizing its trajectory, bolstering its financial reporting mechanisms, optimizing operational workflows and honing its concentration on strategic segments within its platform. These measures underscore SAS’ commitment to fostering enduring success, ensuring the well-being of its stakeholders and positioning itself as an appealing prospect within the dynamic landscape of technology, according to the company. “The company has stated its intention to be IPO-ready sometime next year,” Vellante said. “While IPOs have dried up over the past two years, the appetite for new quality issues is growing and a potential SAS IPO could start a new wave of momentum in tech.” The company has proven itself to be a major player when it comes to data analytics, and with its renewed focus on AI and ML, it’s looking to maintain its industry leadership as it pushes the boundaries of innovation.   The company plans to continue weaving AI technologies, such as machine learning and deep learning, across its portfolio. Infusing its software with AI capabilities allows SASs to offer solutions that are not only intelligent but also automated, encompassing a range of AI technologies spanning machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing, forecasting and optimization. “Analytics and AI are accelerating innovation across businesses of all sizes, leaving no industry untouched,” said Ron Agresta, senior director of product management at SAS. “SAS data quality solutions enable accuracy, completeness, trustworthiness and usability in any decision-making process that relies on data — all of which are essential to building a data-driven business.” Don’t miss theCUBE’s coverage of SAS Explore on September 12. Plus, you can watch theCUBE’s event coverage on-demand after the live event. We offer you various ways to watch theCUBE’s coverage of SAS Explore, including theCUBE’s dedicated website and YouTube channel. You can also get all the coverage from this year’s events on SiliconANGLE. SiliconANGLE also has podcasts available of archived interview sessions, available on iTunes, Stitcher and Spotify, which you can enjoy while on the go. SiliconANGLE also has analyst deep dives in our Breaking Analysis podcast, available on iTunes, Stitcher and Spotify. Stay tuned for theCUBE’s lineup of guests, as we’ll be talking with executives, industry analysts and organizations at the forefront of cutting-edge technology. (* Disclosure: TheCUBE is a paid media partner for the SAS Explore event. Neither SAS Institute Inc., the sponsor of theCUBE’s event coverage, nor other sponsors have editorial control over content on theCUBE or SiliconANGLE.) THANK YOU NVLink and NVSwitch are Nvidia’s secret weapon in the AI wars Primate Labs launches Geekbench AI tool to test real-world device AI performance Regulators tighten their fingers around Big Tech's neck, but it's not slowing down AI Goodfire AI raises $7M to demystify AI systems using mechanistic interpretability techniques Hermes 3, a super-creative version of open-source Llama 3.1 AI model, even struggles with inner conflict California advances AI regulation bill amid Silicon Valley concerns NVLink and NVSwitch are Nvidia’s secret weapon in the AI wars AI - BY ZEUS KERRAVALA . 1 HOUR AGO Primate Labs launches Geekbench AI tool to test real-world device AI performance AI - BY KYT DOTSON . 2 HOURS AGO Regulators tighten their fingers around Big Tech's neck, but it's not slowing down AI AI - BY ROBERT HOF . 2 HOURS AGO Goodfire AI raises $7M to demystify AI systems using mechanistic interpretability techniques AI - BY MIKE WHEATLEY . 16 HOURS AGO Hermes 3, a super-creative version of open-source Llama 3.1 AI model, even struggles with inner conflict AI - BY MIKE WHEATLEY . 16 HOURS AGO California advances AI regulation bill amid Silicon Valley concerns AI - BY DUNCAN RILEY . 16 HOURS AGO Forgot Password? Like Free Content? Subscribe to follow.