
ISG Provider Lens™ report says service providers have helped many companies pursue digital transformation to overcome business challenges, expand into new markets
 
Many enterprises worldwide have embarked on digital transformations in the past few years, choosing a range of strategies and service provider partners to improve their agility and resilience or expand their businesses, according to a new research report published today by Information Services Group (ISG) III, a leading global technology research and advisory firm.
 
The 2022 ISG Provider Lens™ Digital Business Enablement and ESG Services Archetype report finds that enterprises of all kinds have struggled to overcome the disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, especially in the face of additional challenges related to ever-changing market conditions and the Russia-Ukraine war. Across all regions, both enterprises and service providers are often held back by a shortage of technology skills needed to carry out digital transformation and operate increasingly advanced IT environments, ISG says.
 
"Digital business service providers helped companies ride out the pandemic by adding new technologies," said Shafqat Azim, ISG partner and Americas lead, Digital Transformation. "Despite continued difficulties, those companies have since restarted innovation initiatives they co-developed with IT providers and partners."
 
To navigate ongoing business and economic challenges, including the need for decarbonization, organizations have developed different types of business roadmaps around cloud services and new digital technologies, the report says. While some are using the cloud to remain resilient, others are pursuing customer-focused initiatives, including new uses of data to enhance customer experience. Still others are driven by purpose, especially those putting environmental, social and governance (ESG) goals at the center of their business strategies. The most innovative enterprises are striving to deliver services that set them apart as leaders in their respective segments.
 
The 2022 ISG Provider Lens™ Digital Business Enablement and ESG Services Archetype report examines four different types of clients, or archetypes, that use digital business enablement services. The report evaluates the capabilities of 22 digital business enablement providers to deliver services to the four archetypes:
 
Traditional Enterprises Archetype: These organizations remain heavily invested in legacy systems and take on new technologies reactively to overcome problems that impede business growth. Typically, they responded to the pandemic by adopting cloud solutions or moving to online channels to remain reachable to customers. These companies seek providers that can help them scale as quickly as possible with ready-to-deploy solutions.
 
Consumer-Driven Enterprises Archetype: Enterprises fitting this archetype adopt digital technologies for customer-focused goals such as improving customer experience and enhancing employee engagement to better serve customers. They plan their digital roadmaps around objectives such as improving delivery times, resolving complaints faster and targeting current and new customers with complementary products and services.
 
Purpose-Driven Enterprises Archetype: These organizations are focused on providing industry-leading products and services, including ones that help customers assess their carbon footprints and achieve sustainability. They are more forward-thinking than most enterprises and seek provider services, including ESG services, that can help them scale both horizontally and vertically and expand into new businesses.
 
Pioneering Enterprises Archetype: These enterprises are focused on using new technologies to introduce industry-specific solutions that make them leaders in their respective segments. They establish their own innovation centers for emerging technologies and are experienced at working with technological complexity. Companies in this archetype engage with providers as partners in their innovation roadmaps.
 
Among the providers ISG evaluated, Accenture, Capgemini, Cognizant, IBM, TCS and Wipro are named as Leaders across three archetypes each. Atos and Tech Mahindra are named as Leaders across two archetypes each. Birlasoft, Cybage, HCLTech, Hexaware, Infosys, LTI, Mindtree and Zensar are named as Leaders in one archetype each.
 
The 2022 ISG Provider Lens™ Digital Business Enablement and ESG Services Archetype report is available to subscribers or for one-time purchase on this webpage.
 
About ISG Provider Lens™ Research
 
The ISG Provider Lens™ Quadrant research series is the only service provider evaluation of its kind to combine empirical, data-driven research and market analysis with the real-world experience and observations of ISG's global advisory team. Enterprises will find a wealth of detailed data and market analysis to help guide their selection of appropriate sourcing partners, while ISG advisors use the reports to validate their own market knowledge and make recommendations to ISG's enterprise clients. The research currently covers providers offering their services globally, across Europe, as well as in the U.S., Canada, Brazil, the U.K., France, Benelux, Germany, Switzerland, the Nordics, Australia and Singapore/Malaysia, with additional markets to be added in the future. For more information about ISG Provider Lens research, please visit this webpage.
 
A companion research series, the ISG Provider Lens Archetype reports, offer a first-of-its-kind evaluation of providers from the perspective of specific buyer types.
 
About ISG
 
ISG (Information Services Group) III is a leading global technology research and advisory firm. A trusted business partner to more than 900 clients, including more than 75 of the world's top 100 enterprises, ISG is committed to helping corporations, public sector organizations, and service and technology providers achieve operational excellence and faster growth. The firm specializes in digital transformation services, including automation, cloud and data analytics; sourcing advisory; managed governance and risk services; network carrier services; strategy and operations design; change management; market intelligence and technology research and analysis. Founded in 2006, and based in Stamford, Conn., ISG employs more than 1,600 digital-ready professionals operating in more than 20 countries—a global team known for its innovative thinking, market influence, deep industry and technology expertise, and world-class research and analytical capabilities based on the industry's most comprehensive marketplace data. For more information, visit www.isg-one.com.
  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230313005500/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.