Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  The cost of the services mentioned below are up-to-date at the time of publication. Credit monitoring services can help protect your personal and financial information from hackers and identity theft. They do this by watching over your credit, offering alerts, scanning the dark web for your information, keeping track of your public records and more. To determine which credit monitoring services are the best, CNBC Select compared 12 services offering a variety of free and premium plans that provide different levels of credit protection. Free services generally come with limited coverage while premium services offer extensive protection. (See our methodology for more information on how we chose the best credit monitoring services.) If you're not willing to pay money for a credit monitoring service, you can consider one of these free options. While there are many benefits to signing up for a free service, including regular credit score updates, you won't have access to triple-bureau credit monitoring and identity theft insurance, among other premium perks. Free TransUnion and Experian VantageScore Yes No Terms apply. Who's this for? CreditWise from Capital One is a free credit monitoring service that doesn't require you to enter a credit card number to sign up and provides a great range of features. Plus, it's open to anyone — regardless of whether you're a Capital One cardholder. Standout benefits: Unlike other free services, CreditWise offers dark web scanning and Social Security number tracking. As an added tool, you can use the credit score simulator to check the potential effect that certain actions, such as paying off debt or closing a credit card, may have on your credit score. [ Jump to more details ] Free Experian FICO® Yes, one-time only No Terms apply. Who's this for? Experian offers a free credit monitoring service that allows you to sign up without providing a credit card number. With this service, you'll receive real-time alerts about new inquiries and accounts opened in your name, changes to your personal information and suspicious activity detected on your Experian credit report. Standout benefits: Experian offers a variety of helpful features that are similar to some you find in the premium Experian IdentityWorks plans (more below), making this a great no-cost alternative. Upon sign-up, you receive a one-time dark web surveillance report that searches over 600,000 web pages for your Social Security number, email or phone number. In addition to credit monitoring, you can take advantage of *Experian Boost®, which lets you add positive payments for phone and utility bills to your Experian credit file, potentially increasing your FICO Score. [ Jump to more details ] If you want a more comprehensive credit monitoring plan, consider one of the paid plans below. By paying a monthly fee, you'll get more all-encompassing protection, including triple-bureau credit monitoring, extensive fraud alerts and identity theft insurance up to $1 million — which aren't available with free plans. Individual plan: $10/month billed annually or $13/month billed monthly; Couple plan: $18/month billed annually or $24/month billed monthly; Family plan: $29/month billed annually or $39/month billed monthly Protects against financial fraud, identity theft, spam calls, online theft, phishing and scam websites, viruses and malware, as well as offering security tailored to kids and financial alerts like credit score monitoring Offered in both the App Store (for iOS) and on Google Play (for Android) Terms apply. Who's this for? Aura has plans specific to couples and families, which not all services do. Family-oriented features include family alert sharing, parental controls, video gaming with cyberbullying alerts and child identity protection with Social Security number alerts. Standout benefits: Aura stands out for its white-glove fraud resolution team that walks you through resolving any identity theft or fraud incident, its email alias generation to hide your email address, its automated child sex offender geo-alerts, all in addition to three-bureau credit monitoring alerts and monthly VantageScore access. [ Jump to more details ] UltraSecure Individual: $19.90 per month or $199.90 per year; UltraSecure+Credit Individual: $34.90 per month or $349.90 per year; UltraSecure Family: $24.90 per month or $249.90 per year; UltraSecure+Credit Family: $39.90 per month or $399.90 per year 3-bureau credit monitoring, alerts and reports: Experian, Equifax and TransUnion®, with UltraSecure+Credit Individual and UltraSecure+Credit Family plans only VantageScore® 3.0, with UltraSecure+Credit Individual and UltraSecure+Credit Family plans only Yes, with all plans Yes, at least $1 million with all plans Terms apply. Who's this for? IdentityForce offers the most extensive security features that monitor your information on various sites and services, including the dark web, court records and social media. (The service checks if your accounts on sites like Facebook, Instagram and X have inappropriate activity that may be perceived as profane or discriminatory.) Standout benefits: IdentityForce consumers receive alerts for potential fraud on their bank, credit card and investment accounts, as well as the use of their medical ID, Social Security number and address. For a complete credit monitoring and identity protection service, opt for UltraSecure+Credit. This plan provides the added benefit of three-bureau credit monitoring and credit score updates. You can also track how your score changes over time and simulate how certain actions can impact your score (though you can do this with some free services, like CreditWise). [ Jump to more details ] $9.99 to $24.99 per month Up to $1 million for Identity Protection and Total Protection plans; none for Credit Protection plan Total Protection and Credit Protection plans both monitor your Experian, Equifax and TransUnion credit reports; Identity Protection doesn't offer credit monitoring. Yes No Terms apply. Who's this for? PrivacyGuard offers three different plans, but one combines the best of both, including daily triple-bureau credit monitoring, monthly credit score and credit report tracking, as well as public and dark web scanning and identity theft insurance. Standout benefits: PrivacyGuard has well-rounded coverage that includes unique features like a dedicated identity fraud resolution agent, a financial calculator suite, neighborhood reports, emergency travel assistance and medical records reimbursement. [ Jump to more details ] Basic: Free; Premium: 7-day trial, after $24.99 per month; Family: 7-day trial, after $34.99 per month 1-bureau credit monitoring, alerts and reports: Experian, with Basic plan only and 3-bureau credit monitoring, alerts and reports: Experian, Equifax and TransUnion®, with Premium and Family plans only FICO® Score 8, with all plans Yes, with all plans Yes, up to $1 million with all plans Terms apply. *Identity Theft Insurance underwritten by insurance company subsidiaries or affiliates of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). The description herein is a summary and intended for informational purposes only and does not include all terms, conditions and exclusions of the policies described. Please refer to the actual policies for terms, conditions, and exclusions of coverage. Coverage may not be available in all jurisdictions. Who's this for? Experian IdentityWorks offers the most affordable plans, including a basic version for free and free trials on the other two paid plans. Standout benefits: Experian IdentityWorks' features across plans include credit monitoring, dark web surveillance, Social Security number and change of address alerts and identity theft insurance. [ Jump to more details ] $29.95 to $39.95 per month Experian for Basic plan or Experian, Equifax and TransUnion for Advanced and Premier plans FICO Yes, for Advanced and Premier plans Yes, up to $1 million Terms apply. Who's this for? FICO Scores are used in over 90% of lending decisions, making FICO Advanced the most accurate for credit score updates. Standout benefits: All FICO Advanced plans offer access to 28 versions of your FICO Score, including scores for credit cards, mortgages and auto loans. Plus, you'll receive $1 million identity theft insurance and 24/7 access to U.S.-based identity theft experts who can help restore your identity if your information is compromised. [ Jump to more details ] CreditWise is a credit monitoring service offered by Capital One. You don't need to be a Capital One customer to use Credit Wise, but if you are, CreditWise features are integrated into the Capital One mobile app, so there's no need to also download the CreditWise app. Consumers receive an updated VantageScore from TransUnion every week and credit report updates from TransUnion and Experian in real-time. Cost Free Dark web scan Yes Identity theft insurance No [ Return to summary ] Experian free credit monitoring is the complimentary version that credit bureau Experian offers its customers. Users get an updated Experian credit report and FICO Score every 30 days. Cost Free Dark web scan Only a one-time scan Identity theft insurance No [ Return to summary ] Aura offers identity theft and credit protection for you and your whole family. Cost From $12 per month to $45 per month Dark web scan Yes, with all plans Identity theft insurance Yes, at least $1 million with all plans [ Return to summary ] IdentityForce is part of TransUnion and offers identity and credit protection, along with credit advice. Cost From $19.90 per month to $39.90 per month Dark web scan Yes, with all plans Identity theft insurance Yes, at least $1 million with all plans [ Return to summary ] PrivacyGuard protects individuals against identity theft. Two of its three plans include credit protection, while its third plan focuses solely on identity protection. Cost From $9.99 per month to $24.99 per month Dark web scan Yes, with two plans Identity theft insurance Yes, $1 million with two plans [ Return to summary ] Experian IdentityWorks is part of Experian and is the only identity theft protection service that we found offering users access to their FICO Score. Cost From free to $34.99 per month Dark web scan Yes, with all plans Identity theft insurance Yes, up to $1 million with all plans [ Return to summary ] FICO Advanced is one of the credit monitoring plans offered by myFICO. Cost $29.95 per month Dark web scan No Identity theft insurance Yes, $1 million [ Return to summary ] At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every credit monitoring review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of credit monitoring products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best credit monitoring services. To determine which credit monitoring services offer the most benefits to consumers, CNBC Select analyzed and compared 12 services that offer a variety of free and paid plans. When ranking the best free credit monitoring services, we focused on the following features: When ranking the best paid credit monitoring services, we focused on the following features: Keep in mind that credit monitoring services can only alert you of changes to your credit file, not fix or prevent any errors. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. Money matters — so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. To learn more about IdentityForce®, visit their website. *Results may vary. Some may not see improved scores or approval odds. Not all lenders use Experian credit files, and not all lenders use scores impacted by Experian Boost. © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.