Processing.... Modern Technology Solutions Inc. has secured a potential $87 million contract from a subordinate unit of the U.S. Space Force to provide logistics and systems engineering support for the Mobile User Objective System program. MTSI said Wednesday it will support space-related research, development, production, launch, sustainment and testing activities of Space Systems Command’s military communications and positioning, navigation, and timing program executive office as well as the narrowband satellite communications program office in San Diego. MUOS is a narrowband military satellite communications system designed to deliver global connectivity to U.S. mobile forces. Kevin Robinson, president and CEO of MTSI, said the contract award reinforces the company’s purpose of delivering platforms in the space domain in support of warfighters. MTSI has supported SSC and its predecessors for over 15 years by providing rapid development, testing, prototyping and deployment support for space-based capabilities. The U.S. Space Force plans to solicit industry offers to develop two Mobile User Objective System spacecraft in early 2023 as part of efforts to extend the life of the MUOS satellite constellation, C4ISRNET reported Friday. Barbara Baker, deputy program executive officer for Space Systems Command’s military satellite communications and positioning, navigation and timing directorate, Raytheon Technologies' (NYSE: RTX) Collins Aerospace business has secured a delivery order to supply more  AN/PRC-162 ground radio systems to the U.S. Army. The U.S. Navy has awarded Lockheed Martin’s (NYSE: LMT) space systems business a potential 10-year, $112.7M contract to help maintain a satellite system built to support military communications across the world. The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here