Sauce lovers everywhere are getting worried this summer as the Sriracha shortage returns with a vengeance. One of America's most popular Sriracha manufacturers announced this month that supplies continue to be limited and shoppers looking for those full-bodied red bottles with recognizable green caps may be out of luck. Huy Fong Foods, the California-based company which makes the most recognizable brand of Sriracha in the U.S., first announced the shortage last year citing a severe shortage of the chili peppers central to the sauce's recipe. Particularly dry conditions in Mexico had caused red jalapeno pepper crops to fail. "Climate change is the ultimate driver, but it’s also how we manage the water equitably,” Gary Nabhan, an agricultural ecologist and professor emeritus at the University of Arizona told the Los Angeles Times. Last year the company indicated it hoped for a better fall harvest but it wasn't enough to alleviate the strain. In a statement, representatives from Huy Fong wrote "Unfortunately, we are still experiencing a shortage of raw material. Although some production did resume this past fall season, we continue to have a limited supply that continues to affect our production. At this time, we have no estimations of when supply will increase." With the shortage now over a year on and no end in sight, spice lovers have been forced to seek alternatives or pay premium prices for the popular sauce. Prior to the shortage, bottles were usually sold for under $10. Now with the sauce in short supply, those lucky enough to have their hands on the product are hoping for a cash boon. Particularly egregious examples include a 2-pack of 17oz Huy Fong Sriracha bottles being sold on Amazon for $123.99 and a singular 28 oz bottle listed on eBay for $69.99. For some sauce enthusiasts, desperate times call for desperate measures. SF Gate reported earlier this month that the shortage had driven some consumers to swipe the bottles from restaurants. Mariel Edwards, the operations manager at Senor Sisig’s, a Filipino fusion restaurant in San Francisco, told the paper that bottles of the condiment had been vanishing from tables. “They literally disappear,” she said.