All recommendations within this article are informed by expert editorial opinion. If you click on a link in this story we may earn affiliate revenue. FOODIES are scrambling to their nearest Asda branch to bag a cult favourite air fryer that's been slashed by more than £80. Though now a firm favourite amongst those loving to try out new recipes, air fryers tend to be quite pricey - but luckily, supermarket Asda has come to rescue yet again with a bargain deal. Here, according to one lucky customer, Nicole Cullen, you can snap up a Ninja Air Fryer for a little over £35 - and the same item, 3.8l in size, retails for an eye-watering £119 on the store's website. Sharing a snap of her amazing find, Nicole said in her post: ''Bargain for my mum.'' The posh air fryer, Ninja Kitchen stated on their online store, is the perfect way to cook quick and easy meals using little to no oil. According to the company, whipping up a scrumptious dish in an air fryer will cut your cooking time in half whilst also using over 70 per cent less fat. Foodies will be pleased to know that the appliance comes with four settings - air fryer, roast, dehydrate and reheat. Although the device might seem small in size, the 3.8l basket fits fits a 1.35kg chicken or 900g of French fries.  What's more, the removable parts of this are also save to chuck in your dishwasher and there is a two-year guarantee. Nicole, who had bought the must-have kitchen appliance in Walton, shared the news on the popular Extreme Couponing and Bargains UK group - and needless to say, the deal went down a treat. Close to 1k members of the page gave the post a like, whilst dozens raced to comments to share their thoughts and tag their pals to let them know about the deal. One foodie said: '' keep an eye out in yours if you haven't got one yet , they are so good for quick kids meals!'' FABULOUS VEGAS: JOIN TO CLAIM £100 BONUS PLUS 50 FREE SPINS Someone else couldn't get over how affordable the find was, writing: ''Wow great bargain ..well done!'' A third chimed in: ''£119 on asda website obvs [obivously] not all asdas do the same deals.'' ''Wowzers..... Bargain,'' another penned. Don't know what to whip up tonight? Then look no further, as one foodie has shared the ultimate recipe for air fryer spuds - and they come out so crispy. According to the author behind this - TikTok user McKinley Anderson - you only need a couple of ingredients that are already sitting in your kitchen cupboard. These, she demonstrated in the clip, included spuds, olive oil and a few spices - garlic powder, paprika, as well as parsley. First, the cooking fanatic started by chopping her potatoes before soaking them in hot water for roughly ten minutes. Once the time was up, she drained the water and placed them onto a dry kitchen roll to get rid of any excess liquid. McKinley, who posts under the username @mckinley_matney, continued with chucking the fries into a large bowl and adding the remaining ingredients. After this step was completed, she sprinkled some salt and pepper and cooked the potatoes in her air fryer for 20 minutes at 190C.  To make sure they don't burn and are evenly cooked, McKinley also advised to give the fries a stir halfway through. Chuffed with how crunchy they had come out, the foodie chuckled in the caption: ''i would eat these every day if i could [sic].'' ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/