Overcast with rain showers at times. High 66F. Winds NW at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 40%..
                                 Cloudy early with partial clearing expected late. Low 51F. Winds NNW at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 1:33 am  A group of state House lawmakers representing primarily rural areas of the Commonwealth has introduced a package of six bills aimed at holding telecommunications companies accountable to their customers. Some of the measures come in response to a series of public input hearings hosted by the Public Utility Commission in Tioga, Bradford and Wyoming counties. The lawmakers include Reps. Clint Owlett, Tina Pickett, Marty Causer, Joe Hamm, Jonathan Fritz and Alec Ryncavage. “Many people in our rural communities cannot even rely on their basic landline telephone service, let alone internet. It’s a public safety issue and an economic issue, as well as a basic customer service issue,” said Owlett. “It’s time to hold these utility companies accountable to the people who are paying for service month after month, never knowing for sure if it’s going to work from one day to the next.” Owlett noted many issues lawmakers hope to address came to light during public input hearings held by the PUC in early June in response to a formal complaint filed against Frontier Communications by the state Office of Consumer Advocate and Office of Small Business Advocate. The measures are as follows: “Telephone or electric poles are a common sight in our districts and necessary to provide services that are integral to our constituents’ lives, but they also have a lifespan and need to be replaced due to their age or an accident that renders them to be unstable,” Ryncavage said. “Having old, unused and unstable utility poles lingering is unsafe and unsightly, so I’m introducing this bill to create a meaningful timeline for the PUC to use its authority to establish reasonable timelines for companies to relocate services to new poles and quickly dispose of poles no longer in service.” “At one of the PUC hearings, we heard about volunteer firefighters spending over 12 hours directing traffic while waiting for Frontier Communications to come remove their lines from traffic,” Owlett said. “While our emergency responders are committed to doing whatever they need to do to protect public safety, this is unconscionable. Utility companies must do better.” “Time and again, we heard from customers about the many times Frontier would book a repair appointment and tell the customer they had to be present when the Frontier employee arrived. This often means missing time at work or canceling other appointments, only to have Frontier be a ‘no show’ with no advance notice,” Pickett said. “It is quite common for Frontier to do this several times to the same customer. The goal of my legislation is to have a company meet its scheduled repair appointment or give reasonable advance notice and reschedule.” “Our volunteer firefighters are already spread too thin and should not bear responsibility for the failures of utility companies,” Causer said. “The people of rural Pennsylvania deserve a reliable 911 system that protects public health and safety.” “I have heard from hundreds of residents regarding their ongoing frustrations with Frontier Communications and the less than acceptable service they provide to their customers,” said Fritz. “I am pleased to be a part of the effort to hold them accountable and work to bring these residents reliable service through legislation that would require broken poles, compromised lines or line junction infrastructure that is not currently up to industry and PUC standards to be reported to the General Assembly.” House Bill 1624 (Hamm): Would require county Emergency Management Coordinators to report to the PUC any power outage that takes down a 911 landline system. Generally, landline systems still work during a power outage if the telecommunications company has properly maintained its generators or batteries. In rural Pennsylvania, landlines remain prominent and relevant due to limited cellular coverage. The lack of 911 service is a serious public safety issue and the utility must be held accountable for its failure to take the steps necessary to keep the system up and running. 
 The Westfield Free Press-Courier mobile app brings you the latest local breaking news, updates, and more.  Read the Westfield Free Press-Courier on your mobile device just as it appears in print.
  Overcast with rain showers at times. High 66F. Winds NW at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 40%. Cloudy early with partial clearing expected late. Low 51F. Winds NNW at 5 to 10 mph. Mostly cloudy. High 63F. Winds NNW at 10 to 15 mph. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: