Processing.... MicroTech, a service-disabled veteran-owned small business, will help the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention manage telecommunications infrastructure under a $78 million award. The CDC Office of the Chief Information Officer and Digital Service Office will receive managed services through the contract, the company said Tuesday. Services will cater to the agency’s integrated voice over internet protocol and analog telephony, private branch exchange systems, and unified communications and peripherals. The company will also support primary rate interface, session initiation protocol, analog communications circuits and cable infrastructure for cellular distributed antenna systems. Tysons, Virginia-based MicroTech secured the work through the Veterans Technology Services 2 procurement vehicle. Eight companies have won spots on a five-year, $701 million indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract from the U.S. Navy to repair, maintain and modernize non-nuclear surface ships homeported in Mayport, Florida. The contractors will conduct continuous maintenance emergent maintenance of the ship and provide short-term support to the Chief of Naval Operations, the Department of Defense said Wednesday. Baltimore, Maryland-based digital services integrator Fearless will continue to help the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services improve the security and privacy of CMS systems and sensitive data under an extension to the CyberGeek contract. Fearless said it will work with Coforma and CivicActions to help the CMS Information Security and Privacy Group build a The State Department has approved the requests of the governments of Poland and the Netherlands to buy an extended-range variant of the Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile system, related equipment and support services from the U.S. government under two foreign military sales deals worth approximately $2 billion combined. Northrop Grumman (NYSE: NOC) will serve as the The premier source of breaking business news for the government contracting industry, GovCon Wire provides informative, to-the-point stories of the most significant contract awards, top-level executive moves, M&A activities and financial results of the sector’s most notable players. GovCon Wire is always on top of the most recent contracting sector activity and is updated in real time as the news breaks. Important URLs:
About us – Government Contracting FAQ – Guest Contributions – 2024 Events Login Here