Despite the support of Atlanta’s four professional sports franchises — who formed the Georgia Professional Sports Integrity Alliance — recent legislative efforts to legalize sports betting sites have again come up short. Georgia will aim to join the states with legal sports betting in 2025. Our Georgia sports betting guide will help you aware of all the latest legal updates and betting news, including DFS sites. A sense of cautious optimism turned to utter disappointment when the 2023 legislative session ended without passing Georgia sports betting legislation. Lawmakers will once again kick the proverbial can down the road and reconvene in 2024. The following timeline summarizes the history of Georgia sports betting: July 18, 2024: A former member of the University of Georgia's football program violated the NCAA's sports betting policy with bets placed in 2020. June 20, 2024: State Farm Arena partners with PrizePicks for a new marketing deal that will provide the DFS operator with massive brand exposure throughout the arena. April 25, 2024: Atlanta Falcons select Michal Penix 8th overall, and NFL Draft bettors cash in on longshot odds. April 9, 2024: PrizePicks extends Atlanta Brave partnership to continue to serve as the team's official DFS partner.  April 5, 2024: PrizePicks to open new headquarters in Atlanta as the daily fantasy sports operator continues to see massive growth.  March 29, 2024: Georgia lawmakers fail to pass any sports betting legislation, meaning the state will not see legalization this year. March 27, 2024: Georgia continues to tinker with its sports betting legislation, but time is running out to pass a bill this year. March 26, 2024: With the Georgia General Assembly set to adjourn on Thursday, there isn't much time for House amendments and Senate approval. March 18, 2024: Georgia Senate's Resolution 579 is likely to receive House amendments, delaying legal sports betting in the state.  Feb. 12, 2024: Georgia Senators propose sports betting ballot question for voters this November — "Is it OK if we legalize sports betting?" following Senate Bill 386 successfully passing in the state chamber this month.  Feb. 1, 2024: Georgia Senate approves sports betting bill, SB 386, but includes an amendment to the state's constitution that requires voters' approval during the 2024 Election before passing.   Jan. 30, 2024: Georgia’s Senate Committee on Economic Development and Tourism passes SB 386 by a vote of 8-2. Jan. 26, 2024: Georgia's latest sports betting bill runs through the state lottery. Senate Bill 386 differs from other sports betting-related legislation received in January, which envisioned amendments to the Georgia constitution.  Jan. 9, 2024: Georgia Lawmakers pessimistic about legalized sports betting in Peach State in 2024, expressing concern at last week’s National Council of Legislators from Gaming States (NCLGS) winter meeting.  Dec. 8, 2023: Voters could decide Georgia's legal sports betting fate, as gaming legislation plans to be reconsidered by lawmakers during next month's legislation session. March 29, 2023: The Georgia Senate does not vote on the amended sports betting bill. Georgia will not legalize sports betting in 2023. March 20, 2023: A heavily amended House Bill 237 receives its second reading in the Georgia Senate. If passed, the bill would return to the House for approval. H.B. 237 would allow up to 16 online sportsbooks to do business in the Peach State. March 7, 2023: Georgia's latest sports betting bill fails to receive two-thirds approval, pushing the Peach State's legalization efforts to 2024. March 2, 2023: Senate Bill 57, which would have legalized sports betting in Georgia without a constitutional amendment, fails to pass through the Senate. However, not all hope is lost, as several other bills — including HB 380, HR 210, SB 172, and SR 140 — that would bring legal sports wagering to the Peach State are still active. Feb. 20, 2023: Senate Bill 57 passes through the Committee on Economic Development and Tourism and is expected to be sent next to the Rules Committee, where it will be voted on by the entire Senate. Feb. 13, 2023: Rep. Marcus Wiedower introduces House Bill 380 into the Georgia House of Representatives in another attempt to legalize sports betting in the Peach State. The measure would allow for up to 16 online sportsbooks and in-person betting at brick-and-mortar businesses. Jan. 31, 2023: A new Georgia sports betting bill is introduced. Senate Bill 57 would allow up to 18 (and a minimum of nine) online sportsbooks to operate legally in the Peach State. Jan. 12, 2023: The NFL announces that Atlanta's Mercedes-Benz Stadium will host a potential AFC Championship Game between the Buffalo Bills and Kansas City Chiefs on Sunday, Jan. 29, at 6:30 p.m. ET. Jan. 9, 2023: The Georgia Bulldogs (-13.5) trounce the TCU Horned Frogs 65-7 to capture their second consecutive CFP championship. Dec. 31, 2022: The Georgia Bulldogs advance to the CFP National Championship with a 42-41 win over the Ohio State Buckeyes. Georgia (-12.0) will look to win back-to-back titles on Jan. 9, 2023. Dec. 12, 2022: Two Georgia lawmakers tell Covers that they expect legal sports betting to be among the topics debated in the upcoming legislative session in January 2023. Nov. 9, 2022: Republican Gov. Brian Kemp is reelected in Georgia, reducing the odds of legal sports betting arriving in the Peach State. Oct. 26, 2022: According to a poll conducted by the School of Public and International Affairs Survey Research Center at the University of Georgia, just 45.6% of those surveyed approve of legal online Georgia sports betting. Aug. 11, 2022: Democratic gubernatorial hopeful Stacey Abrams backs a plan to legalize casino and sports betting in Georgia. Tax dollars generated via legalized sports gambling represent a “permanent source of revenue to underwrite broader access to education,” says Adams. June 21, 2022: Sports bettors in the Peach State may soon have another nearby option for online gambling as North Carolina lawmakers advance two sports betting bills.  April 4, 2022: Georgia's legislative session ends without the approval of online sports betting. Lawmakers must wait until the 2023 session to revisit legalization. March 28, 2022: Georgia lawmakers make a sudden push to legalize sports betting in the state with only a week remaining in the 2022 legislative session. Both SB 142 and SR 135 pass through the Georgia House Economic Development and Tourism Committee. March 23, 2022: In the state's 2022 legislative session, legal online sports betting is likely to be passed over once more. Lawmakers note that the topic could arise again in the 2023 session. Feb. 18, 2022: DraftKings identifies Georgia as a target for the launch of its mobile sportsbook pending formal online sports betting legalization. March 31, 2021: The 2021 legislative session adjourns with no movement on Georgia’s latest sports betting proposals. SB 142 and SR 135 will be carried over to the 2022 session and, if passed, could put Georgia on track to offer legal wagering in 2023. March 5, 2021: The Senate passes SB 142 and SR 135. The House will have the opportunity to put the state in the position to offer legal sports betting by 2022. Jan. 14, 2021: The Georgia Lottery Mobile Sports Wagering Integrity Act (HB 86) is introduced in the House. The bill is ultimately withdrawn after a lack of support. Feb. 20, 2020: After witnessing the legalization of sports betting in Tennessee, five Senators back SB 403 — a bill that would legalize mobile sports betting in Georgia. The bill later dies in committee. May 14, 2018: The Supreme Court strikes down the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act (PASPA), allowing states to establish their own sports betting rules and regulations. November 1992: The Georgia State Lottery Amendment is approved. Georgia’s new state lottery, the Georgia Lottery, is created. The lottery goes on to generate billions of dollars for education funding. No, Georgia sports betting is not legal. Several efforts and pieces of legislation that would have seen legal sportsbooks come to Georgia in 2023 have failed.  On Monday, March 6, 2023, the Georgia Senate failed to pass Senate Resolution 140. The proposed legislation would have worked with Senate Bill 172 to formally legalize Georgia sports betting. The Senate voted 30-26 on SB 140 and fell short of the two-thirds majority required.  On Aug. 11, 2022, Stacey Abrams, Georgia gubernatorial hopeful, shared her plan for legalized sports betting and called for a constitutional amendment to allow casinos in Georgia. Covers' sports betting journalist Geoff Zochodne had this to say during an interview with CBS 46 WGCL: “If Georgia were to legalize sports betting, and depending on who is allowed to take wagers, the state would become one of the bigger markets in the U.S. for bookmakers almost overnight.”   Two sports betting bills were revived in 2022 — SB 142, serving as the framework for sports betting in Georgia, and SR 135, the amendment to current Georgia law. Unfortunately, SB 142 did not make it to the House floor, and SR 135 was replaced with an unrelated bill. Follow our U.S. legal tracker for the latest on each state's sports betting progress and to see states that allow sports betting. No one. However, recent proposals would set the minimum age to bet at 21 and allow bettors to place mobile wagers from anywhere in Georgia. Let's break down everything you need to know about sports betting in the Peach State. If sports betting is legalized in Georgia, bettors will have to be 21 years old to place a wager. Mobile sports betting has been included in recent sports betting proposals in Georgia. The most recent bill called for at least six online operators. Mobile and online wagering would be regulated by the Georgia Lottery Corporation. Remote registration allows sports bettors to complete the sign-up process without confirming their details and identity at a physical location, such as a casino. If Georgia sports betting becomes a reality, so should remote registration via sportsbook apps. Georgia sports betting will follow the script laid out by the federal government. Those actively placing wagers will not be permitted to use Georgia sportsbooks when traveling out of state. Any operator that obtains a Georgia sports betting license will use geofencing technology to block users not located in the Peach State. There are no retail Georgia sportsbooks. With no casinos in the state, brick-and-mortar locations have taken a back seat to the possibility of fully mobile wagering. Georgians are currently taxed 5.75% on all gambling winnings over $5,000. An additional 24% is earmarked for the federal government. We anticipate sports bet winnings will be taxed at the same rate. Georgia was previously sandwiched between two states that offered legal mobile sports betting. Online Tennessee sports betting went live late in November 2020, while legal Florida sports betting launched unexpectedly after local Seminole Tribe approved Hard Rock Bet a year later. While sports betting is alive and well in the Volunteer State, Florida’s gaming compact was eradicated on Nov. 22, 2021, after a federal judge ruled it to be in violation of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (IGRA). On Dec. 4, 2021, Florida’s Hard Rock Sportsbook officially suspended operations. Bettors seeking a retail North Carolina sports betting experience can visit one of two Caesars Sportsbooks at local casinos. After a few years of deliberation and little movement, Georgia swiftly put legal sports betting on the radar in 2021. After failing to gain traction in the 2022 and 2023 legislative sessions, state lawmakers will have to revisit legalizing mobile wagering in 2024.  Another year of stagnation should put Georgia sports betting on the back burner for the foreseeable future. Mobile wagering seems like the most likely form of sports betting to come to the Peach State. If this happens, GA bettors will be able to conveniently browse everything each Georgia sportsbook has to offer before getting started. Before selecting a sportsbook, it’s wise to become familiar with the different options in your area. This means reading reviews, browsing available bets, and ensuring a prospective sportsbook can meet your banking needs. It’s also best practice to fully understand the terms and conditions of the welcome bonuses and ongoing promotions each Georgia sports betting site offers. If Georgia legalizes sports betting, gamblers should be able to complete the sign-up process from anywhere in the Peach State via website and mobile app. Registration should only take a few minutes. Share some personal information, confirm your identity, and claim any bonuses available to get started. Welcome bonuses can range from small deposit bonuses to risk-free bets exceeding $1,000. Be sure to claim everything Georgia sportsbooks are offering before completing the registration process.  Adding funds to your sportsbook account should be quick and painless. Georgia sports betting sites typically accept some combination of debit cards, credit cards, bank transfers, PayPal, PayNearMe, eChecks, and more. We don’t know what exactly will be available to Georgia bettors, but it’s safe to assume that all popular bet types will make their way to the Peach State. These include point spreads, Over/Unders, moneyline bets, futures, props, parlays, live betting, and more. After shopping around, claiming a bonus, and funding your account, there will only be one thing left to do — start betting. Be sure to familiarize yourself with the conditions of each bet before confirming your picks. Withdrawals are not processed immediately. The time it takes to see your winnings arrive in your bank account will vary from sportsbook to sportsbook and largely depend on your chosen withdrawal method. When legal sports betting arrives in Georgia, operators will use American odds to display betting odds. American odds show favorites with a minus (-) sign and underdogs with a plus (+) sign. The number next to a favorite represents the amount you’d have to wager to win $100 in profit, while the number that follows an underdog is the total you’d stand to win when placing a $100 bet. For example, if the Atlanta Falcons have +170 odds in their upcoming season opener, they are the underdogs, and a $100 bet would earn you $170 if they are victorious.  On the flip side, if the Atlanta Hawks are +280 favorites at tip-off in their first game and win the game, you would net $100 off a $280 bet.  If you prefer to view odds as decimals or fractions, head over to our odds converter. There, you can see odds displayed as American, decimal, and fractional odds.  Sports bettors in Georgia cannot legally wager on any event. While all professional sporting events will be on the table when sports betting is legalized, there are some other markets you won't be able to find when betting at Georgia sportsbooks. Georgia will not offer political event wagering to gamblers in the Peach State. No state-regulated sportsbook permits this type of bet. We're not sure if you'll be able to bet on popular awards shows in the future — but until legal wagering comes to Georgia, you won't find any action on the Oscars, Emmy Awards, or other awards ceremonies. Georgia sports betting legislation may ultimately include esports betting. For now, however, esports are off-limits.  College sports betting should be permitted in Georgia. Several other states have restricted college betting to out-of-state matchups, but there is no word on where Georgia betting sites will stand here.  Georgia sports fans have dealt with their fair share of disappointment over the years — but with the Atlanta Braves hoisting the Commissioner's Trophy in 2021 and the Georgia Bulldogs winning back-to-back championships in 2022 and 2023, spirits are at an all-time high. While the ecstasy of a national championship can only be rivaled by the thrill of hitting on a multi-leg parlay, it's important not to let the bias from your favorite professional sports teams cloud your judgment when confirming your picks. Be sure to research all of your bets before risking your bankroll with any Georgia sportsbooks. Our how to bet guides are a great place to start. Despite several recent efforts to amend the state’s constitution and permit casino gambling, Georgia continues to be one of the least friendly states in the nation in terms of offering legal forms of gambling. With no brick-and-mortar casinos and all online gambling being illegal, the Georgia Lottery stands as the only source of gaming revenue in the Peach State. Casino gambling enthusiasts in Georgia will have to leave the state to visit a brick-and-mortar casino. Florida and North Carolina are the top casino destinations for Georgians.  Sweepstakes model online casinos serve as a legal alternative in states without real money online casinos. Sweepstakes casinos allow players to gamble with virtual currency and exchange winnings for real cash prizes.  Poker is illegal in Georgia, but gamblers can try their luck at a Florida or North Carolina poker room. Online poker is off-limits as well. Horse race betting is not legal in GA. There have been attempts to bring pari-mutuel wagering to the Peach State — led by the Georgia Horse Racing Coalition — but these efforts have not been met with much fanfare.  Daily fantasy sports contests are fair game in Georgia. DraftKings and FanDuel continue to lead the way in the Peach State. Georgia is among the most restrictive states in the U.S. regarding legalized sports betting and gambling of any form. Read the table below for all facts relevant to GA sports betting: As sports betting becomes increasingly popular in the U.S., the onus is on state regulators to ensure all gambling is met with guidelines for operators and resources for bettors. Although Georgia has yet to legalize sports betting, there are a few places problem gamblers can turn. The Georgia Department of Health and Behavioral Disabilities and the Georgia Council on Problem Gambling offer hotlines, questionnaires, and referrals to counselors. When Georgia ultimately legalizes sports betting, it will join the following U.S. jurisdictions: North Carolina sports betting officially became a reality on March 11, 2024. Tar Heel State bettors can now currently register sports betting accounts with FanDuel, DraftKings, BetMGM, bet365, and more.  Eager bettors in the Green Mountain State saw the launch of Vermont sports betting on Jan. 11, 2024.  Legal Maine sports betting arrived in November 2023 with the launch of retail and online sportsbooks. Kentucky sports betting kicked off on Sept. 7, 2023, with the arrival of legal retail sportsbooks. Bluegrass State bettors gained access to online sports betting on Sept. 28, 2023.    Georgia, along with the following list of other states moving toward legal sports betting, may potentially offer the practice of sports gambling soon:  See all blacklisted sportsbooks  With no regulated Georgia sports betting sites, it's tempting to turn to offshore sportsbooks. But your hard-earned cash is at risk every time you deposit with an unregulated sportsbook. We recommend you avoid these offshore sportsbooks:  See all blacklisted sportsbooks   No, sports betting isn't legal in Georgia, despite recent efforts to install legalized sports betting of any kind. There is no way to place a legal wager in Georgia. Online sports betting will not be legalized before 2024, at the earliest. No legal online sportsbooks are operating in Georgia. No, online and mobile betting have not been legalized in Georgia. Georgia sports bettors will have to be at least 21 years of age when legal event wagering arrives. No, bet365 is not licensed to serve bettors in Georgia. You cannot bet on sports in Georgia. Both online and in-person wagering is illegal. When sports betting is legalized, Georgia gamblers should be permitted to place wagers on all Atlanta professional sports franchises. We’re not so sure about college sports betting. Neither residents nor visitors can bet online in Georgia. In the future, expect anyone physically located in GA to be allowed to be on sports. Atlanta will undoubtedly be the biggest sports betting city in Georgia. Today's Best Sportsbook Odds Boosts & Promotions: August 19 BetMGM Bonus Code: Get Your First Sunday NFL Preseason Wager Back Up to $1,500! DraftKings Promo Code For Today's NFL Preseason Action bet365 Bonus Code COVERS: Choose Your Favorite Bonus for NFL Preseason 
                        An award-winning author at just six years old (it’s true!), Jeff has parlayed his early-life accolades into a prominent role in the iGaming content space with Covers. He now leads a talented team of expert betting analysts and sportsbook reviewers focused on delivering world-class experiences to North American bettors. 

Jeff joined the Covers team full-time in 2021 and has since played a pivotal role in shaping the brand’s content strategy and providing accurate, timely coverage of burgeoning legal sports betting markets like New York, Ohio, and Ontario. He is passionate about providing comprehensive, transparent, and unbiased betting analysis and giving Covers readers the confidence they need to come to their own conclusions when deciding how and where to bet online.  

Jeff primarily bets on NFL, MLB, and NHL player props, but he is always looking for value in futures markets. If Jeff could only use one betting app, it would be bet365, but he’s also a big fan of DraftKings, FanDuel, and Sports Interaction. He is a strong proponent of line shopping and never, ever chases losses. 

Jeff holds a BBA from St. Francis Xavier University. His work has been featured in Newsweek and referenced in news media outlets like the Calgary Herald, Financial Post, and Toronto Sun. He was previously an independent NHL prospects writer and has crafted over 200 articles and guides across the sports, iGaming, e-learning, and LMS software industries. 
                     
                    If you choose to make use of any information on this website including online sports betting services from any websites that may be featured on this website, we strongly recommend that you carefully check your local laws before doing so. It is your sole responsibility to understand your local laws and observe them strictly. Covers does not provide any advice or guidance as to the legality of online sports betting or other online gambling activities within your jurisdiction and you are responsible for complying with laws that are applicable to you in your relevant locality. Covers disclaims all liability associated with your use of this website and use of any information contained on it. As a condition of using this website, you agree to hold the owner of this website harmless from any claims arising from your use of any services on any third party website that may be featured by Covers.

                