This new creative Connecticut retreat combines generous interiors with a minimal footprint and light touch on the forest floor 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 At just 1200 sq ft, this square Connecticut retreat in the woods is modest in size but grand in outlook. Designed by New York office Scalar Architecture, the cabin is sited in the midst of a forest clearing and accessible only on foot or by a light utility vehicle.  The site has a gradient, as well as a large boulder that neither client nor architect wanted to remove. To achieve this, the entire structure has been raised up on concrete piers, with a off-central square courtyard exposing the rock at ground level. The main entrance is at the top of the slope, offering views down the full length of the living and dining room.  A secondary entrance takes you via a set of steps leading to a covered walkway that also doubles as a terrace, taking you around the rock to a door that opens directly into the main living space.  Here, the ceilings reach up the full height of the façade, with large windows and thick timber mullions offering views into the woods.  Timber beams criss-cross the top half of the room, with steps that lead up to a kitchen and two identical, cell-like bedrooms and a bathroom.  The clients are writers and producers, and the house is designed to be a creative retreat, offering respite from the city.  The pitched roof is inverted, creating an ‘impluvium’ that directs rainwater to storage. The walls and roof are clad in a leaf-resistant siding with no open gutters to clog up. High levels of insulation are packed into the structural wooden frame and the interior is clad and lined with timber boards.  Receive our daily digest of inspiration, escapism and design stories from around the world direct to your inbox. The end result is a refined box that perches above the forest floor, providing a warm space for quiet contemplation.  Scalar Architecture was founded by the Spanish-born architect Julio Salcedo, a Harvard graduate who has also worked for Rafael Moneo and SOM. As well as completing projects in Central and North America, the practice is working on a sustainable park in Madrid.   ScalarArchitecture.com Jonathan Bell has written for Wallpaper* magazine since 1999, covering everything from architecture and transport design to books, tech and graphic design. He is now the magazine’s Transport and Technology Editor. Jonathan has written and edited 15 books, including Concept Car Design, 21st Century House, and The New Modern House. He is also the host of Wallpaper’s first podcast. 
New York: High Life, Low Life, by Dafydd Jones, goes behind the scenes of New York society
 
By Hannah Silver

Published 19 August 24

 
Boghossian's new Palace Voyages collection is inspired by royal architecture
 
By Hannah Silver

Published 18 August 24

 
'Tropicality' is a key theme in a new book on Indonesian architect Andra Matin, whose work blends landscape, architecture and living
 
By Harriet Thorpe

Published 18 August 24

 
Kovac Design Studio’s Strata House is a contemporary eyrie in Bel Air with plush interiors and jaw-dropping views over Los Angeles
 
By Léa Teuscher

Published 16 August 24

 
Heliotrope Architects designs a Pacific Northwest retreat – a family estate clad in Kebony wood and nestled into a forest of Western red cedars and Douglas firs just north of Seattle
 
By Lauren Gallow

Published 13 August 24

 
This Rancho Mirage house is a revived modernist home, a stone’s throw from California’s Palm Springs, with interiors by Harrison Soll
 
By Ellie Stathaki

Published 11 August 24

 
The Hamptons 20th Century Modern 2024 Home Tour is about to launch
 
By Ellie Stathaki

Published 10 August 24

 
Meadowlark, a Sag Harbor house by Garnett.DePasquale, becomes a dreamy family countryside retreat through a series of strategic, minimalist moves
 
By Ellie Stathaki

Published 6 August 24

 
John Sharp's namesake studio in Los Angeles tackles garden and landscape design with flair; we connected with him to discuss nature, style, modernist architecture, and more
 
By Ellie Stathaki

Published 3 August 24

 
Xanadu Roller Arts and its intergalactic decor are set to reignite your love for the activity from its colourful Bushwick base
 
By Craig Kellogg

Published 27 July 24

 
The East Wing of the Everson Museum of Art in Syracuse, NY has been given a contemporary refresh by emerging Los Angeles studio MILLIØNS
 
By Ellie Stathaki

Published 23 July 24

 Wallpaper* is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 