They’ve already announced six new games and yet a reliable insider claims Ubisoft has another five Assassin’s Creed titles already planned. Whenever a company gets into any kind of trouble the normal response is to go back to whatever has proven most reliable in the past. Ubisoft has had a string of failures, delays and controversies over the last 12 months and so it’s not at all surprising to see them double down on Assassin’s Creed as a response. 2020’s Assassin’s Creed Valhalla was their most successful game ever and yet there hasn’t been a new entry in the series since then, although the smaller scale Assassin’s Creed Mirage is due at some point later this year. Last September, Ubisoft announced five additional games – RED and HEXE (both codenames), the multiplayer Codename Invictus, and two mobile titles – and now rumours suggest that they’re planning another five on top of that. On top of that is a VR title codenamed Project Nexus, which has been rumoured before, but which insider Tom Henderson claims will be announced at E3 in June. Not only that, but he also suggests that Ubisoft is planning to make a sequel to it, despite having no idea about the original’s reception. That already gets the list up to eight titles and yet supposedly there are another three after that, all made by different developers and intended to widen the scope of the franchise. Project Nebula is being made by Ubisoft Sofia, who worked on Assassin’s Creed 3: Liberation and Assassin’s Creed Rogue, and apparently involves three different settings of India, the Aztec Empire, and the Mediterranean. Assuming each is being visited at roughly the same time that suggests a 15th or early 16th century setting. Project Raid is a free-to-player four-player co-op game featuring PvE (player vs. enemy) action. It’s implied to feature characters from existing games and is being made by Ubisoft Chengdu, who are usually just a support studio for casual games. Finally, there’s another multiplayer game – bringing the total to three – codenamed Project Echoes, that will use Ubiosft’s cloud based Scalar technology and is being handled by Ubisoft Annecy, who have worked on the multiplayer modes of previous Assassin’s Creed games. New Nintendo Direct confirmed for August and it’s a special one… Nintendo Switch 2 and PS5 Pro shipments start from September claims company Rockstar Games’ Bully listed for new release as fans hope for PS5 and Xbox remaster Silent Hill 2 remake hands-on preview and interview - horrific in a good way As you might guess from the huge number of games, Ubisoft wants to get back to its previous yearly release schedule for the series and seems to be trying to mimic Activision’s approach with Call Of Duty, including the use of multiple different developers. It’s claimed that Mirage will be out sometime around August and that VR game Nexus will also be out this year. RED is then planned for 2024, Invictus for 2025, and HEXE for 2026. Supposedly RED is coming along fine, with two different playable characters, but as you can imagine, all of these plans are very much subject to change, even assuming the rumours are true. Email gamecentral@metro.co.uk, leave a comment below, and follow us on Twitter. 

	MORE : Assassin’s Creed Valhalla wins first game specific Grammy – has name horribly butchered

 

	MORE : Assassin’s Creed Jade gameplay leaks thanks to mobile beta

 

	MORE : Entire Ubisoft 2023 games line-up leaks – hope you like mobile apps and free-to-play

 Follow Metro Gaming on Twitter and email us at gamecentral@metro.co.uk To submit Inbox letters and Reader’s Features more easily, without the need to send an email, just use our Submit Stuff page here. For more stories like this, check our Gaming page. Sign up to all the exclusive gaming content, latest releases before they're seen on the site.  Get us in your feed