   Severe weather caused significant flight delays during the holiday season, but with clearer skies, passengers resumed regular air travel until late evening Tuesday, January 10, 2023. An overnight outage of the Federal Aviation Administration’s Notice to Air Missions System (NOTAMs) grounded thousands of flights in the U.S. on Wednesday morning, causing massive delays. Investigations are underway to determine the root cause of the situation now that the outage is over. Early reports indicate a damaged file may be responsible for the outage, but it does not appear the shutdown was due to a cyberattack. Are We There Yet’s Grant Harrell, was following the story closely, and provided some context on the NOTAMs situation while flights were still in a holding pattern. “Hi, this is Grant with Market Scales transportation, mobility focused video podcast series: Are We There Yet? And the question of the day today, Wednesday, January 11, is a return to normal flight operations after a major computer issue within the systems. Are we there yet? And unfortunately, as of about 9:00 AM central time today, Wednesday, the answer is no, Although the FAA is working very hard to resolve these issues, flights are still grounded and delays seen throughout the entire country. This is a computer issue within their NOTAM system, which is the notice to air mission system. It keeps pilots and other flight personnel aware of ground and air hazards, things like closed runways, navigational issues, for example and this system is down in causing these delays throughout the country. Flight aware leading flight tracking service as hundreds of flights grounded throughout the United States. Another source says about 2,500 plus flights in total that have been grounded due to these issues. And everyone within the industry, especially the FAA working very hard one pilot says he’s never seen anything like this happen. Very much a unique issue. One family, for example, in Hawaii has been on their plane for about five hours now waiting for their flight to take off. So myself and everyone within the industry are very much watching this issue and hoping that things get resolved shortly.” Article by James Kent 
Follow us on social media for the latest updates in B2B!
 In a world where success is often defined by material achievements, the conversation around what truly defines a successful life is more relevant than ever. With many individuals facing the challenges of retirement, the need for purpose, and the search for meaning, understanding how to navigate these life transitions becomes crucial. This episode, featuring… This episode of Weaver: Beyond the Numbers features how Momentum’s strategic approach to SOC audits has driven both security enhancement and business growth. Hosts Lulu Hernandez Walker and Alexis Kennedy welcome Seth Sageser from Momentum. The discussion highlights the evolution of their partnership, focusing on how Momentum expanded its SOC audit practices from two to… In this episode of I Don’t Care, host Dr. Kevin Stevenson, FACHE, explores the impact of healthcare mentorship on leadership development through the inspiring journey of Christina Oh, the Greater San Francisco Market President for Sutter Health. As a highly accomplished healthcare executive, Oh shares her unique journey from her early days at Baylor… Jesse Cole of the Savannah Bananas baseball team shares a compelling narrative on the transformative power of creativity in business. The core philosophy at the Savannah Bananas is the “fans first” experience, driven by an endless stream of innovative ideas—ideas that are not just theorized but executed with precision. Cole underscores the critical importance… In the ever-evolving world of logistics, innovation is the key to overcoming challenges and seizing new opportunities. The global supply chain was heavily impacted by the pandemic, revealing significant inefficiencies, especially in the movement of shipping containers. Thankfully, technologies like QuickLoadz’s automated container handling systems are streamlining these processes, reducing both time and costs…. As technology sees gradual and groundbreaking advancements, the conversation around electric vertical take-off and landing (eVTOL) vehicles and drones is more pertinent today than ever before. As these new innovations go from science to reality, the US Air Force is playing a pivotal role in their development and potential integration into both military and… 
                        MarketScale creates and publishes industry-leading B2B content for industries
                        ranging from Education to Retail, and Hospitality to Healthcare delivering
                        engaging and educational live shows, online learning courses,
                        virtual events and more.
                     Sign up to receive the latest in industry-leading B2B content. Get the latest from  Thank you for joining the .  has successfully been added. Get the latest from A No-Go for NOTAMs—Flight Delays Caused by Major Computer Issue Thank you for joining the A No-Go for NOTAMs—Flight Delays Caused by Major Computer Issue.  has successfully been added.