For many, playing in the Premier League is a dream but for Pape Matar Sarr, it might only just be the start. The Tottenham ace only made his debut in the Premier League last season in a turbulent campaign under Antonio Conte. But after impressing Ange Postecoglou in pre-season, expect to hear plenty more from the 20-year-old midfielder ahead of the upcoming campaign. Not that Sarr is not used to the attention, something he gets buckets of when he returns to his homeland in Senegal. Already with 14 caps to his name and earmarked as the future star of the national side, his uncle took to calling him Carlos after the Brazilian legend Roberto Carlos due to his penchant for outrageous goals. “It’s a nickname my uncle gave me when I was a young boy just starting out,” Sarr told The Athletic.  “He said I had a strong drive and great shot in me and that it was like Roberto Carlos.  "Perhaps I’m not so much known for that now, over time maybe I’ve lost that particular attribute a little bit but when I go to Senegal they still call me Carlos, especially around my quartier (neighbourhood).  "If someone called out Pape no one would turn their head.” But if sporting the moniker of a Brazil legend is not enough, football might not even be Sarr's calling in life. Instead, the ex-Metz ace has admitted that software engineering is a passion of his. “I keep up learning about computer software engineering as I keep that ticking along for the future," he added.  “I may go on to take a career in software engineering or similar.” It is quite the career change from professional footballer, let alone one playing Champions League football last season. But the sky is truly the limit for Sarr, whose ambition to become a legend in the sport has led him to where he is now. He said earlier this year: “My dream is everything! When I say everything I mean Champions League, World Cup, Africa Cup of Nations — I’ve already won that one but I want to do it again for Senegal. “African Ballon D’Or, the European one too, the lot!” Keep up-to-date with all the latest Tottenham fixtures and results and live Premier League standings in our new match centre. This service is provided on talkSPORT Ltd's Terms of Use in accordance with our Privacy Policy.