Hi, what are you looking for? One of the biggest phishing scams plays on the idea that you have missed a delivery. As a result, you will usually then be asked for personal information… By Published Scam emails continue to menace consumers and businesses and one concerning attempt at fraud ‘doing the rounds’ relates to a supposed failed online order delivery. With phishing scams becoming more prolific each year, cybersecurity expert Chris Bluvshtein from VPNOverview.com explains to Digital Journal about the most common tactics scammers use to incite you into taking quick action without thinking. Based on his findings, here are the most recognisable phishing scams out there. Your delivery was unsuccessful According to Bluvshtein: “One of the biggest phishing scams plays on the idea that you have missed a delivery. As a result, you will usually then be asked for personal information like your name and address. Submit those details and you will probably be asked for payment information to cover missed delivery fees. Sadly, if that information is presented, the scammers have won.” You’ve won a prize! Bluvshtein says: “Everybody likes to get something for free. However, clicking on a link that says you have won something will likely lead to you being asked for information that could be passed onto cybercriminals. Worst case, it could open your device up to the risk of a computer virus.” You contacted us first Bluvshtein warns: “Another popular method used by phishing scammers is the “you contacted us first” approach. Nobody likes to think they have accidentally forgotten about a message, so you might be inclined to click on the link to see what is going on.” Your subscription is expiring Bluvshtein cautions: “In what is another frequently used tactic, phishing scams may try to trick you into thinking that your antivirus software – McAfee for example – needs renewing. Your antivirus software is an important part of your cybersecurity defence, so believing it may need an update is not unrealistic.” You could be a millionaire This is a common scam, says Bluvshtein. He notes: “Emails with the subject line “get rich quick” used to flood thousands of people’s inboxes. The scam tried to entice you by offering large sums of money for very little work. However, it has evolved in recent years. Rather than going down the route of making money fast, there is now an uptick in cryptocurrency-related scams that encourage you to make a long-term investment into something like Bitcoin. Unfortunately, the new angle puts you at just as much risk.” Cybercriminals are always finding new ways to scam us. If you are tricked into clicking a phishing link, what can you do immediately after to help limit the damage? According to Bluvshtein, these are the steps to follow: Disconnect the Internet from your device If the phishing link contains any malware, disconnecting your device from the internet – whether this means turning off the Wi-Fi or removing a cable from your computer – will prevent the malware from spreading to your files or sending out any personal information to third parties. Scan your system for Malware Many antivirus programs do not have to be connected to the internet to run a scan. If there is any malware in your device, you can find it through the scan and deal with it quickly. Change all your passwords You must act fast and reset all of your usernames and passwords if any of your information was exposed in the few seconds before you disconnected your device. In order to protect yourself further, make sure to use secure passwords, as the stronger your password is, the harder it will be for hackers to crack it. Notify your bank or credit card company Whether you do so online or by going into your local branch, inform your bank about the situation. They may suggest freezing a particular account and / or sending you new credit cards just to be safe. Set up a fraud alert Contact one of the credit reporting agencies, such as Equifax or TransUnion, and ask them to add a fraud alert to your credit report. Agencies have the expertise to help with anything you are anxious about, so do not let worries about fraud hold you back. Inform your email provider It is best to inform your email provider about any dangerous phishing scams, so they can be aware too and be better prepared to stop these types of emails from ever reaching users’ accounts. It varies for most email providers, but you can typically do this by right clicking on the email and selecting an icon entitled ‘report.’ Dr. Tim Sandle is Digital Journal's Editor-at-Large for science news.
Tim specializes in science, technology, environmental, business, and health journalism. He is additionally a practising microbiologist; and an author. He is also interested in history, politics and current affairs. Screen legend Alain Delon, one of the last stars of the 1960s golden era for French cinema, was 88 - Copyright AFP/File Valery HACHEFrancois... This offensive is a bear slap in the face for Russia Colorado and Florida are both the second best states with Colorado offering less sales for more money, and Florida more sales for less money. Russia's prosecutor general said it had banned a foundation started by US film star George Clooney and his human rights lawyer wife Amal. COPYRIGHT © 1998 - 2024 DIGITAL JOURNAL INC. Sitemaps: XML / News .
Digital Journal is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more about our external linking.
