In case you missed it, the U.S. Transportation Security Administration has replaced old screening lanes with new computed tomography X-ray systems at more than 200 security checkpoints across the U.S. Currently, this technology is at all major airports, but not yet in every lane. If you've used these systems, as I have at LaGuardia Airport (LGA), you've likely noticed they do not require you to remove 3-1-1 liquids or laptops from your bags, among other changes. Here's all you need to know about these new scanners, including how they differ from older technology and their efficiency in real-time. CT X-ray scanning equipment is the latest TSA technology implemented at airport checkpoints nationwide. It's designed to "significantly improve scanning and threat-detection capabilities for carry-on bags," per a TSA spokesperson. Passengers in these lanes do not have to remove their TSA-approved 3-1-1 liquids (3.4 ounces or smaller inside a clear quart-sized bag) or laptops, similar to how it works in TSA PreCheck lanes. Another difference with these scanners is that passengers must place every carry-on item, including luggage, into a bin for screening. As of July, TSA has deployed 678 CT units in 218 airports nationwide, with plans to add 1,200 more at airports this summer. TSA will continue working with airports to replace older machines over time, including implementing CT technology as airports expand, including at Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL) and Denver International Airport (DEN). Full CT integration at U.S. airports would take a decade and is unlikely until 2035—2040 at the earliest, per TSA. In addition to streamlining the steps for passengers by removing the often laborious process of travelers sifting through their stuff to find their electronics and liquids, CT technology uses 3D images instead of 2D. This further enhances the TSA's ability to identify explosives and other threats via a 360-degree analysis, per the TSA. "These units provide a significant screening advantage, and they do create checkpoint efficiencies, particularly in standard screening lanes where passengers do not need to remove laptops and liquids," the TSA spokesperson said. Per TSA, this technology is the best option available because the machines create a clear picture of a carry-on bag's contents that computers use to automatically detect explosives, including liquids, leading to greater efficiency overall. As mentioned, a huge benefit for passengers screened through security lanes with CT units do not need to remove their 3-1-1 liquids or laptops without having to be in a TSA PreCheck lane. Even so, TSA acknowledged some things that can be done to hasten their progress through checkpoints with CT scanners, including overcoming the educational piece with passengers understanding the aforementioned requirement that everything must go into a bin, including suitcases. Even though this confusion may only add a few extra seconds for every person, no one wants to spend more time at a security checkpoint than necessary. "The opening to the X-ray tunnel on a CT unit is slightly smaller than on a traditional X-ray unit, so we advise that travelers not force larger items into the tunnel," the TSA spokesperson said. "Bringing more slows down security screening." Most travelers agreed their experiences in lines with the CT machines were noticeably longer. Since every item must be placed in a bin, the process became very slow. Also, everyone queued up at the end, waiting for their bags, which increased wait times. There were also a few complaints of confusion slowing down the process and a lack of communication from TSA agents. As the TSA continues to roll out CT scanners with an automated system to push through security bins, you may experience a delay in how quickly your stuff moves through. Both the TSA and travelers alike have to adjust to this new process. "It is equally important that passengers pay attention to TSA officer instructions at the conveyor belt," a TSA spokesperson said. "These officers may provide helpful advice for getting items through the CT scanners most efficiently." Although these machines have been slower on a per-passenger basis, TSA maintains that passengers should spend a similar amount of time going through security whether they are being screened via CT or AT lanes. Passengers will "save the same amount of time, just saving it spending in a different location," said a TSA spokesperson, referring to the time saved via a quicker image-capturing capability on AT scans versus the time saved by not having to remove anything in CT lanes. Even so, TSA expects this technology — like its new facial-recognition software — to eventually speed up the security process as people become more familiar with how it works. "New technology has a definite 'burn in' period for passengers and TSA officers to become adept at using it," a TSA spokesperson said. "Familiarization over time will further enhance the efficiency of the units." For example, TSA has observed that passengers have a tendency to shove their bins through the scanner, skewing images and forcing TSA to begin the screening process over. Outside airport security experts agree that this technology should eventually enhance overall efficiency for passengers. "They do slow down the screening process for carry-on bags," Sheldon Howard Jacobson said. He is a computer science professor at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign who has written extensively about CT scanners. "The TSA hopes that the transportation security officers will get better operating the scanners and the algorithms will get better to reduce false alarms and keep passengers moving." In theory, the fact that passengers don't have to take items out of their carry-on baggage should lead to a more efficient security process overall. It should result in reduced wait times at security checkpoints, Jacobson said. However, thus far, these systems have created a bottleneck of passengers all waiting for their bags at the same time because they can pass through physical screening faster than their carry-on bag can. This creates further confusion among passengers and TSA officers. "Most people would think that leaving more items in a carry-on bag would mean that passengers spend less time at the security checkpoint," Jacobson said. "However, if the CT scanner is slower, then the time saved is lost by the officer reading and interpreting the CT scanner screen. Time is not saved; it is moved elsewhere." Related reading: The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality. When you choose to apply (and are approved) for a new credit card through our site, we may receive compensation from our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information.