By Unite.AI is committed to rigorous editorial standards. We may receive compensation when you click on links to products we review. Please view our affiliate disclosure. Cybercrimes are hitting an all-time high, making it more important than ever to have a strong AI-powered antivirus program for your Windows PC. AI-powered software relies on multi-layered technologies that help prevent malware infection. It is becoming increasingly clear that the area of internet security is one that will benefit the most from AI solutions, which is why all of the big names on the market are implementing it.  Windows is the most popular OS on the market, but it’s also the biggest target for malicious actors. Because of this, most malware is specifically developed to target PC machines, enabling attacks on the biggest number of people possible. Windows 10 and 11 include a built-in Windows Defender, but it is not sufficient to protect against all of today's attacks and viruses.  Let’s take a look at the 10 best AI-powered antivirus software for PC of 2022:  Our featured solution is Surfshark Antivirus, it offers a great bundle an an unbeatable price that is both easy to set up and configure. The antivirus protects against all known viruses and zero-day threats. The bundle also offers a VPN to offer complete privacy. Some of the features include: Visit Surfshark → Topping our list is Bitdefender Antivirus Plus, which is one of the best antivirus protection softwares for Windows PCs. Bitfender protects Windows PCs against all sorts of online threats while also including privacy tools like Bitdefender VPN and Bitdefender Safepay. The software has achieved near perfect scores from AV-TEST. Bitfender combines functionality, effectiveness, and a simple interface to achieve high-level security. It comes with firewall and file security, all packaged in one. The security solution also features an advanced anti-ransomware shield that keeps your data safe while preventing you from spreading ransomware attacks.  According to the company, it invests a large chunk of its yearly budget into artificial intelligence research, meaning its solutions will continue to get even better as AI progresses. Here are some of the main features of Bitdefender Antivirus Plus: Visit Bitdefender → Another one of the top AI-powered antivirus solutions for PC is Webroot, which is a lightweight cloud-based antivirus program. It offers many excellent features, such as a top-notch malware scanner and password manager.  The program includes the LastPass password manager, which is one of the best on the market. The antivirus also uses a cloud-based malware directory and heuristic analysis to detect threats on your machine. It uses minimal CPU and disk space when carrying out scans, and the cloud-based scanner means you don’t have to keep updating Webroot’s malware database.  The program allows you to schedule a Deep Scan or a Quick Scan both daily and weekly. You can also opt to manually run a full scan or scan individual folders and files.  Here are some of the main features of Webroot:  Visit Webroot → Panda Dome is another excellent antivirus suite for Windows PCs. It offers many different features, pricing adoption, and highly-effective cybersecurity protections. Some of Panda Dome’s top features are its malware scanner and real-time protection engine.  One of the unique aspects of Panda Dome is that it offers features you don’t normally see with other antivirus programs, such as a rescue kit that removes malware from PCs via USB drive. It also offers file encryption that locks important files behind high-level encryption, as well as USB protection that scans USB drives for malware.  The software has regular scans as well as a cloud-based scanner called “Panda Cloud Cleaner,” which is accessed via the Rescue Kit. This separate antivirus scanning engine uses cloud-based technology to scan for advanced threats that are often missed by regular antivirus.  Here are some of the main features of Panda Dome:  Visit Panda Dome → One of the best ways to get protected by viruses is to sign-up for the NordVPN Threat Protection service. Regardless of if you are using a VPN, with Threat Protection, you have instant peace of mind. It scans the files you download for malware and deletes them immediately if a threat is detected. The smart system protects users even when errors are made.  For example, it will immediately block your access if it detects you’re trying to visit a malicious website. Some core features: Threat Protection – It scans the files you’re downloading for malware. If it detects that the file is malicious, it deletes it immediately, before the contents can do any damage to your computer. Block Malicious Websites –  Forget about phishing, fake websites, and malware. Threat Protection will stop you from accidentally landing on malicious websites — it will instantly block your access and prevent the attack from happening. Stop Trackers – Browse without being tracked. Use Threat Protection to stop trackers from following you around the internet and gathering information about your browsing habits. Visit NordVPN → Avira is a free antivirus for Windows PCs that relies on different unsupervised and supervised AI and machine learning techniques to improve ad malware analysis. Avira deploys the “coarse-to-fine” strategy, which explores data from clusters and through complex supervised learning techniques. This enables the software to determine if the data is actually malware.  The antivirus tool also includes an ad tracking functionality, clearing features to erase digital traces, and a shield for email and social network scans. On top of all of that, Avira offers its own free VPN protection.  Here are some of the main features of Avira:  Visit Avira → One of the names becoming increasingly prominent in the AI-powered cybersecurity industry is Cylance Protect, which is considered the first full AI-powered antivirus. Cylance is specifically aimed at business users, and the administrative console is cloud-based with decisions made on the endpoint.  Unlike most other antivirus software, Cylance Protect uses 6.2 billion indicators to determine whether an application or executable is malware. Even if a single requirement is met, the software recognizes it as malware.  Here are some of the main features of Cylance Protect: Visit Cylance Protect → No antivirus list would be complete without Norton 360, which is one of the most recognizable names on the market. The company has recently merged with Avast to create an even bigger footprint in the industry. Its software package includes everything needed to protect your PC from viruses.  Norton 360 includes AI-powered real-time protection to prevent viruses, spyware, malware, and ransomware. It also includes a two-way firewall that monitors received and sent network traffic. On top of that, you get a Norton Secure VPN to encrypt your traffic and a password manager to store your credentials in an encrypted vault.  Despite its features, Norton 360 is gentle on your system’s resources.  Here are some of the main features of Norton 360:  Visit Norton 360 → TotalAV is a top antivirus software for PCs that uses its own AI-based dangerous website detection system. It provides high-quality protection against all types of digital threats ranging from ransomware to phishing attacks. TotalAV constantly monitors your device to detect new threats, all while having a low impact on your system.  TotalAV offers many other features like its Safe Browsing VPN, which encrypts your connection and changes the public IP. Its WebShield Chrome extension protects you from malicious websites.  Here are some of the main features of TotalAV: Visit TotalAV → Avast relies on machine learning to automatically collect and extract data from the entire user base. After the software finds a new malware sample, it is automatically updated with new models to improve protection.  Avast also offers the Behavior Shield tool, which observes your installed applications and reports any new suspicious behavior. Its strong network security encrypts your connection and filters malicious websites. Besides all of that, Avast keeps you protected against phishing attacks or scams and offers VPN support through its SecureLine VPN.  Here are some of the main features of Avast: Visit Avast → 10 Best Antivirus Apps for Android (August 2024) 10 Best Antivirus Software for Mac (August 2024) Alex McFarland is an AI journalist and writer exploring the latest developments in artificial intelligence. He has collaborated with numerous AI startups and publications worldwide. 10 Best Antivirus Software for Mac (August 2024) 10 Best Data Cleaning Tools (August 2024) 10 Best AI Tools for Business (August 2024) 10 Best AI Tools for Social Media (August 2024) 10 Best AI Assistants (August 2024) Advertiser Disclosure: Unite.AI is committed to rigorous editorial standards to provide our readers with accurate information and news. We may receive compensation when you click on links to products we reviewed. Copyright © 2024 Unite.AI