Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters 
			Trending:		 Two environmental science teachers and their students at Elgin High School are overseeing a monthlong series of webinars they say will help beat cabin fever, impart knowledge and, in some cases, maybe even offer a little sunshine along with the topic at hand.“And all the webinars are free for anyone to attend,” said teacher Brittney Mallen.The webinars are, collectively, part of National Biodiversity Teach-In, a virtual event produced by Elgin High School environmental science teachers and students for the past 10 years.“This year, we will have seven speakers, every Friday in February,” said EHS senior Ashka Patel. “The teach-in will include a day where all of our presenters are women in order to honor the International Day of Women and Girls in Science.”Patel is working on publicity for the teach-in. The teachers said that the 90 environmental sciences students at EHS are involved in pretty much every aspect of the event.Mallen said the students reached out to scientists, organizations and people they think might make for good guests. A rotating group of 15 students heads over to the School District U-46 administration building on the February Fridays to be the crew overseeing the webcasts.“In the 10 years, we have had 110,000 participants and over 27 countries have been part of this project,” Patel said.Teacher Brigid Trimble said that has included students viewing together in a classroom at a university in Greece and even someone from Iran.

“The person from Iran had been blocked by the government, so the Elgin High students and Tony Romero, an IT specialist for the district, helped them navigate through a firewall,” Trimble said.The array of presenters this year will come from as far away as India, the teachers said. The topics covered will include Arctic plants, environmental law, polar bears, wolves, elephants, snow leopards, amphibians, sharks, whales and bats.Mallen said EHS alum Autumn McGowan, who has a fellowship with the Michigan chapter of The Nature Conservancy, will discuss reefs of the Great Lakes on Feb. 17.Among those presenting on all-woman Friday, Feb. 10, will be Jillian Morris, a marine biologist and a shark conservationist; Bonnie Hamilton, who studies contaminants in the Arctic; Thea Bechshoft, who studies polar bear ecology; and Deanna Leonard, who focuses on whales.Closing out the teach-in on Feb. 24 will be Rebbeca Shaw, chief scientist and senior vice president at the World Wildlife Fund.Jordan Gray, from the Turtle Survival Alliance in South Carolina, kicked off the series Feb. 3, the teachers said.“He’s been a popular speaker, and he usually has turtles with him,” Trimble said.More information and registration to participate is available at www.nationalbiodiversityteachin.com/. The webinars will also be livestreamed on U-46’s Science and Planetarium YouTube channel, www.youtube.com/channel/UCzR8S6GHTtV3ipRljnuPsPA; on Facebook, @natbioteachin; TikTok, @natbioteachin; and Instagram, @natbioteachin.Mike Danahey is a freelancer. “And all the webinars are free for anyone to attend,” said teacher Brittney Mallen. The webinars are, collectively, part of National Biodiversity Teach-In, a virtual event produced by Elgin High School environmental science teachers and students for the past 10 years. “This year, we will have seven speakers, every Friday in February,” said EHS senior Ashka Patel. “The teach-in will include a day where all of our presenters are women in order to honor the International Day of Women and Girls in Science.” Patel is working on publicity for the teach-in. The teachers said that the 90 environmental sciences students at EHS are involved in pretty much every aspect of the event. Mallen said the students reached out to scientists, organizations and people they think might make for good guests. A rotating group of 15 students heads over to the School District U-46 administration building on the February Fridays to be the crew overseeing the webcasts. “In the 10 years, we have had 110,000 participants and over 27 countries have been part of this project,” Patel said. Teacher Brigid Trimble said that has included students viewing together in a classroom at a university in Greece and even someone from Iran. “The person from Iran had been blocked by the government, so the Elgin High students and Tony Romero, an IT specialist for the district, helped them navigate through a firewall,” Trimble said. The array of presenters this year will come from as far away as India, the teachers said. The topics covered will include Arctic plants, environmental law, polar bears, wolves, elephants, snow leopards, amphibians, sharks, whales and bats. Mallen said EHS alum Autumn McGowan, who has a fellowship with the Michigan chapter of The Nature Conservancy, will discuss reefs of the Great Lakes on Feb. 17. Among those presenting on all-woman Friday, Feb. 10, will be Jillian Morris, a marine biologist and a shark conservationist; Bonnie Hamilton, who studies contaminants in the Arctic; Thea Bechshoft, who studies polar bear ecology; and Deanna Leonard, who focuses on whales. Closing out the teach-in on Feb. 24 will be Rebbeca Shaw, chief scientist and senior vice president at the World Wildlife Fund. Jordan Gray, from the Turtle Survival Alliance in South Carolina, kicked off the series Feb. 3, the teachers said. “He’s been a popular speaker, and he usually has turtles with him,” Trimble said. More information and registration to participate is available at www.nationalbiodiversityteachin.com/. The webinars will also be livestreamed on U-46’s Science and Planetarium YouTube channel, www.youtube.com/channel/UCzR8S6GHTtV3ipRljnuPsPA; on Facebook, @natbioteachin; TikTok, @natbioteachin; and Instagram, @natbioteachin. Mike Danahey is a freelancer. Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune