  Home   News   Article Two adjudicators at the Caithness Music Festival have praised local schools for giving so many children the chance to take part in the long-established annual event. Rebecca Vines and Susie Dingle were impressed by the friendly atmosphere at the Assembly Rooms in Wick, where around 2500 primary and secondary pupils from across the far north have been competing. Edinburgh-based Ms Vines said: "It's really friendly. I've been through Caithness a couple of times on holiday but I had no idea it was so friendly – I love how everyone is related to everyone else! "The standard is wonderful. I think the local schools are incredibly lucky with their teachers. Teaching is a tough gig, particularly at the moment, and for teachers to go out of their way to create those opportunities for children is mind-blowing – and it's across so many different schools as well. "The fact that the community has all those different opportunities, irrespective of where the children go to school, I think it is actually quite moving – to see the children up on stage enjoying themselves. "Some are natural, some aren't, but they're all being really brave in doing what they're doing. That is really powerful, I think." Mrs Dingle had adjudicated at the festival previously, in 2009 and 2010, before moving up to the county. She is conductor of the Caithness Orchestra and the Caithness Junior Orchestra. "It's a lovely festival," Mrs Dingle said. "It's very friendly and it's lovely to see all the kids involved from so many of the schools." "I've had solo singing this morning [Thursday] and I have to say the quality of the singing was excellent. "It was particularly nice to see some excellent singing from boys as well in the solo singing, because it's hard to get boys to sing. The boys that did sing really did a fantastic job. It is very encouraging to see that. "I'm very much a believer that everybody is a winner, just for taking part. I'm not a great one for winners and losers, generally speaking, because they've all achieved so much just to get up and perform. It's quite nerve-racking to do that, and they've all done a smashing job." The festival got under way on Tuesday having had to be condensed into four days as schools had an in-service day on Monday. Organisers have paid tribute to the team of willing helpers who make sure the festival runs smoothly each year. Results:  Popular song, P1-3: 1 Noss P3Y; 2eq Lybster P1/2, Newton Park P1/2 and Newton Park P3. Singing game/action song, P3/4 and under, schools with one to three teachers: Thrumster P1-3. Singing game/action song, P4 and over, schools with one to three teachers: Bower P1-6. Singing game/action song, P3/4 and under, schools with four or more teachers: 1 Noss P2Y; 2eq Noss P1B and Noss P1R. Vocal solos – Girls, P5: 1 Amira Campbell, Halkirk; 2 Olivia Oag, Newton Park. Girls, P6: 1 Martha Potts, Thurso; 2 Victoria Fryett, Reay. Boys, S1/2: Charles Fryett, Thurso High School. Girls, S1/2: 1 Ola Omand, Thurso High School; 2 Ava Curlis, Thurso High School. Girls, S3-6: 1 Fern Strachan, Halkirk; 2 Rhiannon Arrowsmith, Thurso High School; 3 Kirsty Bartlett, Thurso High School. Boys, S3-6: 1 Marc Bain, Thurso High School; 2 Charlie Denley-Spencer, Thurso High School. Non-acoustic bands: 1 ITCH, Thurso High School; 2 The Loyal Misfits, Farr High School; 3 The Sounds of Six, Thurso High School. Piano, grade six: Claire McAdam, Wick; 2 Talitha Williamson, Caithness. Piano, grade five: 1 Elizabeth Jones-Singh, Caithness; 2 Leah Bullivant, Caithness. Piano, grade two: 1 Olivia Sandecka, Newton Park; 2 Raegan Ross, Wick High School. Piano, grade one: 1 Hannah Sandecka, Newton Park; 2 Samuel McColm, Caithness; 3eq Rory Davidson, Noss, and Abiela Williamson, Caithness. Piano, grade seven and above: Rebekah Bullivant, Caithness. Piano, grade four: 1 Ola Omand, Thurso High School; 2 Olivia Singh, Caithness; 3 Eliana Williamson, Caithness. Piano, grade three: Susan Armstrong, Wick High School. Verse speaking – Girls, P6: Emily Mackenzie, Noss; 2 Martha Potts, Thurso; 3 Elizabeth McColm, Caithness. Girls, P5: 1 Cara Sinclair, Watten; 2 Amy Andrews, Pennyland; 3eq Mollie MacAuslan, Dunbeath, and Ella Simpson, Halkirk. Boys, P5: 1 Oliver Hall, Dunbeath; 2eq Ian Campbell, Watten, and Alex Vines, Mount Pleasant. Girls, P7: 1 Emily Sutherland, Reay; 2 Lily Sutherland, Wick; 3eq Imogen Gunn, Mount Pleasant, and Elsie MacAuslan, Dunbeath. Trophies:  Ross Swanson Shield: Noss P3Y. Mrs J Gill Cup: Thrumster P1-3. Bank of Scotland Tercentenary Cup: Bower P1-6. Peter Pan Cup: Noss P2Y. Henry Rosie Memorial Shield: Ola Omand. Philip Sinclair Cup: Marc Bain. Manola Harper Cup: Claire McAdam. Katrina Geddes Shield: Olivia Sandecka. Patterson Marrwood and Sons Cup: Rebekah Bullivant. Johnstone Shield: Ola Omand. Wick Town Improvements Shield: Emily Mackenzie. Stroma Cup: Oliver Hall. Edgar Cup: Emily Sutherland. Thurso and District Round Table Shield: Oliver Hall. Related stories:  The winners' concert will be held in the Assembly Rooms on Monday at 7pm.