Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video     TOLEDO, Ohio — Toledo Public Schools received approval to begin development on two land projects intended to expand extracurricular and educational opportunities for students, district officials announced Tuesday. In a press release, TPS representatives said the district Board of Education approved in February separate resolutions for two projects. First, TPS is pursuing a lease agreement relating to the redevelopment on the former site of Libbey High School on Western Avenue. Libbey High School closed in 2010 and was demolished in 2012.  The project would involve Libbey Redevelopment LLC, whose organizers have offered to develop the land to create youth recreational opportunities, TPS officials said. School leaders also said a long-term lease would alleviate the school district of property maintenance costs. "Libbey High School is an important part of our history, and this agreement allows the district to write a new chapter of the school’s legacy,” TPS Deputy Superintendent James R. Gant said in a statement. Gant said the district intends to gather community input on the use of the property.  "I like it because it's opening it up to the kids in the community around here that have nothing," resident and Libbey alum April Garner said. "Nowhere to play, nowhere to hang out, nothing other than the streets. So I think that'd be a great idea for the kids to have because there's a lot of young kids still around here." The Board of Education approved a resolution regarding a second project with the intention of acquiring the Scott Park property on Nebraska Avenue. Following the resolution, the district can now begin negotiations with the state of Ohio to purchase the property.  Some residents in the Scott Park neighborhood like Carl Dumas hope it's something all ages can enjoy. "Seniors, the young ones, the old ones, everybody," Dumas said. "The community has to be involved to make it work." District officials said TPS would use the Scott Park property to offer students further academic and athletic opportunities.  "Our plans for the property will focus on creating an educator academy, expanding athletic programs, offering new college credit plus options and other supports to prepare our students to become college and career-ready graduates," TPS Chief of Educational Development Jim Gault said. MORE LOCAL HEADLINES FROM WTOL 11 F Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.