  Tue 20 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters Down at Bramley-Moore Dock, the pace of change is breath-taking. This week they hauled the final part of the huge, distinctive “barrel-shaped” steel roof structure on to the top of Everton‘s new stadium. It is, by common consensus of those who are watching its gradual rise over the city, going to be some feat of engineering. There are 18 months before the club will play their first game there and a lot of work to be done to construct a team fit to grace it. Sources tell i the club’s recruitment work will largely be about addressing an “unbalanced” squad, which saw them play the final day of the season without a recognised striker and no left-back either. From an already threadbare squad Everton chose to send Conor Coady back to Wolves, released Yerry Mina, and have seen both Asmir Begovic and now boyhood Evertonian Tom Davies reject the offer of a new deal to stay at Goodison Park. In a social media post on Friday the midfielder admitted recent times had been “difficult” for him at the club. “I know they have been difficult for you too,” he wrote. “I hope that they can be sorted out as soon as possible so that we can get back to the stability we deserve.” It is a sentiment that everyone at the club shares but most are braced for another difficult close season. Resources are known to be scarce, even with new investment incoming. Any deals done will have to be structured nimbly, most likely in instalments, and manager Sean Dyche and director of football Kevin Thelwell are understood to have scoured the free agent and loan markets. The need to comply with Financial Fair play rules also hangs over the club and there’s an expectation that Everton will have to sell another asset to fund much of their transfer business. Of the potential sales, Amadou Onana is the man most likely to depart. Reports in Belgium this week claimed he had voiced a desire to leave but that’s not understood to be the case. But with interest from Chelsea and Arsenal in the 21-year-old, there is a feeling inside the club that he is the most vulnerable to an offer. Boardroom uncertainty that had cast a cloud over Everton for the fortnight since CEO Denise Barrett-Baxendale, chief financial officer Grant Ingles and Graeme Sharp all resigned was finally resolved on Friday with the confirmation of an interim board. The headline news was that Bill Kenwright has been retained as chairman after talks with majority owner Farhad Moshiri, who will also join the board. It will not be popular with supporters who have threatened to step up protests if he stayed on but comes at the behest of Moshiri. i understands that Kenwright had gone as far as writing a resignation letter, only for Moshiri to ask him to reconsider. The Everton majority shareholder then spent four days trying to persuade him to stay on in the role as chairman. The thinking – according to those aware of the conversations – is that in another difficult summer Moshiri did not want to lose what he believes are the valuable deal-making skills of Kenwright, who is an experienced transfer market operator. With the club almost certain to have to sell once again in this close season to fund the major surgery required on the squad, there will be a premium attached to driving a hard bargain. The £60m fee raised for Richarlison last summer came after Kenwright’s personal intervention in talks with Daniel Levy. No doubt that will fail to pacify the many Evertonians who believe a clean break is required. But here’s Moshiri: “I wanted Bill to remain as our Chairman during this important period of transition for the Club and I am delighted that he has accepted my request to do so. Bill’s knowledge and vast experience will be crucial for us as we look to reset, deliver on external investment and position Everton for a successful future.” Everton announced Colin Chong, the respected Chief Stadium Development Officer in charge of delivering the Bramley-Moore docks arena, as interim Chief Executive while James Maryniak steps up to Chief Financial Officer. Chartered accountant and Everton fan John Spellman joins as a non-executive director. As ever, the devil is in the detail, with this board intended to see Everton through the short-term. But no-one is quite sure how short that will be. A filing with the securities and exchange commission in the US confirmed, finally, MSP Sports Capital have raised $165m (£130m) for their investment in Everton through a new company MSP Sports Everton. Investment is close and they will have seats on the board, influence and, at least for the first few months after investment, a permanent presence in Liverpool too. These are crucial days for a club that hopes for a tantalising future but continues to reckon with mistakes of the past. i commissioned data experts SciSports, who work on recruitment and data analysis with Ajax, Ligue 1 overachievers Stade Reims and Sheffield United among others, to pick the best options in key areas within the club’s tight budget. SciSports’ Yash Shah used the company’s performance metrics and AI-powered transfer valuation tool to pick players whose value coalesces around the £10m mark. Centre-back Right-back Forwards All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.