Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. 
You're reading a free article with opinions that may differ
from The Motley Fool's Premium Investing Services. Become a Motley Fool member today to
get instant access to our top analyst recommendations, in-depth research, investing resources,
and more. Learn More
 The biotech's board is exploring strategic alternatives to boost shareholder value. Shares of the autoimmune specialist Aurinia Pharmaceuticals (AUPH 2.88%) rose by as much as 13.2% in early morning trading Friday. The biotech's shares cooled off after their hot start and are up by 8.6% on heavy volume as of 1:41 p.m. ET Friday. The stock is marching higher today in response to the board of directors' decision to explore strategic alternatives, including a possible buyout, to boost shareholder value. The decision was announced yesterday afternoon via a press release.  Aurinia's stock has plummeted by a remarkable 72% from its 2021 peak. The biotech's shares have declined despite a strong commercial launch for its lupus nephritis medication Lupkynis. This year, for example, Lupkynis' sales are expected to grow by up to 15.6%, according to the company's high-end sales guidance. The shares have suffered lately due to the company's failure to attract a buyout offer. Although the biotech has been rumored to be a target for several potential buyers, such as Bristol-Myers Squibb and Novartis, a formal offer has never emerged. At their peak, Aurinia's shares were trading at a high premium, based on the expectation that a deal was near. When no buyer came forward and other competitive challenges emerged, the shares lost their premium valuation.   Is the stock a buy on this latest development? The company's decision to explore a sale might be good news for many shareholders who are currently upside down. Lupkynis' sales are respectable but not spectacularly so. As a result, Aurinia is likely to remain cash flow negative until perhaps mid-2025. But there is no guarantee that the company will find a buyer willing to pay a worthwhile premium. Moreover, the drugmaker could choose a less shareholder-friendly option in its strategic review, such as merging with a developmental-stage company. Therefore, this news doesn't stand out as a solid reason to buy the biotech's shares. George Budwell has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Aurinia Pharmaceuticals and Bristol-Myers Squibb. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.