Massachusetts State Police seized 11 items from Aidan Kearney, the blogger who calls himself “Turtleboy”, according to new court documents filed at Stoughton District Court obtained by 25 Investigates. Police searched Kearney’s home in Holden, Massachusetts Wednesday following his arrest on witness intimidation and conspiracy charges related to the alleged harassment of witnesses in the Karen Read murder trial. Documents show police obtained multiple warrants to search for electronics inside Kearney’s home, his Lexus SUV, and on his person. The documents reveal police are seeking evidence related to the multiple charges he currently faces, and one warrant alleges “probable cause” that Kearney recorded people without their consent. Search warrant “return” documents show police confiscated 6 Apple iPhones, 2 computers, 2 SD cards, and a silver USB drive from Kearney. In the application for the warrant, police requested to confiscate, “Any mobile device reasonably used by Aidan Kearney to illegally intercept oral communications, conspire, disseminate the illegally obtained communication, and intimidate witnesses of the murder of John O’Keefe”. Turtleboy Confiscated Items by Boston 25 Desk on Scribd Turtleboy Items 2 by Boston 25 Desk on Scribd O’Keefe’s girlfriend, Karen Read, is charged with 2nd-degree murder for the Boston Police Officer’s death in January 2022. She’s accused of backing over him and leaving him to die in a snowstorm. Kearney claims Read has been framed in a coverup and he has publicly named multiple people he claims are responsible. An addendum to one of the warrant applications reveals police are seeking to find communication Kearney had with 6 people identified by the Norfolk District Attorney’s office as witnesses or family members of witnesses in the Read case, the lead State Police detective on the case, and his wife. In videos posted on Kearney’s website, he’s seen calling witnesses by phone and showing up at their homes. Police are also seeking “data evidencing ownership, custody or control electronic evidence items including activation date, email accounts, billing records, social media account information, calendars, alerts, reminders, notes, text messages, and pictures or videos from April 1, 2023 through and including October 5, 2023″, according to the warrant to search Kearney’s person. In addition, there are references to a video Kearney recorded while speaking to a state police detective inside a bathroom at Norfolk County Superior Court on July 25th, data associated with his X or Twitter account, and communication Kearney allegedly had with an Avon police dispatcher accused of accessing license plate records on Kearney’s behalf. Turtleboy Court Records by Boston 25 Desk on Scribd Kearney has said he plans to fight the charges on the grounds that his actions are protected by the 1st amendment. In a tweet Friday, he wrote, “When I stood in shackles on Wednesday they thought it would intimidate and scare me. It didn’t. All I saw was weakness and insecurity from a corrupt system that knows that I’m exposing them. We’re just getting started.” Download the FREE Boston 25 News app for breaking news alerts. Follow Boston 25 News on Facebook and Twitter. | Watch Boston 25 News NOW New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.