Follow along on this page as we track state tournament results for Shore teams. Marlboro 1, Hillsborough 0 (10 innings) More: 'Just so unreal': A championship celebration 55 years in the making for Marlboro softball St. John Vianney 2, Mount St. Dominic 0 More: Figliolino, McDougall lift St. John Vianney softball to state title More: A family affair: St. John Vianney softball picks up title in revival year Marlboro 6, Kingsway 2 Marlboro 3, Nothern Burlington 2 St. John Vianney 3, St. Thomas Aquinas 0 Northern Burlington 6, Jackson Memorial 0 Central Group 4 Steinert 4, Colts Neck 2 Central Group 3 Marlboro 10, Old Bridge 5 Central Group 4 Delran 6, Wall 2 Central Group 2 Robbinsville 1, Middletown North 0 Central Group 3 St. Thomas Aquinas 8, Donovan Catholic 2 South Non-Public A St. Thomas has knocked off top-seeded three-time defending state Non-Public A champ Donovan Catholic in NPSA semi -- the state's top-ranked team. Trojans get another Top 5 team in Friday's final, either St. John Vianney or Notre Dame #NJSoftball @stahstrojans https://t.co/bWzOUXgCvR — Simeon Pincus (@SimeonPincus) May 30, 2023 St. John Vianney 2, Notre Dame 1 South Non-Public A St. John Vianney holds on for 2-1 win over Notre Dame in SJ Non-Public A softball semifinals. WP Madison McDougall has RBI single; allows 6 hits, 3 walks & HBP but strands 11 Irish runners. Alayna Giampola RBI double for Irish. SJV meet St. Thomas Aquinas for SJ Non-Public title — Rich Fisher (@Fish4scores) May 30, 2023 Middletown North 7, Matawan 0 Central Group 3 Wall 2, Spotswood 1 Central Group 2 Delran 2, Manasquan 1 Central Group 2 Northern Burlington 1, Freehold Township 0 Central Group 4 Riverside 8, Keansburg 3 Central Group 1 Ocean City 7, Pinelands 1 South Group 3 St. Thomas Aquinas 3, Red Bank Catholic 0 South Non-Public A Cherokee 3, Southern 1 South Group 4 Jackson Memorial 11, Howell 2 Central Group 4 Marlboro 6, South Brunswick 1 Central Jersey, Group 4 St. John Vianney 11, Paul VI 3 South Non-Public A Haddon Heights 15, Barnegat 0 South Group 2 Middlesex 12, Point Pleasant Beach 6 Central Group 1 Colts Neck 4, Lawrence 0 Central Group 3 Donovan Catholic 10, Our Lady of Mercy 0 South Non-Public A Shawnee 13, Lacey 1 South Group 3 More: Shore Conference spring sports team rankings: state tournament edition The longtime Donovan Catholic-St. John Vianney softball rivalry was reignited in a big way at the Shore Conference Tournament. St. John Vianney picked up the No. 1 slot over No. 2 Donovan Catholic tournament was seeded, despite Donovan having lost only five games since 2018. And the seeds played out all to the way to the final, where Donovan prevailed 4-3 in 10 innings. More: 'This is our year': Donovan Catholic softball in 10 innings wins Shore Conference Tournament More: Players of the Week: Baseball, softball, lacrosse, track, volleyball, flag football Week 8 stars Donovan Catholic 10, Red Bank Catholic 3 St. John Vianney 12, Jackson Memorial 2 St. John Vianney 3, Freehold Township 0 More: 'Leave it all out on the field': Inside St. John Vianney softball's undefeated season Donovan Catholic 11, Marlboro 1 Red Bank Catholic 3, Middletown North 0 Jackson Memorial 4, Colts Neck 3 (9 innings) Come out tomorrow and support Jags Softball🥎💪 pic.twitter.com/nlwoUjPEsR — JMHS Jags Softball (@JMHSJagSoftball) May 14, 2023 Marlboro 4, Point Pleasant Borough 0 St. John Vianney 11, Matawan 0 Colts Neck 5, Wall 1 Cougs roll on to the second round of the SCT. Finns with the Butterfinger Percaccio with the BabyRuth and Double winner is Ang with the mounds and Prima Player of the a Game. pic.twitter.com/izU1ALN1C9 — Colts Neck Softball (@ColtsNeckSB) May 13, 2023 Jackson Memorial 7, Toms River East 3 Red Bank Catholic 9, Southern Regional 0 Middletown North 2, Central Regional 0 Freehold Township 2, Manasquan 1 Donovan Catholic 11, Raritan 1 SCT Softball 2023 by Asbury Park Press on Scribd Central Regional 3 Manchester 0 THURSDAY SCT GAME: ‘Keep making the plays’: A good season for Point Borough softball keeps getting better Point Pleasant Borough 10, Henry Hudson 0 Raritan 14, Toms River South 4 Wall 18, Keansburg 0 Southern Regional 13, Monmouth Regional 1 Toms River East 19, Pinelands 2 Final, May 27: St. John Vianney 16, Freehold Township 3 Congrats to our Varsity Softball Team on winning the Monmouth County Tournament! The team defeated Freehold Township 16-3 and play at Notre Dame today at 4p.m. in the semifinals of the South Non-Public A division of the NJSIAA Tournament! Come to the game to support our girls! pic.twitter.com/UV7Pj12XQN — Saint John Vianney High School (@SJVHS) May 30, 2023 Final, May 3: Jackson Memorial 10, Point Pleasant Borough 5 Jags are the 2023 Ocean County Champions!!! 🥎💪 pic.twitter.com/qXb6ZtipuB — JMHS Jags Softball (@JMHSJagSoftball) May 4, 2023 More: Softball, lacrosse, baseball, all spring sports: Shore high school important dates More: Here are the 2023 NJ softball state playoff brackets This article originally appeared on Asbury Park Press: Softball Shore Conference, NJSIAA state tournaments schedules, results Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about the men and women both having success for the United States in the olympics, the discipline handed down to the Canadian women’s soccer team and are joined by USMNT captain Tyler Adams. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk some trade deadline deals, Dylan Cease's no-hitter for the Padres and make their picks for The Good, The Bad & The Uggla. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Dillon gets to keep the win but not the playoff spot that came with it. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs.