Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp recently signed S.B. 92 in Savannah, making official a law that creates a Prosecuting Attorneys Oversight Commission for district attorneys and solicitors-general across Georgia. Among other responsibilities, the eight-member commission, consisting of five investigators and three hearing panel members, will “have the power to discipline, remove, and cause involuntary retirement of appointed or elected district attorneys or solicitors-general.” Opponents of the law fear it circumvents the will of local voters and prevents district attorneys from pursuing some restorative justice measures, such as diversion programs, in favor of harsher criminal charges. Supporters suggest the commission provides necessary oversight to discipline district attorneys and solicitors-general who do not prosecute certain crimes, such as the state's six-week abortion ban. Senate Bill 92 by Amy Condon on Scribd At the press conference accompanying the signing, Kemp said, "People are finally fed up with local prosecutors that simply are not doing their job." The signing of S.B. 92 comes at a time when Chatham County District Attorney Shalena Cook Jones faces increased scrutiny for pleading down, or reducing, murder convictions to lesser charges, such as manslaughter. Athens District Attorney Deborah Gonzalez also seems a target for the legislation. Upon election, she noted she planned to not prosecute certain drug offenses and her office has endured a high turnover rate among prosecutors. State Rep. Houston Gaines, R-Athens, was one legislator who supported the bill in part because of Gonzalez, who he said is not doing her job and is risking public safety. More: Georgia's oversight commission for prosecutors bill explained, how the Athens DA fits in More: Athens DA supposedly the impetus for bill to create oversight board for prosecutors "I think most of us would agree that the need for some type of oversight is not a bad thing," said Melissa D. Redmon, clinical assistant professor & Prosecutorial Justice program director at the University of Georgia School of Law. "... But I think it is hard to deny that the timing, and the composition of the commission seems to be targeted at a particular group of prosecutors." In particular, Redmon, herself a former prosecutor, said the legislation gained urgency after the election of more progressive district attorneys. Many of the district attorneys elected were people of color. In a phone call, Clayton County District Attorney Tasha Mosley described S.B. 92 as needlessly redundant. "The state bar is already in place," said Mosley. "If we violate one of the rules of bar's ethics, there's an investigation that goes before the Supreme Court to make a determination what our punishment should be." DeKalb County District Attorney Sherry Boston issued a statement via email: "Not only is Senate Bill 92 an assault on prosecutorial discretion and independence – it’s a direct attack on the nature of our democratic process. This legislation seeks to disenfranchise voters in local communities who do not elect so-called ‘tough-on-crime’ candidates.” Georgia state politics reporter Abraham Kenmore contributed to this report. This article originally appeared on Athens Banner-Herald: Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp signs SB 92 prosecutor oversight commission New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.