City administrators are negotiating, signing and executing millions of dollars in contracts with no specific approval from Akron City Council. And it's all being funded by federal pandemic money. So, how did the legislators of Akron, who are empowered by the city charter with explicit spending authorization, lose control over how the city is spending its $145 million share of the American Rescue Plan Act? The short answer is they handed the mayor the right to approve or deny specific plans in legislation last year — and have been doing so in every annual budget for at least the past three decades. For subscribers:Nearly all Akron's ARPA funds to be out for bid or spent before next mayor takes office The ARPA spending bill, which gave the administration sweeping power to execute federally funded but locally designed programs, projects and contracts, was offered by Mayor Dan Horrigan and council President Margo Sommerville. It passed over the objection of five council members who saw especially concerning language in a first version of the bill. 2021 ARPA Spending Authorization Bill by Lauren Young on Scribd With the second half of the federal relief money expected to arrive in the summer of 2022, the legislation said “any future deposits of ARPA funds, as the city may receive from the U.S. Treasury, are hereby deemed appropriated, without further action of this Council, and are permitted to be expended for any purpose consistent with this ordinance.” “Without further action of this Council” was dropped from the version that eventually passed 8-5 with council members Nancy Holland (Ward 1), Shammas Malik (8), Tara Mosley (5), Russ Neal (4) and Linda Omobien (at-large) still unconvinced that council wasn’t giving up all right to steer, help improve or reject future spending plans. Another line was added to that same clause. It said the mayor would spend the money in accordance with state and federal rules, any other applicable laws and “the City of Akron Charter.” With initial plans teed up based on input and needs from long before the pandemic, the mayor lobbied council and the public to promptly begin spending the federal funds. His office issued "City of Akron Commits To Uniquely Transparent, Impactful, and Collaborative Process to Spend Federal ARPA Funds" — a document laying out how the public, from ideas yet to be collected online and meetings scheduled for after receiving spending authorization, and council would participate in the process until all the money was gone. City of Akron ARPA Fund Framework by Lauren Young on Scribd That mayor's framework for transparency explained that council would approve ARPA spending in yearly operating budgets, which generally lack names of contractors and vendors, or subsequent legislation tied to projects briefed in the annual capital budget. The mayor's plan, at the time, was for council to "exercise all oversight powers set forth in the Akron Charter." Section 95 of the charter, which gives council control over approving sizable contracts, was invoked for separate legislation but not the annual budgeting process. 'Wrong side of the street':Criteria block some Akron small businesses from grant help Section 95 says any contract "in excess of $50,000 shall first be authorized by Council and awarded to the lowest and best responsible bidder, after public advertisement." But administrations for years have found a way around that requirement. In every budget bill since at least 1970 (as far back as the clerk of council could search on microfilm on short notice this past week), mayors have gotten councils to give up their right to OK many contracts with a single line approved at the beginning of each year. The 2022 budget that paved the way for most of the ARPA spending "hereby authorized” the mayor and Cabinet members overseeing law, finance, public works, safety, planning, development and neighborhood assistance “to contract for Personal Services, including special and consulting services.” Similarly sweeping language in the spending authorization bill passed last year explicitly stated that the same top administrators “are hereby authorized to execute, certify, and/or furnish other such documents and take all other actions, including entering into separate agreements, as are necessary or incidental to further the acceptance, appropriation, and expenditure of the ARPA funds.” Since the annual budget and spending authorization bills passed, the mayor has signed six- and seven-figure contracts on everything from non-profits fighting youth violence to stockpiling sewer construction materials to a $1.6 million agreement for Washington, D.C.-based Guidehouse, which Forbes Magazine calls the “leading global provider of consulting services." Council will likely see the clause circumventing its charter-backed spending authorization again when it gets the 2023 operating budget in February. Reach reporter Doug Livingston at dlivingston@thebeaconjournal.com or 330-996-3792. This article originally appeared on Akron Beacon Journal: Here's why Akron council doesn't need to approve millions in spending New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.