Carol Ryan was found near death on State Route 91 by the Jamesville Reservoir on Sept. 1, 1996. She later died of horrific injuries. Her murder was never solved. She is pictured here with her son in an undated, provided photo. (Katrina Tulloch | ktulloch@syracuse.com) One of Central New York’s most disturbing crimes took place on this day 27 years ago. Carol Ryan, 42, was found naked and severely wounded on Sept. 1, 1996 by a local fisherman in the driveway of the Onondaga County Resource Recovery Agency in Jamesville, across the street from the reservoir. The fisherman ran to a nearby security office to call 911. Carol was rushed to Upstate University Hospital and underwent emergency surgery, but her injuries were too traumatic. She died five hours after she was found. Carol had been wounded in a horrific way: Someone had inserted an explosive device into her vagina and detonated it. Her murder remains unsolved. However, police have investigated several persons of interest in this case, former and current Onondaga County sheriffs told syracuse.com. Some have died. But at least one main suspect is still alive. He is living outside of New York state. A batch of long-stored evidence could still yield results with advancements in forensic technology. Investigators have resubmitted samples to the Onondaga County Center for Forensic Sciences in hopes of finding a DNA match. Shawn Hamilton is the only son of Carol Ryan, who was murdered on Sept. 1, 1996. Her homicide was never solved. “This is something that no family should ever have to go through,” Hamilton said. (Scott Trimble | strimble@syracuse.com) ‘She loved to dance’ The New York State Fair brings back bittersweet memories for Carol’s only son, Shawn Hamilton. One of his last memories with his mother was attending a Jethro Tull show together at the Fair’s Grandstand, five days before she was attacked. He still has the concert ticket stub. “I still remember that day like it was yesterday,” Hamilton told Syracuse.com. “She just looked at me that day with, you know, with pride in her eyes.” Carol loved rock music and loved to dance. Bob Seger, Black Sabbath and Lynyrd Skynyrd were some of her favorite performers. “She liked to have a good time,” Hamilton said. “Most of the time at the bar, you wouldn’t find her at the bar, you’d find her on the dance floor. Even if she was the only one dancing. There wasn’t a shy bone in her body. She’d dance her soul out.” The last time Shawn Hamilton spent time with his mother Carol Ryan was at the Jethro Tull concert at the New York State Fair on Aug. 27, 1996. Five days later, she was attacked and killed. Her homicide was never solved. (Provided photo) Hamilton was 25 when Carol died. He speaks to his children about their grandmother and keeps photos of her around his home. He keeps one photo of Carol next to his coffee pot -- ensuring the first thing he does every day is say “good morning” to his mother. “This is something that no family should ever have to go through,” Hamilton said. Carol’s case is one of a handful of unsolved homicides in the Onondaga County Sheriff’s Office. Sheriff Kevin Walsh led the department when it happened in 1996. The case remained cold throughout the tenures of three different sheriffs in Onondaga County: Kevin Walsh, Eugene Conway and Toby Shelley. They all still believe this case can be solved. Syracuse.com interviewed each sheriff about Carol’s case. A file photo of Sheriff Kevin Walsh, photographed on Oct. 31, 2002, by Li-Hua Lan of The Post-Standard. Sheriff Kevin Walsh In 1996, Kevin Walsh was two years into his career as Onondaga County Sheriff when Carol Ryan’s murder shook the Central New York community. One of the first things Walsh remembers about the case was that Carol was still alive when she was found. “It was a very heart-wrenching case from the start,” Walsh told syracuse.com. “I’m still praying that sooner or later, we’ll have a solution.” Walsh said the only regret he had about Carol’s case was that his department didn’t have the technology in 1996 that they have today. “We barely had knowledge of DNA in those days,” Walsh said. “We certainly didn’t have the specificity of DNA testing that they can do today. The big hope is that, with ever-improving technology, we may be able to really pin it down in the future.” Walsh remembered how Carol’s only son, Shawn, helped investigators seek justice for his mother. He distributed posters and worked tirelessly to ensure her death was not forgotten. “I can’t really have many comforting words at this point,” Walsh said. “I know he’s been through a lot. I’m praying Shawn will be able to get the satisfaction of knowing that his mother’s killer is either no longer with us or is put behind bars.” Walsh retired in 2014, after 20 years as the county sheriff. Sheriff Eugene Conway is photographed on July 21, 2022 before his retirement. The 27-year-old unsolved case of Carol Ryan was one case he never forgot. Carol Ryan was found near death along Route 91 across from the Jamesville Reservoir on Septt. 1, 1996. An explosive device was detonated inside of her, and a suspect has never been identified. (N. Scott Trimble | strimble@syracuse.com) Sheriff Eugene Conway Former Onondaga County Sheriff Eugene Conway was the captain of the Criminal Investigations Division in 1996. He vividly remembers the case of Carol Ryan, and said many details still bother him. “I have never forgotten September 1,” Conway told Syracuse.com. “To me, it’s unfinished business.” Conway said a major challenge of the investigation was an imperfect outdoor crime scene. Carol was found alive, so emergency professionals had to rush her from Jamesville to the hospital. Potential evidence on or around Carol’s body could’ve been lost during the transport. “Some of the evidence may have been compromised or actually may be even lost,” Conway said. “It’s not criticism, it’s just the situation that you’re presented with... Hindsight’s a wonderful thing, but medical aid treatment is always first. And then you deal with what you have later.” Another big challenge for investigators was witness memory. Many witnesses who saw Carol at the bars the night prior had also been drinking. “Obviously, you have alcohol and you have people having their abilities impaired to recall things,” Conway told Syracuse.com. “Those are real things that work against you.” Carol spent her last night alive at the now-shuttered East Room bar in Eastwood. (The building now houses Sinbad Restaurant, a Middle Eastern eatery.) She stayed until it closed at 2 a.m. and left the bar alone, Conway said. Witnesses saw Carol walking on James Street, alone, after 2 a.m. She was wearing a silver shirt, black jeans, black boots, silver jewelry, and a black jacket with fringe. About four hours later, she was found fatally wounded near the OCCRA site off Route 91. Her clothes, shoes and silver necklace were never found. Detectives had to identify Carol using her fingerprints. “Is this person, or people, responsible for other cases like this?” Conway said. “Them getting away with it obviously really eats away at me.” Conway retired as sheriff in 2022 after 45 years in law enforcement. Onondaga County Sheriff Toby Shelley in his office at the Onondaga County Sheriff's Department in Syracuse, N.Y., May 17, 2023. (N. Scott Trimble | strimble@syracuse.com) Sheriff Toby Shelley Sheriff Toby Shelley remembers Carol Ryan’s murder in 1996. He was a young patrol deputy then, posted in the towns of Geddes, Camillus, Elbridge and part of Van Buren. Last November, Shelley was elected as the new Onondaga County sheriff. “The sheriff’s office hasn’t forgotten this case by any means,” Sheriff Shelley told syracuse.com. “It’s an extensive case to review. To leave a person on the side of the road in the condition she was in... Who does that? What type of mind does that?” Detectives chased down hundreds of tips and conducted multiple interviews with the same leads, to fact-check statements and narrow down persons of interest. A few hot leads early in the investigation were eventually ruled out. “There’s still hope with it,” Shelley said. “Part of the challenge is what little bit of DNA can be tested might be a one shot deal for testing.” Shelley plans to launch a new cold case unit in the sheriff’s office this fall to focus on cases like Carol’s. “This one has solvability still,” Shelley said. “If that killer’s still alive, it sure would bring satisfaction to bring them to justice. If I knew who did this, I’d go out and put cuffs on ‘em.” Alexander Hebert took over as the lead detective on Carol’s case in 2021. “We’re doing everything that we can, following every lead that comes in,” Hebert told syracuse.com. “It really comes down to the science behind physical evidence left on scene.” Last summer, Hebert resubmitted a pack of evidence and DNA samples from Carol’s case to the Onondaga County Center for Forensic Sciences. “I definitely think there’s a potential suspect that will eventually be brought to justice when this testing hopefully gets done,” Hebert said. “Ideally, we would be able to find the person before they pass, and hold them accountable for their actions.” Shelley said the pack included fingernails and other evidence. No matches have been found, as of mid-August 2023. But Hebert says the DNA retesting has not been completed. “They do a great job over there, but it’s just a slow-moving process, so it can be frustrating,” Hebert said. “This is my front-seat case, but the lab has to prioritize different things.” DNA analysis at the Onondaga County Center for Forensic Sciences. Wednesday, Aug 3, 2022. (Katrina Tulloch | ktulloch@syracuse.com) No statute of limitations Murder is a Class A felony in New York with no statute of limitations. If alive, Carol’s killer could be convicted and sentenced to life in prison. William Fitzpatrick was the Onondaga County District Attorney in 1996 when Carol was murdered, and he is still the DA today. He is deeply familiar with her case. “My confidence is diminished by the sands of time, but my earnestness is not diminished at all,” Fitzpatrick told syracuse.com in 2022. “This is a case that just screams out for justice.” Fitzpatrick said it’s unlikely the main suspect will come forward himself. He said Carol’s case will most likely be solved using new advancements in DNA technology, or using new details provided by the public. But the promise of DNA technology doesn’t mean much to Carol’s son anymore, who has waited 27 years for a break in the case. He has heard that line over and over from detectives. “I’ve been living on this DNA stuff for so long, and there’s still nothing after all this time,” Hamilton said. “They’re refusing to tell me anything at all. I don’t know what to believe anymore. “It’s like a never-ending nightmare.” How you can help Your information, no matter how small, could help solve this case. If you have any details about this case, contact the Onondaga County Sheriff’s Office at 315-435-3051. To submit an anonymous tip to the Sheriff’s Office, text TIPONON and your tip to 847411. The Post-Standard and Syracuse.com continue to investigate Carol Ryan’s case. If you have information to share about Carol, call reporter Katrina Tulloch at 518-810-5022 or email ktulloch@syracuse.com. Reporter Samantha House contributed to this story. Katrina Tulloch shoots videos and writes news stories for Syracuse.com and The Post-Standard. Contact her anytime: Email | Twitter | Facebook | 518-810-5022 • Carol Ryan’s cold case: Horrific Syracuse murder remains unsolved 26 years later • After 20 years, CNY woman’s brutal murder remains unsolved If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices