
	A unique technology is providing artists with a new level of protection for their work. 
	“I think it’s really important because up until now there has not really been a really counterfeit proof, reliable way to really authenticate your art to this level ever before,” said artist Fabrice Goosens. 
	Halifax-based companies DNA Technologies and HFX Canvas Prints have partnered to provide a method to authenticate paintings, prints and photographs by stamping the work with unique DNA codes. 
	“It’s applied after the print is done, on the back side and on the certificate of authenticity,” said Brandon Baker, the owner of HFX Canvas Prints. 
	That stamp allows the piece to be tracked through an online platform. 
	“In this particular case is synthetic DNA,” said Hayes, the managing director of DNA Technologies. 
	“It’s DNA produced on the computer, in a lab so we can make lots of it and make lots of it inexpensively and control the codes that are hidden within,” he added. 
	The technology is already being applied to art from Saltwreck, a Yarmouth company that creates unique maps for customers.  
	Fabrice the Artist will be the first individual artists to incorporate the process into his art pieces. 
	“In today’s world with counterfeits and all that, I think it’s never been more important to have such an authentic counterfeit proof form of your art,” Goosens said. 
	“The way we make our DNA, not only do you have to know what you’re looking for you also have to know where to find it. I used to say it’s like looking for a needle in a haystack and someone said, actually it’s like looking for some straw in a haystack,” said Hayes. 
	The DNA stamp also provides assurance to anyone buying an art piece that the work is an original, thereby potentially increasing its value. The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month.  British tech magnate Mike Lynch and five other people were missing after their luxury superyacht sank during a freak storm off Sicily early Monday, Italy’s civil protection and authorities said. Lynch’s wife and 14 other people survived.  General Motors said Monday it is laying off more than 1,000 salaried employees at its software and service units worldwide.  Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. could be on the verge of dominating the world's convenience store market after it offered to buy one of the sector's biggest players.  Families can expect the next Canada Child Benefit payment to land in their bank accounts this week, according to the Canada Revenue Agency.  Labour Minister Steven Mackinnon is calling upon CN Rail, the Canadian Pacific Kansas City (CPKC) and the Teamsters Canada Rail Conference to 'do the hard work necessary' to prevent a potential railway stoppage.  Phil Donahue, who changed the face of U.S. daytime television with a long-running syndicated talk show that highlighted topical and often provocative social and political issues, has died at age 88, NBC's 'Today' show reported on Monday, citing a statement from his family.  The Philippines and China accused each other on Monday of ramming vessels and performing dangerous maneuvers in the South China Sea, the latest flare-up after the two nations agreed last month to try to manage disagreements at sea.  Montreal officials are continuing their analysis to find out what led to a major water main break that caused immense flooding just under the Jacques Cartier Bridge.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. Flooding in Toronto and southern Ontario last month resulted in more than $940 million worth of insured damage, the Insurance Bureau of Canada (IBC) announced Monday.  The Transportation Safety Board of Canada says it found a number of safety deficiencies in its investigation into a Toronto ferry crash that injured 12 people two years ago.  A busy intersection in downtown Toronto will be closed for one week starting Monday as the city starts the 'complete reconstruction' of the crossing.  The roads heading into Jasper, Alta., are open, but officials say tourists won't be welcome in the Rocky Mountain town for the foreseeable future.  Daytime highs are expected to exceed normal thresholds for most of Alberta on Monday as the tail end of a ridge of high pressure acts as the main weather maker early in the day.  ASIRT will be investigating after a Calgary police officer shot a robbery suspect.  Stony Plain Road will be closed until the end of November so Marigold can complete extra work on the Valley Line West LRT.  The roads heading into Jasper, Alta., are open, but officials say tourists won't be welcome in the Rocky Mountain town for the foreseeable future.  Police in Fort McMurray seized more than $100,000 worth of drugs and cash from three homes last week.  Montreal officials are continuing their analysis to find out what led to a major water main break that caused immense flooding just under the Jacques Cartier Bridge.  CTV Montreal was forced to set up a makeshift studio on Nun's Island after a water main break caused water to flood into our building.  CSQ president Éric Gingras offered a message of hope to teachers and education professionals ahead of the new school year, saying Quebec's staff shortages should gradually improve.  The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month.  In the biggest change to Ottawa's curbside waste policy since 2012, households will be limited to three items of curbside waste every two weeks starting Sept. 30.  Sanctions are being recommended for a councillor of an eastern Ontario township after he allegedly gave a speech at a community event while allegedly intoxicated and engaged in two separate physical fights with residents on the same day last year.  Matthew McQuarrie was sentenced to life in prison for stabbing Emerson Sprung to death, and burying him in a shallow grave in a Meaford, Ont. park in May 2020.  The weather is believed to have played a factor in a crash involving a London Transit but on the weekend. According to London police, the investigation remains ongoing as to whether or not any other factors may have played a part in the crash.  A fire in east London is being investigated as suspicious after crews responded around 6:30 a.m. A camper trailer and a boat were engulfed when crews arrived at 531 First St. and was quickly extinguished.  Thick smoke has blanketed much of Barrie after a fire broke out at a scrapyard in central Barrie.  Two men were injured in an incident that occurred at a Barrie plaza around Cundles Road East and Sperling Drive early Monday morning.  Caledon Fire and Emergency Services are reporting an active fire at a residence in the area of Mayfield Road.  Sometimes, despite couples' best efforts to stay together, marriages come to an end far earlier than either party hoped or predicted. Here is some advice from Barry Nussbaum, a family lawyer who has counselled countless couples, about the details you don't want to neglect when getting divorced.  Investigators have discovered human remains during a search of property in southeastern Michigan that belongs to a man whose wife disappeared more than three years ago and is presumed dead.  Ontario Provincial Police say a 20-year-old from Sudbury has been charged with careless driving causing death and stunt driving after a person in a wheelchair was killed late last month.  An investigation from Western University’s Northern Tornadoes Project has classified Saturday’s tornado in Ayr, Ont., as an EF1.  Residents in Waterloo Region are being asked to conserve water for approximately one week, starting Monday while an important water pipe is repaired.  Waterloo Regional Police are investigating after a man was hurt in a Cambridge shooting.  As water leaks into both his child's bedroom and the family room of his west-end apartment unit, Daniel Banner says his family is stuck in a precarious housing situation they can’t escape.  A 24-year-old Wallaceburg motorcyclist has been charged with impaired driving after a crash.  General Motors said Monday it is laying off more than 1,000 salaried employees at its software and service units worldwide.  A Winnipeg business owner wants something to be done after his office was broken into at least four times in the past two months.  On August 18, 1964, 60 years and one day ago, the Fab Four made an unscheduled stop in Winnipeg, drawing more than 1,000 fans to the airport.  Postal workers staged an information picket on Monday morning in Winnipeg as they called for better and safer working conditions.  No injuries were reported after the smell of smoke and haze forced the evacuation of Regina's Cornwall Centre Monday morning.  Michael Gordon Jackson is scheduled to present arguments for sentencing as part of his own defence.  Regina City Council is expected to revisit the ongoing debate around renaming Dewdney Avenue at its meeting this week.  The Saskatoon Police Service alleges its officers were assaulted on Saturday night during cruise weekend, but witnesses are telling a different story.  A Saskatoon man faces a second-degree murder charge after the remains of Jordan Lee Morin were found at a home in Riversdale on Friday.  In an announcement made Saturday by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Saskatoon’s Tracy Muggli has been appointed as an independent senator for Saskatchewan to fill a vacancy in the Senate.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  Officials at Metro Vancouver are working to secure more sodium hypochlorite (chlorine), as a potential rail strike could stall delivery of the chemical agent used to clean the area’s drinking water.  A driver who crashed through the fence of a West Shore home over the weekend failed a breathalyzer test at the scene, according to the RCMP.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  A 29-year-old man is in police custody following an alleged assault on a bus driver near Victoria.  British Columbia's provincial health officer is reminding parents and guardians to ensure their children are up to date on all their vaccines before heading back to school next month.  When the McDougall Creek fire sparked on Aug. 15, 2023, no one could’ve imagined it would mushroom in size, consuming homes, infrastructure and livelihoods in the West Kelowna area with damage that will take years to address.  Thieves in B.C.'s Okanagan recently made off with an enclosed trailer containing a classic muscle car, local police say.  A former leadership rival to BC United Leader Kevin Falcon is joining John Rustad's British Columbia Conservatives to run in Kelowna in the fall election.  © 2024 

 All rights reserved. Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy