 Search the news, stories & people Personalise the news and stay in the know Emergency Backstory Newsletters 中文新闻 BERITA BAHASA INDONESIA TOK PISIN By Christopher Testa ABC Far North Topic:Disasters, Accidents and Emergency Incidents Paramedics Nathan Cutler and Morgan Kingston helped rescue the woman from dense bushland. (ABC Far North: Christopher Testa) Paramedics say a 72-year-old woman is lucky to have been found after she spent two days stranded at the bottom of a 10-metre embankment in a Cairns conservation park. The woman, understood to have been in Far North Queensland on holiday, was rescued from dense bushland near the Green Arrow walking track on Mount Whitfield Thursday night. The alarm was only raised when other walkers heard her calls for help on Thursday afternoon and called triple zero. "I'm surprised the people walking past heard her, to be honest, with where she was located," critical care paramedic Nathan Cutler said. "Because this isn't an established walking track, I'd hazard a guess she would not have [otherwise] been found." The Green Arrow walking track winds through hilly and dense bushland in Cairns' north-west. (ABC Far North: Christopher Testa) Mr Cutler said the woman was "very relieved" after she was found her in the "dense scrub". "With all of our gear, it was obviously quite a labour-intensive effort [to get there]," he said. "The ground was giving way as we were walking on it and the embankment she was walking on was difficult to navigate, even for emergency services. "I don't think the patient had much chance of getting out of there of her own accord." Mount Whitfield includes several marked walking trails, with some offering views of Cairns. (ABC Far North: Christopher Testa) It took more than two hours for crews to find the woman, who paramedics believe slipped down the embankment after leaving the marked walking trail. Due to difficult terrain and fading light, she was unable to be winched out and crews had to make their way through the forest to extract her. "We believe she was down there for at least two days," said Jay Nevins, Queensland Ambulance Service's (QAS) acting senior operations supervisor for the far northern region. Mr Nevins said the woman had some food and water with her but was showing signs of exposure. Heavy rain had fallen in recent days across Cairns. The woman had left one of the marked paths in the Mount Whitfield area. (ABC Far North: Christopher Testa) "It's a good reminder for us all, preparation is the key to safety," Mr Nevins said. "Having communication devices, having our food and water, clothing, protection from the weather and having someone know when you're due back." The woman was taken to Cairns Hospital in a stable condition with minor injuries. There are four marked walking trails in the Mount Whitfield Conservation Park, ranging from 1.5 kilometres return to 6km return. A QAS crew, a rescue helicopter, two Queensland Fire and Emergency Services crews and State Emergency Service staff were involved in the rescue effort. Browse for your location and find more local ABC News and information Topic:Defence Forces Topic:Work Topic:Child Care Analysis by Ian Verrender Topic:Animal Attacks Topic:National Parks Cairns Disasters, Accidents and Emergency Incidents Environment Outdoor Recreational Activities Topic:Defence Forces Topic:Work Topic:Child Care Analysis by Ian Verrender Analysis by Dan Barrett Topic:Water Pollution Topic:Disabilities Topic:Work We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)