It may only be November but thanks to the abundance of Beauty Advent Calendars dropping for Christmas 2023, it’s fair to say we’re already celebrating the festivities. And who could blame us? This year the advent offerings have been nothing short of gold-standard. We’ve reviewed several already including the Liberty London Beauty Advent Calendar, the Cult Beauty Advent Calendar, the Charlotte Tilbury Advent Calendar and the Dior Advent Calendar, all of which have proven to be worth their salt. One that took pride of place on our advent calendar wish list? LookFantastic's, but predictably, it looks like it's already sold out thanks to the influx of content creators raving about it on social media. But good news, as the brand have just launched their much coveted Beauty Chest - the perfect purchase if you've missed out on the advent calendar. Scroll on for all the need-to-knows. LookFantastic Beauty Chest Best for those who missed the LookFanastic advent calendar! www.lookfantastic.com If the LookFantastic monthly beauty box and (currently sold out) advent calendar is anything to go by then be rest assured that the Beauty Chest is something to behold. Expect an abundance of top brands all housed in beautiful keepsake drawers. Drop Date: It's available now. Price: £120 for £562 worth of products Number of Products: 18 What's Inside The LookFantastic Beauty Chest: Consider this the spoiler alert, and scroll on for all the details. ELEMIS Pro-Collagen Vitality Eye 15ml (full-size) - worth £72ESPA 24-Hour Replenishing Moisturiser 55ml (full-size) – worth £48Elizabeth Arden Eight Hour® Cream Intensive Moisturising Hand Treatment (deluxe size) - worth £11REN Glycol Lactic Radiance Renewal Mask 50ml (full-size) - worth £40Rodial Pink Diamond Instant Lifting Serum 30ml (full-size) - worth £125Medik8 Clarity Peptides 30ml (full-size) - worth £45NEW Shiseido Benefiance Wrinkle Smoothing Cream 3ml (deluxe size) - worth £14.50Dr Zion x Murad Retinol Youth Renewal Eye Mask x1 (full-size) - worth £9NARS Orgasm Eyeshadow Quad 4.8g (full-size) - worth £42Anastasia Beverly Hills Brow Freeze 8g (full-size) - worth £23Natasha Denona Bloom Highlighting Blush 4g (full-size) - worth £17Sweed Cloud Mascara 12ml (full-size) - worth £24Olaplex No.8 Hair Mask 100ml (full-size) - worth £28NEW Living Proof Full Shampoo 29ml (deluxe size) - worth £6.50NEW Living Proof Full Conditioner 29ml (deluxe size) - worth £6.50NEOM Real Luxury Travel Candle 75g (deluxe size) - worth £19Aromatherapy Associates Revive Morning Roller Ball 10ml (full-size) - worth £25Molton Brown Body Wash Orange and Bergamot 100ml (deluxe size, scent may vary) - worth £7 Grazia's Favourite Product: For soft, swish-worthy hair our beloved Olaplex just cannot be beaten. www.lookfantastic.com LookFantastic Beauty Advent Calendar Best all-rounder www.lookfantastic.com LookFantastic consistently churn out great beauty offerings (their monthly beauty box proves just that) so it’s hardly surprising that this one has been highly anticipated- there’s goodies from top brands such as Elemis, Coco and Eve and Medik8. Drop Date: It looks like it's already sold out - but watch this space in case of returns or restocks. Price: £99 for over £565 worth of products. Impressive stuff. Number of Products: 27 What's Inside The LookFantastic Beauty Advent Calendar: Packed with luxury (we'd expect nothing less) there's 27 indulgent products across skincare, haircare, and makeup sure to delight 'til Christmas and beyond. 'This is the first time I've bought this and I'm blown away by how good it is,' wrote one happy customer. Grazia's Favourite Product: Sol De Janeiro's cult classic Brazilian Bum Bum Cream is in there - apply to parched limbs and prepare to be transported to the sunny shores of Brazil. Heaven. www.lookfantastic.com There’s an impressive 27 products across make-up, haircare and skincare from a range of sought after brands. Without spoiling too much (the joy is in the surprise, after all) there’s the nourishing Eve Lom Rescue Mask, the iconic Nars Orgasm Blusher and the skin-softening Rituals Ritual of Jing Body Scrub. Not against a spoiler? Check out the full list of contents on the LookFantastic website. The LookFantastic Beauty Advent Calendar costs £99 for £565 worth of products. Pretty impressive, if you ask us. The LookFantastic Beauty Chest costs £120 for £562 worth of products. Rachael Martin, junior beauty editor: 'If you're after an advent calendar that delivers value for money then this one is just the ticket. You can expect 27 products from iconic brands like Elemis, Nars, Sol de Janeiro and Color Wow. I think it's particularly good if you feel like you're stuck in a bit of a beauty rut - we've tried and tested each product individually and can promise that they're excellent options for refreshing your routine. The Origins Mega Mushroom Treatment is well worth considering alone - just a small amount makes light work of soothing and calming an irritated complexion. If you're reading this and it's currently sold out? Make a play for the LookFantastic Beauty Chest - believe me when I say it's the next best thing - it's bursting with top brands like Rodial, Olaplex and Murad' Four out of five - and we're only deducting a point because the advent calendar is currently sold out. Rachael Martin is Grazia’s Junior Beauty Editor where she covers all things beauty, health and wellness. © 1962-2024 Bauer Media Group Bauer Consumer Media Ltd, Company number 01176085; Bauer Radio Limited, Company number: 1394141; Registered office: Media House, Peterborough Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough PE2 6EA and H Bauer Publishing, Company number: LP003328; Registered office: The Lantern, 75 Hampstead Road, London NW1 2PL All registered in England and Wales. VAT no 918 5617 01 H Bauer Publishing are authorised and regulated for credit broking by the FCA (Ref No: 845898)