MRS HINCH fans have come to the rescue of a woman who was helped stumped over a stain she left on a table.  The woman explained that she went to her mother-in-law’s house and spilled something on her jumper, which sparked a series of events that ended with the large stain.  After doing her best to scrub her jumper with detergent, the product accidentally transferred onto her mother-in-law’s pristine wooden table.  And the worst part was she couldn’t get it off.  Sharing a photo of the table with the large splodge on it, she wrote: “Please help! “I was trying to scrub stains out of my jumper with detergent and it stain my mother in laws table! “HOW to get this out? Please help!”  Upon seeing the dilemma she was in people rushed to the comments section to share their top tips and tricks. Posting on the Facebook group Mrs Hinch Cleaning Tips, one person wrote: “You have to sand and stain it.”  Another shared: “Try the pink stuff and magic sponge,” while a third added: “Wipe the whole table with the detergent and hopefully the whole table will be the same colour . I hope this works.” But it was a much simpler tip that got the most attention as one person suggested using a simple product found in every kitchen.  “Put some mayo on the stain and leave for 1-2 hrs. Wipe off and it should have disappeared,” one person shared with a thumbs up emoji.  Another shared: “Mayonnaise, leave and wipe. If it’s still there warm iron paper or tea towel.” A third posted: “Mayonnaise, I did it with wet washing on an antique table, worked great.”  Mayonnaise can be bought online for as little as 65p, making it an ideal solution for potentially catastrophic situation.  And a second set of people suggested a completely free alternative by using a kitchen towel with an iron.  “Try ironing it with a towel on top,” one person shared.  Another chimed: “Just put a dry cloth over it and run a warm iron over it slowly to take the moisture out”. And a third added: “Dry towel or cloth and warm iron should do it”.  What trick do you know to remove detergent stains?   Meanwhile, one person revealed you’ve been getting stains out of your children’s clothes all wrong and it’s ruining them.  And Mrs Hinch fans shared the best ways to remove grass stains from white clothes - and a £4 Sainsbury’s product is the key. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/