CLEANING tile grout can be a real pain. It’s something that seems to get dirty often and many of us will find ourselves scrubbing at tiles to get them sparkling. Luckily for you, Mrs Hinch fans have come to the rescue and have shared their quick, simple trick for cleaning tile grout, without the faff. Not only is it an ‘easy’ method, but don’t worry, you won’t have to worry about spending loads of money on fancy cleaning products. Ever since cleaning sensation Mrs Hinch, otherwise known as Sophie Hinchliffe, took to Instagram, cleaning tips and tricks have become more and more popular. There’s even Facebook groups where cleaning fanatics share their hacks for getting their homes spotless. And the latest hack focuses on getting your tile grout clean without the hassle.  Posting on Mrs Hinch Cleaning Tips Facebook page, one woman asked for advice on how to clean tile grout. Gail Griffiths said: “Anyone have any ideas on cleaning grout between bathroom tiles.   “I’ve tried Calgon, Flash, all sorts. Parts are blackish, and those not black have gone a creamy colour from bleach. Even used an electric scrubber with a pointy end. Help.” The Facebook page has over 630,000 group members and Gail’s post garnered hundreds of responses.  While many shared their useful cleaning tips, the most popular solution was to use a combination of hydrogen peroxide and baking soda.  FABULOUS BINGO: Get a £20 bonus & 30 free spins when you spend £10 today One cleaning fan noted: “I love to use both hydrogen peroxide and baking soda to clean my bathroom grout, it’s the best combination if you’re looking for an effortless way. You need to try it, it completely blew me away.” Another commented: “Hydrogen peroxide and baking soda and a soft scrub brush. Make a paste in the grout lines, then scrub with the brush and wipe clean.” A third wrote: “Bicarbonate of soda and hydrogen peroxide, mix to a paste, leave on for a few minutes or so, then rub and rinse it off. It works a treat and is great for carpet stains. I use it all the time, it’s brill.” Someone else said: “You need to try using hydrogen and peroxide with baking soda. It gets rid of all grout stains and kills mould on grout. Your grout will look as good as new.” Hydrogen peroxide helps to get rid of mould and can be applied directly to the grout.  Once applied, let it sit and then scrub and rinse.   After, pour the hydrogen peroxide on the paste and watch as it bubbles and fizzes.  This will loosen more mould spores in the grout and allow households to remove mould easier. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/