Finding the best watches with a specific budget in mind is always a welcome challenge. It’s also one of the most frequent requests we get in the comments and on social media. Prices change, and classic favorites at a certain price point float up beyond reach. At the same time, new watches are introduced each week. Today, we begin a roundup of our favorite watches in the sub-€500 price bracket. Our editors have been tasked with picking just one watch that they would buy with €500 or less. However, we won’t just tell you about one watch. Each editor will highlight a series of favorites before arriving at the final pick. Call it the best entry-level watch or a must-have complement for all collectors and enthusiasts. Either way, we’re about to show you some of the best bang-for-buck watches available right now. I have the pleasure (and challenge) of kicking this off today. And though I did plenty of research to find what, in my opinion, is the very best watch available today for €500 or less, I ended up with a rather honest pick. And I mean honest in the sense that just a few months ago, I bought the watch in question. I’ll get there, but first, I want to highlight several options out there, as well as share my shock at finding some of the classics that no longer fit into the entry-level price point. Hopefully, those out there looking for a first “proper” watch will find this series helpful. And for those of you well into your collecting, maybe it will be interesting to take a look at some of these options that perhaps have slipped into a sort of collector’s blind spot.  This is the question I had to ask myself. It was easy to list some of the classic €500-adjacent options from a couple of years ago. The Hamilton Khaki Field Mechanical was one of the first I thought of, and the classic Seiko SKX007 and SKX009 also came to mind. But those are now either discontinued (in the case of the Seikos) or have jumped over the €500 cut-off. There were even a couple of other options which came to mind that couldn’t make the cut but only by a little bit. This included the Serica 4512 series of watches and the Unimatic Modello Uno U1. Though those have always been slightly above the price point in question, it was sad to see some of the old go-to options shift beyond their classic positioning. But to quote pre-Socratic ancient Greek philosopher Heraclitus of Ephesus, “There is nothing permanent except change.”  And change brings with it as many good things as it does bad. This includes plenty of new options to choose from at the sub-€500 price point. The first of these that I’d like to highlight is the Timex Expedition North Titanium. If it weren’t for the fact that I had selected the Citizen, this would have been my choice. It’s a rugged titanium GADA (go anywhere, do anything) watch with a sapphire crystal, automatic movement, and a 200m water-resistance rating. Priced at €349, it’s an incredible value proposition and my runner-up pick. Other than that, I will always recommend the Seiko SSK005 as well as the classic G-Shock GW-M5610U-1ER and the CWC G10 or quartz MK1 diver. Finally, for those with a larger wrist, I’d point you towards the Seiko SRPE93K1, Seiko’s modern take on the classic Turtle dive watch.  Speaking of dive watches, let’s move on to my top choice. It’s the Citizen JP2000-08E, a quirky quartz dive watch with a cult following and a cool set of features. Gerard wrote an extensive article about the watch in question, a reissue of a classic diver from the 1980s. The watch was used and abused by many a diver back when this was as good as it got in terms of a “dive computer.” It has a chronograph, alarm, dual-time display, depth gauge, and dive log. These functions allow divers to stay safe when they dip far under the surface. Nowadays, it serves as a perfect backup to a modern-day dive computer. And though this may seem like overkill, redundancy regarding vital equipment is something that divers take very seriously. Not a diver? No problem! The JP2000 is still a brilliant and hearty wrist companion for anyone looking for one. Don’t let its size fool you. Listed at 44mm, the watch wears rather well. This is thanks in part to the bezel diameter of 38mm, which helps reduce its perceived size. On my 17cm (6.7″) wrist, it looks right at home. The watch is delivered on a long, vented rubber strap that requires a bit of breaking in. It’s a rugged strap and a perfect option for a dive watch like this. I wear mine on a ZULU-style nylon strap, the NATO strap’s chunkier brother. With the watch coming in at €399 (including VAT), you’ll have some budget left for a handful of 24mm straps (which, unless you’re a Panerai collector, you probably don’t have lying around). I bought this watch for myself last year and have thoroughly enjoyed wearing it, particularly during the warm-weather months. Its tough-tool looks and reliable quartz movement inspire a sense of adventure that more expensive watches do not.  Didn’t love my watch of choice? Well, no need to fret; the search for the best sub-€500 watch continues soon. My fellow Fratello editor Daan will present his contender this Friday. Make sure to tune in over the coming weeks to see each of our editor’s picks. Whether it’s their primary pick or some of the highlights, you’re bound to find a perfect affordable watch for your tastes. That said, if you already have one in mind, we’d love to hear from you in the comments below! Your Comment* Your name *  Your e-mail address (will not be published) *   

  Δ 
Post with fratello account
Login
 
Don't have an account yet?
Create one here, it'll only take 20 seconds
 Great picks all of them, I would say. Tested my Citizen Promaster (Y GN-4-S) down to below 100 ft and compared it with the depth readings of my dive computer, and it was spot on. Size, awkward bezel and lume leaves something left to be desired for that one though….  Believe Timex watches does the job just fine, and I like the sanitised almost purely functional designs.  My favourite from Timex is the Miyota 9039 Giorgio Galli S1, but I wish they had stopped before the goldie looks… https://www.timex.com/giorgio-galli-s1-automatic-38mm/TW2V03500GO.html Nice selection ! I just bought a Citizen on sale in France that fit right in the selection, the Citizen Promaster 200m BN220-16E
https://www.citizenwatch-global.com/news/2021/20210304-2/index.html
I bought it for 280€ and it was listed at 400€. It’s such a fun diver : light as a feather with the super titanium case and even the big size it wears very well because of the no lugs design. The titanium has a sand blasted finish that looks like a pebble in a river, it’s so soft and comfortable for a rugged watch.
I recommand it 😉 Great choice, that looks like a lot of fun to wear, the force is strong with he gray and gold model! For me, it’s the G-Shock GWM-5610 vs. the Citizen Promaster Tough. I like the Aqualand, but it’s not exactly versatile and its functionality makes promises my lifestyle doesn’t keep. Hi i have one of those and would like to change the module, how can I fix that inconvenience ? Tanks GAB2100C-9A Great choice, I’ll have mine in black and gold please (too bad they don’t make them anyway). The Italian Citizen website has nice dial colors too. I may have gone for a full lume, blue or green fugu though! A regular seiko 5 sports can be easily bought for £185 or less from UK seiko dealers. Its beyond me why online reviewers keep telling us that over 100% more for a GMT hand instead of a day window, and a jubilee bracelet, is great value. ??? Is it me ? Why does Fratello presents the opinion is that all we need and want are sports watches??? My pick would be the Eco Drive Radio Controlled Citizen CB0260-81E. It’s a proper GADA watch (unlike any of the above). It’s very handsome, very wearable, extremely versatile. If one want’s mechanical, I’d go with the Ebel Disovery. Second the Ebel! Gets zero play in the media, but probably the most comfortable that I own. The SportWave is also a great choice. The Wave is very pretty but over EUR500… I heard the quality of Ebels is poor, althiough I have no experience first hand… such a shame the once-great Ebel is basically nonexistent… Nacho states that this HIS pick from HIS selection below 500, and that other writers will follow with THEIR picks. As far as I get it, he doesn’t insinuate that all you or we want are sports watches, and there’s nothing to indicate that that others will follow his preferences….. Having said that, I’d argue that there’s a lot of water between the boats when it comes to low budget “classic designs” as a good many microbrands do a lot of divers and field.  As far as big brands goes, I find it rather challenging to find really good “classic designs” below the 500 limit. Might be just my preferences, or might be that the big brands do not put a lot of effort into it as sports/diver/field are more profitable/beneficial. I do like your pick though 🙂  Doing something with their filtering and presentation of watches on their own site would probably not harm sales. Well, thanks for liking my picks:-) Sure, the author’s views are naturally his own:-) Yes, there are a lot of divers and fileds, well, everywhere… and to be honest, it becomes… well, boring borderline annoying (or beyond that borderline, actually;-) Sure, my annoyance is totally unnecessary but well, it’s my own!;-)  I was thinking of microbrands but couldn’t find much below 500, especially from the few ones I like best… I actually believe there’s a unexploited market around budget “ecodrivesque” watches in the segment you are pointing towards. Seiko and Citizen are both exploring everlasting quartz, but Seiko seems to keep such tech mainly in their “more is more” line ups.  Titanium EcoDrive from Citizen seems to be the more viable alternative as far as I have been able to establish. For designers, there’s a lot more to play with in the tool segment, thus there are more opportunities to stand out one way or another (most is done though). Young boys tries to portray themselves as men with “masculine objects” and so on.  Agree that microbrands stray beyond the 500 threshold, but it might be that the threshold is done playing it’s part, due to hefty inflation everywhere. Then again, the threshold is real for consumers. Traska Commuter (36,5mm) is not that far off at USD 565 though….
https://www.traskawatch.com/products/commuter-arctic-white The problem I find is that the designs lag behind the tech. Ultimately, a lot of these are mass-market products, so expected. I’d love to see more Prospex with solar movements; turtles, monsters even Willards. Some solar-quartz Presage models would be cool, too. Agree there’s a need to up the ante as far as design goes, and I think that’s genuine and not only in relation to my personal preferences. There are a few available + variations, but…….. pass… Many people think they need a diver watch, the nonsensical water resistance ratings might feed some of that thinking, appart from my stocks I don’t own any divers but I’d buy one if I really really liked the aesthetics. It’s not about 2-3-5-600 meters as far as I’m concerned. It’s about watches where the bezel protects the sapphire, and ruggedness. I kind of like toolwatches that can take a beating. Presently, I believe F-39/41 & Marinemaster 40/44 answers that better than divers, plus their identity are different. Chunky they are. Still can justify them by lifestyle, but not as much as before. I saw one in the wild a couple of weeks ago – someone was wearing it on the London underground and I saw it and immediately though – before realising what it was – ‘that looks amazing’. They do that when spotted in the wild, a little bit like Ploprofs! Would be funny if they could display depth in the subway 🙂 Air density would be a feature… 😉 Scurfa? Mighty fine divers. Build quality so so good for the price. A company run by a professional diver (and watch lover) and it shows. Fun article! Definitely a cool watch. And definitely a great choice for those people who have already have owned a little bit of everything under the sun and crave something wholly unique. Usually this sort of article is focused on a recommendation for that “theoretical friend” with a $500 budget who wants their one nice watch, or wants to an entry point into the world of watches. It’s fun to see this challenge from the perspective of folks who have been around the block instead A brand nobody speaks about is Atlantic watches. Swiss made, founded in 1888, it had a good range of automatic and handwind watches that have good style and are just a bit under 500€. Fratello should look into their catalogue.
They sells more in the eastern EU (O saw them the 1st time in a boutique in Poland) but they represent very good value. My under €500 watch would be a solar powered Casio G-Shock. Practically indestructible and highly water resistant. Lasts 20 years without servicing or batteries. Inexpensive, durable, and accurate. Exactly.
And you can have a bit of design to it as well.
I prefer the GA-B2100C-9A. Zelos has a few titanium swordfish, a couple bronze hammerheads and a steel hammerhead all available on their website topping out at $450. Awesome watches & a great value. RZE make some great stuff at this price-point too. citizen nb1050 Any dial colour you fancy. I have the white as an alternative to the Sarb.
Fit and finish better in my mind and way more accurate over a weeks wear.
So yes Citizen but just not the one you wrote about. The Citizen Bluetooth Ecodrive Proximity w770 is my choice. Extremely reliable, robust and accurate, without the almost obligatory deviation from the accuracy of automatics. Personal opinion of course. My pick (and I am wearing it) is the Steinhart Adventure. It is 39mm and has the 3,6,9, configuration of the Rolex explorer it pays quiet tribute to. Stenihart gets few mentions by the watch journalists for no good reason I am aware of. Made in Switzerland mine has a Swiss movement and is accurate to +2 seconds per month. Whatever Steinhart did in the past to get ignored, they have built a fine group of varied watches and terrific factory support world-wide. I suppose they suffer of lack or originality. Yes they are made in CH, yws they are nice, but they come near to those “superhomage” watches you find in a certain Chinese site. Way too wannabe for me. They should find their own language because now they just speak a “dialect” of someone else ‘s language. I was curious and checked them out, nice pieces but
blatant “homage” to Rolex at least the premium line I’ve had my eye out for the same Citizen Promaster diver for a while. I’ve found it’s a gamble on finding a good working one. They were used and abused. Citizen does not back up the watch anymore so it will be difficult to find anyone to work on them if your’s stops working. I’m sure I’ll find the right one someday but I’m still a little worried that the one I buy will be a bummer. Ha! Anybody who walks around with this watch and is NOT a diver probably also has an Omega chronograph and a Leica camera from his days as an astronaut. If you’re not a diver do not wear a depth gauge because it’s a glaring sign that says “impersonator”. © 2004 – 2024 Fratello Watches BV
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy