They can run for months without charging. If you buy something from the links on this page, we may earn a commission. Why Trust Us? We're done dealing with dead, disposable watch batteries. Solar watches don't require battery replacements since they power up from just about any light source and run for months between charges. Solar watches are a clear choice if you want the eco-friendliest possible timepieces for your collection. Solar-powered watches were pioneered by Citizen almost half a century ago. These timepieces can convert light from any source into energy and store it in built-in, tiny power cells. This allows the watches to keep track of time for months accurately ... even in complete darkness.  A solar watch is infinitely more convenient than a quartz or mechanical offering when it comes to sheer practicality. My favorite bit about these timepieces is that they are always set and ready to go, even if you wear them sparingly as part of an extensive watch rotation. You can choose between solar-powered watches with either analog or digital movement. The former will give the timepiece a more traditional look but — save for a few pricey exceptions — less integrated complications. A digital watch is all but guaranteed to pack more features, regardless of its price point. Thankfully, plenty of watches with hybrid movements offer an analog dial and digital display for additional complications. These are the products to go for if you're looking for old-school looks with more up-to-date functionality. You can choose between a compact or an oversized solar timepiece. Watches with cases larger than 42 millimeters are guaranteed to take up more wrist space. In particular, products with digital movements or complications are typically bulkier than analog-only watches. As is the case with all watches, regardless of their movement type, the pricing of the solar-powered ones depends on their design, craftsmanship, and onboard complications. The more you spend on your next watch, the nicer it will be. From entry-level finds under $40 to luxurious, over-$1,000 picks for dedicated collectors, check out our guide to the best solar-powered watches you can buy. This Garrison model by Citizen has a movement packed with handy complications, such as 24-hour and weekday sub-dials, as well as one for keeping track of seconds. This badass timepiece has a black stainless steel case and a matching dial with contrasting markings. A comfy green Cordura strap and a 5-year warranty round up the product's noteworthy highlights. Citizen also offers a Garrison version with a khaki dial and band. More: The Best Black Watches That Are Just Plain Cool Casio’s solar-powered MTPS120L-1AV Classic watch has a decidedly utilitarian design inspired by diving timepieces. The product’s notable highlights include a stainless steel case with a textured bezel, an easy-to-read dial with contrasting markers, and a day/date complication. You can order the MTPS120L-1AV with a black or green dial. Each color option rocks a comfy fabric strap with a matching finish. Consider this solar Casio if you prefer a no-nonsense timepiece with a bigger case. The Casio Pro Trek PRW3500T is our favorite solar-powered watch with digital movement. It's packed with handy features, headlined by a built-in triple sensor that can measure direction, atmospheric pressure, and altitude. The watch is insanely accurate, too — it can sync with atomic clocks worldwide for ultra-precise timekeeping. The massive case of the timepiece has a contrasting bezel with compass indexes. The watch comes with a lightweight and durable titanium band. This Casio G-Shock is a solar-powered take on the brand's first-ever timepiece from four decades ago. Its digital movement is incredibly accurate because it is designed to sync with the nearest atomic clock. The timepiece has a lightweight case and a comfy resin band. It is water-resistant up to 200 meters and can last up to 10 months on a full charge. The impressively affordable One Eleven SWII solar-powered watch has a casual-cool case crafted from eco-friendly, plant-based plastic. A slightly pricier, more premium One Eleven Field timepiece with a stainless-steel case and plastic bezel is also available. You can order the One Eleven SWII in a ton of colors on a comfy strap. The latter is made using recycled plastic bottles, so it's just as earth-friendly. Tissot’s T-Touch Connect solar-powered watch looks incredible, sporting a lightweight titanium case with a ceramic bezel, as well as a color display that's integrated into its analog dial. As its name suggests, the timepiece is the smartest T-Touch product to date. In addition to standard watch complications, it can also deliver smartphone notifications, as well as basic fitness stats.  The watch is water-resistant up to 100 meters and has a 2-year warranty. There are multiple versions to pick from, with various case finishes on a strap or titanium bracelet. If you're looking for a cheap and durable solar watch, this Casio Classic offering is your best option. For less than $40, this watch has a rugged case and an analog dial with a convenient digital complication. In addition to date functionality, it also includes the ability to display time in multiple locations, five alarms, and a stopwatch. Other key features of this timepiece include a 100-meter rating for water resistance, a stellar LED light with an afterglow effect, and the ability to last up to 10 months on a full charge. You can order the watch in black or green. Garmin’s solar-powered Instinct Crossover watch is the best for workout warriors. It offers continuous health and fitness tracking thanks to an onboard heart rate sensor and pulse oximeter. Its hybrid design with superbly backlit analog hands (hence the Crossover moniker) should help convince old-school watch aficionados to switch to a new-generation timepiece.  The Crossover can deliver phone notifications, too. Depending on how you use it, the product can deliver unlimited freedom from chargers. All it needs is 3 hours’ worth of sun exposure per day. A cheaper Garmin Instinct without analog hands is also available. If you're looking for a stylish dress watch but don't want to overspend, consider this solar offering from Citizen. Powered by the company's legendary Eco-Drive movement, it has an elegant case, a textured dial with separate day and date complications, and a sapphire crystal that belies its sticker. A variant with a striking green dial is also available. The product features a leather strap. Like all Citizen watches, the latest Corso has a robust 5-year warranty. The Seiko Coutura SSC787 is a stylish solar watch with several cool design touches. These include a striking cabochon crown, a silver dial with contrasting sub-dials covered by a sapphire crystal, and an attention-commanding stainless steel band, to name a few. A version with gold accents is also available.  The sophisticated solar movement of the watch has a perpetual calendar and chronograph complications, an integrated alarm, and a convenient power reserve indicator. The solar-powered Pro Trek watch by Casio has the best of both digital and analog worlds. Made for the outdoors, the atomic timepiece features a built-in triple sensor that can measure temperature, atmospheric pressure, and altitude. A digital display delivers all the data and a host of other features that include a calendar, a stopwatch, and a timer. Thanks to a high-quality silicone band, the Pro Trek is lightweight and comfy for its imposing size. We like that its band and case are crafted from eco-friendly biomass plastics. This Citizen Promaster watch has a utilitarian diver design, headlined by a scratch-resistant super titanium case built like a tank. Despite its massive size, the timepiece is lightweight and surprisingly comfy to wear daily. It comes with a rubber strap.  The product’s solar-powered Eco-Drive movement has a date complication. As expected from a diving watch, it has oversized hands and dial indexes with superb illumination. It’s backed by a 5-year warranty. 8 Apple Watch Accessories You Need in Your Life 7 Apple Watch Ultra Bands We Love Your Guide to Choosing the Best GPS Watch 14 Digital Watches for Every Taste and Budget Reviewed: Apple Watch Series 6 Our Review of the Samsung Galaxy Watch Active2 Reviewed: The Latest Apple Watch Series 5 Tactical Watches We Like In Various Price Points There’s No Excuse to Not Own a Dive Watch 12 Attention-Demanding Luxury Watches 10 Gold Watches That'll Make You Want to Splurge The Best Black Watches for Any Budget A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn a commission for purchases made through our links. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved.