We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Healthline only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. We picked the FitBit Versa as best overall heart rate monitoring watch after assessing features, functionality, and price. But we’ve taken the pulse of other top options. You might love the motivating tempo for workouts or a cadent call for calm a smartwatch heart rate monitor provides. But when it’s time for an upgrade, what perks or features make it the best for you? It’s important to note that watch-style heart rate monitors aren’t medical devices and may not always be accurate, especially during exercise or if they don’t fit well. They also tend to come with an array of features and are expensive, so a simple heart rate monitor band may be a better option if you’re strictly looking to track heart rate. We’ve broken down our top picks for you, plus what specs to pay attention to. General price ranges with dollar signs ($–$$$) are indicated below. One dollar sign means the product is rather affordable, whereas three dollar signs indicate a higher cost. Generally, list prices range from $38 to $500, though this may vary depending on discounts and where you shop. Pricing guide   The Fitbit Versa 4 tops this list due to its overwhelmingly positive reviews and variety of features, including 24/7 heart rate tracking that’s displayed directly on its home screen.   Additionally, you can use the Fitbit app to view historical reports and trends over time.   Keep in mind that the premium version of the Fitbit app costs $9.99 per month.   The Versa 4 also syncs with your phone and tracks your:    What’s more, the watch is water-resistant up to 164 feet (ft) or 50 meters (m), and the battery lasts up to 6 days, though it will drain more quickly if you use GPS or enable the “always on” display.    The Fitbit Sense 2 is a good option if you’re interested in improving your overall health, since it’s equipped with:    It includes a built-in GPS and activity tracker with more than 40 exercise modes and provides a Daily Readiness Score with personalized insights to help you get the most out of your workout.   It can help identify patterns of stress and offers guided breathing practices and meditation to help you manage your emotions.   It also features a built-in voice assistant and syncs to your phone to provide notifications and enable contactless payments while shopping.   What’s more, it’s water-resistant up to 164 ft (50 m), so you don’t have to take it off before showering or swimming. Healthline writer Grace Gallagher reviewed the Fitbit Sense for 6 months and reported that it was packed with features. She found the heart rate monitoring and sleep tracking to be the most helpful features. While she wasn’t a fan of using the exercise function to track specific activities, she liked that the watch still tracked her time in the Active Zones, so she could easily glance down and see her heart rate. She also commented on the watch’s haptic button — an indent that gives vibrational feedback when pressed — saying that the lack of an actual button does take a little bit of getting used to, but it becomes intuitive eventually. She felt that the Sense itself is intuitive to use. Healthline writer Grace Gallagher reviewed the Fitbit Sense for 6 months and reported that it was packed with features. She found the heart rate monitoring and sleep tracking to be the most helpful features. While she wasn’t a fan of using the exercise function to track specific activities, she liked that the watch still tracked her time in the Active Zones, so she could easily glance down and see her heart rate. She also commented on the watch’s haptic button — an indent that gives vibrational feedback when pressed — saying that the lack of an actual button does take a little bit of getting used to, but it becomes intuitive eventually. She felt that the Sense itself is intuitive to use.   The Garmin Vivosmart 5 is a good choice for people with small wrists, as the slim face and band will not feel clunky or overwhelming. The low profile watch estimates your heart rate and your oxygen saturation levels (how much oxygen is getting to your tissues).   For people with heart or lung conditions, measuring oxygen saturation regularly serves as an early warning system. If your levels are dropping, you can take steps to correct the situation or seek medical attention before it becomes too severe.   This measurement might also help you assess whether your current medical treatments are working.   Additionally, the device tracks your heart rate continuously throughout the day and features a stress monitor with guided breathing exercises for high stress moments.   As with other options on this list, you can use this watch to keep tabs on your sleep and activity levels and pair it with your smartphone to receive notifications.   The Vivosmart 5 has a battery life of up to 7 days and is water-resistant up to 164 ft (50 m).    The Google Pixel Watch is billed as Google’s “most accurate” heart rate tracking watch (Google owns Fitbit). This model tracks heart rate once per second.   In certain regions (including the United States and Canada), the Pixel offers electrocardiogram (EKG) monitoring, which detects irregular heart rhythms. It uses an electrical sensor that requires you to touch your finger to the crown of the watch for the duration of the EKG reading.   The heart rate data also informs a Daily Readiness Score, which tells users whether it’s best to rest or work out on a certain day.   The Pixel watch has a built-in blood oxygen sensor that dropped in 2023.   Like most other smartwatches, the Google Pixel Watch tracks:    It’s also water- and scratch-resistant and has 4G LTE capabilities, so it can function as a phone.     “I haven’t had a smartwatch before, but had previously used the Fitbit 4. I wanted the same fitness tracking ability, but enhanced with additional smartwatch benefits. I chose the Pixel watch because I already have (and love) the Pixel phone and had purchased the Pixel Buds Pro. “Having all three seamlessly interact was a major plus, as was the fact that Google purchased Fitbit, so the familiar abilities, and interaction with my existing Fitbit profile, would persist. The watch is comfortable and stylish. “I would recommend it for anyone who wants a smartwatch that is also a pretty solid fitness tracker. It’s particularly good for someone who already has other Google products. “There’s a bit of a learning curve for getting all the apps you want, setting up your screen, navigating, and synching it with phone and earbuds, but it’s fairly quick to set up the basics and get going. “It includes two differently sized bands, and each has enough options to ensure it could fit most wrists.” – Laramy Applekamp, Content Project Manager    “I haven’t had a smartwatch before, but had previously used the Fitbit 4. I wanted the same fitness tracking ability, but enhanced with additional smartwatch benefits. I chose the Pixel watch because I already have (and love) the Pixel phone and had purchased the Pixel Buds Pro. “Having all three seamlessly interact was a major plus, as was the fact that Google purchased Fitbit, so the familiar abilities, and interaction with my existing Fitbit profile, would persist. The watch is comfortable and stylish. “I would recommend it for anyone who wants a smartwatch that is also a pretty solid fitness tracker. It’s particularly good for someone who already has other Google products. “There’s a bit of a learning curve for getting all the apps you want, setting up your screen, navigating, and synching it with phone and earbuds, but it’s fairly quick to set up the basics and get going. “It includes two differently sized bands, and each has enough options to ensure it could fit most wrists.” – Laramy Applekamp, Content Project Manager   The Garmin Forerunner 55, which is geared toward runners, offers the following features:    And all this is in addition to continuous heart rate tracking on your wrist.   The watch will alert you if your heart rate appears to be too low or too high while at rest.   As a bonus, it’s a smaller, lightweight watch that’s designed to feel comfortable during long runs.   The Forerunner 55 connects to your phone, allowing you to receive notifications and control your music. It has a waterproof rating of up to 164 ft (50 m), so you can even swim in it.   According to the company, the watch has a battery life of up to 2 weeks with regular use. However, if you use the Forerunner 55 with continuous GPS, you’ll likely have to charge it after 20 hours.    Featuring more than 150 sports modes and a built-in GPS, the Amazfit GTR4 is a great option for athletes and gym-goers alike.   The sports modes include:    The GTR4 can even automatically recognize eight sports without you selecting one first.   Like many other smartwatches, it’s water-resistant up to 164 ft (50 m), so it can be worn in the shower or pool and used to track swims.   It includes one-tap measuring for four health metrics:    It’s also equipped with Alexa and an offline voice assistant and has an extra-long battery life of up to 14 days after a full charge.   The Zepp app (which was previously called Amazfit) records daily exercise and notes any changes. This can be helpful for early detection of health issues.   However, some reviewers note that syncing the app and the watch can be tricky, especially if the watch is not fully charged.    Hundreds of budget-friendly fitness watches are available for less than $50, but this one stands out due to its:    In addition to 24/7 heart rate monitoring, the Willful Smart Watch offers:    The device is also waterproof, although it doesn’t track swimming metrics.   Many reviewers comment on the excellent battery life. One mentions that after about 2 days of regular use, the battery charge was still at 60%.    The Omron HeartGuide is one of the few smartwatches on the market that tracks blood pressure. In fact, it’s one of the first to receive approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a blood pressure tracking tool.   The watch tracks your heart rate and displays your data in easy-to-read graphs on the accompanying app. It’s a reliable option for older adults or people concerned with their overall heart health.   In addition to continuous heart rate monitoring, the Omron HeartGuide includes sleep and activity trackers.   While it’s designed for people with heart concerns, the Omron HeartGuide is easy to use and is a great choice if you’re seeking a heart rate watch that’s simple to use and has a more classic design.   The battery lasts 2–3 days with regular use. Just keep in mind that the Omron HeartGuide isn’t water-resistant and shouldn’t be worn in a pool, in the shower, or while washing dishes.    Though it’s pricier than many other smartwatches on the market, the Apple Watch Series 8 is packed with useful features and may be well worth the investment for some.   In addition to continuous heart rate monitoring, the Apple Watch offers:    It can also take an EKG reading, which may help detect early signs of a health condition known as atrial fibrillation (AFib).   It can connect with your iPhone and sync to a variety of apps, including many popular health and fitness apps.   The Series 8 has a larger touch screen than previous versions and an always-on retina display, making it easy to check the time without touching the screen or raising your wrist.   While the heart rate monitoring is the same on the Series 7 and 8, the 8 has additional features, including more robust temperature sensors that can help track ovulation and menstruation, and crash detection in the event of a car accident.   Plus, it’s water-resistant up to 164 ft (50 m) and boasts a battery life of up to 18 hours on a single charge. The Series 8 also has a ”Low Power Mode“ that allows the battery to stay charged for up to 36 hours.   According to Apple, the battery can reach an 80% charge in just 45 minutes, thanks to its fast-charge feature.    The accuracy of heart rate monitoring watches has improved with time, but chest straps are still considered the gold standard in research.   Polar makes both a chest and a wrist strap for its core device. You can purchase the Vantage V2 with the Polar H10 chest strap for even more precise heart rate readings plus personalized feedback and suggestions to support post-workout recovery.   The Vantage V2 is equipped with more than 130 sports modes, including:    It not only tracks your heart rate but also estimates your cardio and muscle loads while you train to help you optimize your workout.   It also features:   Additionally, it’s waterproof up to 328 ft (100 m), includes built-in GPS, and syncs with a variety of fitness and health apps.    The Samsung Galaxy Watch 5 integrates seamlessly with Strava, a popular tracking app among cyclists. This makes it a suitable choice if you prefer to stay active on a bike.   The Galaxy Watch 5 continuously displays your heart rate and will notify you if it detects a heart rate that’s too low or too high.   One distinguishing feature is that it can function as a smartphone if you have an Android device since it offers:    The watch is also lightweight and water-resistant up to 5 ft (1.5 m).   The battery life is about 40 hours, though it will be less with continuous workout monitoring or the “always on” display enabled.  Here’s a quick look at how our top picks compare:  Healthline assembled this list based on the following criteria: With so many options available, choosing a reliable heart rate monitor watch can be overwhelming. The Fitbit Versa 4 is our top pick because it features 24/7 heart rate monitoring. It tracks your heart health over time and displays your current heart rate, whether resting or exercising.  Furthermore, it shows your metrics on the main screen, so you don’t have to navigate elsewhere. Still, you may want to consider other factors, such as:  Very few smartwatches only measure heart rate. Most connect to your phone, and many offer features for athletes, such as GPS and activity tracking, or for people with heart or lung conditions, such as blood pressure and oxygen saturation monitoring. Alternatively, if you’re looking for the most accurate heart rate readings possible — for example, to help manage a heart condition — consider a chest monitor if your chest or bust will allow. This device straps around your chest and is much more precise than a smartwatch. Though many factors can affect your heart rate, your resting heart rate can indicate your overall health and physical fitness level. Some research has found that having a low resting heart rate is associated with health and longevity, while having a higher heart rate at rest may be linked to an increased risk of chronic disease. In particular, an elevated heart rate can be a risk factor for future health issues, including heart disease and stroke. In addition to telling you how your body responds to your exercise routine, keeping tabs on your resting heart rate can help you detect heart issues early to ensure the best possible outcomes. Dr. Dia Smiley, a cardiologist in New York City, notes that “monitoring your heart rate can detect issues, such as irregular heart rhythm and fast and slow heart rates, even if symptoms are not obvious or present yet.” Smiley also says that if you have a history of heart issues such as AFib (atrial fibrillation), checking your heart rate can help identify an arrhythmia or irregular heartbeat.  Some heart rate monitoring watches, including those from the following brands, have technology that can detect irregular heart rhythms: Using a heart rate monitor during exercise can also be beneficial. Keeping track of your heart rate can help you monitor your exercise intensity. Plus, knowing how often and how long you’re exercising at a heart rate close to your maximum heart rate can help you avoid overtraining. There are several instances when you should talk with a doctor about your heart rate, especially if it’s too low or high. “Anytime you have a low heart rate (less than 60) and feel dizzy, tired, or pass out, you should definitely see a doctor,” Smiley says. “If the heart rate is 50 beats or lower, even without symptoms, you should seek medical help.” She also notes that you should talk with a doctor if your heart rate is over 100 beats per minute when you’re at rest or if it’s over 100 beats per minute and you’re experiencing symptoms such as dizziness, anxiety, or heart palpitations. Several factors can affect the accuracy of heart rate monitoring watches, including the: Though heart rate monitoring watches aren’t as precise as medical devices such as electrode-containing chest monitors, they’re generally accurate and can be a useful tool to help track your heart rate. Several factors can affect the accuracy of heart rate monitoring watches, including the: Though heart rate monitoring watches aren’t as precise as medical devices such as electrode-containing chest monitors, they’re generally accurate and can be a useful tool to help track your heart rate. Smartwatches can be helpful for identifying certain heart issues. Dr. Nick West, chief medical officer and divisional vice president at Abbott’s vascular business, notes that heart rate monitoring watches may help detect abnormally fast or irregular heart rhythms, including AFib. According to West, “There are early reports of smartwatches picking up early signs of heart attack from analyzed changes in electrical activity.” However, he also says this technology is still being developed. Smartwatches can be helpful for identifying certain heart issues. Dr. Nick West, chief medical officer and divisional vice president at Abbott’s vascular business, notes that heart rate monitoring watches may help detect abnormally fast or irregular heart rhythms, including AFib. According to West, “There are early reports of smartwatches picking up early signs of heart attack from analyzed changes in electrical activity.” However, he also says this technology is still being developed. According to the American Heart Association, a typical resting heart rate for healthy adults is in the range of 60–100 beats per minute. However, your resting heart rate can vary based on many factors, such as: According to the American Heart Association, a typical resting heart rate for healthy adults is in the range of 60–100 beats per minute. However, your resting heart rate can vary based on many factors, such as: If AFib or an irregular heart rate is your primary concern, you’ll want to pick a smartwatch that can specifically detect an irregular heartbeat. Some devices, such as the following models, can be more reliable since they have FDA clearance for AFib notifications: If AFib or an irregular heart rate is your primary concern, you’ll want to pick a smartwatch that can specifically detect an irregular heartbeat. Some devices, such as the following models, can be more reliable since they have FDA clearance for AFib notifications: Heart rate monitor watches are available to fit every budget and need.  In addition to price, you’ll want to factor in: While the options in this article are one place to start, if your main priority is the accuracy of your heart rate reading, you may want to consider a chest strap monitor — if that works for your body type — instead.  Regardless of which device you choose, it’s important to alert a healthcare professional to any concerns you may have about your heart rate data. Share this article Ideal running heart rates vary for each individual depending on several factors. Learn more about how to calculate the ideal heart rate for you. Your fat-burning heart rate is the ideal zone for fat loss. You can use a simple calculation to determine your fat-burning rate or use the chart in… SuperAger Sally Froelich says following a few simple lifestyle habits has helped her live a long and healthy life.  Maintaining healthy lifestyle habits after 80 may be a key factor for living to age 100 and beyond. OUR BRANDS