Indio, California, is the place to be for the 2023 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival. Some of the biggest musicians and artists in the world will travel to the Empire Polo Club for a weekend dedicated to music and art. Last weekend was the first weekend of the two-weekend festival. Bad Bunny, Blackpink, Blink-182, Rosalía, and Metro Boomin were some of the featured artists to take one of the six stages at the festival. In most years, Coachella is available to stream on the first weekend. However, the upcoming second weekend will also be live-streamed to fans around the world. There will be streams for six of the stages this weekend. Find out details on how to watch the 22nd edition of Coachella. The second weekend of Coachella runs from April 21-23. There will be music on the various stages each day starting at 12 p.m. PT. Friday and Saturday tend to run until 1 a.m. PT, and Sunday typically ends one hour early at 12 a.m. PT. Oh, high Weekend 2 😎 pic.twitter.com/fGiLl97Qyw &mdash; Coachella (@coachella) April 20, 2023 The 2023 Coachella Festival is headlined by three acts: Bad Bunny, Blackpink, and Frank Ocean. Bad Bunny headlines Friday night, Blackpink headlines Saturday night, and Frank Ocean headlines Sunday night. Bad Bunny and Blackpink will continue to perform in the main spots on Friday and Saturday nights, but Ocean has dropped out for the second weekend due to an injured left leg. Blink-182 will replace Ocean as the headliner on Sunday night. Over 150 musical acts will perform at Coachella, including boygenius, Burna Boy, Calvin Harris, Gorillaz, Kaytranada, The Kid LAROI, Kali Uchis, Charli XCX,  Becky G, Metro Boomin, Uncle Waffles, Jackson Wang, and Latto. The only place to watch the festival is on Coachella’s official YouTube page. The live stream will begin at 7 p.m. ET / 4 p.m. PT on Friday, April 21, and run through the end of the festival. There will be live streams for the following six stages: Coachella Stage, Outdoor Theatre, Gobi, Yuma, Mojave, and the Sahara Tent. The only stage that will not be streamed is Sonora. The live-stream event is FREE to watch. You do not need to sign up for a YouTube account to watch the event. Simply visit Coachella’s YouTube page and click on the “live” tab to access the six streams. Following each day’s performances, the channel will air them again the next day. YouTube is available on desktop, mobile, or the YouTube app. YouTube can be streamed through connected devices and smart TVs, like Roku, Amazon Fire Stick, and Apple TV. You do notneed to subscribe to YouTube TV to watch the Coachella live stream. This weekend marks a first for the WWE. Clash at the Castle 2024 is the first Premium Live Event (PLE) to run in Scotland. The trip to Scotland is part of WWE's continued effort to host events in international territories. The last two PLEs were in Saudi Arabia and France, and the next PLE will take place in Canada. Drew McIntyre, a Scottish native, headlines this monumental card. McIntyre won the WWE World Heavyweight Championship at WrestleMania 40, but the title reign only lasted a few minutes. CM Punk distracted McIntyre long enough for Damia Priest to cash in his Money in the Bank contract and win the title. Now, McIntyre gets his rematch with Priest in front of his home crowd. Will it be a storybook ending for McIntyre? The final leg of the Triple Crown will take place Saturday at the 2024 Belmont Stakes. Known as "The Test of the Champion," the Belmont Stakes is typically held at Belmont Park in Elmont, New York. Due to construction at Belmont, the 156th running of the Belmont Stakes will be in upstate New York at Saratoga Race Course. Ten horses are running in the Belmont Stakes, including 2024 Kentucky Derby winner Mystik Dan and 2024 Preakness Stakes winner Seize the Grey. With Seize the Grey's win over Mystik Dan at the Preakness, there will be no Triple Crown winner in 2024. Seize the Grey, Mystik Dan, Sierra Leone, and Mindframe should be in contention to win the Belmont.
Watch the 2024 Belmont Stakes live stream on Fox
https://twitter.com/BelmontStakes/status/1798534160279343600 All Elite Wrestling (AEW) fans know that Memorial Day weekend means one thing: Double or Nothing. The Double or Nothing pay-per-view event was the first PPV in company history, back in May 2019. Fast-forward to Sunday night, and Double or Nothing remains one of the company's marquee events. The 2024 AEW Double or Nothing match card is stacked with intriguing matchups. AEW World Champion Swerve Strickland makes his first PPV title defense against Christian Cage. Double or Nothing also marks the AEW in-ring debut of Mercedes Moné, who takes on Willow Nightingale for the AEW TBS Championship.
When and where is 2024 AEW Double or Nothing?
AEW Double or Nothing - LIVE on Pay Per View | Sunday, May 26 | 8e/5p Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.