Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account   For over a century, Seiko watches have endeared themselves to collectors of all stripes, who dig their sturdy make, sleek design, and approachable range of prices. But the historical significance of the Japanese brand extends beyond its cult-favorite status. If you’ve spent any time reading about watches you've probably come across mention of the “quartz crisis,” the period in the 1970s when battery-powered quartz watches—which were far more reliable than traditional mechanical watches, and much cheaper to produce—put the old-school Swiss watch industry on notice. The result of this upset was a new era of bold luxury watch designs like the Audemars Piguet Royal Oak and Patek Philippe Nautilus, and the arrival of quartz-centric brands like Swatch, which treated watches more like collectible accessories than fine jewelry. What you may not know, however, is the name of the watch that tipped the first domino: the Seiko Quartz Astron. Released on Christmas day in 1969, the Astron boasted the world’s first quartz movement and was 100 times more accurate than any other watch on earth. It also marked the moment when Seiko officially hit the big time. Seiko has been around since the 1880s, but after 1969 they became a major global force in both quartz and mechanical watchmaking, creating the world’s first titanium diver’s watch and the world’s first TV watch (without a doubt the coolest way to watch Knight Rider in 1982). These days, Seiko continues to push forward on those parallel tracks, introducing the world’s first solar-powered GPS watch while also producing stylish re-editions of groundbreaking mechanical watches from the ‘60s, ‘70s, and ‘80s. Then, of course, there's the Seiko 5 Sports, a.k.a. the biggest cheat code in affordable watches. With a huge range of looks, including divers and GMTs and a solid automatic movement for under $500, there's a good reason that the Seiko 5 is perennially among the most popular watches in the sub-$1000 bracket. The upshot of all that is, if you can’t find a Seiko you love, you might not be looking hard enough. Here are a few of our favorites to get you started. All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. Seiko Macy's Seiko Huckberry Seiko Amazon Seiko END Clothing Seiko Amazon Seiko Macy's Seiko Amazon All the gravitas of a grandfather clock, but much more portable. Seiko Amazon Its looks are borrowed from the classic chronographs of the 1960s (think the Rolex Daytona and Zenith El Primero) but its solar-powered movement is pure 21st century.  Seiko END Clothing Whether it’s a colorful collab with Rowing Blazers or this blacked-out mainline model, the Seiko 5 Sports is a perennial pick for one of the best automatic watches under $500. Seiko Kohl's The Coutura’s steampunk-adjacent looks aren't just for show—it combines an old-school analog dial with a movement that uses radio waves to automatically adjust the time and date in 25 time zones around the world. Seiko Amazon Rolex has the Submariner, Omega has the Seamaster, and Seiko has the Prospex. There are some big differences between this Seiko and the other two models, but the most important one is the price. If you’re looking for a great dive watch under $500, look no further. Seiko Macy's The Seiko Crown Chronograph was launched at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics and was the first Japanese-made watch with a built-in stopwatch. This modern tribute to that historic gem might not endow you with the athletic prowess of a gold medalist, but it's just as worthy of a spot on your wrist.  Seiko Macy's Even the most well-rounded wardrobe can benefit from a few hard corners. Seiko Amazon A solar-powered version of the dive watch Seiko introduced in 1986, the first ever to feature a case made out of ceramic and titanium. It subsequently earned the nickname “Tuna” (for its vague resemblance to a tuna can) and a legend was born. Seiko Amazon Satisfy your need for speed without draining your savings account. More From GQ Connect © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. GQ may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices