When you buy through our links, Business Insider may earn an affiliate commission. Learn more  Rolex is arguably the most recognizable watch brand in existence — and for good reason. For more than a century, the Geneva-based brand has produced some of the best Swiss-made timepieces. Worn by everyone from US presidents and A-list celebrities to astronauts and professional scuba divers, Rolex is widely accepted as a watch brand that's equally timeless in style and high-end in build quality. And if you're in the early stages of acquiring your own, you're probably first looking for where to buy Rolex watches online. As one of the most famous and desirable watch brands, Rolex is undoubtedly expensive, but you shouldn't count yourself out from ever owning one. Rather than going directly to a Rolex dealer where you'll end up paying MSRP or potentially higher, you can save money by shopping for preowned watches or starting the process of vetting online dealers. You usually won't be able to finish your transaction online if you're purchasing a brand new Rolex, but some retailers that have in-person locations will offer pricing transparency online as you start your search. We've rounded up six of the best places to shop for Rolex watches (and other luxury timepiece brands) online. Here you'll learn about how each shop verifies authenticity and their other benefits like warranties and accurate pricing. Quick links to popular Rolex styles on eBay: Shop all Rolex watches on eBay now. Online marketplace eBay has long been a go-to destination for collectors of all types, including sneakers, trading cards, coins, and watches. Although eBay may have a lingering reputation for potential scams or counterfeit items from its early days on the web, the site has taken extensive measures to make it safe and secure for people looking to buy Rolex watches online with its updated Authenticity Guarantee program. Any watch listed for over $2,000, which is essentially any Rolex or other luxury watch, must go through authentication before it's shipped to the buyer. A team of professional watch authenticators visually inspects the watch to ensure it matches the listing and checks key points like the bezel, crown, case, and any branding. For watches priced $500-$1,999.99, buyers can add the Authenticity Guarantee service on qualifying items for $80 plus applicable taxes applied at checkout per item. With eBay, you can find those rare, one-off watches that you'd never find at a traditional watch retailer. Plus, plenty of unworn Rolex watches are available on the site, so even if you're technically buying it on the resale market, you'll still find options in brand-new condition. Quick links to popular Rolex styles on StockX: Shop Rolex watches on StockX now. Even though StockX is better known as one of the best places to buy discounted designer bags, shoes, and clothing online, the site is also a marketplace for more collectible items like sneakers, trading cards, and, of course, watches. The watch section includes everything from affordable yet in-demand watches like G-Shocks to high-end choices like Rolex, Tudor, and Panerai. StockX is a great place to shop for luxury watches at the best prices because of the sales data provided. You can gauge the market value by looking at previous sales, highest offers, lowest asking prices, and original retail prices. Like with sneakers, every watch from StockX is verified by an expert before it is shipped to you. Quick links to popular Rolex watches at Tourneau: Shop Rolex watches at Tourneau here. Shop pre-owned Rolex watches at Tourneau here. Whether you prefer brand new or pre-owned, Tourneau is a trustworthy place to buy Rolex watches. Tourneau is a certified Rolex dealer selling classic and newly-released Rolex watches. From classic timepieces that have been offered for decades, like the yellow gold Day-Date, to this year's latest exclusive releases, you can easily track down the watch you're interested in. One of the nice things about shopping there is that MSRPs are listed on their pages, so you generally know what you're getting into. And while brand-new Rolex watches are rarely sold online, you can contact your nearest Tourneau location via phone or email to set up an in-store visit to shop and purchase. Tourneau has over 20 locations in the United States, so finding a place to shop isn't hard, especially if you're close to a major city like New York, Boston Chicago, San Francisco, or Las Vegas. If you're looking to shop entirely online, you simply want to save some money on a classic design, or you prefer collecting vintage watches, pre-owned is the way to go.  All of Tourneau's certified authentic pre-owned watches go through a meticulous 30-point inspection by an expert watchmaker and come with a two-year warranty. You can shop by watch models and refine searches to only include watches with the original box and paperwork, so die-hard collectors can always find what they want. When you're ready to purchase, Tourneau offers free two-day shipping. You can choose to have it shipped directly to you or a local Tourneau location for in-store pick-up, which is always a good idea if you need the bracelet adjusted to your wrist. Quick links to popular Rolex styles on Jomashop: Shop Rolex watches on Jomashop now. Jomashop has an extensive catalog of high-end watches, including Rolex, that are in stock and ready to ship. A majority of the timepieces are in brand-new condition, but the site does offer a selection of pre-owned watches.  Whether you want to buy a new or pre-owned Rolex watch online, Jomashop stands by the authenticity of all of its watches. The site purchases its inventory from authorized dealers and wholesalers rather than private individual sellers. While Jomashop's prices are some of the most affordable, it's worth noting that most luxury watches do not come with a manufacturer's warranty. However, Jomashop provides its own warranty. You can read more about Jomashop's warranty policies here. Shop the current selection of Rolex watches on The Real Real now. The RealReal is another example of the best places to buy designer bags, shoes, and clothing online, known for consigning a wide range of new and lightly used luxury accessories. As long as people are looking to buy used Rolex watches online, you'll find these and other high-end timepiece brands within its offerings.  You'll have to sign up before you can shop, but once you create a free account, you'll gain access to thousands of great deals across the site. Each item lists the original retail price and the current selling price, so it's made clear if the watch has held value, inflated, or deflated since it was new. By using some of the best authenticators in the industry, The Real Real has become a trusted source for luxury resale items. Sign up for a free The Real Real account here. Shop all Rolex watches at Bob's Watches here. As the world's first pre-owned and vintage Rolex watch exchange, Bob's Watches is an established place to buy Rolex watches. Whether you're knowledgeable about luxury timepieces or not, Bob's Watches ensures you get the best price. While buying a $6,000 Rolex for $2,000 and reselling it for $10,000 is a common occurrence in watch dealing, Bob's shows prices for buying and provides accurate quotes to sellers after inspecting watches, so both buyers and sellers know that the margin is fair. They're also backed by an extensive group of authentication and watch repair experts. Your watch comes with a manufacturer's warranty as well as a warranty from Bob's Watches. You can purchase logo and accolade licensing to this story here.Disclosure: Written and researched by the Insider Reviews team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our partners. We may receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at reviews@businessinsider.com. Jump to