Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account   Like fatigue pants and aviator shades, the best military watches are all built to stand up to the rigors of life in the trenches, the cockpit, or the ocean depths—but that’s really just a bonus. Because in addition to being tough as army boots, each one promises to lend a subtle hit of rugged flavor to your regular ol' civilian staples. Military watches fall into three overarching categories: field watches, diver’s watches, and pilot’s watches, each of which boast their own unique histories and function-driven design flourishes. The field watch, for example, was created in WWII to be uncomplicated, easy to read, and reliably sturdy—qualities you'll appreciate whether you’re crouching in a foxhole or just running to catch a flight. Diver’s watches were originally built for navy frogmen, but their tough, waterproof cases make them the perfect accessory for conquering the urban jungle, too. Pilot’s watches might be the most specialized of the bunch, but their oversized cases (made to be worn over a flight suit) and dials jammed with esoteric markings make them that much more of a high-flying style statement for civilians.  These days, if you're in the market for a military-inspired timepiece you'll have plenty to choose from: dive watches approved by the Navy SEALs, faithful repros of WWII pilot’s watches. Whatever your preference (and whatever your budget), any of the wallet-friendly tickers below will be faithful allies in the ongoing battle of fit dominance. All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission.  Bulova Bulova was one of several brands that produced the A-11, the Allies' go-to field watch in WWII. At 38mm across the case, this one is bigger than the 32mm original, but everything else about its look comes straight from the archives.  Amazon This German brand has been a specialist in aviation watches since the 1920s. Fortunately for anyone with a love of vintage pilot’s watches, its catalog is full of budget-friendly repros like this one, modeled on a piece made for WWII flyers.  Amazon With a case measuring 34mm, this Swiss-made field watch is one of the most diminutive options you’ll find. Military-grade specs like a fibershell case and tritium gas tube lume, however, make it every bit as fit for service as the big boys.  Amazon It’s notoriously hard to become a Navy SEAL. But getting your hands on this SEAL-approved watch couldn’t be easier.  Amazon This iconic G-Shock wasn’t designed specifically for military use, but that didn’t stop it from becoming the go-to for anyone in need of a watch that’s as tough as it is reliable.  Amazon This military-grade smartwatch is made for people who do the kinds of things most of us just see in the movies. That means access to three different global navigation satellite systems, a Jumpmaster mode for HALO jumps, and a kill switch to wipe your data in case you get caught behind enemy lines.  Nordstrom If you’re looking for a classic field watch with a Swiss mechanical movement, you’ve found it.  Vaer Starting with the tried-and-true look of a WWII field watch, this American-made version updates the formula with a blacked-out case, a quick-release bracelet, and a solar-powered movement.  Amazon Tough-yet-affordable watches are Bertucci’s speciality, and this tan-on-tan specimen might be the most stylish of the bunch.  Todd Snyder Todd Snyder took inspiration from a 1960s pilot’s watch for this Timex collab, and, in characteristic fashion, absolutely nailed it.  Amazon This pilot's watch is based on the A-17 worn by US airmen in the Korean War—but despite being more than 70 years old, its minimalist dial still looks fresh in 2023.  Huckberry The Arnold Schwarzenegger-helmed Commando was one of the biggest hits of summer 1985, and this ana-digi Seiko (which he kept strapped to his beefy arm throughout) was the movie’s breakout star.  Yema Every navy has its dive watch of choice, but few can match the je ne sais quoi of the Navygraf, the official ticker of France’s Marine Nationale—or its ultra-accessible price.  Benrus After the A-11 and the A-117, Benrus pushed the envelope with a brand new design dubbed the DTU-2A/P.  This reproduction is nearly identical to its forebear, but thanks to an upgraded Swiss automatic movement, it’s more reliable than ever.  Amazon If any military was going to win the war of watches, it would be the Swiss. Sure enough, this Wenger’s robust specs, function-first design, and crazy good price give it a serious tactical advantage.  Amazon If its matte titanium case and paracord strap didn’t tip you off, the I.N.O.X.—which was built to withstand extreme temperatures, hard shocks, and being run over by a tank—is one of the toughest watches on the planet.  Amazon This burly digital timepiece is available with a host of collegiate logos, including ones for the US Navy and West Point, making it the perfect way to pay homage without showing up in full uniform. More From GQ Connect © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. GQ may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices