
				By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.			 Subscribe now and get up to 61% off the cover price. Includes access to the digital magazine. Plus, get the exclusive Robb Report tote bag FREE. Give the Gift of Luxury Sign up for our newsletter and go inside a world of luxury.  By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
		We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 
	The start of summer calls for a celebration. And for the horologically inclined, that means a new wristwatch is in order—something appropriate for a season of sun, sweat, and saltwater. We’ve culled through the year’s timepiece introductions to come up with a cohort of seven models ideal for casual days at the beach, dressy evening weddings, and everything in between. If you act fast, you may even be able to get your hands on one before July 4th. Happy summering!




Related Stories




						Why Stylish Pajamas Are a Menswear Essential You Shouldn’t Sleep On					




						Jay-Z Is the First Person to Own Jacob & Co.’s Bonkers Bugatti Tourbillon					




						Meghan Markle Just Wore Princess Diana’s Butterfly Earrings					




 
	In the realm of pilot’s watches, the Type XX from Breguet is one of the category’s most historic—and venerated—models. Yet it remains surprisingly under the radar. The two new Type XX timepieces released in early June promise to change that. Both trace their roots to a watch developed for the French Air Force in the 1950s. One, the Type 20 Chronographe 2057, takes its design cues from the military-style pilot’s watches of Breguet’s history, while the other, the Chronographe 2067, is now available in a civilian-inspired version housed in a 42 mm steel case. Equipped with an all-new self-winding caliber (Calibre 728), the model features a flyback function, which returns the chronograph hand to zero at the touch of a button, making life easier for busy pilots—and those who aspire to be! $18,000; breguet.com









 
	Introduced in January, the Fifty Fathoms 70th Anniversary Act 1 is the first in a series of models the watchmaker is releasing this year to honor seven decades of the Fifty Fathoms, its seminal dive watch. Featuring a movement and case shape derived from a 2007 edition of the Fifty Fathoms (FF 2015), dial numbers and indices borrowed from the model’s 50th-anniversary limited edition in 2003 and a set of pencil hands taken from the 2010 FF Tribute to Aqua Lung, the newest Fifty Fathoms combines the best elements of past models in a pared down 42.3 mm steel case. Visible on the caseback is a special platinum rotor marking the model’s 70th anniversary. $17,400; blancpain.com

WATCH





 
	At first glance, the elegant, restrained Sixties Small Second timepiece from German watchmaker Glashütte Original seems at odds with the riotous decade for which it’s named. But look closer—at the groovy typeface of the indices and numerals on the dial, the matte green alligator leather strap, and the subtle retro design—and the rebellious spirit of the collection shines through. The new small second display, set within a galvanic silver dial at 6 o’clock, is the model’s raison d’être, but the other details, including the 42 mm rose gold case and color-matched hands as well as the dome-shaped sapphire crystal, are equally enticing. $16,000; glashuette-original.com









 
	Few watch brands seem more at home on the French Riviera than Hublot, whose new Big Bang Unico Azur—introduced at a splashy event in June at Villa Cap Estel, in the heart of the Côte d’Azur—channels the Mediterranean’s luxury vibe in a 42 mm wristwatch featuring a case fashioned from blue ceramic offset by a white ceramic bezel. The model, which evokes the porthole for which the brand is named (hublot is “porthole” in French), comes with a choice of two straps, a blue natural rubber, and a white calfskin leather. Sold in a limited edition of 50 pieces, it’s exclusively available at Hublot’s two French Riviera boutiques in Monaco and St. Tropez. $25,800; hublot.com 
	If the cloud blue gradient dial on the new Luminor Due Pastello from Panerai doesn’t scream vacation vibes, what does? With its 38 mm steel casing and minimalist styling, this pastel-colored automatic timepiece (also available in mint green and light pink dial versions) is the epitome of unisex summer style: sleek, chic, and cheerful. $7,900; panerai.com 
	The new 42 mm Golden Bright Edition of the Connected watch by TAG Heuer marks a stylish new entrant in the brand’s luxury smartwatch collection. The model’s 42 mm case boasts a rose gold PVD sheen that’s brand new to the series, adding a sunny aesthetic to a timepiece best known for offering a superlative digital experience. $2,300; tagheuer.com Victoria Gomelsky is editor-in-chief of the jewelry trade publication JCK and a frequent contributor to the New York Times and Robb Report. Her freelance work has appeared in AFAR, WSJ Magazine, The… Meet the Wine Club That Thinks Differently. Receive editor-curated reds from boutique California producers four times a year. Give the Gift of Luxury