Amarillo-Potter Events Venue District Board 8:30 a.m.: Council Conference Room, City Hall, 601 S. Buchanan Presentation of quarterly financials; discuss and consider events and payments to the Amarillo National Center; discuss and consider the Amarillo-Potter Events Venue District Budget for the 2023/2024 fiscal year; consider lease addendum with the Amarillo Tri-State Exposition; update on the status of the approved fiscal year 2022-2023 projects at the Tri-State Fairgrounds and Amarillo Civic Center. Amarillo Economic Development Corporation Board of Directors 10 a.m.: FirstBank Southwest Tower, Ed Davis Conference Room – 9th Floor Executive session: deliberation regarding economic development negotiations regarding commercial or financial information received from a business prospect and/or to deliberate the offer of a financial or other incentive to a business prospect: three projects in manufacturing, distribution and manufacturing & distribution; deliberate the purchase or sale of real property located in the Northeast quadrant of the City of Amarillo; discuss and consider the approval of the FY2023-24 Amarillo EDC budget; staff financial and operational updates. Pinnacle Public Improvement District Advisory Board 10:30 a.m.: Room 275, Jim Simms Bldg., 808 S. Buchanan St. Discuss and consider the Long-term Maintenance Bid Documents, Panhandle Steel Builders Warranty Items, ongoing PID Operations and Maintenance and future agenda items Planning and Zoning Commission 3 p.m.: Third Floor of City Hall - City Council Chambers, 601 S. Buchanan, St. Public hearing and consideration of South Georgia Place Unit No. 45, an addition to the City of Amarillo, being a replat of Lots 33 and 34, Block 12, South Georgia Place Unit No. 39, vicinity: Athens Street and Lullwater Road, applicant: Furman Land Surveyors, Inc. for Betenbough Homes, LLC; The Colonies Unit No. 82, an addition to the City of Amarillo, being a replat of all of Lots 4 – 6, Block 39, The Colonies Unit No. 75, vicinity: Rockingham Drive and Liberty Circle: applicants: Matthew and Michelle Reed and Bradley and Sarah Trinidad; Walnut Hills Unit No. 4, a suburban subdivision to the City of Amarillo, being a replat of a portion of Block 9, Walnut Hills Unit No. 1, vicinity: Chucker Street and Dewey Avenue, applicants: James and Debbie Vaughan; The Trails at Tascosa Golf Club Unit No. 4, an addition to the City of Amarillo, being a replat of all of Lots 15 and 16, vicinity: Jesse Jenkins Parkway and Waggoner Ranch Road, applicants: Ron and Cheri Boyd; Hall Addition Unit No. 2, an addition to the City of Amarillo, being a replat of all of Lot 19 and a portion of Lot 20, Block 1, amended plat of Hall Addition, vicinity: SW 18th Avenue and Plateau Lane, applicant: Billy Snider; rezoning of the north 18.55 feet of Lot 6 and the south 41.45 feet of Lot 5, Block 20, Sunrise Park Unit No. 1, an addition to the City of Amarillo, to change from Residential District 2 to Residential District 2 with a Specific Use Permit for the placement of a carport in the front yard setback, vicinity: Tudor Drive and Southeast 10th Avenue, applicants: Marcos and Catherine Cordova. Canyon Independent School District  5:30 p.m.: Canyon ISD District Support Center, 3301 N. 23rd St., Canyon 2023-2024 Budget Workshop; executive session until 7 p.m.; review of 2023 State Testing Results; public hearing: 2023-2024 budget, proposed tax rate, and use of federal funds plan; consideration and adoption of 2023-2024 budget; consideration and action to approve the order by the Board of Trustees of Canyon ISD authorizing the defeasance and redemption of certain outstanding bonds not to exceed the amount of $1.5 million and $1 million, and approving and authorizing the execution of an escrow agreement, the engagement of a verification agent, and containing other provisions related thereto; consideration and adoption of 2023-2024 tax rate and approval of resolution; consideration and action for the board to adopt an order calling a voter approval tax ratification election to be held on the Nov. 7 uniform election date and authorize the Superintendent to take further action necessary and related thereto; agreement for the purchase of Attendance Credit; resolution to commit fund balance; budget amendment; review safety audit; resolution relating to Texas Education Code section 37.0814 and the requirement for at least one armed security officer to be present on every school district campus; board policy updates; additional T-TESS Appraiser for the 2023-2024 School Year. River Road ISD 6 p.m.: Central Administration Bldg., 9500 US Hwy. 287 North, Amarillo Discussion on Superintendent Evaluation Instrument and Superintendent Performance Goals; request to consider approval of the RRISD Superintendent Evaluation Instrument and Performance Goals. Randall County Commissioners' Court 9 a.m.: Commissioners' Courtroom, Finance Building, 501 16th St., Ste. 305, Canyon Hold public hearing on the proposed 2023-2024 Randall County budget - the vote to adopt the budget will be Tuesday, Sept. 12. Regular meeting items: Discuss and take action on an interlocal agreement with the Amarillo Area Office of Emergency Management for maintenance of outdoor warning sirens; discuss office staff and request the Commissioners Court take action on transferring one court clerk from the new Justice of the Peace, Appointed Office to the Presiding Justice of the Peace, Elected Office; discuss and take action on approving River Falls, Unit No. 66, a suburban subdivision; early voting schedule for the 2023 Constitutional Amendment Election; Election Day vote center locations for the 2023 Constitutional Amendment Election; insurance renewal coverages and Worker’s Compensation for FY 2024; Third Party Administrator and Prescription Benefits Manager; surplus inventory; Interlocal Agreement for FY2024/25 for the Regional Public Defender for Capital cases. Amarillo City Council 8 a.m.: City Hall - Council Chamber, 601 S. Buchanan St., 3rd Floor Work Session: budget workshop for the City Council and senior staff to discuss and review the City of Amarillo Proposed Budget for fiscal 2023/2024 and may discuss numerous broad topics such as public safety, infrastructure, development, community services, parks and recreation, water resources, public works, finance, council pillars, strategic plans,legislative agendas, policies and procedures, and other matters related to the Proposed Budget. The City Council may reach broad consensus on topics related to the Proposed Budget, but no final decision or vote will occur. Convention and Visitors' Bureau Board of Directors 8:30 a.m.: Board Room - Bivins Mansion, 1000 S. Polk Discussion and consideration: Giving Policy Revision, Board Giving Amount FY 2023-24; FY 2023-24 Budget; Route 66 feedback and 2024 plans; general announcements from committee members. Heritage Hills Public Improvement District Advisory Board 10 a.m.: Room 203, Jim Simms Bldg., 808 S. Buchanan St. Discuss and consider change order No. 3 for ADA ramps, ongoing PID Operations and Maintenance and future agenda items. Amarillo City Council 3 p.m.: City Hall - Council Chamber, 601 S. Buchanan St., 3rd Floor Special Meeting: executive session - discuss and consider approval of a separation agreement between the City of Amarillo and City Manager Jared Miller and authorization of the Mayor to sign such agreement; discuss the process of appointing an interim city manager. City of Canyon Commission 4:30 p.m., Commission Chambers of City Hall, 301 16th St., Canyon Consider ordinance making appropriations for the support of the city of Canyon for the fiscal year Oct. 1, 2023 through Sept. 30, 2024; providing for the appropriation of an interest and sinking fund to pay interest and principal on the city’s indebtedness; providing for the adoption of the annual budget of the city of Canyon for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year, providing that expenditures for said fiscal year shall be made in accordance with said budget, authorizing specific budget adjustment authority to the City Manager, providing for the ratification of budgeted appropriation transfers in the 2023-2024 fiscal year, providing a repealing clause, providing a savings clause, and providing for publication and an effective date. Amarillo City Council 8 a.m.: City Hall - Council Chamber, 601 S. Buchanan St., 3rd Floor Work Session: Budget workshop for the City Council and senior staff to discuss and review the City of Amarillo Proposed Budget for fiscal 2023/2024 (Proposed Budget). The City Council may discuss numerous broad topics such as public safety, infrastructure, development, community services, parks and recreation, water resources, public works, finance, council pillars, strategic plans, legislative agendas, policies and procedures, and other matters related to the Proposed Budget. The City Council may reach broad consensus on topics related to the Proposed Budget, but no final decision or vote will occur. South Gateway Tax Increment Reinvestment Zone #3 Board of Directors 12 p.m.: City Hall, Room 306, 601 S. Buchanan St. Agenda not available. Civil Service Commission 8:30 a.m.: City Hall - Council Chamber, 601 S. Buchanan St., 3rd Floor Review and consider list of new employees, step increases, transfers, promotions, demotions, bypasses, temporary assignments, and disciplinary actions; consider Fire Lieutenant examination question appeals and approve any revision to the initial eligibility roster as needed; approve the eligibility register for the Fire Lieutenant Examination given on Aug. 3 and Deputy Fire Chief Examination given on Aug. 10. This article originally appeared on Amarillo Globe-News: Amarillo area public meetings for the week of Aug. 20, 2023 New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.