
GameSpot may receive revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and from purchases through links.
 Both the PC and Mac versions of Microsoft Office 2021 are available for this low price through October 15. By 
    Steven Petite
   and 
    Jon Bitner
   on October 9, 2023 at 4:12PM PDT  Microsoft Office 2021 Lifetime License   $30  If you need a productivity suite, StackCommerce has brought back one of its most popular deals ahead of Prime Day Round 2. You can get a lifetime license to Microsoft Office 2021 for only $30  . Both PC and Mac versions of Office 2021 are available at this low price. PC users will get Office 2021 Professional, whereas the Mac deal applies to the 2021 Home & Business edition. Alternatively, if you need Office and Windows 11, you can snag this bundle for $60.  These days, Microsoft Office is most commonly sold as a Microsoft 365 subscription. You'd actually spend more for one-year access to Microsoft 365 than you would by picking up Microsoft Office 2021. The best part is that once you redeem the key, the license is yours to keep. Buy it once, and you’ll have access to all the essential Microsoft apps forever without any pesky monthly fees. This includes two copies of Office. You will receive your install link that takes you to Microsoft's website to redeem your license key directly after finalizing your purchase. Here’s a look at the software included with Microsoft Office 2021 Professional for Windows: The Mac version comes with everything listed above except for Publisher, Access, and Skype for Business. You also only get the "basic" version of Teams with the Mac license. Considering that most users are buying Microsoft Office for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, these concessions probably aren't dealbreakers. It's worth noting that purchasing Microsoft Office 2021 means that you won't receive regular software updates that are offered to Microsoft 365 subscribers. Again, this likely isn't a huge deal for most people, as this is a bargain for even just Microsoft Word--and the 2021 version of Office is still excellent today. Be sure to redeem your license within 30 days of purchase or return an unredeemed code for store credit. Disclosure: The GameSpot Deals  storefront is run by one of GameSpot's affiliate partners, StackCommerce. If you have any issues with your order, please contact StackCommerce.  More Gaming, Tech, and Entertainment Deals & Preorders Got a news tip or want to contact us directly? Email news@gamespot.com Use your keyboard! Log in to comment 