The MAD STARS, the global festival celebrating Marketing, Advertising, and Digital content, has announced its Executive Juries for the prestigious 2023 awards. These esteemed individuals are internationally recognised creative leaders who wield significant influence in the marketing and advertising industry. The Executive Juries for the MAD STARS 2023 are as follows: The MAD STARS 2023 features esteemed creative, marketing, and digital professionals from around the world as Preliminary Juries, comprising 318 experts from 73 countries. Additionally, the award brings together Final Juries & Executive Juries, consisting of 45 experts from 31 countries. The MAD STARS Awards are judged in various phases beginning with the preliminary judging stage, which takes place remotely from June 26th to July 6th, 2023. A finalist will be announced on July 14th. Subsequently, the Final Juries will meticulously review all finalists (July 18th – 27th), and remotely meet to select the Grand Prix, Gold, Silver, Bronze, and Crystal winners (August 3rd – 11th). The five Executive Juries will engage in deliberations to reach the final decision in Busan on the 'Grand Prix of the Year' just before the awards ceremony (August 21st). The awards ceremony is divided into two days, the opening gala (August 23rd) and the closing gala (August 25th). The MAD STARS 2023 will be accepted submissions until June 15th. Detailed information on how to enter can be found here.  The 16th edition of the festival will take place in Busan (Republic of Korea) from August 23rd to 25th with conferences, competitions, exhibitions, ceremonies, and parties. About the executive juries for MAD STARS 2023 Artwell Nwaila is an award-winning creative with experience in publishing, advertising, TV, and tech. He is passionate about using technology to amplify creativity and data to inform impactful ideas. Artwell has served as a jury member at prestigious national and international events, such as ADC Awards and The One Show. Bruno Bertelli is the most awarded chief creative officer globally, recognised for his extensive contributions to the advertising industry with over 300 awards in total, including 146 Cannes Lions. Under his leadership, Publicis Italy and Publicis Worldwide have received numerous accolades, and he has transformed brands like Heineken. Bruno is responsible for the global expansion of Le Pub. Chow Kok Keong is a seasoned creative with over two decades of experience in brand communication. He has received more than 250 international awards and has been ranked as the No.1 creative in Indonesia for four consecutive years. He is currently the chief creative officer at INNOCEAN Indonesia. Fabio Seidl is the director of global creative development at Meta, overseeing campaigns and experiences for global brands like Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp. With a successful career spanning three continents, Fabio has won numerous awards, including Lions at Cannes, and recognition as the most awarded creative director in the US. Sharon Edmondston is a highly experienced creative professional and the group creative director at M&C Saatchi Sydney. She has played a significant role in leading and managing accounts for renowned brands and has been a vocal advocate for diversity and equality in the industry. Sharon's work has garnered recognition at international award shows, and she has contributed to the growth of various agencies and the wider communications industry.