Department of 
Computing and 
Information Sciences Ph.D. Contact Pengcheng Shi
Director and Associate Dean
585-475-6147, spcast@rit.eduMin-Hong Fu
Senior Staff Specialist
585-475-6193, mhfcis@rit.edu The Ph.D. in computing and information sciences is a research degree designed to produce independent scholars, cutting-edge researchers, and well-prepared educators. Faculty and students conduct both foundational and applied research to address diverse and important challenges, and our graduates are poised to excel within both computing and interdisciplinary environments in academia, government and industry. The Ph.D. program brings together faculty from disciplines throughout the college’s five departments and schools: Computer Science, Computing Security, the School of Information, the School of Interactive Games and Media, and Software Engineering. 
		100%
 
				of full-time students are fully supported, with many having external fellowships from groups such as the National Science Foundation and Microsoft Research
			 
		100%
 
				job placement by graduation, as faculty members in universities around the world and in industry R&D positions
			 
		68th
 
				in the nation among all Ph.D. programs in computing (U.S. News and World Report)
			 
			May 13, 2024
		 
						Students will ‘live, learn, and explore’ abroad thanks to international fellowships and scholarships
					 Throughout the course of the academic year, hundreds of RIT students prepare to compete for some of the most prestigious international fellowships and scholarships available. Intensive research projects, applications, essays, and interviews all play a critical role in their selection. 
			November 20, 2023
		 
						Do your kids cheat on their schoolwork? 13% of teens are using ChatGPT    The New York Post talks to Pengcheng Shi, associate dean for research and scholarship in the Department of Computing and Information Sciences Ph.D., about the use of ChatGPT in the classroom. 
			October 16, 2023
		 
						Two RIT students earn Google Ph.D. Fellowships for AI computing research
					 Two RIT students have won Google Ph.D. Fellowships for their work as some of the most promising young academics in the world. Emily Kuang and Allahsera Auguste Tapo—both in the computing and information sciences Ph.D. program—will receive full tuition, a stipend, and Google research mentorship as part of their fellowships for up to three years. Computing Ph.D. Student Leads Groundbreaking Research with KAIST Interaction Lab 
											Jiangnan Xu									 
							
																								Jiangnan Xu travels to Korea with the School of Interactive Games and Media to study the intersection of AI and the Metaverse.
																					 Blurring the Lines of Artificial Intelligence and Biomedicine Research 
											Linwei Wang									 
							
																																	Linwei Wang, professor of computing and recipient of the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), is using artificial intelligence to advance non-invasive personalized...
																					 
              Pengcheng
              Shi
             
              Min-Hong
              Fu
             
              Charles
              Gruener
             
              Siyuan
              Wang
             Our faculty and students conduct research to change how we live, work, and interact, focusing on both novel computing technology and how computing can support, facilitate, enable, and inspire progress in other domains. Please find Faculty Publications and Awards.  A research degree designed to produce independent scholars, cutting-edge researchers, and well-prepared educators, you'll benefit from world-class faculty, diverse academic offerings, and modern facilities as you identify and research challenges within and beyond computing.  Learn More about Computing and Information Sciences Ph.D.  The following faculty are looking for new students with full financial support, starting Fall 2024:  View details   For those wishing to apply to the Ph.D. program, there is a four stage process:   To learn more about applying to the Ph.D. program or about the graduate program admissions process at RIT please visit the Office of Graduate Admissions.   Here you will find additional resources for the Ph.D. Program in Computing and Information Sciences, such policies, procedures, technical resources, etc. View resources The following faculty are looking for new students with full financial support, starting Fall 2024.  View details > Address and Phone 
									20 Lomb Memorial Drive
									Rochester, NY 14623-5608
									585-475-7203
								 Address and Phone 
					One Lomb Memorial Drive
					Rochester, NY 14623
					585-475-2411
				 
				Copyright © Rochester Institute of Technology. All Rights Reserved.
Land Acknowledgment.
				Disclaimer.
				Copyright Infringement.
				Privacy Statement.
				Nondiscrimination.
				Accessibility.
				Emergency Information.
			