
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- EIN Presswire)  OREGAON, PORTLAND, UNITED STATES , March 7, 2023 /einpresswire.com / -- The global connected ship technology is installed in commercial, defense & cargo ships in which the vessels are attached and managed by satellite for communication between vessels, enhanced safety, security as well as navigational effectiveness. Additionally, it helps in welfare, entertainment and operation applications such as course planning, shipment logistic and application monitoring becomes convenient with the application of connected ships. The high acceptance for such latest Technology is likely to drive the connected ship market growth. 
Download Report Sample TOC :  
Top impacting factors: market scenario analysis, trends, drivers and impact analysisIncreased budgets of shipping companies for digitalization of vessels, growing maritime tourism industry and increase in seaborne trade across the globe are driving the growth of the market. However, high costs of marine broadways connectivity and digitalization make connected ships vulnerable to cyber threats are expected to hamper the growth of the market. Contrarily, adoption of vessel traffic services (VTS) by shipping companies is encouraging the use of this technology which creates a favorable condition for the implementation of connecting ships that can be seen as an opportunity for the market investments.
The connected ships market trends are as follows:
Increase in budget of shipping companies for digitalization of vessels
The progress of the connected ships market can be attributed more towards the improved budgets of shipping companies for digitalization of their vessels. Digitalization has the potential to add growth to the global seaborne trade. Therefore, the technology can also be used for recording information on vessels such as global risks, integrating marine insurance policies, and digitizing & automating document filing system. Development of fully connected ships is expected to reduce piracy, human faults and will help in carrying more cargo. For example, Maritime industry invests $285 million to help industry embrace new technology and automated digital software. 
Request Customization :  
By Ship Type
CommercialDefenseCargo
By Application
Vessel Traffic Management (VTM)Fleet OperationsFleet Health monitoringOthers
Purchase Enquiry :  
About Us Allied Market Research (AMR) is a full-service market research and business-consulting wing of Allied Analytics LLP based in Portland, Oregon. Allied Market Research provides global enterprises as well as medium and small businesses with unmatched quality of 'Market Research Reports' and 'Business Intelligence Solutions.' AMR has a targeted view to provide business insights and consulting to assist its clients to make strategic business decisions and achieve sustainable growth in their respective market domain.Pawan Kumar, the CEO of Allied Market Research, is leading the organization toward providing high-quality data and insights. We are in professional corporate relations with various companies and this helps us in digging out market data that helps us generate accurate research data tables and confirms utmost accuracy in our market forecasting. Each and every data presented in the reports published by us is extracted through primary interviews with top officials from leading companies of domain concerned. Our secondary data procurement methodology includes deep online and offline research and discussion with knowledgeable professionals and analysts in the industry.David Correa
Allied Analytics LLP
+1 800-792-5285
email us here 
Visit us on social media:
facebook 
twitter  MENAFN07032023003118003196ID1105718875 Download Report Sample TOC :   Top impacting factors: market scenario analysis, trends, drivers and impact analysisIncreased budgets of shipping companies for digitalization of vessels, growing maritime tourism industry and increase in seaborne trade across the globe are driving the growth of the market. However, high costs of marine broadways connectivity and digitalization make connected ships vulnerable to cyber threats are expected to hamper the growth of the market. Contrarily, adoption of vessel traffic services (VTS) by shipping companies is encouraging the use of this technology which creates a favorable condition for the implementation of connecting ships that can be seen as an opportunity for the market investments. The connected ships market trends are as follows: Increase in budget of shipping companies for digitalization of vessels The progress of the connected ships market can be attributed more towards the improved budgets of shipping companies for digitalization of their vessels. Digitalization has the potential to add growth to the global seaborne trade. Therefore, the technology can also be used for recording information on vessels such as global risks, integrating marine insurance policies, and digitizing & automating document filing system. Development of fully connected ships is expected to reduce piracy, human faults and will help in carrying more cargo. For example, Maritime industry invests $285 million to help industry embrace new technology and automated digital software.  Request Customization :   By Ship Type CommercialDefenseCargo By Application Vessel Traffic Management (VTM)Fleet OperationsFleet Health monitoringOthers Purchase Enquiry :   About Us Allied Market Research (AMR) is a full-service market research and business-consulting wing of Allied Analytics LLP based in Portland, Oregon. Allied Market Research provides global enterprises as well as medium and small businesses with unmatched quality of 'Market Research Reports' and 'Business Intelligence Solutions.' AMR has a targeted view to provide business insights and consulting to assist its clients to make strategic business decisions and achieve sustainable growth in their respective market domain.Pawan Kumar, the CEO of Allied Market Research, is leading the organization toward providing high-quality data and insights. We are in professional corporate relations with various companies and this helps us in digging out market data that helps us generate accurate research data tables and confirms utmost accuracy in our market forecasting. Each and every data presented in the reports published by us is extracted through primary interviews with top officials from leading companies of domain concerned. Our secondary data procurement methodology includes deep online and offline research and discussion with knowledgeable professionals and analysts in the industry. David Correa
Allied Analytics LLP
+1 800-792-5285
email us here 
Visit us on social media:
facebook 
twitter  MENAFN07032023003118003196ID1105718875 MENAFN07032023003118003196ID1105718875 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN