An international operation from the UK, French, and Dutch authorities uncovered the county lines ring after they cracked an encrypted online chat platform they were using to communicate The latest crime and court news from Leicester and Leicestershire We have more newsletters The latest crime and court news from Leicester and Leicestershire We have more newsletters A criminal gang which was dealing massive amounts of drugs in Leicestershire has been put behind bars for more than 200 years after a police across Europe cracked an encrypted online communication service they were using to communicate.  The service, called EncroChat, provided modified smartphones that allowed its 60,000 subscribers to message each other in secret. But French police discovered in 2017 that it was being used mainly by organised crime gangs to communicate. The investigation received EU funding in 2019 and a judge in France authorised police to infiltrate EncroChat the following year. Officers then installed malware onto the company's servers, which allowed them to read messages before they were sent and record lock screen passwords.  READ MORE: PM Rishi Sunak condemns Andrew Bridgen’s anti-vaccination Holocaust comments Police then analysed millions of messages and uncovered a huge amount of information on criminal enterprises across the continent. The information on the criminal enterprises was then passed to forces in a number of countries, including the UK. Three major operations began as a result, which led to the arrest of more than 2,900 people.  Police in the UK alone seized tons of drugs worth millions, weapons including weapons, including submachine guns, handguns, grenades, and an AK-47 assault rifle, as well as hundreds of rounds of ammunition. One of the criminal enterprises was a drugs operation which involved 22 men, who were dealing heroin and cocaine across Leicestershire and other parts of the country.  Members of the gang, aged between 26 and 58, all pleaded guilty to conspiracy to supply class A drugs and were sentenced sentenced at Leicester Crown Court on Monday, January 9, and Tuesday, January 10. Three of the defendants, Christian Kelly, James Morris, and Michael Estrin - all based in Cheshire - were responsible for distributing dozens of kilos of cocaine and heroin into a Leicester-based crime group, which centred around Nigel Julien, Ashley Forde, Ross Sterland, and Ashley Lunn.  The group then supplied smaller scale dealers across Leicestershire, including Ahmed Samanka, Tanveer Arkate, Reece Dagli, Ramone Anozie, Steven Freakley, and Mohsin Raja. But the Cheshire trio were not just supplying drugs to Leicestershire. They also supplied a large quantity of class A drugs to Nottingham-based Malachi McLeary, who in turn was linked to drugs being distributed from Merseyside and Cheshire via Thomas Fitzpatrick and Michael Breen - as well as other dealers across Nottinghamshire. Kelly, Morris and Estrin were also caught dealing drugs to to South Yorkshire-based Ian Brennan and Ian Townsend. The rest of the men, Toby Poole, Jamie Holms, Stephen Lees-Rowe, and Matthew Whorlow, were used as couriers by various members of the groups to dispatch drugs across the UK.  Police arrested the 22 defendants during a series of raids in 2020 and 2021, where they also recovered huge amounts of cash and class A drugs. But Kelly fled the UK before he was finally tracked down to a hideout in Spain before he was extradited back to the UK.  The sentences for each man vary from ten months imprisonment up to 16 years and eight months. Some were already serving time for further offences elsewhere in the UK. EncroChat, whose founders and owners are still unknown, ceased operating in June 2020 as a result of the police operation.  Find the full details for each of the Leicestershire defendants and their sentences below: Find the full details for the rest of the men jailed below: For the latest crime and court news from Leicestershire as well as alerts and top stories, sign up here READ MORE: Road branded 'a death waiting to happen' after new homes approved New road to ease town's congestion but other plans face axe Body of man found in car at Loughborough beauty spot Be 'cautious but not scared' over rising Covid and flu numbers in Leicestershire Councillors in some areas set for pay rise – how much yours earns 