Apple is making new efforts to increase user security. While the company has previously touted its overall privacy prowess, the new features are specifically meant to to safeguard iCloud accounts and iMessage. Apple unveiled three major security features in an announcement published Wednesday. The first, iMessage Contact Key Verification, allows you to ensure that your messages are only visible to you and the given recipient. Security Keys for AppleID, meanwhile, can require the use of an external, physical security key to bolster iCloud’s two-factor authentication. Advanced Data Protection for iCloud can protect backed up data—texts, photos, and other personal data—with end-to-end encryption when activated. Read more Twitter Quietly Removes Its Covid-19 Misinformation Policy Remembering Enterprise: The Test Shuttle That Never Flew to Space Apple's 12 Most Embarrassing Product Failures “Our security teams work tirelessly to keep users’ data safe, and with iMessage Contact Key Verification, Security Keys, and Advanced Data Protection for iCloud, users will have three powerful new tools to further protect their most sensitive data and communications,” said Craig Federighi, Apple’s senior vice president of Software Engineering, in the company’s press release. The company is also scrapping a plan to scan users’ photos for child sexual abuse imagery. Advanced Data Protection is available now for beta testers, and is expected to be available by the end of the year for U.S. users and next year for global users. iMessage Context Key Verification and Security Keys for Apple ID should be available globally in 2023. iMessage is already encrypted, meaning that Apple or law enforcement officers cannot read the contents of messages, but iCloud backups are not, allowing for law enforcement to access chat logs and other information by subpoenaing Apple for the backed up data. Apple’s iMessage Contact Key Verification is targeting those with a platform that might be subject to digital threats and eavesdropping, whether by hostile states or rogue hackers, like journalists and government officials. Apple’s press release further explains that the feature will allow the two users communicating with each other to compare a Contact Verification Code to ensure the conversation is legit. The feature can also send a notification on iMessage when a strange device may be lurking. Governments around the world have pressured Apple to allow for holes in its privacy practices in the name of law enforcement, and, according to The Washington Post, it delayed encrypting iCloud storage years ago after objections from the FBI. Government officials in the U.S. and beyond say that encryption facilitates the activities and communications of criminals like drug and human traffickers. The debate came to head in the notorious Apple vs. FBI federal court case over orders that would have compelled Apple to write software that would allow the government to break its own encryption to access the San Bernardino shooter’s phone. The FBI issues a statement to the Wasington Post last night after the news broke, criticizing Apple’s new security features: This hinders our ability to protect the American people from criminal acts ranging from cyber-attacks and violence against children to drug trafficking, organized crime, and terrorism,” the bureau said in an emailed statement. “In this age of cybersecurity and demands for ‘security by design,’ the FBI and law enforcement partners need ‘lawful access by design.’” Security Keys relies on external hardware from a third party like Yubico’s NFC key, for two-factor authentication to further hinder hacking your iCloud account. Advanced Data Protection for iCloud is, per Ivan Krstić, head of Apple’s Security Engineering and Architecture, the company’s “highest level of cloud data security,” and will protect 23 different data categories like iCloud Backup, Notes, and Photos. Advanced Data Protection will not protect iCloud Mail, Contacts, and Calendar. Update December 8 10:30 a.m. ET: This article was updated to include a statement from the FBI issued to the Washington Post. More from Gizmodo The Best College Science and Tech Programs Here Are the Best Apps and Games of 2022, According to Apple Sign up for Gizmodo's Newsletter. For the latest news, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Click here to read the full article. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037.