BioEcho Life Sciences, a Germany-based biotechnology company specialized in nucleic acid extraction product and services, announces the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the Japan Patent Office issuance of two new patents (No. US 11.578.319 B2 and No. JP 7122373 B2, respectively) covering the company`s EchoLUTION technology for nucleic acid extraction.   "The existing intellectual property landscape is considerable, making this announcement a significant and exciting recognition for our company. Our patent approvals in Japan and in the U.S. prove that BioEcho technology is truly innovative." reports Dr. Markus Müller, CEO of BioEcho.  The patents named “Rapid purification of high-quality nucleic acids from biological samples" further strengthen the company’s intellectual property portfolio and represents the company’s idea that even the most routine molecular biology protocols can be improved. For decades, DNA/RNA extraction has relied on silica-based methods, which encompass several washing steps before eluting the purified nucleic acids. The innovative EchoLUTION technology allows DNA and RNA extraction in one single centrifugation step: Nucleic acids pass through the purification matrix without interaction, while impurities are held back and completely removed. The result is a high-quality and inhibitor-free DNA or RNA ready for downstream applications. Moreover, the technology per se means that, due to fewer steps, less consumables are needed, which translated into a huge reduction of the plastic need.   “EchoLUTION is unique, as it reverses the purification principle: no binding first, washing, and eluting, but straight away elution”, Markus Müller explains the simplicity of the technology. “One centrifugation and you’re done.”  These patents further strengthen BioEcho as a transformation driver for many processes in molecular diagnostics, academic and biopharmaceutical research, as well as plant and animal breeding. The company has a passion to transform molecular biology and clinical diagnostics, as well as offering a sustainable alternative to laboratories.   Posted in: Business / Finance Tags: Biopharmaceutical, Biotechnology, Clinical Diagnostics, Diagnostics, DNA, Molecular Biology, Molecular Diagnostics, Nucleic Acid, Research, RNA, RNA Extraction, Technology Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: APA BioEcho Life Sciences GmbH. (2023, February 17). BioEcho receives patent for its EchoLUTION™ technology in the U.S. and Japan. News-Medical. Retrieved on August 19, 2024 from https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230217/BioEcho-receives-patent-for-its-EchoLUTIONe284a2-technology-in-the-US-and-Japan.aspx. MLA BioEcho Life Sciences GmbH. "BioEcho receives patent for its EchoLUTION™ technology in the U.S. and Japan". News-Medical. 19 August 2024. <https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230217/BioEcho-receives-patent-for-its-EchoLUTIONe284a2-technology-in-the-US-and-Japan.aspx>. Chicago BioEcho Life Sciences GmbH. "BioEcho receives patent for its EchoLUTION™ technology in the U.S. and Japan". News-Medical. https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230217/BioEcho-receives-patent-for-its-EchoLUTIONe284a2-technology-in-the-US-and-Japan.aspx. (accessed August 19, 2024). Harvard BioEcho Life Sciences GmbH. 2023. BioEcho receives patent for its EchoLUTION™ technology in the U.S. and Japan. News-Medical, viewed 19 August 2024, https://www.news-medical.net/news/20230217/BioEcho-receives-patent-for-its-EchoLUTIONe284a2-technology-in-the-US-and-Japan.aspx. Cancel reply to comment John Yates In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024, we spoke to Professor John Yates about capturing cardiomyocyte cell-to-cell heterogeneity via shotgun top-down proteomics. Tim Simpson Hologic’s Tim Simpson Discusses the Future of Cervical Cancer Screening. Maria Marco In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024 in San Diego, Maria Marco discusses her research on the health benefits, safety, and waste reduction potential of fermented foods, and the microbial processes involved in their production. 

                                                  
                                                        News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                                        with these terms and conditions.
                                                        Please note that medical information found
                                                        on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                                        between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
                                                  
                                                  

                                             Last Updated: Monday 19 Aug 2024  News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site Owned and operated by AZoNetwork, © 2000-2024 
                Your AI Powered Scientific Assistant
             Hi, I'm Azthena, you can trust me to find commercial scientific answers from News-Medical.net. A few things you need to know before we start. Please read and accept to continue. Great. Ask your question. 
                Azthena may occasionally provide inaccurate responses.
Read the full terms.
             Terms 
            While we only use edited and approved content for Azthena
            answers, it may on occasions provide incorrect responses.
            Please confirm any data provided with the related suppliers or
            authors. We do not provide medical advice, if you search for
            medical information you must always consult a medical
            professional before acting on any information provided.
         
            Your questions, but not your email details will be shared with
            OpenAI and retained for 30 days in accordance with their
            privacy principles.
         
            Please do not ask questions that use sensitive or confidential
            information.
         Read the full Terms & Conditions. Provide Feedback