For those wondering what’s going on with Rhodey in Secret Invasion, here’s the need-to-know info. Read on for all of the information, but be wary of spoilers, as we detail the Raava Skrull and who she is in episode 4. Raava is a Skrull terrorist working with Gravik to take over the Earth. Sign up for Disney+ In the comics, Raava is a minor character who appears in the Black Bolt series. Her role in Secret Invasion is new for the Marvel Cinematic Universe, which means her movements and motivations are tough to predict. For now, she’s on the side of Gravik, having assumed the identity of James “Rhodey” Rhodes to get close to the President. Thankfully, Raava isn’t using War Machine’s suit of armor. At least, not yet. For now, she is simply portraying Rhodey to get the political advantage. It is highly unlikely that the real Rhodey is dead in Secret Invasion. Major character deaths are usually showcased on-screen. The death of War Machine would be a big deal, so it’s safe to assume the real Rhodey is still alive during the events of Secret Invasion. The real Rhodey is likely still alive and being stored at the Skrull terrorists’ laboratory. Gravik and his followers store the humans that they emulate inside a laboratory. The humans are unconscious and still alive. This is probably how the real Rhodey has spent the duration of Secret Invasion. Viewers can expect the real Rhodey to be revived towards the end of the season, assuming Nick Fury and his allies can win the day. For more Secret Invasion content, here’s the fate of G’iah explained, including her powers. Also, here’s a breakdown of Gravik’s powers, which were on clear display in episode 4. Steven Soderbergh‘s much-anticipated series is finally premiering as part of the Max schedule for July 10-16. On July 13, Max…    Guides   Tudor Leonte  3 days ago New episodes from popular Nation Geographic shows, Bluey season 3, and an ice show at Tokyo Dome are topping the…    Guides   Tudor Leonte  3 days ago The Summer I Turned Pretty season 2 and The King’s Speech are headlining the Prime Video schedule for July 10-16.…    Guides   Tudor Leonte  3 days ago The Paramount Plus schedule for July 10-16 features Emily, Goliath, It Follows, and more. Starting Monday, July 10, Paramount Plus…    Guides   Tudor Leonte  3 days ago Puss in Boots: The Last Wish, Bird Box Barcelona, and Too Hot to Handle season 5 are among the best…    Guides   Tudor Leonte  3 days ago The Tour de France and 2013’s Riddick are topping the Peacock schedule for July 10-16. Next week, cycling fans can…    Guides   Tudor Leonte  3 days ago The post Secret Invasion Rhodey: Where Is War Machine? appeared first on ComingSoon.net - Movie Trailers, TV & Streaming News, and More. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today.