CAROL Vorderman has revealed a secret link to Taskmaster’s Alex Horne ahead of her show debut.  Carol, 62, will take part in the one-off special alongside Sir Mo Farah, Greg James, Amelia Dimoldenberg and Rebecca Lucy Taylor, aka Self Esteem, tonight.  Meanwhile Taskmaster Greg Davies and his assistant Alex will preside over the tasks once again.  However, Carol has revealed she shares a connection with Alex, 44, saying: "I didn’t realise until I met him – [we] went to the same college. "Sidney Sussex College at Cambridge University, which is a tiny college, they only take about 100 a year, so it’s very meaningful for us.  "He went about 20 years after I did. He says he was told that the two most famous people who had been to the college were Oliver Cromwell and Carol Vorderman!" Carol is extremely excited to take part in the hit Channel 4 show, as she's a huge fan.  She said: "I love the show. It’s really clever and really stupid all at the same time.  "It’s just very British. It’s just fun, getting really competitive about things that are really stupid. I love it, it’s very funny." She was also full of praise for Alex, who created the show and comes up with the majority of the tasks each series and for each festive special.  Carol said: "Alex is amazing, he came up with the format, and he’s just extraordinary. "What kind of brain comes up with crap like that? I asked him, and he said it was quite easy to think of them. And I thought 'No! Some people could sit in a room for a year and not think of ten per cent of what he comes up with.' "The tasks are funny and clever. They’re limited by what they can use – they’ve got the lab and the lounge and outside, and that’s it.  "And yet, all that fun that he comes up with in this tiny place. It’s wonderful." Taskmaster's New Year's Treat airs tonight at 9pm on Channel 4 and All4. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/