In an all too familiar statement, “Kentucky Power, which serves twenty counties in eastern Kentucky, has filed a comprehensive rate review with the Kentucky Public Service Commission (PSC).”  This time they are requesting to institute changes to increase revenue by 13.6%. The Notice of General Adjustment of Existing Rates shows a proposed 18.3% increase in residential service rates and an 8.6% industrial general service increase to go into effect in early 2024. Thus, the burden of the revenue request would weigh heavily on residential ratepayers.  Some reasons noted by Kentucky Power for the rate increase are declining population, decreased load, increased costs due to weather events, and to securitize improvements to the Big Sandy plant. If all goes as carefully crafted by Kentucky Power, this rate increase will no doubt have a negative impact on the budgets of many individuals, families and businesses in eastern Kentucky. Eastern Kentucky customers already pay the highest rates in the state. In 2021, Kentucky Power raised residential rates by 15.46%. This was the third billing increase for ratepayers in a five-year period. The increases may have been higher if ratepayers had remained silent. In addition, adjustments to bills are based on the cost of fuel. According to the PSC, “The Fuel Adjustment Clause (FAC) is a mechanism that permits jurisdictional utilities to regularly adjust the price of electricity to reflect fluctuations in the cost of fuel, or purchased power, used to supply that electricity.”  The FAC has hit many ratepayers especially hard when fuel prices spike. Unfortunately, the cost of electricity is just too high for many ratepayers.  According to the Center for Biological Diversity, the percentage of Kentucky customers that had their power disconnected increased by 228% in 2022. The national increase was 29%.  In the first ten months of 2022, over 52,000 Kentucky customers were shut off. In addition, the average electric bill went up 17% in the commonwealth. Another 18.3% increase could equal disaster for many members of our 606 family served by Kentucky Power, especially our vulnerable populations - the elderly, sick, young and low-income.  Electrical service should be affordable and accessible to all, as opposed to only those with a certain degree of financial resources. Make no mistake about it, I genuinely appreciate the hard work of those who work at Kentucky Power and the services they provide. At the same time, I am concerned with fairness to ratepayers in eastern Kentucky. Backed by provisions in KRS Chapter 278, the mission of the Kentucky Public Service Commission is to foster the provision of safe and reliable service at a reasonable price to the customers of jurisdictional utilities while providing for the financial stability of those utilities by setting fair and just rates, and supporting their operational competence by overseeing regulated activities. With Kentucky Power being a monopoly authorized to provide essential services, it is crucial for citizens to partake in the process of the proposed rate increase. To file public comments in this rate case, include the case number (Case No. 2023-00159 Kentucky Power) within the subject line of your email to the Public Information Officer at psc.info@ky.gov and provide your full name and place of residence in the body of the e-mail; or send by mail to Public Service Commission, 211 Sower Boulevard, Post Office Box 615, Frankfort, KY 40602. Also, public meetings will be held on this issue. I will be attending to learn, listen and express my concerns.  I invite others to do the same. Mitch McConnell: Biden has waged war on affordable energy and it will hurt Kentucky Suzanne Barker Griffith is a retired Kentucky teacher and community advocate living in Ashland, Kentucky This article originally appeared on Louisville Courier Journal: Kentucky Power is a monopoly. Appalachia cannot afford its rate hikes. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.