Save an email for posterity 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 If you're looking to save an email as a PDF, the built-in Mail app is perfectly capable of doing so. It's filled with helpful tools for your everyday life so you don't need to consider a third-party app. Crucially, thanks to its feature-rich bunch of options, it means you can easily save an email as a PDF on your iPhone or iPad without having to worry about digging out your Mac instead.  The process only takes a few minutes to complete and you can do it on as many emails as you need to save. Not sure where to start? Don't worry. We're here to tell you all about what to do so you'll be ready with a bunch of PDFs in no time.    The Mail app makes it easier than ever to save an email as a PDF. It also makes it simple to do a lot more with the newly created PDF. It's possible to send it to a nearby person using Dropbox, save it to your Notes app, copy it to Books, or simply forward it to someone else. You could even AirDrop it to a different device of yours if that's all you're aiming to do. In many cases, third-party apps like DropBox, Messenger, and Slack also support the sharing and storing of PDF emails, further adding to your options.  If you're the type of person who prefers to have more concrete (in a virtual sense) copies of things than just regular emails, being able to save key messages as PDFs can give you a lot more functionality and peace of mind. iMore offers spot-on advice and guidance from our team of experts, with decades of Apple device experience to lean on. Learn more with iMore! Bryan M. Wolfe has written about technology for over a decade on various websites, including TechRadar, AppAdvice, and many more. Before this, he worked in the technology field across different industries, including healthcare and education. He’s currently iMore’s lead on all things Mac and macOS, although he also loves covering iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch. Bryan enjoys watching his favorite sports teams, traveling, and driving around his teenage daughter to her latest stage show, audition, or school event in his spare time. He also keeps busy walking his black and white cocker spaniel, Izzy, and trying new coffees and liquid grapes. Apple Maps is getting a ton of new features in iOS 18: Here’s how to use them iOS 18 and iPadOS 18 both add even more ambient background sounds to help you sleep at night Way more people are choosing the Apple Watch Series 9 over the Ultra or the SE iMore is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 