
					Updated: Aug 13, 2024, 6:20pm 
				 India has about 80 million (8 crore) tax filers. Every individual, whether resident or non-resident, needs to calculate his total tax liability on the taxable income from various sources after adjusting the available deductions and exemptions and after setting off any eligible losses suffered in the previous or current year. Such tax payable is collected by the Indian government by different ways such as tax deducted at source (TDS)/tax collected at source (TCS), advance tax and self-assessment tax.  The TDS is deducted by the payer whereas TCS is collected by the recipient on behalf of the taxpayer and the taxpayer claims credit for the same while furnishing the tax return. Advance tax is paid in four installments viz. June 15, Sept. 15, Dec. 15 and March 15 during the relevant financial year and adjusted against the total tax liability at the time of filing the tax return. The balance tax payable (if any) is required to be paid by the taxpayer by way of self-assessment tax. Here’s an overview on the different aspects of self-assessment tax such as its meaning and computation, the procedure for payment of self-assessment tax, consequences of not paying self-assessment tax, distinguishing the features of self-assessment tax from advance tax, etc. As discussed, self-assessment tax arises when the tax paid on account of TDS/TCS/advance tax is less than the actual tax liability. Such difference may arise due to following indicative reasons: It is pertinent to note that such self-assessment tax should be paid by the taxpayer at the earliest during the close of the financial year in order to avoid the unnecessary burden of interest. However, it is a generally observed phenomenon that taxpayers tend to pay their self-assessment taxes at the time of furnishing their tax returns which would generally result in a higher tax liability. Section 140A of the IT Act provides for the provisions pertaining to computation and payment of self- assessment tax which are discussed in detail hereinbelow. The self-assessment tax is computed by reducing all the available credits, i.e. advance tax, TDS/TCS, credit for minimum alternate tax/alternate minimum tax (in certain cases), tax rebate under Section 87A, tax relief under Section 89, foreign tax credits under Section 90 (as per tax treaty) or Section 91 (unilateral tax credit, in case there is no tax treaty) of IT Act. The assessee is required to pay interest and late fee, if any levied, along with self- assessment tax. The taxpayer can make payments with regards to self-assessment tax in tax challan 280 (ITNS 280) either through online mode via the e-filing portal or through offline mode by way of making physical payment at a particular bank branch. The steps for online payment of self-assessment tax are listed below: Step 1:  Go to https://eportal.incometax.gov.in/ and login with your Permanent Account Number (PAN)  Step 2:  Click on the “e-pay tax” under the “e-filing” option on the homepage. Step 3:  Under pay e-tax option, select “New Payment”  Step 4:  Click on “Proceed” under the “Income Tax” tab as reflected in the picture below Step 5:  Add the applicable assessment year from the drop-down option and select the type of payment as “Self-Assessment Tax (300)” and click “Continue” Step 6:  After adding the tax liability and other required details as applicable, click “Continue” Step 7:  Select the mode of payment as preferable and click “Continue” Step 8:  Lastly, preview the procedure and make required payments.  The steps for offline payment of self-assessment tax are as follows: Step 1:  The assessee would be required to download and take a print-out of tax challan 280 from the Income Tax website.  Step 2:  Fill in details like PAN, assessment year, residential address, email id, and mobile number. Step 3:  Lastly, the taxpayer shall submit the filled challan form physically to the bank along with the cheque/ cash/ demand draft and make payments towards the same. The receipt of the challan paid should be collected from the bank. It is recommended that taxpayers should save a copy of the self-assessment tax paid challan as the same would be required to be furnished in the tax return in case the challan details take some time to reflect on the taxpayer’s Form 26AS.  Also read: ESOP Taxation in India It is pertinent to note that self-assessment tax should be mandatorily paid by the taxpayers on or before the furnishing of online tax returns as the tax return filing procedure is not considered complete without payment of the self-assessment tax. Any return filed without payment of self-assessment tax would be a defective return in accordance with Section 139 (9) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as “the IT Act”) and considered invalid. Section 140A(1) of the IT Act provides that any tax due (after allowing credit for TDS, advance tax, etc.) along with interest and fees should be paid before filing the return of income.  Thus, the taxpayer may be subjected to a higher interest u/s 234A, 234B, 234C and late filing fees u/s 234F of the IT Act in case of delay in payment of self-assessment. Interest is charged at 1% per month or part of a month. The nature of interest is simple interest. In case where such interests and fees are levied where the self-assessment tax falls short of the total tax payable, the amount so paid shall first be adjusted towards the late filing fee payable and thereafter towards the interest payable as aforesaid and the balance, if any, shall be adjusted towards the self-assessment tax payable. Section 140A(3) provides that if a person fails to pay either wholly or partly self-assessment tax or, interest, or fees then he will be treated as assessee in default in respect of unpaid amount. Further, in accordance with section 221(1), if a taxpayer is treated as an assessee in default, then he shall be held liable to pay penalty of such amount as the assessing officer may impose in his discretion and in the case of a continuing default, such further amount or amounts as the assessing officer may determine. However, the total amount of penalty cannot exceed the amount of tax in arrears. The revenue authority shall give the taxpayer a reasonable opportunity of being heard before charging a penalty under section 221(1). Further, no penalty would be levied if the taxpayer proves to the satisfaction of the tax authorities that the default was for good and sufficient reason. It is pertinent to note that a taxpayer shall not cease to be liable to any penalty under section 221(1) merely by reason of the fact that he paid the tax before the levy of such penalty. It may be pointed out that the interest, late fee and penalty are not eligible for tax deduction and hence, must be avoided or minimized by payment of timely advance tax and self-assessment tax. The distinguishing features of self-assessment tax and advance tax are as provided below: Due Date Tax Liability June 15 Minimum 15% of advance tax Sept. 15 Minimum 45% of advance tax Dec. 15 Minimum 75% of advance tax March 15 Minimum 100% of advance tax Every taxpayer should duly pay his self-assessment taxes, if any, after factoring the TDS/TCS, Advance tax and any other tax credits (rebates, foreign tax credit, etc) in order to avoid unnecessary interest and penalty burden. Further, every taxpayer should verify the self-assessment tax payment details in the challan with those details as mentioned in Form 26AS/ AIS/ TIS.  However, it is recommended to maintain a reasonable time gap between the payment of self-assessment tax and furnishing of tax return as the details of such self-assessment tax payment may take some time to reflect in the Form 26AS/ AIS/ TIS. In the absence of such details, the taxpayer may manually furnish the challan details in the tax return.  Also, the taxpayer needs to ensure that the details in the challan are properly filled in for the payment of self-assessment tax, especially the assessment year in concern. In case of any incorrect details, the taxpayer needs to apply for correction to the relevant assessing officer. However, in case of offline payment, the taxpayer may have an option of correcting the details by way of filing a challan correction application form with the relevant bank within 7 days of such payment. 
						Dr. Suresh Surana is the founder of RSM India, ranked among India’s top 10 largest accounting, tax and consulting groups. He is a Chartered Accountant and a law graduate and holds a doctorate degree in business policy and administration.
					 
						Aashika is the India Editor for Forbes Advisor. Her 15-year business and finance journalism stint has led her to report, write, edit and lead teams covering public investing, private investing and personal investing both in India and overseas. She has previously worked at CNBC-TV18, Thomson Reuters, The Economic Times and Entrepreneur.
					