We've partnered with The Baker Institute Center for Energy Studies to host “Energy and the Intersection of Technology, Markets, and Policy” on Aug. 29th. Join experts from academia, industry, and government for discussions on emerging technologies and their impacts.
LEARN MORE ABOUT THE CONFERENCE This Executive MBA program has been developed for individuals currently working in the energy space and with at least eight years previous work experience. Learn More The Energy Executive Management Program is particularly appropriate for those who work in the energy industry, have a technical background or a degree applicable to the energy industry and are high-potential leaders in their organization. Learn More "The Future of Energy,” a webcast series presented by the University of Oklahoma Energy Institute, aims to provide balanced perspectives on energy in a world of constant change. Learn More Quicklinks See more events   Check out the most recent edition of the Energy Institute newsletter! The University of Oklahoma has been a leader in energy education and research for over 100 years. And the Price College of Business is currently celebrating 60 years of energy management education. With energy-centric business education offered at the undergraduate, graduate and executive levels, the Energy Institute provides a community of practitioners and academics to advance innovative and sustainable solutions to the critical energy challenges facing our nation and, more broadly, the global community through EDUCATION, RESEARCH and OUTREACH. We invite you to explore the three pillars of the Energy Institute below, and contact the Price College of Business Energy Institute about how you can connect and benefit from our cultivated resources in energy. Best regards, Dipankar Ghosh, Ph.D.
Executive Director, Energy Institute
David Ross Boyd Professor | ConocoPhillips Chair in Energy Accounting  8:30am to 3:30pm
Rice University Campus - James A. Baker III Hall
6100 Main St., Houston, TX. The Energy Institute is partnering with The Baker Institute Center for Energy Studies at Rice University to host “Energy and the Intersection of Technology, Markets, and Policy.” The conference will convene subject matter experts from academia, industry, and government for a robust set of discussions around emerging technologies, pathways to implementation, and potential impacts. Please visit the event page for comprehensive details as they become available. Business and leadership programs specific to the energy industry are offered at the executive, graduate and undergraduate levels  Relevant research into the energy industry and policy is conducted and shared from the global academic community Events, such as the annual Energy Symposium, are hosted by the institute to bring together energy professionals and scholars to address current industry issues Price Social Media