Watch CBS News 
    By
                        
              Alain Sherter
 
    Edited By
                        
                      Megan Cerullo
 
Updated on:  August 28, 2023 / 11:15 PM EDT
          / MoneyWatch
         A Florida utility is preparing for power outages as Tropical Storm Idalia chugs toward the state's Gulf Coast region, where it is expected to turn into a Category 3 hurricane before making landfall on Wednesday. Duke Energy said Monday it is mobilizing 4,500 employees, including power line technicians, vegetation workers, damage assessors and support personnel, to respond to any disruptions to the electric grid in potentially affected areas. "Duke Energy is actively monitoring Idalia's path, intensity and timing, and staging resources in safe locations to respond to outages as soon as it's safe to do so," Todd Fountain, storm director at Duke Energy Florida, said in a statement. "As we prepare to respond, it's important our customers take this storm seriously and ensure their homes and families are prepared." Forecasters project that the storm system will make landfall along the west coast of Florida, threatening communities in central parts of the state, including cities like Orlando and Tampa, and up through the panhandle. "Idalia is now forecast to become a major hurricane before it reaches the Gulf coast of Florida," the National Weather Service tweeted on Monday morning. "The risk continues to increase for life-threatening storm surge and dangerous hurricane-force winds along portions of the west coast of Florida and the Florida Panhandle beginning as early as late Tuesday." The company's Florida operation, a subsidiary of Charlotte, North Carolina-based Duke Energy, also advised local residents to prepare for the approaching storm, including: Duke Energy also advised Floridians to stay away from downed or sagging power lines. Residents can report such hazards to the utility at (800) 228-8485 or contact local emergency services, the company said. "Consider all lines energized as well as trees or limbs in contact with lines," Duke Energy noted. Customers can stay abreast of any power disruptions by signing up for outage alerts, said the company, which supplies electricity to 1.9 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Florida. Alain Sherter covers business and economic affairs for CBSNews.com. 
© 2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by ICE Data Services. ICE Limitations. Powered and implemented by FactSet. News provided by The Associated Press. Legal Statement.