NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT The government’s Energy Bills Support Scheme (EBSS) was a lifeline for many last winter, with everyone in the country receiving a £400 discount on their energy bills over a six-month period. From October 2022 onwards, millions of eligible English, Scottish and Welsh households received £400 off their energy bills, split in six monthly instalments of £66 or £67. While the Ofgem price cap is dropping to £1,923 from October 1, bills are set to remain high this winter – for many they will be around the same as they were last year once the discount had been added. With that in mind, when did the monthly discounts end – and will they be replaced by anything? The Energy Bills Support Scheme came to an end on Friday, March 31 2023. Many households will had been receiving the discount automatically, with the money coming directly off their energy bills. At this moment in time, there have been no talks of continuing the scheme.  While EBSS has come to an end, there are still ways people can get help with paying their energy bills. The new Energy Bills Discount Scheme began on April 1, 2023 – allowing all eligible UK businesses and other non-domestic energy users to receive a discount on high energy bills until March 31, 2024. Discounts will vary dependent on the type of business, and this balance will not need to be paid back.  Although the deadline to apply for this has now passed, further details on the scheme are available on gov.uk. Others have been able to benefit from the Alternative Fuels Payment – a one-off £200 grant from the government intended to support people who get their heating through a different means to mains gas. Five motorcyclists die after two crashes less than an hour apart Bus crashes into theatre in London's West End British teen 'gang-raped in Magaluf by mob who invited strangers to join in' Chaos at Waterloo station as severe disruption expected for 'the rest of the day' The deadline for this has also expired – but you can find out more information, and whether this will be renewed for 2024, at the Government website. Other options include the Winter Fuel Payment, a one-off payment between £250 and £600, which is usually paid automatically between November and December every year. The amount you get is based on when you were born and your circumstances between September 18-24 2023 – known as the ‘qualifying week’. You can get a Winter Fuel Payment if you were born before September 25, 1957 – those who qualify should receive a letter between October and November telling them how much they will get, with the money automatically being paid into people’s accounts. You can see a full list of eligibility criteria at the Government website. Meanwhile, the Warm Home Discount scheme is set to run again this year. This one-off, £150 discount on your energy bill was paid to eligible customers between October 2022 and March 2023 – and the scheme is set to run again this year. It will re-open in October 2023 – you can keep an eye on this page for updates. 

	MORE : Five things you must do now to save on energy bills before you turn the heating on this winter

 

	MORE : Over 700,000 households missed out on ‘flawed’ energy support scheme

 

	MORE : Food shop list: 8 expert tips to help you keep costs down at the shops

 Follow Metro across our social channels, on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram Share your views in the comments below Privacy Policy  Get us in your feed