We include products we think are useful for our readers. If you
                  buy through links on this page, we may earn a small commission. Here’s our process. Healthline only shows you brands and products that we stand behind. More conclusive research is needed on taking CBD for energy, but what we know so far suggests that it might be worth a try. Some people may want to take cannabidiol (CBD) for energy and focus, but can it really help? More research is needed, but some early studies show it may promote wakefulness and help ease symptoms causing sleep issues that could be the culprit of low energy and lack of focus. We’ve been testing CBD products since 2022, and these five stand out for helping testers feel more energetic and productive — sometimes by way of better sleep and by quieting racing thoughts or nagging pains. Use code "HEALTHLINE30" for 30% off. *Price may vary. Soul CBD is one of our go-to CBD brands for isolate products — also referred to as pure CBD. Isolate products don’t have any THC or other cannabis plant compounds found in full-spectrum or broad-spectrum products. This is likely why our testers have found them ideal for daytime use and did not experience drowsiness. Of all the CBD gummies we’ve tested, Soul’s stand out for helping our testers focus during the day and quiet the mind so they could dig into daily work projects without distraction. The gummies are available in 10 mg or 25 mg per gummy. We also like they they’re vegan and organically farmed. Soul also offers some of the more interesting flavor options when it comes to CBD gummy brands: Raspberry, Pineapple Mango, Orange Cream, Seriously Sour, Pina Colada, and Passion Fruit. “About an hour after taking one 25-mg gummy, I noticed that my body felt more physically relaxed and ‘slowed down’ in a way that allowed me to still focus on my work but with a lot less mental distraction. I’m a fan of all three flavors within the bottle.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor “Having tried over a dozen brands of CBD gummies, I would rate these among my favorites because they were easy to take and effective. “I typically took a gummy in the late afternoon if I was feeling a bit stressed or amped up from my morning coffee and wanted to relax so I could focus on work projects. I felt my energy even out really nicely, which enabled me to be productive for the next few hours.” — Rita Mauceri, Healthline senior director “About an hour after taking one 25-mg gummy, I noticed that my body felt more physically relaxed and ‘slowed down’ in a way that allowed me to still focus on my work but with a lot less mental distraction. I’m a fan of all three flavors within the bottle.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor “Having tried over a dozen brands of CBD gummies, I would rate these among my favorites because they were easy to take and effective. “I typically took a gummy in the late afternoon if I was feeling a bit stressed or amped up from my morning coffee and wanted to relax so I could focus on work projects. I felt my energy even out really nicely, which enabled me to be productive for the next few hours.” — Rita Mauceri, Healthline senior director Use code “HEALTHLINE” for 30% off. *Price may vary. We find Cornbread Hemp’s Distilled CBD oil ideal for daytime use. It’s on of our top CBD oil picks overall. Most notably, our editor called out during testing that she liked this oil because it didn’t make her feel drowsy (though it’s worth noting that everyone responds to CBD differently). Another tester found it was particularly effective for calming anxieties both before bed and throughout the day, which allowed her to be more productive and focus. Cornbread’s products are USDA certified organic and this CBD oil contains no preservatives. Testers do note that it has some hemp flavor, though it’s more mild on the spectrum. If you prefer a truly unflavored CBD oil, Medterra’s isolate oil another top pick and just about the only we’ve found to be truly unflavored. Because it’s an isolate, it’s more ideal for daytime use and not inducing nap vibes. “I’d recommend this for people who are OK with having a small amount of THC and may be looking for a formula that doesn’t make them drowsy. “I just know that I do tend to get sleepy after taking CBD, and I don’t with this one. The version I tried has 50 mg CBD and 1 mg THC per full dropper (1 milliliter [mL]). — Candice Abellon, Healthline editor “The product worked best for me compared to other oils I’ve tried! It had a noticeable and very physical calming effect, and helped reduce that anxiety-inducing pit in your stomach that allowed me to be more productive throughout the day, and also relax for bed at night. I also noticed that it took effect pretty quickly, but it did seem to still be a gradual effect, which was good. “I would say it’s great for anyone experiencing any stress or anxiety that is preventing them from focusing throughout the workday, preventing them from sleeping.” — Brittany Blankenship, RVO Health recruiting manager “I’d recommend this for people who are OK with having a small amount of THC and may be looking for a formula that doesn’t make them drowsy. “I just know that I do tend to get sleepy after taking CBD, and I don’t with this one. The version I tried has 50 mg CBD and 1 mg THC per full dropper (1 milliliter [mL]). — Candice Abellon, Healthline editor “The product worked best for me compared to other oils I’ve tried! It had a noticeable and very physical calming effect, and helped reduce that anxiety-inducing pit in your stomach that allowed me to be more productive throughout the day, and also relax for bed at night. I also noticed that it took effect pretty quickly, but it did seem to still be a gradual effect, which was good. “I would say it’s great for anyone experiencing any stress or anxiety that is preventing them from focusing throughout the workday, preventing them from sleeping.” — Brittany Blankenship, RVO Health recruiting manager  Use code "HEALTHLINE" for 20% off. *Price may vary. We recommend a few different CBD gummies for better sleep (that may then in turn improve energy and focus the next day). CBDfx Mixed Berry CBD Gummies may be particularly ideal if you don’t only want to take them before bed but also want to take them during the day without feeling drowsy. Our tester found they helped her sleep better without producing any noticeable physical drowsiness that might impede energy or focus. The gummies pack a fair punch at 25 milligrams (mg) of CBD per gummy. They’re vegan, PETA-certified cruelty-free, and naturally sweetened with organic cane sugar and organic tapioca syrup. “I tested [these gummies] for 3 consecutive days of varied dosing, primarily taking it in the evening. “On the first day, I had a total of two gummies spaced 5 hours apart. On the second day, I had one in the evening, and on the third day, I had a total of four. The third day is when I felt some physical sensation that I might attribute to the gummies, like tingling in my scalp or head. “Each night, I slept through the whole night after falling asleep. Up to this point, I had been waking up in the middle of the night. “I think this is a good product for someone who’s totally new to CBD. I felt little to no immediate physical effects. It did seem to change my ability to stay asleep for the better, but even if this doesn’t happen for someone else, they likely won’t feel off or strange while having them.” — Candice Abellon, Healthline Senior Editor “I tested [these gummies] for 3 consecutive days of varied dosing, primarily taking it in the evening. “On the first day, I had a total of two gummies spaced 5 hours apart. On the second day, I had one in the evening, and on the third day, I had a total of four. The third day is when I felt some physical sensation that I might attribute to the gummies, like tingling in my scalp or head. “Each night, I slept through the whole night after falling asleep. Up to this point, I had been waking up in the middle of the night. “I think this is a good product for someone who’s totally new to CBD. I felt little to no immediate physical effects. It did seem to change my ability to stay asleep for the better, but even if this doesn’t happen for someone else, they likely won’t feel off or strange while having them.” — Candice Abellon, Healthline Senior Editor *Price may vary. If you prefer to take a CBD oil for better sleep instead of a gummy, in hopes that it will improve your energy during the day, we’ve found this broad-spectrum option by cbdMD to be effective. Our tester reports that it had very mild physical effects that helped her relax without feel to drowsy or like she wanted to pass out (which can be the case with some strong oils that are full-spectrum or contain added THC). So it may also be ideal for daytime use if you need to calm any racing thoughts that are hindering focus or depleting your energy. It’s gluten free and vegan, and available in a wide variety of potencies. Flavor options include Orange, Berry, and Natural (unflavored). “It sometimes takes me awhile to fall asleep, so I decided to use this cbdMD oil strictly at bedtime. I took it to help with falling asleep faster, and found that it helped me relax to be able to drift off more easily and stay asleep the whole night. “I took 50 mg every night before bed for 3 weeks. I also had a few nights where I took 100 mg to see if I noticed any difference. I found that 50 mg was plenty to help me fall asleep, and noticed no additional benefits from taking 100 mg. “I like that the product is broad spectrum, so only traces of THC and no psychoactive effects. I have found that some higher dose CBD oils that are full-spectrum can lead to psychoactive effects (I am quite sensitive to THC, so even 2 mg THC may cause physical effects). Despite liking THC, I don’t always want to feel those types of effects, so I prefer the broad spectrum oil for bedtime since it relaxes me. “I felt the effects about 30 to 40 minutes in. That’s about standard for when I take a CBD oil. I’d say the effects are mild, but in a gentle way — not an ineffective way.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor “It sometimes takes me awhile to fall asleep, so I decided to use this cbdMD oil strictly at bedtime. I took it to help with falling asleep faster, and found that it helped me relax to be able to drift off more easily and stay asleep the whole night. “I took 50 mg every night before bed for 3 weeks. I also had a few nights where I took 100 mg to see if I noticed any difference. I found that 50 mg was plenty to help me fall asleep, and noticed no additional benefits from taking 100 mg. “I like that the product is broad spectrum, so only traces of THC and no psychoactive effects. I have found that some higher dose CBD oils that are full-spectrum can lead to psychoactive effects (I am quite sensitive to THC, so even 2 mg THC may cause physical effects). Despite liking THC, I don’t always want to feel those types of effects, so I prefer the broad spectrum oil for bedtime since it relaxes me. “I felt the effects about 30 to 40 minutes in. That’s about standard for when I take a CBD oil. I’d say the effects are mild, but in a gentle way — not an ineffective way.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor Use code “HEALTHLINE” for 20% off. *Price may vary. Dealing with chronic pain or temporary soreness can make it hard to focus, so if quick pain relief if what you need, a CBD cream might do the trick. Our editor and CBD super tester Christy Snyder named Aspen Green’s Relief Cooling Cream the best overall CBD topical and one the best CBD creams for pain relief. She found it more impactful for her lower back and sciatica pain that other over-the-counter pain creams and using heat, ice, and Advil. It’s made with arnica extract and organic menthol. As a full-spectrum CBD, Aspen Green’s cooling cream contains a small amount of THC, so may not be ideal for people wanting to avoid THC. “This couldn’t have come at a better time. I was recently diagnosed with sciatica and have been experiencing some intense lower back pain. When Aspen Green’s cooling muscle cream showed up at my doorstep, I was hopeful — and I was not disappointed. “It helps if you spend some time rubbing it in, so be sure to give yourself a little massage when applying. I only wish there was more in the container, as several reviewers on the website also noted. “I noticed immediate relief from intense pain I was having. The cooling sensation offers a reduction of pain and the cream then penetrates your muscles to relieve additional pain, numbing the area for some time. “It smells mildly of hemp and menthol, but it is a mild and inoffensive scent. “The texture of the cream is smooth and luxurious — it doesn’t feel greasy or oily when you apply.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor “This couldn’t have come at a better time. I was recently diagnosed with sciatica and have been experiencing some intense lower back pain. When Aspen Green’s cooling muscle cream showed up at my doorstep, I was hopeful — and I was not disappointed. “It helps if you spend some time rubbing it in, so be sure to give yourself a little massage when applying. I only wish there was more in the container, as several reviewers on the website also noted. “I noticed immediate relief from intense pain I was having. The cooling sensation offers a reduction of pain and the cream then penetrates your muscles to relieve additional pain, numbing the area for some time. “It smells mildly of hemp and menthol, but it is a mild and inoffensive scent. “The texture of the cream is smooth and luxurious — it doesn’t feel greasy or oily when you apply.” — Christy Snyder, Healthline editor  For this article, we chose CBD products that might be able to help with sleep issues, pain, and anxiety, all of which might hinder your ability to feel energized and focused.  We selected products based on criteria we think are good indicators of safety, quality, and transparency.  As a part of our vetting process, we consider: We have also tested all of the products we recommend here and provided feedback on how they impacted our sleep quality and daily pains that tend to hurt our energy levels and ability to focus. We focused on products that testers found did not make them drowsy. That way, our recommendations are ideal for daytime use as well as taking before bedtime.  Research is limited. However, in a 2008 study, researchers administered CBD to certain parts of the brain responsible for waking and found that it did enhance wakefulness.  A review from 2014 looked at existing research and concluded that while more studies are needed, CBD may promote wakefulness for some people. There’s also promising research that suggests CBD can improve other issues that may affect energy levels and ability to focus, such as sleep quality, anxiety, and pain.  Research suggests that CBD is safe for human consumption. There are a handful of potential side effects, though, including: Some research suggests that consuming CBD with high fat meals could drastically increase CBD blood concentrations. This can increase your chances of experiencing side effects. CBD might interact with certain medications. If you’re using a medication that carries a grapefruit warning, avoid taking CBD without a healthcare professional’s approval. This is because CBD and grapefruit change the way the liver metabolizes certain substances. To be on the safe side, it’s always best to talk with a healthcare professional before using CBD, regardless of whether you’re taking any medications or supplements.  Maybe. If your energy levels are low due to chronic pain or sleep issues, CBD may be able to help. Maybe. If your energy levels are low due to chronic pain or sleep issues, CBD may be able to help. Probably not directly — but CBD may help relieve some symptoms of chronic conditions that could be hindering your focus. Probably not directly — but CBD may help relieve some symptoms of chronic conditions that could be hindering your focus. This depends on why you’re taking it. Do you need help relaxing and falling asleep? Then it’s best to take CBD at night. Need help managing pain levels throughout the day? You might find it more useful to take CBD in the daytime. This depends on why you’re taking it. Do you need help relaxing and falling asleep? Then it’s best to take CBD at night. Need help managing pain levels throughout the day? You might find it more useful to take CBD in the daytime. Healthline has sole editorial control over this article. Potential uses for the products listed here are not health claims made by the manufacturers. The information in this article is intended to be general in nature. It’s not intended to be a substitute for medical advice from a healthcare professional. Healthline encourages you to make any treatment decisions with your healthcare professional. Is CBD legal? The 2018 Farm Bill removed hemp from the legal definition of marijuana in the Controlled Substances Act. This made some hemp-derived CBD products with less than 0.3% THC legal at the federal level. However, CBD products containing more than 0.3% THC still fall under the legal definition of marijuana, making them illegal at the federal level. Some states have legalized CBD, so be sure to check state laws, especially when traveling. Also, keep in mind that the FDA has not approved nonprescription CBD products, and some products may be inaccurately labeled. Share this article Research shows that CBD has a host of potential benefits, including reducing anxiety. One of the newest CBD products on the market is CBD coffee. But… If you're wondering about energy-boosting foods, you're not alone. This article explores whether certain foods boost your energy and offers other… Caffeine and marijuana are an increasingly popular combo, but there are some potential interactions to be aware of. Learn how to avoid a bad time and… Typical energy drinks are chock-full of sweeteners and artificial ingredients, but healthier options abound. Here are 9 of the best natural energy… Ways to improve concentration, include brain games, meditation, music, and more. If you're finding it hard to focus and these tips don't help… Research into CBG is limited but still promising. Not many CBG gummies pass our vetting for safety, but there is one brand we recommend.  Unique factors like your biology and what you eat before taking CBD gummies may speed up or slow down the time these edibles take to work. Walmart has begun stocking a handful of Charlotte’s Web CBD products at over 800 locations. Research suggests CBD may be useful in promoting liver health. Here's why.  CBD can be an effective option for treating nail fungus. Here's how it works.  OUR BRANDS