Shares of companies in the utilities sector were under pressure in early trading on Friday. The next phase for U.S. utilities has begun, with many companies becoming “decarbonization enablers” and their models could “drive value from several clear mega-themes,” according to Goldman Sachs. The Utilities Analyst: Carly Davenport initiated coverage of 10 companies in the sector, which are considered the “enablers of decarbonization and grid transformation.” Buy Ratings Sell Ratings
  Neutral Ratings Check out other analyst stock ratings. Mega-Themes In Utilities Davenport named four mega-trends for the utilities sector, in the initiation note: The Utilities Thesis
  The analyst recommended buying shares of Southern Company for nuclear earnings growth, NextEra Energy for renewables growth, Xcel Energy and American Electric Power for grid reliability investments, and Sempra for LNG upside. She added that Duke Energy, Dominion Energy, Public Service Enterprise Group, Consolidated Edison and Exelon have limited exposure to the mega-trends. “The transformation of the U.S. power grid is underway,” Davenport wrote. “By 2032, we expect more than 45% of the power generation capacity in the U.S. to be from renewable sources and 6% from coal, relative to 30%/16% today and 17%/27% in 2012,” she added. “As the power generation mix changes and the Energy transition progresses, particularly following the passing of the Inflation Reduction Act, we believe utilities are uniquely positioned to facilitate this shift and address associated challenges in a way that creates a cleaner power grid while maintaining reliability and customer affordability,” the analyst stated. “This shift will require a significant amount of capital investment, which we believe will contribute to attractive earnings and rate base growth in the coming years,” she added.
		  Price Actions: At the time of publishing Friday: Photo: Shutterstock Read Next: Elon Musk And Bill Gates Agree On Something! How Public Support For Nuclear Power Could Be Moving Forward   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks