A gay, GOP, state Representative in Missouri is finding out that there’s little appetite for his progressive ideas among fellow Republicans. Lone Jack Rep. Chris Sander wants to amend the state constitution to recognize same-sex marriage. It currently recognizes marriage as between “one man and one woman”. Sanders has proposed legislation to amend this to “two individuals”. However, twice in the last month, his local Republican party has discussed censuring him over the issue. Although not an expulsion, such a censure is a formal statement of disapproval. The Jackson County Republican Party first discussed censuring him in late February but decided against doing so at the time. The issue came up again this week, with a second motion to censure. On Monday night, the party again decided against taking action against Sander. Instead, it called on Republicans to sign a petition complaining about his proposed amendment. If enough people sign it, he may still face censure at a later date. High-ranking local Republicans accuse Sanders of deviating from the party’s platform. “The Jackson County GOP censure and the Missouri Republican Party platform represent a small minority of leadership who conflict with our US Constitution,” Sander said in a text to the Kansas Star. “The committee members do not like gay Republicans.” On Facebook, Sanders pointed out that “More than 18,000 Missourians have a same-sex marriage since a June 2015 US Supreme Court decision.” Same-sex marriage is enshrined in federal law, and extra protection was provided with last year’s Defense of Marriage Act. This was beautiful.
 Teresa McBride, the county GOP vice chair, was among those calling on Sander to withdraw his constitutional amendment. In an email sent out Monday, obtained by the Kansas Star, she went as far as accusing Sander of encouraging pedophilia. “The mere fact that you want to change the wording from ‘one man and one woman’ to ‘two individuals’ is an abomination to mankind and to God himself. “The term ‘two individuals’ could be defined and interpreted in many different ways and open the door for pedophiles to legally rape and physically harm children. That is disgusting and promoting an agenda as such, is an abomination to our country.” Although advocating for same-sex marriage, Sander appears to be hard-right on most other issues. On his campaign website, he is described as, “a MAGA Republican and President Trump campaign advocate since 2012. Chris will prioritize keeping taxes low and government small while supporting small businesses. As a defender of ALL our Constitutional rights, Chris will protect the unborn, respect the 2nd Amendment and halt illegal immigration.” … And the internet is quick to ask her how her divorce is going.
 Don't forget to share:  We can't rely on mainstream media to tell our stories. That's why we don't lock Queerty articles behind a paywall. Will you support our mission with a contribution today? Cancel anytime · Proudly LGBTQ+ owned and operated Gay Republicans need to realize that the party does not like them. They keep hoping for approval that will never come. Gotta agree, I looked at his campaign website: “Chris Sander is a MAGA Republican and President Trump campaign advocate since 2012. Chris will prioritize keeping taxes low and government small while supporting small businesses. As a defender of ALL our Constitutional rights, Chris will protect the unborn, respect the 2nd Amendment and halt illegal immigration.”  All that and they STILL don’t like him? Gee, I wonder why! He’s beyond lost and pathetic. Gross , MAGA troll gets what he deserves . Small government and low taxes take a back seat to culture wars. They would much rather punish trans people and dissolve marriages than do anything for the people of their state. We are only three months into the year and there have already been more than 470 new anti-LGBT bills nationwide. This is the strangest priority. How can you possibly think of 500 new restrictions? It’s overboard, it’s insane. Gay rightwingers need to read the story of Nazi Brown Shirt leader (and out gay man) Ernst Roem. He was instrumental in building the Nazi movement in Germany, and very quickly amassed more followers than the entire German military.  The Nazi leadership needed the support of the military, so they murdered the leaders of the Brown Shirts, including Roem, for being homosexual. The right will turn on you too, and just because you’ve contributed to their political dominance doesn’t mean they won’t march you off to the death camps with the rest of the LGBTQ+. Night of the Long Knives! AKA “Operation Hummingbird”. Neither of those names sound gay at all… Thank you, absolutely correct. My university professor, one of the 1st Fulbright Scholars from Germany post WWII would say to me: “You must remember that the first part of Nazism was family values”. @Crayonap–Then the second part of your instructors lesson should have covered the second half of that equation…liberal socialist.
The National Socialist German Workers Party (the formal name for the N@zis) combined the nationalism of the right wing with the social policy of the left wing—a kind of watered-down socialism, This combination made N@zis appealing to Germans who considered themselves threatened both by financial capitalism and Communism.
The Brown shirts weren’t the equivalent of gay republicans, they were self centered gay totalitarian socialist who saw an opportunity to achieve power over others.
The reality was, that Hitler played them all, and pitted the left against the right…pretty much what’s happening today in the good ‘ol USA. UlfRaynor – You claim that “N@zis combined the nationalism of the right wing and the social policy of the left wing ,,, [t]his combination made N@zis appealing…” and that they “pitted the left against the right”. Those statements are contradictory.  What the Nazis did was convince Germans that they were part of the fictional Aryan race, and that ‘others’ were a threat that were coming for their stuff and polluting their gene pool. Fear of ‘the other.’ Sound familiar? It’s what republicans, including gay republicans, are fomenting in the here and now. LeBlevsez —
Yes, it was dichotomous wasn’t it?
It doesn’t however erase the fact that it was true.
Hitler’s initial faux support of socialism appealed immensely to elitist liberal academics, hence the strong support from the duped gay community, who wielded their newly garnered acceptance into the 3rd Reich like a totalitarian cudgel.
You can bury your head in the sand and pretend that didn’t happen, but it doesn’t erase the fact that it did.
My original truth bomb stands. Hitler played the left and the right against each other, personified by what both Trump and Biden are doing today.
The so called progressive left is just as authoritarian as the far right and both sides are fighting for dominance in this country, leaving the average Joe scratching their collective heads in trying to decide which side is least worse since that’s all that’s being offered, when the truth is both suck dog crap through a paper straw.
But if it makes you feel morally superior, you keep believing you’re on the right side of herstory cis, that is until you can force everybody in the country to use your correct pronouns… uhmkay? Yikes! You might want to take it easy on those adjectives. They undermine your argument. The ‘progressive left’ can be bossy, but it ain’t nothin’ compared to what the right is doing, proposing and passing laws to:
Take ownership of women’s bodies;
Restrict the travel of pregnant women;
Prosecute parents for taking their kids to Drag Queen Story Hour;
Criminalize making even indirect references to queer people around kids;
Allow a single complaint to effectively ban books.
And so on, and et cetera. So, no, the ‘progressive left’ is not “just as authoritarian as the far right.” Go ahead and rail against the snowflakes on the left and their complaints that influence institutional policy. That’s not the same as making suspects of pregnant women and criminals of Drag Queens who read, even though I’m sure institutional policy and criminal law occupy the same dimly lit space in your brain. And by the by, it may be the ‘far’ right passing these laws, but the middle- and near-right ain’t complaining. LeBlevsez — Oh goodie, lets tackle your little list shall we? “Take ownership of women’s bodies” Are you referring to the fact that the law no longer infantilizes women for their poor choices? In case you haven’t guessed, I’m pro life (probably because I have a degree in evolutionary biology) Life begins at conception. Here are but a few scientific citations for your perusal (I know that you won’t read any of them because your a brain washed regressive ideologue): “Zygote. This cell, formed by the union of an ovum and a sperm (Gr. zyg tos, yoked together), represents the beginning of a human being. The common expression ‘fertilized ovum’ refers to the zygote.”
[Moore, Keith L. and Persaud, T.V.N. Before We Are Born: Essentials of Embryology and Birth Defects. 4th edition. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders Company, 1993, p. 1] “The chromosomes of the oocyte and sperm are…respectively enclosed within female and male pronuclei. These pronuclei fuse with each other to produce the single, diploid, 2N nucleus of the fertilized zygote. This moment of zygote formation may be taken as the beginning or zero time point of embryonic development.”
[Larsen, William J. Human Embryology. 2nd edition. New York: Churchill Livingstone, 1997, p. 17] “Although life is a continuous process, fertilization is a critical landmark because, under ordinary circumstances, a new, genetically distinct human organism is thereby formed…. The combination of 23 chromosomes present in each pronucleus results in 46 chromosomes in the zygote. Thus the diploid number is restored and the embryonic genome is formed. The embryo now exists as a genetic unity.”
[O’Rahilly, Ronan and M?ller, Fabiola. Human Embryology & Teratology. 2nd edition. New York: Wiley-Liss, 1996, pp. 8, 29. This textbook lists “pre-embryo” among “discarded and replaced terms” in modern embryology, describing it as “ill-defined and inaccurate” (p. 12}] “Almost all higher animals start their lives from a single cell, the fertilized ovum (zygote)… The time of fertilization represents the starting point in the life history, or ontogeny, of the individual.”
[Carlson, Bruce M. Patten’s Foundations of Embryology. 6th edition. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1996, p. 3] “[A]nimal biologists use the term embryo to describe the single cell stage, the two-cell stage, and all subsequent stages up until a time when recognizable humanlike limbs and facial features begin to appear between six to eight weeks after fertilization….
“[A] number of specialists working in the field of human reproduction have suggested that we stop using the word embryo to describe the developing entity that exists for the first two weeks after fertilization. In its place, they proposed the term pre-embryo….
“I’ll let you in on a secret. The term pre-embryo has been embraced wholeheartedly by IVF practitioners for reasons that are political, not scientific. The new term is used to provide the illusion that there is something profoundly different between what we nonmedical biologists still call a six-day-old embryo and what we and everyone else call a sixteen-day-old embryo.
“The term pre-embryo is useful in the political arena — where decisions are made about whether to allow early embryo (now called pre-embryo) experimentation — as well as in the confines of a doctor’s office, where it can be used to allay moral concerns that might be expressed by IVF patients. ‘Don’t worry,’ a doctor might say, ‘it’s only pre-embryos that we’re manipulating or freezing. They won’t turn into real human embryos until after we’ve put them back into your body.'”
[Silver, Lee M. Remaking Eden: Cloning and Beyond in a Brave New World. New York: Avon Books, 1997, p. 39] There are close to 40 different ways in which a woman can protect herself from becoming pregnant, killing an infant should never have been one of them, It stopped being just her body when she consciously chose to spread her legs, during her fertile cycle and have unprotected sex. That’s just three of the bad decisions she consciously chose to make. Murdering an infant shouldn’t be one of those options despite her desire to do so. It’s not the babies fault the mother is an overly pampered, entitled child. At what point should we start holding women accountable for their actions? Progressive, liberal judges have made sure that men can’t opt out of their responsibility, why should women? Progressive courts have completely stacked the deck legally against men and in many cases, even if the man can prove the child isn’t his with a DNA test, if the mother put him down as the father, on the birth certificate, he can still be held liable for the cost of raising the child. Boy’s who have been sexually molested by adult women can and have successfully sued their sexually abuse victim for child support. All brought to you by progressive, permissive, liberal judges. Lets discuss freedom of speech on college campus’s…oh, wait, there isn’t any. Liberal students in college’s frequently and forcibly if need be, stop any speaker that they might find even remotely not to their liking, from appearing or, they force their way into speaking events and shout, scream and do anything they can to silence any one who doesn’t tow their ideological oppressive regime. Your second question (statement) about restricting women from seeking abortions across state lines is a red herring since no state currently has such a law, nor would any law like it be constitutional. (but it didn’t stop you from trying to lie about it did it?) “Prosecute parents for taking their kids to Drag Queen Story Hour” Yes, the government and the state does reserve the right to limit the things adults can do with minors… another red herring argument (your batting a thousand here so far) “Criminalize making even indirect references to queer people around kids” Censorious and incorrect once again. Discussing sex with minors is prohibited in some circumstances. Even the most casual perusal of TikTok videos of gender queer activist teachers is more than enough to give the most permissive parent the creeps. It’s pure indoctrination in its least offensive capacity. As a mature, liberal adult I can understand the states caution concerning the welfare of minors, since parent’s could easily hold public schools liable for what’s being taught to their children. It’s sad you can’t see that, but then again you are a cult member, so I didn’t expect anything less from you. “Allow a single complaint to effectively ban books” When said books describe performing oral sex on boys and girls in graphic detail and said books are being placed in elementary schools by progressive ideologues, yeah the people responsible for doing so should be publicly tarred and feathered (figuratively of course) unless of course you are trying deliberately to sexualize children…is that your intent?
“And so on, and et cetera.” Yeah, couldn’t have put it better myself. UlfRaynor – I think I might surprise you here, but I’m going to recommend that everyone read your entire post. Your long, revealing post. My reply is going to be, um, less long. Now, let’s revisit my little list. –Take ownership of women’s bodies–
I’ll address this one last. –Restrict the travel of pregnant women–
This law has been proposed in at least two states. It could easily pass and be signed into law in several more. Unconstitutional? Certainly. It could still be enforced while it wended its way through the courts. But it would only be used against women and their friends, so you’d approve. –Prosecute parents for taking their kids to Drag Queen Story Hour–
You said ‘yes’ on this one, and then called it a red herring. Huh? –Criminalize making even indirect references to queer people around kids–
The laws that are on the books are so vague that Ms. Smith could be in trouble just for saying the words “my wife.” Not “my hot wife” or “my wife whom I bang” but simply “my wife.” (And I hope the honorific ‘Ms.’ doesn’t offend you.) –Allow a single complaint to effectively ban books–
You mentioned one questionable book. What about the 17 godzillion others? –Take ownership of women’s bodies (redux)–
Your own words will indict you here: “It stopped being just her body when she consciously chose to spread her legs, during her fertile cycle* and have unprotected sex. That’s just three of the bad decisions she consciously chose to make.” Well, Chauvin, at least you acknowledge (twice!) that women are capable of consciousness. Again, I’m going to recommend that people read your entire post. Gotta run now. My cult is waiting. *here is where an Oxford comma can be your friend. LeBlevsez– I look forward to you “revealing my post to everyone” maybe it will jar a few of the less indoctrinated from your heinous, violent cult. (which I am a proud apostate of)
Yes, I do indeed hold adult women (and men) accountable for their actions. Stupid people, doing stupid things only learn from their mistakes by being held accountable for them. That’s how a civil society works and like always I see that you were completely unable to address a single thing I said without lying about it, that’s the behavior of the typical, fascist cultist.
So do your worse LeBlevsez.
From my perspective, you are a lost cause, forever condemned to continuously repeat the same ignorant mistakes over and over again.
Your response was the most telling, full of ad hominem attacks, solely based on your previous conjectured/concocted lies.
I don’t need to repeat my responses, they are clearly there for the world to see, as are your hyperbolic deflections from reality and the truth.
They say ignorance is bliss, then you my friend, must be the happiest person in the world!
As I have previously stated to other cult members, ignorance is not a crime, so you are free to go. Let’s see. Should we check the official LGBTQ Agenda and Policy Guide for how to help those who work against us? Should we be kind because a gay republican whines that we don’t all think alike? Nah. He’s sleeping with dogs, he’s dealing with fleas. He’s a MAGAt and trump supporter. Ugh. I appreciate the M149 for recalling the Nazi Brown Shirt leader. He’ll get what he’s asked for… It still amazes me that Republican lawmakers are shocked and surprised by the reaction from their “supporters” when they come out… they just don’t learn that their party hates gay people. This doesn’t surprise at all considering the MO Republicans have their heads so up their behinds that they will never see the light of day. These so called Gay Republicans are getting exactly what they have coming to them. “It either OUR way or the highway!” First of all, the words gay and Republican should never be combined. Maybe it’s time to consider changing parties – Gay Democrat. That’s better…. No sympathy here. Sorry bud. What did you expect. And Missouri on top of it. Lol. Seriously, what were you thinking….. If Rep. Chris Sander’s amendment is worded to allow “two individuals” to marry, it is indeed a poor proposal, because it is too broad and actually does allow for unintended consequences such as child marriages. The amendment should instead be drafted to allow “two consenting adults” to marry. And if Rep. Chris Sanders did use the term “two individuals” in his proposal, it raises the question: was this a naive mistake on his part, or did he write this amendment as a “poison pill” that would doom the prospects for Marriage Equality in Missouri right from the start? I don’t trust gay Republicans to be good-faith proponents of LGBTQ issues. Far too often, hidden ulterior motives compromise their actions. The GOP has morphed into the American NAZI Party.. They’re scary ,insane , NOT religious nor “christian”..They’re sociopathic /psychopathic FASCIST Anti-Americans. Who are deranged violent inbred POS !! Maybe they’ll all die off and thin out the herd. Permanently. if you lie down with dogs, you’re gonna get fleas not feeling a lot of sympathy for this person. he knew exactly what he was getting himself into One song that comes to mind when I think of gay Republicans is Imagine Dragons’ Sharks. specifically the pre-chorus, “You think you’re better than them
Better than them
You think they’re really your friends
Really your friends
But when it comes to the end
To the end
You’re just the same as them’
I find it very difficult to have sympathy for them. Comments are closed. 


 2 hours ago 


 3 hours ago 


  


  


  


  


  


  


  


  


 1 hour ago 


 4 hours ago 


 5 hours ago 


  


  


  


  


  


  


  Queerty is a federally registered trademark of Q.Digital, Inc.