Hudson City Councilwoman Nicole Kowalski told fellow council members at a special meeting Wednesday that their vote to censure her earlier this month was an "ugly and sad" maneuver based on "meritless" allegations of misdeeds. Wednesday's meeting was called to make up for a Dec. 20 regular meeting that was canceled due to lack of quorum, and it was Kowalski's first opportunity to address the public body following the Dec. 6 censure. The censure stems from allegations made by Council President Chris Foster that Kowalski was, without the consent or knowledge of the council, pursuing the prosecution of a political rival over campaign finance violations. In doing so, Foster said, Kowalski spent money that would have required legislative approval. Kowalski says the council acted outside its authority and also denied her due process when it voted to censure her. She filed a civil suit Dec. 21 asking the Summit County Court of Common Pleas to invalidate the censure. More:Hudson City Council votes to censure member over unauthorized spending on probe More:Hudson councilwoman asks court to overturn censure "In a time where fair maps are a fight at the state level," Kowalski said "I am not in the least bit surprised that my attempts to make elections more equitable was met with pushback. I am surprised and disheartened that it would result in deeply personal attacks and an improper censure." She previously introduced two pieces of legislation, one which would reform the existing ordinance that puts a $100 cap on donations, and another that would repeal it altogether. Both failed. A review of the correspondence surrounding her attempts to overhaul the city's campaign finance rules and the enforcement of the current ordinance will make it clear, she said, that her intent was not political and was solely in the interest of making it easier for people who aren't practiced fundraisers or self-funded candidates to run for office. "Mr. Foster cherry-picked the evidence that was intentionally prejudicial, and as you will clearly see when you watch the video from the council meeting, used only the information needed to tell his untrue story," said Kowalski. "The accusations are meritless," Kowalski said, "there was no proof to substantiate them. My character was called into question. This hurt me deeply. I pride myself on my ethical conduct, often being the one to point out when my colleagues are not acting in such a way. Accusations that call a person's character into questions for political gain are ugly and sad." Kowalski added that in the days following her censure, when she was feeling lowest, she reminded herself that she wasn't alone in having experienced what she called a "character assassination" in the past few years. She said she now shares this distinction with Councilwoman Kate Schlademan (Ward 1), former council candidate Nicole Davis, former City Council President Bill Wooldredge, the entire city school board and Jane Howington, the former city manager. "If I'm going to be in some club with public servants who were just trying to serve their community, but were instead targeted very personally, then I suppose I am in good company because each of these people are incredible humans who similarly did not deserve to have their character maligned in such a way," Kowalski said. She said her motivation for attempting to reform the city's campaign finance laws was in part due to outside groups — clubs, political action committees (PACs) and super PACs — dumping money into local elections. Foster declined to discuss the censure Wednesday, citing Kowalski's pending legal action against the council. Some residents who showed up for last week's scheduled session but were unable to speak due to its cancellation were given the chance Wednesday night. Nine Hudson residents expressed their support for Kowalski. Several more passed their comments along to Schlademan for her to read into the record. Wooldredge, the former City Council president, spoke first. He said he saw his fair share of squabbling and ill-will during his 12 years with the council. "But none of it was as egregious and mean-spirited as the recent Council action to censure Nicole Kowalski," Wooldredge said. Kowalski and Wooldredge have known each other since before she ran for the at-large seat she now holds. He said he has always found her to be professional, full of integrity and well-intentioned — with an interest in good government. One woman, Jamie McKinney, spoke out in favor of the censure. "Whether we can agree on campaign finance donations has me confused," McKinney said. "I thought what we were talking about was Mrs. Kowalski going behind council's back to investigate another person that ran for office." McKinney asked if there was record of any other council person ever having done such a thing. "That's why you're on a council," she said, "so everyone can talk about doing those kinds of things. So I agree with what you have done." The council also passed all items on its consent agenda Wednesday, including: An ordinance making appropriations for the city's current expenses and expenditures during the fiscal year by making additional and/or amended appropriations. A resolution authorizing the city manager to advertise for competitive bids and enter into contracts for the 2023 sidewalk improvement projects. Resolution authorizing the city manager to increase funding for chemicals and fertilizer for golf course use and to enter into a purchase agreement for course equipment. Contact reporter Derek Kreider at DKreider@Gannett.com This article originally appeared on Akron Beacon Journal: Hudson councilwoman digs in against censure as members reconvene New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. With the market's recession fears having cooled for now, investor focus has shifted to what Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell says about interest rate cuts next Friday.