Get local news delivered to your inbox! NORFOLK — Voices rose and gavels pounded Friday, but in the end, several officers with the American Legion were censured, rather than removed from office, for wearing their official Legion caps as a show of support for pardoning a convicted sex offender. The censure was a compromise reached by an executive committee of the Legion after about 90 minutes of sometimes heated debate about the attendance of 15 to 20 Legion officers at a September meeting of the Nebraska Board of Pardons. The discipline, which includes publishing an apology in the Legion newspaper, was approved on a unanimous voice vote. Backers of the compromise said it was an appropriate sanction for a minor misjudgment and avoided the chaos of immediately removing a dozen top Legion officials, including the current state commander, Don Suchy. But a group that has been pushing for the removal of those who attended the Pardons Board meeting called it a “slap on the wrist.” “This was nothing,” said Beth Linn of Scottsbluff, a former state commander of the Legion and an organizer of the “What About Us?” group. On Friday, she described the sex assault as “ugly” and one that had caused a lifetime of trauma for the victim, who provided a letter to Legion members asking what they would do if their daughter was threatened with a hunting knife, bound and gagged, and violently assaulted? In September, between 15 and 20 Legion members, wearing their caps, attended a meeting of the Pardons Board to show support for a fellow Legion member, John Arias, who was seeking a pardon for a violent sex assault in 1993 of his estranged wife. The pardon was approved on a 2-1 vote, with then-Gov. Pete Ricketts and then-Attorney General Doug Peterson voting yes and Secretary of State Bob Evnen voting no. Linn maintained that the wearing of the official caps influenced the Pardons Board — it was mentioned by each board member — to grant the pardon. It also violated Legion guidelines, she said, that Legion caps may only be worn at official Legion or Legion-sponsored events. At least two officials who attended the pardons hearing apologized during Friday’s meeting, saying they now realize that a show of support in Legion uniform was a mistake. But they insisted they were supporting a fellow Legion member who had turned his life around, not supporting sexual violence. Michael Helm, a Legion official from Oberlin, Kansas, said he had organized the show of support for Arias after watching Arias’ work in helping other veterans turn their lives around and deal with post-traumatic stress. Arias has worked as a mentor with a south-central Nebraska veterans treatment court that seeks to rehabilitate criminal offenders. Ricketts, who chaired the Pardons Board, said in a statement in October that he voted to pardon Arias because he had accepted responsibility for a crime committed nearly 30 years ago and “has shown to be remorseful.” “He has not had any offenses since serving his sentence and has since become an active member of the veteran community, helping others who suffer from PTSD,” Ricketts said in the statement, which noted the support by Legion members at the hearing. Evnen voted “no,” citing the serious nature of the crime and expressing doubts that Arias had accepted responsibility for it. Helm said he believes that people deserve a chance to overcome “missteps” in life and that the Pardons Board had reached its decision prior to seeing the Legion members at the September meeting.   But other people among the roughly 80 who attended Friday’s meeting said the show of support sent the wrong message — that the veterans organization supported rapists or was a “sexist” organization. Others worried about the precedent of using the Legion uniform to obtain a pardon or other action by a governmental body. One man asked, for instance, whether the Legion should support a veteran who was recently accused of murder. “I wish you’d left your covers (caps) off,” said one former state Legion commander, Gary Wooten of Wilber. Still others complained that Legion leaders didn’t inform them of the controversy, which was first reported by the Nebraska Examiner. Eventually, a motion was made by Jerry Schulte of Dodge to remove about a dozen Legion officials who attended the Pardons Board hearing from their offices for two years. That prompted a long, and sometimes confusing, debate over who exactly attended and whether removal was too harsh a penalty. Also, it was asked, what the Legion would do if its state commander, and directors of Legion events, were suddenly removed from office. “Do not rip our department to shreds,” said one member, Mike Ellis. The discussion eventually led to amending the sanction to a two-year censure, an official statement of disapproval. The compromise was then approved. Arias, who serves as a state liaison for a Legion motorcycle group, attended Friday’s meeting but declined to comment to a reporter. After the vote, the current state commander, Suchy, of Valparaiso, said he “should have known better” than to wear his cap to the Pardons Board hearing. “I can honestly say I made a mistake,” Suchy said, adding. “We need to move on.” Linn said her group would continue its work. She said state laws concerning the Pardons Board need to be tightened so that someone, like Arias, who agreed in court to serve a lifetime on the state’s sex offender list, would remain on the list. (Because of the pardon, his name has been removed from the offender list.) The group also wants to assure that victims of crimes are notified when an offender goes before the Pardons Board. Jody Snogren, Arias’ ex-wife, has said she was unaware that her ex-husband had a hearing in September. Originally published on Nebraska Examiner, part of the TownNews Content Exchange. Swearing in of new Nebraska Governor Jim Pillen and Lt. Governor Joe Kelly The Grand Island bowling team celebrates the victory against Northwest during the boys state bowling team championships, Tuesday, Feb. 8, 2022, at Sun Valley Lanes. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star Fremont's Benny Alfaro celebrates his win in a Class A 195-pound semifinals match with head coach Ben Wilcox, Friday, Feb. 18, 2022, at CHI Health Center Omaha. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star Papillion-La Vista/Papillion La Vista-South's Landon Orth competes in the boys state diving championship on Thursday at the Devaney Sports Center. Charuth Van Beuzekom, who owns Shadow Brook Farm and Dutch Girl Creamery with husband Kevin Loth, enjoys the company of a day-old kid in the barn on Tuesday, March 1, 2022. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star Felipe Gonzalez-Vazquez talks with his attorneys Nancy Peterson (left) and Candice Wooster during his trial for the murder of Lincoln Police Investigator Mario Herrera, Tuesday, March 8, 2022, in Platte County District Court. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star Lt. Col. Christopher Perrone (R), of Papillion, hugs his daughter, Faith, 21, during a welcome home event for soldiers of the Nebraska National Guard's 67th Maneuver Enhancement Brigade on Friday, March 11, 2022, at the Nebraska Army National Guard base. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star Russ Largent of Lincoln and Beth Ramsay of Seward celebrate St. Patrick's Day at McKinney's Irish Pub in downtown Lincoln on Thursday. Lincoln, NE - 4/7/2022 - University of Nebraska Board of Regents members listen as Mark Riley (foreground), Associate Dean for research in the college of engineering, gives a tour of Othmer Hall on Thursday, April 7, 2022. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star Lincoln, NE - 3/30/2022 - Kay, a one-month-old female giraffe, is fed Shadow Brook Farm goat milk from a bottle by giraffe keeper Jake Beiermann on Wednesday, March 30, 2022, at Lincoln Children's Zoo. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star A field is darkened after a wildfire, Tuesday, April 12, 2022, near Arapahoe, Neb. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star Josh Vinson Jr., 5, winner of the first Josh Fight, sports a crown in his hair done by his dad, Josh Sr., on Monday, April 18, 2022, at Culture Cutz. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star Seven Native lodges stand on land that was approved for development on the west side of Wilderness Park in protest of the development.  Juju Tyner (center, in green) holds a sign in support of Roe vs. Wade as she joined others in a pro-abortion rights rally on Tuesday, May 3, 2022, on the north steps of the Capitol.  Lincoln East's Elijah Jobst (8) blocks a shot by Lincoln Southwest's Lane Kruse (16) during a Class A boys state soccer first-round match Tuesday, May 10, 2022, at Morrison Stadium in Omaha. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star Lincoln Southeast's Lilly Talley (left) and doubles partner Lily Rippeteau celebrate a point in the No. 2 doubles finals of the Heartland Athletic Conference Tournament on Wednesday, May 11, 2022, at Woods Tennis Center. GWYNETH ROBERTS, Journal Star Dee and Ronald Baddorf (from left) scratch Lucy, their mini-pig, Tuesday, May 10, 2022. The Baddorfs are hoping the Lincoln City Council will approve a waiver so they can keep Lucy at their Lincoln home. JUSTIN WAN, Journal Star Nebraska state Sen. Julie Slama hugs a campaign volunteer after a press conference hosted by Citizens for Voter ID at the Capitol on Thursday. Citizens for Voter ID submitted petitions to the secretary of state to add a voter ID requirement to the state constitution. Teri King (left) and Tom Dorshorst dance during The Zoo Bar's ZooFest music festival July 8, 2022. Skaters wait for results of the creative solo competition Saturday at the USA Roller Sports Roller Figure Skating Indoor National Championships at Speedway Sports Complex. LINCOLN, NEB. - 07/31/2022 - Fair attendees find shade under a carnival ride during the Lancaster County Super Fair, Sunday, July 31, 2022. NOAH RIFFE, Journal Star LINCOLN, NEB. - 08/05/2022 - Kyle Martsching stands behind an art piece made by Jessica R. during a gallery show hosted by LiveYes Studios, Friday, Aug. 5, 2022. LiveYes Studios is a community arts center that supports artists with disabilities. NOAH RIFFE, Journal Star A house located at 2636 Woodscrest Avenue is demolished, Thursday, Aug. 11, 2022. The Norman Revival home, purchased last September for $1.4 million, is over 100 years old and was built for the Miller and Paine department store family. A dog shakes of water during Dog Splash at Star City Shores sponsored by the Lincoln Parks Foundation and the Greater Lincoln Obedience Club, Sunday, Aug. 14, 2022.  LINCOLN, NEB. - 08/19/2022 - Griffin Schleimer plays the trumpet during the Cornhusker Marching Band Exhibition at Memorial Stadium, Friday, Aug. 19, 2022. NOAH RIFFE, Journal Star Jesse Poore (left) and Amanda Fitzgerald (right) wash a bike during the Garmin Gravel Worlds, Saturday, Aug. 20, 2022. Gravel Worlds is one of the largest gravel bike races in the world. Lincoln North Star players celebrate after winning a softball game against Lincoln Pius X Thursday at Doris Bair Softball Complex. Lincoln North Star's Jace Coleman (14) is tackled by Lincoln Northeast on Thursday at Seacrest Field. Lincoln High prepares to walk out of the tunnel to play Omaha Northwest on Friday at Beechner Complex. Nebraska tight end Nate Boerkircher (49) fist-bumps Teddy Davison after the Huskers' win against North Dakota on Saturday at Memorial Stadium. Fans fill CHI Health Center Omaha to watch the match between Nebraska and Creighton on Wednesday. Nebraska head coach Scott Frost walks off the field after the Huskers lost to Georgia Southern on Saturday at Memorial Stadium. Scott Frost enters a truck to exit Memorial Stadium on Sunday after he was fired as Nebraska's head football coach. S-E-M's Creyton Line (left) grabs the helmet of Parkview Christian's Alex Rohrbaugh on Friday, Sept. 9, at Larry and Carol Frost Field. The marquee of the Joyo Theatre, 6102 Havelock Ave., offered a sympathetic message to Scott Frost on Monday, a day after he was fired as Nebraska's football coach. Nebraska's Malcolm Hartzog (13) and Nebraska wide receiver Ty Hahn (17) celebrate after Hartzog scooped up a blocked punt for a touchdown on Saturday at Memorial Stadium. Lincoln Pius X's Nicole Kolbas (middle) reacts after completing the 18th hole at the state girls golf tournament Tuesday at Norfolk Country Club. Kolbas shot a 36-hole 151 to win the tournament for the third consecutive year. The crowd celebrates Nebraska's 300th sellout with a card stunt during a break before the third set against Iowa on Friday at the Devaney Sports Center. The Color Guard presents the U.S. and Nebraska Flag during Lincoln Veterans Parade on Sunday. Junior Anna Metzger (left) and sophomore Sammie Frank show off their dance moves at a rehearsal of Lincoln North Star's winter musical "Jingle Arrgh the Way!" on Tuesday at North Star. Ellie Duros (right) takes second place during the Turkey Chase go-kart race Sunday at Lancaster Event Center. Nebraska head coach Matt Rhule throws a football to the gathering crowd, Monday, Nov. 28, 2022, in Lincoln. Travis Mannschreck stocks records on the opening day of his business, First Day Vinyl , Thursday, Dec. 1, 2022, First Day Vinyl Lincoln. Nebraska assistant coach Mickey Joseph walks out of Lancaster County Department of Corrections, Thursday, Dec. 1, 2022, in Lincoln. Construction workers pour and rake fresh concrete Tuesday near 12th and Judson streets. The road work is being paid for by Lincoln On The Move, a program that collected $16.8 million this year to spend on street improvements. Dorothy Applebee, who is 92 years old, uses a leaf blower to clean up leaves in her yard with the help of her son, Bob Unger (not pictured), on Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2022, at in Lincoln. As the signs of winter began to slowly show itself. As cold winds are expected to continue throughout the week, accompanied by partly cloudy weather. Lincoln East's Sam Cappos throws the shot put over 60 feet during the Boys shot put event at Beechner Athletic Complex on April 21, 2022, in Lincoln, Nebraska. Former NFL player Jack Brewer (on screen) leads a crowd of Trump and Hebrster supporters in a prayer during a Trump rally for Charles Herbster at the I-80 Speedway on May 1, 2022, in Greenwood, Nebraska.  As seen through open cable holders, avid supporters of Gubernatorial candidate Charles Herbster and former president Donald Trump cheer as Herbster takes the stage during a Trump rally for Charles Herbster at the I-80 Speedway on May 1, 2022, in Greenwood, Nebraska.  Trent Claus, a VFX supervisor and animation art collector, reminisces with some of his art and a couch for watching Saturday morning cartoons on, at the Eisentrager/Howard Gallery in Richards Hall on the UNL campus on Wednesday, June 15, 2022, in Lincoln, NE. Claus has worked on 120 feature films for his VFX work. Many will know his work with Marvel Studios. Trent has contributed to 21 of their 27 films to date. He also assists with Television shows like, The Mandalorian.  Andie Trimble (left) and Nicole Polivka (right) wear red paint stained dresses while protesting the recent Supreme Court decision during a Abortion Rights Rally held in front of the Nebraska State Capitol on Monday, July 4, 2022, in Lincoln, NE.  athletes shadows stretch along stadium wall as fans watch the 200 meter dash at Beechner Athletic Complex on April 21, 2022, in Lincoln, Nebraska. A dying ray of light catches Nebraska starting pitcher Dawson McCarville as he pitches against Omaha during the first inning at Haymarket on April 27, 2022, in Lincoln, Nebraska. Children and adults take advantage of the warm weather to cool off at the Trago Spray Park on Friday, June 10, 2022, in Lincoln, NE. A partially cloudy Friday afternoon did not stop Lincolnites from getting out an enjoying the air weather. With highs reaching the mid 80s, the mild heat and a cooling breeze made for a nice afternoon outside. Looking ahead to the following week, temperatures will reach as high as 100 fahrenheit.  Luca Yeager licks his lips after downing Kool-Aid in a quickest drinking contest, during the Kool-Aid Days Festival, at the Adams County Fair grounds, on Saturday, Aug. 20, 2022, in Hastings, NE. Thousands of “kids” of all ages gather to celebrate the invention of Kool-Aid®, Nebraska’s Official Soft Drink, by Edwin Perkins in 1927. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star Nebraska interim head coach Mickey Joseph shouts encouragements to his players during warmups before taking on Wisconsin on Saturday, Nov. 19, 2022, at Memorial Stadium. A airman walks along the wing of now retired WC-135C/W, during a retirement ceremony for the final "nuke sniffer" aircraft used by The Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth at the Lincoln Airport on Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2022, in Lincoln, NE. The WC-135 Constant Phoenix is a special-purpose aircraft derived from the Boeing C-135 Stratolifter and used by the United States Air Force. Its mission is to collect samples from the atmosphere for the purpose of detecting and identifying nuclear explosions. It is also informally referred to as the "weather bird" or "the sniffer" by workers on the program and international media respectively. The 55th Wing will retired one of it jets and welcomed its latest during a 1 p.m. ceremony at the Lincoln Airport. The Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth officially retired the WC-135C/W and officially welcomed WC-135R tail number 4836 to its fleet. Tail 4836 is the first of three WC-135R deliveries to the wing, while tail 2667 is the last of the old WC-135C/W fleet to be retired.  Ashland-Greenwood's Dane Jacobsen practices throws during warmups before their game against Aurora at the Ashland Football Field, on Friday, Sept. 9, 2022, in Ashland-Greenwood, NE.  Lincoln East's Hudson Davy races toward the finish line in the boys varsity race during the Harold Scott Invitational held at Pioneers Park on Thursday, Sept. 15, 2022, in Lincoln, NE.  Mourners gather and lay gifts and flowers on Monday at the foot of a tree on Randolph Street, at the scene of a fatal accident where six individuals died on Sunday, Oct. 2, 2022. Lincoln Lutheran's Sophie Wohlgemuth (first right) celebrates with her team after scoring a point in the first set during a Class C-2 semifinal state volleyball match on Friday, Nov. 4, 2022, at Pinnacle Bank Arena. Nebraska's Bekka Allick (left) and Nicklin Hames react after a kill by one of their teammates secures a score against Mississippi in the second set at the Devaney Sports Center on Saturday, Sept. 3, 2022, in Lincoln, NE.  Nebraska's Whitney Lauenstein celebrates after scoring a kill during the fifth set against Ohio State on Saturday, Sept. 24, 2022, at the Devaney Sports Center. The Lincoln Southeast football team burst through their banner to take the field against Lincoln North Star on Friday, Sept. 16, 2022, at Seacrest Field, in Lincoln. Elkhorn South's Kennadi Borngrebe (top left) celebrates with her teammates after throwing the final strike in the 7th inning to beat Lincoln East 10-7, on Thursday, Oct. 13, 2022, at Malcolm Public Schools in Malcolm. Runners in the Class C boys group take off on the first leg of the race during the state cross country championship on Friday, Oct. 21, 2022, at Kearney Country Club in Kearney. Illinois quarterback Tommy DeVito (far left) looks down field for an open man while pressured by the Nebraska defense in the first quarter on Saturday, Oct. 29, 2022, at Memorial Stadium. Nebraska's Garrett Nelson (bottom, first right) hands off the Heroes Trophy to fans after defeating Iowa for the first time since 2014, on Friday, Nov. 25, 2022, at Kinnick Stadium, in Iowa. Lincoln Southwest celebrates on the court after defeating No.1 ranked Millard South during a Class A girls semifinal game at Pinnacle Bank Arena on March 9, 2022, in Lincoln, Nebraska. KENNETH FERRIERA, Journal Star Matt Rhule, who was announced as Nebraska football's new head coach, is swarmed by media after an introductory press conference on Monday, Nov. 28, 2022, at the Hawks Championship Center. Rhule was introduced as the University's 31st permanent head coach, The 47-year-old, has experience coaching at both the collegiate level and the professional level. Working as a head coach for the past 10 years, seven in college programs and three season for the Carolina Panthers. Nebraska signed Rhule to an eight-year contract A farmer uses a corn combine to harvest his crop on Tuesday, Oct. 4, 2022, in Johnson, NE. Based on June 1 conditions, Nebraska's 2022 winter wheat crop is forecast at 36.9 million bushels, down 10% from last year's crop, according to the USDA's National Agricultural Statistics Service. Lincoln, NE - 09/17/2022 - Nebraska's Anthony Grant (10) hurdles Oklahoma's Kani Walker (26) and Damond Harmon (17) during the first quarter on Saturday, Sept. 17, 2022, in Lincoln at Memorial Stadium . Nebraska's C.J. Wilcher (left) and Emmanuel Bandoumel react after a foul called in the final nine seconds of the overtime period on Saturday, Dec. 10, 2022, at Pinnacle Bank Arena. Players from the Lincoln special Olympics basketball teams compete on the newly painted courts on Wednesday, Oct. 5, 2022, at the Antelope Park basketball courts in Lincoln. The Antelope Park basketball courts near the intersection of Normal Boulevard and South Street were recently repainted as a reproduction of a painting "Red Sea" by African American artist Felrath Hines. Sam Volkmer (left), Matthew Bittinger (center), and Alma Cerretta play a board game, on Thursday, Dec. 8, 2022, at Mana Games Cafe in Lincoln. Volkmer and Cerretta co-own Mana Games Cafe, a place for board game enthusiasts can gather and play together. Mana Games Cafe is located at, 701 P St. Suite 102, right across the hall from Ivana Cone. Sister Janelle Buettner speaks with Kolby Tran about his science homework Friday at North American Martyrs Catholic School.  
                Originally published on nebraskaexaminer.com, part of the BLOX Digital Content Exchange.
             Get local news delivered to your inbox! Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.