AddThis SmartLayers A boxing club has lost its fight to have a regional daily censured after the press watchdog ruled the newspaper acted appropriately to resolve a complaint. Birtley Boxing Club complained to the Independent Press Standards Organisation after the Newcastle Chronicle covered an alleged violent assault that had been “[r]eportedly filmed” at the club. Complaining under Clause 1 (Accuracy) of the Editors’ Code of Practice, the club said the alleged attack had not taken place at there, and that the police had known this since 9 May this year, three days prior to the story’s publication. Denying any breach of Code, the Chronicle said it had distinguished between comment, conjecture and fact and had made clear that the incident was “reportedly” filmed at the club, rather than making a statement of fact that this was the case. The newspaper also offered to publish a statement from the club, putting its position on record. Four days later, after the police updated the Chronicle on the location of the alleged incident, it amended the story to remove the reference to the gym and added a statement of clarification on the matter. The club did not accept the proposal as a resolution to the complaint, but IPSO concluded that the remedial measures offered by the Chronicle were satisfactory. The complaint was therefore closed, and the full resolution statement can be read here. Email [email protected] to advertise here To advertise here call 01332 895994  HoldtheFrontPage is a news and jobs website for journalists everywhere with a particular focus on the UK regional press. The site attracts around 70,000 visitors a month and has more than 18,500 followers on Twitter. HTFP carries all the latest news about UK journalism and our news archive of more than 26,000 stories comprises a unique online record of the UK regional newspaper industry since the site was first launched in February 2000. Our jobs board HTFPJobs contains all the latest journalism jobs searchable by region, category and sector. Job adverts start at £175 + VAT for one week with discounts available for longer periods and block bookings. HTFP contains a wealth of information about the UK regional press including a comprehensive directory of daily and weekly newspapers and websites and a series of other features designed to help journalists in their work.