As a coffee lover, I confess to being adventurous in my brew choices. Instant coffee, whole beans, coffee bags, drip coffee, pods – I have tried them all. On top of café hopping, I love making coffee at home too. What prompted me to purchase my first Original Nespresso machine when I shifted into my first home, was that I had not tasted a good cuppa for years. This was especially evident as more old-school hawkers are retiring. Of course, I did the Maths too. One cup of coffee starts at S$1.40 (usually) for a kopi-C kosong at hawker centres, and even more at the local cafes. Don't even mention the cost of a cup of coffee at coffee chains, which starts from S$5.50 – and guess what – many are not even up to my standard! Each Nespresso capsule starts from S$0.80. Now, do the mental calculation for the number of cups per year. That's real savings! If you're looking for a proper coffee machine at home, look no further than Nespresso. Over the years, I have owned a couple of Nespresso's Original machines and now the Vertuo Next machine that uses Centrifusion technology for the ideal brew per cup. Now's your chance to get them at 41% off! Nespresso's Black Friday Sale Whether you are looking to upgrade your coffee machine at home, buying it as a gift or replenishing your capsules, you should not miss the enticing deals for machine hampers, Nespresso cups and capsule dispensers. Capsules are available in both Original and Vertuo. Don't miss out! Whether you are Team Original or Team Vertuo, there are massive savings for all Nespresso fans. Read on for the review of the Nespresso Vertuo Next below. I was sold when I took my first sip of the brew from the new Nespresso Vertuo Next machine. And to be unbiased, I tried as many Vertuo flavours as I could before this review – at least eight flavours (not all in a day, of course). What I found was that the Nespresso Vertuo flavours deliver consistently. Let’s get the dimensions out of the way. Measuring 14.2cm x 42.9cm x 31.4cm, the Vertuo Next is not exactly compact. But when you use the machine every day, why not carve out a space in your living room and let its sleek appearance be the centrepiece and talking point when guests come? Verdict: 4.5/5 The expanded Vertuo coffee menu offers 30 blends to suit every taste. An entire month of different flavours before the next rotation. A boon for someone like me who loves variety. There's something for everyone in the family. Verdict: 5/5 Let's explore Nespresso's R&D efforts. Nespresso is known for its crema­ – you know that dense, hazelnut-coloured foam layer that “actually helps liberate the more delicate aromas of a coffee”…and “functions as a seal to keep the aromas in the cup”. The Nespresso team deeply considers the presentation, perception, and aroma before you even take a sip out of your brew. Having tried a number of the Vertuo capsules, I can attest to its consistency in terms of crema, aroma, and barista-style quality – even better than many coffees out there, I dare say. Verdict: 5/5 With their complicated functions, some smart gadgets make us want to tear our hair out. But the Nespresso Vertuo Next takes coffee-making to a new level of simplicity using technology. Here’s a breakdown of the steps to brew your own barista-level coffee: Step 1: Fill up water tank. Step 2: Press button to heat the machine (wait 5 seconds). Step 3: Open lid, pop in Vertuo capsule, lock and press button again. Viola, your barista-level coffee is ready in a mere 25 seconds. Fast operation indeed! Verdict: 4.5/5 First and foremost, know that Nespresso’s Vertuo line uses spaceship-looking pods – vastly different from its original line. Take a closer look at each capsule; you will notice a barcode imprinted on it. The barcode relays the message of your desired coffee type to the machine via the centrifusion extraction technology. The device truly does all the work for you. So take your pick from Espresso (40ml), Double Espresso (80ml), Gran Lungo (150ml), Mug (230ml), Alto (414ml), and craft brew (535ml). Starting at only 80 cents per capsule, I would say that a great start to the day is a worthy investment. This comment comes from experimenting with other Nespresso-compatible pods. I may be biased, but the Vertuo Next machine hits the right notes (pun intended) for my taste preference. Verdict: 5/5 Cleaning? What cleaning? What I love about the Vertuo machine is that it leaves no drip and stains on your table. The only thing you need to do when it comes to maintenance is empty the pods (up to 6-10), drain out the water from the drip tray, and do a fuss-free wipe-down that takes seconds to complete. To be honest, I don't even do this every day. Verdict: 5/5 This smart machine is Bluetooth- and WiFi-enabled via an app. What’s so great about it? It saves you the hassle of monitoring your water level, descaling schedule and also performs software updates. It is also the same app that you use to order your capsules. So no extra storage space in your smartphone is required. Verdict: 5/5 Did you know that Nespresso has pledged to be fully carbon neutral by 2022? Nespresso has been a strong advocate in terms of its carbon footprint, and with the Vertuo Next machines, you can see that they are in this every step of the way – from its pods, machines and even packaging. It is no secret that coffee pods aren't exactly the most eco-friendly products. However, Nespresso stands by using them because they keep the coffee fresh. Most of us know that Nespresso has taken on an active role in recycling its pods into compost and functional products such as coasters and even bicycles. The Vertuo Next capsules go a step further: It is made from 80 per cent recycled aluminium and is infinitely recyclable. All that’s required from you is to store your used pods in the resealable bag provided with each purchase, ‘dump’ the used pods at any Nespresso boutiques or pass it to the delivery man with your next online purchase. But what about the machine itself, you ask? The Vertuo machines are made from 54% recycled plastic. You will be happy to know that it comes in 99.5 per cent recyclable packaging using moulded paper (instead of styrofoam), a paper handle​, and recycled paper to protect the machine from scratches during deliveries. And it doesn’t stop there. The new Vertuo Next technology has a short heat-up time with a two-minute auto shut-off energy-saving mode. Ideal for someone like me who keeps forgetting to switch off the machine after use. As a carbon-conscious consumer myself, knowing that I'm not adding any unnecessary waste to the world feels good. Verdict: 5/5 As part of Nespresso’s local recycling programme, One Pod At A Time, you stand to win limited-edition second-life coasters (made from 45 recycled Nespresso capsules) in a monthly lucky draw.​ Check out this page for details. Available in teal, grey, cherry red and rich brown. Enjoy an additional S$30 off* your coffee machine with 50 capsules purchase.​ While stocks last. Get it today! Nam Nguyen’s 10-day campaign of abuse was ‘some of the worst offending’ Met detectives dealing with the case had ever seen Beijing is “convinced that America is seeking to contain it and suppress its rise,” PM Lawrence Wong argued on Sunday. Pahang Crown Prince Tengku Hassanal Ibrahim Alam Shah says Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin’s remarks could openly incite the public to lose faith in the institution of Malay Rulers, and divide the people. Unsurprisingly, the Russian ally is not happy. The post Incredible Roasted Meat: “I would travel here just for these succulent Roasted Wings” appeared first on SETHLUI.com. The singer-dancer wore her most naked look for a daring cover with Perfect Magazine featuring a make-shift bikini bottoms and no top... ‘We were super unprepared for the experience,’ Margaret Bienert said in a TikTok "We joked that it wasn't April 1st," a Ukrainian soldier identified only by his first name, Serhiy, told The Economist. On a cold night in January, Akanksha Mehta*’s phone pinged with a text message that would change her life. Singapore’s Prime Minister Lawrence Wong dishes fresh handouts in first major speech. Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process Ex-president quickly broke away from prepared speech to accuse vice-president of being a communist and a fascist All the latest updates, gossip, rumours and deals from the summer transfer window "Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward," Harris said to a crowd in Rochester, Pennsylvania. A moment of shock for the passengers of an Airbus A320 in Sorong, Indonesia: The tarmac 'exploded' when the 'Pelita Air' plane landed. According to the authorities, the pavement had to be repeatedly repaired due to persistent rainfall. Vice President Kamala Harris’ ascent to the top of the Democratic ticket has dramatically reshaped the 2024 electoral map since earlier this year, when the contest looked to be between an unpopular and elderly incumbent president and the former president (and now convicted felon) he defeated four years prior. The post 15 best “clucking good” chicken rice stalls in Singapore [2024] appeared first on SETHLUI.com. Meanwhile Vladimir Putin’s forces launch ballistic missile attack on Kyiv Paetongtarn Shinawatra, daughter of the divisive former leader Thaksin Shinawatra, became Thailand's prime minister after receiving a royal letter of endorsement Sunday, two days after she was chosen by Parliament following a court order that removed her predecessor.  Paetongtarn is the third Shinawatra to hold the job, after her billionaire father and her aunt Yingluck Shinawatra.  Both were removed from office and forced into exile in coups, although Thaksin returned to Thailand last year as Pheu Thai formed a government. A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend