If you made a resolution to become thinner and more physically fit this year, a smart scale can help you follow through on that promise. Proper diet and exercise are, of course, keys to success—but smart scales make it easy to collect, track and understand what’s happening with your body over time. In fact, using one of the best smart scales can make it easier to achieve your health and fitness goals faster and more efficiently. The Withings Body Smart is one of several of the best smart scales we recommend to track your weight ... [+] and body stats. Smart scales—models that use Bluetooth or Wi-Fi to sync with your smartphone or the internet—can help you in a myriad of ways. A scale like the Withings Body+ (our pick for Best Smart Scale Overall), automatically tracks statistics like weight, body mass index and a handful of other body metrics with the goal of helping you stay aware of your overall health and fitness level—even if you’re not especially tech-savvy. There are a lot of choices and for the most part, they all tend to look alike. Most have a sleek and modern glass top framing an easy-to-read digital display. A few scales up the ante by displaying all sorts of metrics when you stand on them, although most transfer data wirelessly to your smartphone so you can read all that info at your leisure, often with helpful charts and graphics. You can spend as little as $30 for a budget smart scale, or north of $150 for a scale that tracks more than a dozen body metrics and has helpful features to keep you focused on health and fitness. We’ve rounded up six of the best smart scales, any of which will make a great addition to your bathroom. Best Buy Dimensions: 12.8 x 12.8 x 0.9 inches | Connectivity: Bluetooth, Wi-Fi | Number of users: 8 | Accuracy: Within 0.2 pounds Best For: Use as a general purpose health and fitness scale for families. The Withings Body+ strikes just the right balance between design, price and functionality, which is why it’s our pick for the best overall smart scale. Capturing a wide selection of body metrics—including muscle mass, bone mass, hydration, fat mass, BMI and more—Withings clearly goes all-in on measuring your health and fitness data. It synchronizes with smartphone apps, like Apple Fitness (iOS), Google Fit (Android) and Fitbit (iOS/Android), as well as the Apple Watch to aggregate a wealth of health data in one convenient place. It’s also extremely accurate, measuring up to 396.8 pounds in 3.5-ounce increments.  The Body+ has a few nice touches that not many other scales offer. If you use a compatible fitness tracker, for example, it summarizes yesterday's step count. And thanks to the built-in Wi-Fi, it even displays your local weather forecast. You probably don’t need that in a bathroom scale, but it’s a clever addition, especially if you weigh yourself before choosing what to wear that day. It automatically recognizes up to eight users and has a few special modes—a pregnancy mode with obstetrician-reviewed wellness advice, a baby mode to accurately weigh your newborn and an athlete mode that offers enhanced weight tracking.  Pros: Cons: Amazon Dimensions: 11 x 11 x 0.9 inches | Connectivity: Bluetooth, Wi-Fi | Max user weight: 400 pounds | Number of users: Unlimited | Accuracy: Within 0.2 pounds Best For: Measuring 16 body metrics and tracking progress over time. Eufy’s Smart Scale P2 Pro is packed with features. It tracks 16 measurements, including weight, body fat, heart rate, BMI, bone mass, muscle mass and more. And it’s Bluetooth-compatible with all the important mobile apps—Apple Health, Google Git and Fitbit—so you can get a lot out of this scale no matter which health and fitness platform you are most comfortable using with your smartphone. It’s also good for the whole family, no matter how many people pass through your bathroom. Thus, it’s usable by some sports teams and other groups which are larger than the typical family. One of the most useful features is that the smartphone (when used with the EufyLife app) generates a 3D virtual representation of your body, so you can graphically see your progress and troubled areas as you view a detailed full body report. It works with both Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and can be used to accurately weigh babies and pets too. Pros: Cons: Amazon Dimensions: 12.8 x 12.8 x 0.7 inches | Connectivity: Wi-Fi, Bluetooth | Max user weight: 397 pounds | Number of users: 8 | Accuracy: Within 0.2 pounds Best For: Getting a 30 second cardiovascular checkup in addition to tracking weight and other body composition measurements. If you’re concerned about your heart health and how it impacts your weight and ability to perform physical activities, this is the smart scale you need. When you step on this scale, in about 30 seconds, it performs a cardiovascular checkup, in addition to measuring your body weight. The scale also tracks body composition measurements, such as body fat, muscle mass and bone mass. One of the additional measurements it captures is your vascular age—an accurate indication of heart health,  The Withings Body Cardio Heart Health And Body Composition Smart Scale works with a specialized app to display your trends and assist you in reaching your health and fitness goals. It’s also compatible with other health and fitness apps, including Apple Health, Google Fit, MyFitnessPal and LoseIt. Pros: Cons: Amazon Dimensions: 13.5 x 13.2 x 2 inches | Connectivity: Bluetooth | Max user weight: 400 pounds | Number of users: Unlimited | Accuracy: Within 0.2 pounds Best For: Athlete Mode is great for fitness-minded people over the age of 18. Featuring a large, full-color display, this smart scale not only displays your weight, it also collects a vast amount of data that it shares with all of the poplar health and fitness apps available for the iPhone and Android-based smartphones—including Apple Health, Google Fit, Samsung Health and Fitbit. Just some of the 15 things it tracks include: heart rate, BMI, body fat, subcutaneous fat, body water, protein, BMR, and body age. The scale is equipped with four highly accurate sensors and four BIA electrodes. It also works with an unlimited number of users, including babies. Pros: Cons: Amazon Dimensions: 11.8 x 11.8 x 1 inches | Connectivity: Bluetooth | Max user weight: 400 pounds | Number of users: Multiple  Best For: Fitbit users with basic weight measuring needs. If you want a smart bathroom scale that seamlessly integrates with your Fitbit app, it only makes sense that you’d consider the Aria Air from Fitbit. And on that note, it does the basics and it does them reliably; the Aria measures your weight and synchronizes it with your Fitbit app. And you’re in luck if you have a large family, because Fitbit doesn’t limit how many people can use the scale.  While this smart scale displays your current weight and BMI on its display, it simultaneously collects this data and transmits it in real-time to your smartphone via Bluetooth. The Fitbit app then tracks your personal stats and trends. The scale also works seamlessly with Fitbit smartwatches and trackers to help you track exercise, set goals, log food and measure hydration, for example. The biggest drawback is that this scale does not collect data on 15+ different body-related metrics, like so many other smart scales. Its functionality is much more limited. Pros: Cons: Amazon Dimensions: 12 x 12 x 1 inches | Connectivity: Bluetooth | Max user weight: 400 pounds | Number of users: 8  Best For: Measuring, tracking and analyzing 12 popular body metrics This easy-to-use smart scale uses an LED to display your weight, but at the same time measures and collects data pertaining to 12 essential metrics, like BMI, Body Fat Percentage, Heart Rate, Bone Mass and Muscle Mass. This data is immediately transmitted to your smartphone.  In addition to the proprietary Wyze app, it works seamlessly with Apple Health, Google Fit, Fitbit and other popular health and fitness apps on both the iPhone and Android-based smartphones. It works with up to eight users. Priced at just $31 on Amazon, this is one of the best deals we’ve found for a versatile smart scale. It can be used by household members and athletes alike. The slightly more expensive Wyze Smart Scale X ($40 on Amazon) incorporates specialized functionality to also weigh babies, pets and your luggage before a flight. Pros: Cons: Amazon Dimensions: 12.8 x 12.8 x 4.4 inches | Connectivity: Bluetooth, Wi-Fi | Max user weight: 396 pounds | Number of users: 8  Best For: Tracking your weight and BMI This smart scale is designed to measure and track just your weight and BMI. It automatically syncs with your smartphone and shares data with the a proprietary app. Because the scale supports Wi-Fi, you smartphone does not need to be in close proximity with your scale in order to receive the data. In addition, the Withings Body Weight And BMI Wi-Fi Smart Scale offers a Pregnancy mode and Baby mode, plus displays local weather forecasts on the scale’s display. If you use a compatible step tracker, the scale also displays your total step count for the previous day. Pros: Cons: Amazon Dimensions: 12.6 x 12.6 x 0.8 inches | Connectivity: Bluetooth| Max user weight: 396 pounds | Number of users: 8 | Accuracy: Within 0.1 pounds Best For: Families and athletes who want to monitor 12 body metrics. In addition to looking elegant, the QardioBase X smart scale measures 12 important fitness indicators and then transmits the data to your iPhone or Android-based smartphone via Bluetooth for analysis and tracking.  In addition to your weight, the scale calculates BMI and tracks changes in your body composition (muscle mass, body fat percentage, body water, bone mass, metabolic age and more). It works for up to eight users in conjunction with the Qardio app, Apple Health, Samsung Health, Google Fit or My FitnessPal app. Between the analysis, goal tracking and reminders incorporated into the scale and Qardio app, you’re kept informed and accountable throughout your fitness journey. The built in Athlete Mode informs the scale to lower fat mass measurements and increase muscle mass measurement values to better match the body composition of an athlete to allow for more accurate feedback.  Pros: Cons: By combining hands-on testing with extensive research, we compiled this roundup of what we believe to be the best smart scales currently on the market. We compared the quality of each scale’s components with what each measures, its price, connectivity and what mobile app features are offered. Based on your health, fitness and weight goals, choose a scale that measures and collects the data you want and need to make educated decisions and insightful analysis of your body’s overall composition. Here are key components to look for when shopping for a smart scale. Some of the most basic and affordable smart scales will measure just your weight and perhaps your BMI. For just a few dollars more, you’ll easily find a selection of smart scales that’ll measure 15 or more important metrics—from muscle mass and body fat, to water composition, bone mass and heart rate. Choose a scale that collects the raw data that you want and need, so that the right information can be transferred to your smartphone for proper analysis to help you achieve your personal health and fitness goals—without overloading you with irrelevant data. Most smart scales measure less than 12 x 12 x 1 inch (or less), but this does vary. Choose a scale that’ll fit nicely within your bathroom and that works on either a flat (tile) surface or on carpet, depending on your needs. Of course, you also want the scale to easily fit in with your bathroom decor, yet remain easily accessible. While typical smart scales are not waterproof, most are water resistant. You can spend less than $30 for a basic smart scale that communicates wirelessly with your smartphone. However, you can just as easily invest upwards of $150 for a smart scale that collects a vast amount of data with greater accuracy and that works with up to eight (or more) family members. The typical smart scale uses Bluetooth to communicate wireless with a smartphone (either an iPhone or Android-based device) that’s located less than 30 feet from the scale. However, some more advanced smart scales connect to your home’s Wi-Fi to transmit the data it collects via the Internet and when necessary, access information from the web as well. All of the smart scales we looked at for this roundup comes with access to its own (free) mobile app that works with an iPhone or Android-based smartphone. However, most of them also work with popular health and fitness apps, like Apple Health, Google Fit, Samsung Health and Fitbit. Based on equipment and apps you’re already using, make sure the smart scale you choose is able to export the data it collects to the appropriate app. This all depends on your budget and what “smart” functionality you’re looking for. We chose the Withings Body+ as our pick for Best Smart Scale Overall, because it’s a well made scale that offers an impressive combination of features and functions at an affordable price. However, analyze your personal needs to determine which smart scale is right for you. A traditional scale measures and displays your weight. A smart scale, however, collects this information and transfers it wirelessly to your smartphone, while also collecting other important data to help you analyze your body’s current condition, based on metrics like BMI, muscle mass, water composition, bone mass and metabolic age. All of this data is collected and transferred to a specialized mobile app for analysis. The app then provides real-time insight that’s easy to understand and track over time. A basic bathroom scale will measure just a person’s weight and display it on the scale itself. A smart scale, however, will measure someone’s weight, display it, but also transfer the raw data to a smartphone for tracking and real-time analysis. In addition, the same smart scale will collect data pertaining to between 10 and 15 additional metrics to provide a more robust outlook on your health and fitness level—while tracking your progress over time. The best smart scales are easy to operate and work seamlessly with your smartphone (and potentially your smartwatch). They're also more affordable and more accurate than ever before.  