The best smart scales from Eufy, Withings, Garmin and more 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
  1. The list in brief
2. Best overall
3. Best value
4. Best premium
5. Best for fitness
6. Best for added features
7. Best budget
8. Best Garmin
9. How to choose
10. How we test The best smart scales make for a comprehensive overview of your health, whether you're hoping to gain weight, lose weight, or just stay at a healthy ratio of fat to muscle. They're useful for pregnancy, medical conditions, serious fitness enthusiasts, and everyone in between.  In contrast to your standard analog scales, smart scales are clever pieces of tech that can give you insights into your muscle mass, fat percentage and even the weight of a baby or pet, as well as basic stats like overall body weight. This is all done by biometric impedance analysis (BIA), which involves sending a small electrical current through to different body parts. From there, the smart scales use data from the speed of each current to differentiate between the readings.  It’s very easy to learn how to use a smart scale. Most of them give you your stats simply by you stepping on them, once you've set them up. Most can connect to an app, via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth, and add your measurements to ecosystems like Fitbit, Google Health Connect, or Garmin Connect automatically. You can even set up different family member profiles, to make sure everyone has the correct weight and height inputs.  We’ve put the latest smart scales from Garmin, Withings, Eufy and more through their paces, testing how easy they are to use, if their readings are consistent, how they sync with their apps, and to see if they present us with a clear picture of our health. If you don’t have time to read our full list of the best smart scales below, then you can read the round-up below for a shortcut to the top options. If you find one that takes your fancy, use the links to jump to our full write-up. Best overall  Best overall Our top pick because these scales are easy to set-up and deliver accurate data to your phone. Choose to see just your weight or all kinds of other metrics. Read more below Best value  Best value Small and simple to set-up, these smart scales are much cheaper than rivals making them our best choice if you’re looking for good value above all else. Read more below Best premium  Best premium Our premium pick, because the Withings Body Scan packed full of features for tracking your health, painting a comprehensive picture of your body composition thanks to integration with many other apps and services. Read more below Best for fitness  Best for fitness Our top pick for fitness, which provides an indication of your overall cardiovascular health, helping you to take action to improve it as well. Read more below Best for added features  Best for added features The most feature-packed pick in our list, these scales measure 16 metrics – including resting heart rate and body age – for different members of your household.  Read more below Best budget  Best budget Our budget pick because these scales aren’t perfect, but they’re a solid choice, measure 13 metrics and have a nice design that we rate. No longer a US exclusive! Read more below Why you can trust TechRadar 


We spend hours testing every product or service we review, so you can be sure you’re buying the best. Find out more about how we test. Below you'll find full write-ups for each of the best smart scales in our list. We've tested each one extensively, so you can be sure that our recommendations can be trusted.  Our expert review: The Xiaomi Mi Body Composition Scale 2 takes our number one place as the best smart scale you can buy today. Not only is it a breeze to set up, it also delivers accurate and consistent body composition data that you can track easily in the Mi Fit smartphone app. The design is sleek and minimalist, the display (which only appears when the scale is in use) is bright and easy to read while standing up, and the non-slip glass platform feels sturdy and stable underfoot. In our tests, we were particularly impressed by the simplicity of the whole process. If you only want to see your weight then no setup is required at all, but the scale allows up to six people to keep profiles with comprehensive stats including fat and muscle mass, BMI, and even estimated basal metabolic rate. Your weight and body composition stats will sync with Google Fit, Apple Health and Samsung Health automatically, and if you own a Xiaomi fitness tracker like the Mi Smart Band 6, it's even easier to recommend, as all your health and wellbeing data will be gathered together in one place. Read our full Xiaomi Mi Body Composition Scale 2 review  Our expert review: The Eufy Smart Scale C1 is refreshingly fast and easy to set up. Just install the app, enter your name, height and gender, and you're ready to step aboard and start weighing. It takes mere seconds, and the scale can track up to 16 users (it will identify each person according to their weight and body stats). Weight and body composition data was in line with that recorded by professional scales at our gym, and results were consistent across multiple weigh-ins. There's no Wi-Fi connectivity, which means you'll need to have your phone within Bluetooth range in order to sync your data, but that's not a serious hardship – particularly since the scale can store up to 100 readings between syncs if it's out of range. This is one of the smallest scales we've tested, with a platform measuring 28 x 28cm. That makes it handy for small bathrooms where storage space is at a premium, but if you sometimes struggle with balance then you might find one of the many Withings Body smart scales a better choice. Read our full Eufy Smart Scale C1 review  Our expert review: The Withings Body Scan smart scales has all the basic features and more, showing you simple metrics such as basal metabolic rate, your vascular age, or more esoteric info such as pulse wave velocity. Though it comes with an eye-widening price tag, it's a fantastic model if you want to take a deep dive into your body stats, and ideal for families with space of up to eight profiles. One of the most impressive features of the Withings Body Scan smart scales is its segmental body composition analysis, stretching across six separate areas including muscle mass and water mass.  But it's the accompanying Withings Health Mate app that takes the smart scales to the next level. When set up, the app does more than show your stats, providing guides that explain what your measurements mean if you're unsure. In addition to reading your measurements, the app will take your stats to identify changes and keep you updated on which direction your health journey is going.  Aside from its complex features and in-depth analyses, the scales are very simple to use and show you everything you want to know on the display screen during casual weigh-ins. They also adopt a slick and modern design, with a useful handle that acts as a wall mount.  Read our full Withings Body Scan review  Our expert review: The Withings Body Cardio is the company's most advanced smart scale. Not only does it give an accurate measurement of your weight, muscle mass, body fat and so on, it can also provide an indication of your overall cardiovascular health, and help you take action to improve it. The scale can measure both standing heart rate and pulse wave velocity. A lower heart rate is generally a sign of better fitness, while pulse wave velocity indicates how flexible your arteries are. Stiffer arteries mean your heart has to work harder to pump blood around your body. If that sounds confusing, don't worry – it's all clearly explained when your data is synced with the Withings Health Mate app (via either Bluetooth or Wi-Fi). together with practical advice to help you improve your readings. This isn't a scale you'll want to be carrying often (it's much heavier than the others in this listing), but its two-layer design with no feet means it can be used on any type of floor. That's a real win if you want to weigh yourself in a carpeted bedroom – electric scales are usually only suitable for hard floors,  This is a premium scale, and has a price tag to match, but if you're interested in making long-term changes and improving your fitness rather than just losing weight, it could be well worth the investment. Read our full Withings Body Cardio review  Our expert review: Eufy's Smart Scale P2 Pro is a feature-rich full-body monitoring system that can measure 16 different metrics for multiple members of your household, including pets and babies. But this smart measuring device can do more than just measure weight and body fat – the P2 Pro can also measure resting heart rate, protein percentage and body age, among other things. But wait, there is more! Via the EufyLife app, you can also log your food intake – just like in MyFitnessPal – and set goals, create weekly/monthly reports, check daily/weekly/monthly/yearly trends and more. Needless to say, the more you use the scale, the better, as frequent measurements will help the app and the scale build a more accurate picture of your body. Sadly, not all measurements are accurate, especially fat calculations. During our testing, both visceral and subcutaneous fat levels were reported as high, despite the overall body fat level being in the normal range. Even more strangely, this overall fat level was also much higher than expected; our reviewer had a DEXA scan done and been given a fat score of 12% three months prior to testing the Eufy P2 Pro, yet the scale said he had 21% body fat – and that's without any visible changes in physique. Resting heart rate and, therefore, basal metabolic rate (BMR) measurements also seem off. Nevertheless, we enjoyed using the Eufy P2 Pro, and considering the low price, it's easy to look past the scale's flaws and appreciate its many useful features. The P2 Pro might not be the best smart scale on the market, but it's worth the money – not to mention, it syncs with third-party apps such as Apple Health, Google Fit and even Fitbit. Read our full Eufy P2 Pro review  Our expert review: The Wyze Scale X is a solid budget alternative to some of the other smart scales in this list. With 13 different metrics (body fat, muscle mass, body water, lean body mass, bone mass, protein, visceral fat, BMR, metabolic age, muscle mass percentage, and pulse checker) it's a pretty comprehensive package, along with modes for pregnancy, babies and pets. It's a swish-looking machine, and definitely worth the money its retailing for. However, there's a couple of small design issues here that stop it from being a must-buy. For one thing, the in-app presentation of these metrics can get a bit confusing. There's only a couple of ways the information is presented, and most of these use a green sliding scale without offering too much information about your results. Are they good? Bad? Average for your sex, height and weight? Sometimes, it's hard to tell, especially with the more esoteric metrics.  Nevertheless, it's a good, solid smart scale for the price, effectively telling you your weight, body composition, body fat percentage and loads more. Well worth picking up if you're after a budget smart scale.  Read our full Wyze Scale X review  Our expert review: The Garmin Index S2 is another Wi-Fi-enabled body composition smart scale, that delivers accurate, consistent results. Its screen is particularly high resolution, which allows you to see detailed graphs of your weight over time. Data from the scale syncs with the Garmin Connect app, which you'll already be familiar with if you own one of the company's running watches or fitness trackers, allowing you to see all your health data in one convenient place. Garmin Connect also synchronizes with a bevy of third-party fitness and diet apps, including MyFitnessPal, Nike+ and Noom to name just a few, so you don't have to enter data from your weigh-ins manually. We'd appreciate a little more context around each of the metrics shown in the app (for example, it would be helpful to know whether your muscle mass is normal for your age and gender, and how close it is to the boundaries) but this is nevertheless a great smart scale if your budget will stretch to it. Read our full Garmin Index S2 review The top smart scale for your needs is likely going to be the one that suits your lifestyle. Firstly, there are budget considerations to be made. However, most of the scales on this list can be picked up fairly cheaply, at least compared to other pieces of smart technology.  If you’re just looking for a simple body composition-measuring device that doesn’t cost the earth, you may want to check out the uncomplicated, relatively affordable Eufy Smart Scale C1 or Eufy P2 Pro, as both are very comprehensive and offer you great value for the price.  It’s also worth considering the tech you already own and factoring that into the decision you make. For example, if you’re already heavily invested in the Fitbit economy (i.e. you own one of our best Fitbits and you subscribe to Premium), you may want to pick up one of Fitbit’s Aria-branded scales, which can
upload your data automatically to your Fitbit app. On the other hand, if you already own one of our best Garmin watch picks, the Garmin Index S2 might be the only scale that makes sense for you, as it interfaces in a similar fashion with the Garmin Connect network.  Finally, you obviously want something that looks nice if you're going to be leaving it out to step on every day. Most of the above scales look sleek with their glass platforms, but some can be found in multiple colorways. All are pretty slender, so if you can't find one that fits your vibe, you can always tuck it in a cupboard out of the way when guests are over.  Measuring your weight can have a positive impact on your weight loss efforts. One study published in the Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics found a daily weighing habit improved overall weight loss in overweight participants. Smart scales can take these measurements and automatically upload it to an app, so you can better keep track of your progress. Whether you're trying to build muscle, lose fat or simply stay a healthy weight, smart scales are a powerful tool. However, for some people, weighing themselves too often can create a challenging relationship with their bodies, especially those who are just beginning a weight management journey. It could potentially lead to unhealthy habits and disordered behavior, so if you see the signs that you're weighing yourself compulsively or too often, don't be afraid to take a break from the scale.  Likewise, if you do have issues around your weight or numbers on a scale are particularly triggering for you, a smart scale may not be the best option to keep you healthy.   As you can see in the entries above, we test each smart scale comprehensively. We look at the design of the scale, and that’s not just about looks: we check out whether it’s difficult or easy to set up, how complicated it is to operate, and the design of the companion app if it has one.  We also examine its features, such as what metrics the scale gives you, how many of these are useful, and if the scale requires batteries to be replaced rather than recharged. Finally, we look at its performance, checking its accuracy against its competitors. Check out our how we test page for more. Sign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more. Matt is TechRadar's expert on all things fitness, wellness and wearable tech. A former staffer at Men's Health, he holds a Master's Degree in journalism from Cardiff and has written for brands like Runner's World, Women's Health, Men's Fitness, LiveScience and Fit&Well on everything fitness tech, exercise, nutrition and mental wellbeing.  Matt's a keen runner, ex-kickboxer, not averse to the odd yoga flow, and insists everyone should stretch every morning. When he’s not training or writing about health and fitness, he can be found reading doorstop-thick fantasy books with lots of fictional maps in them. Best Buy Labor Day sale starts now with a huge Tech Fest event – shop the 27 top deals 'It Ends with Us' on streaming: when might it get a Netflix release? New DJI Neo leak suggests it could be the most beginner-friendly drone ever TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 