Comment Sensor Tower, a prominent market intelligence firm for the app economy, this week laid off a notable portion of its workforce, estimated at around 40 people out of the 270+ at the company, according to LinkedIn’s headcount. The layoffs included C-suite executives, TechCrunch has learned from multiple sources, including the CMO, CFO and more. Other teams impacted include finance and nearly all of marketing, we’re hearing. The company held an all-hands meeting to address the changes, which may still be underway as part of a larger reorg of Sensor Tower’s corporate structure. Sensor Tower confirmed the layoffs, but not the particulars, noting it would issue a fuller release next week. “Earlier this week, Sensor Tower’s management team took necessary steps to reorganize and right-size our business under a talented and experienced senior leadership team,” said Melissa Sheer, a publicist for Sensor Tower, in an emailed statement provided to TechCrunch. “We are excited about these changes as we position the company for a balance of continued growth and best-in-class profitability. We will provide more details in the coming days,” she said. A popular provider of third-party data and insights for app developers, brands, marketers and publishers, Sensor Tower has grown its headcount over the years following its $45 million investment in 2020 from Riverwood Capital. The firm at the time cited 350 enterprise-level customers, such as Morgan Stanley, Zynga and Tencent. But Sensor Tower was still a small team then — just 75 employees — only a bit larger than the number of employees laid off this week. Sensor Tower grew again in 2021 with its acquisition of market intelligence company Pathmatics, which allowed it to offer an expanded set of digital and mobile advertising insights. The deal included an undisclosed growth investment from Riverwood Capital into Pathmatics. The company had then claimed it chose to raise more funds to further grow its business with investments in hiring, marketing and infrastructure, but noted it had been profitable since its launch. Today, Sensor Tower’s website touts its use by top brands, firms and marketers, like Dyson, L’Oréal, Target, Johnson & Johnson, Welch’s, Petco, Chanel, Revolut, Getir, Warner Bros., Hershey, Wieden + Kennedy, ByteDance, Activision Blizzard, Allstate, Apple, Purina, Pepsico, Nike and more. Its data is regularly cited by top publications, including The Wall Street Journal, Fortune, CNBC, The New York Times, Bloomberg and others, including TechCrunch. Unfortunately, 2023 has been a tough year for layoffs, which have ranged from big names in tech like Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Yahoo, Meta, Zoom, Roku, Spotify and Shopify, to smaller startups across all sectors, including crypto, SaaS, enterprise, consumer and more. Update, 11/22/23, 3:30PM ET: Sensor Tower tells us the CPO was not impacted by the layoffs. We have removed the reference.  Sarah Perez is available at sarahp@techcrunch.com or on Signal at (415) 234-3994. Sensor Tower makes its first acquisition with deal for market intelligence company, Pathmatics  Sensor Tower raises $45M as demand for app data grows    Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP