Comment Reddit community moderators made a bold move earlier this month that caused quite a stir online. They took a stand against the platform’s decision to charge certain developers for access to its valuable data, which many found controversial. The fallout was evident as users retreated and started to ignore the platform — popularly known as the “front page of the internet.” On June 12, moderators responsible for managing thousands of subreddits (communities on the platform) protested against Reddit’s decision to charge developers for accessing data through its API. They showed their opposition by making their communities private and restricted. That “blackout” movement, which briefly caused Reddit to go down, dropped daily traffic by about 7% and the amount of time people spent on the Reddit website by close to 16% between June 12 and 13, according to the data shared by web traffic analysis firm Similarweb. The criticism from some community moderators and users also resulted in a drop in daily visits to Reddit’s ad portal, which advertisers use to target their audience and drive promotional campaigns for Redditors. The Israel-headquartered company told TechCrunch that the time spent on the Reddit website dropped to about 7.16 minutes on the first two days of the protest, down from an average of about 8.40 minutes for other days before that period. Web traffic of the platform also declined to about 52 million on June 13, compared with averaging nearly 56 million in the days prior. In April, Reddit announced its plans to start charging developers to access data through its API. The move was obvious — to restrict third parties from accessing Reddit data that can help build text-generating machine learning models such as OpenAI’s GPT 4. Developers building apps and bots to assist people using Reddit and researchers who wish to study the platform for noncommercial purchases were among the few exceptions. However, as a result, third-party apps, including popular Reddit client Apollo, found it difficult to pay for those charges and decided to go offline. Various popular subreddit moderators came in support of those apps and developers and started protesting against the API pricing move. Reddit communities adopt alternative forms of protest, as the company threatens action on moderators  The negative impacts on Reddit’s daily traffic and average time spent have improved, according to more recent statistics, indicating that the initial downturn was temporary. Similarweb’s data shows that on June 23, the platform saw 8.37 minutes of average time spent on the platform and close to 55 million visits. Nonetheless, between June 13 and 23, the average daily visits on Reddit’s ad portal (ads.reddit.com) decreased by about 20%, from 16,009 visits to 12,874 visits, during the period of June 13 to June 23, per Similarweb. Similarweb senior insights manager David F. Carr told TechCrunch that the dip in traffic to Reddit’s ad portal suggests advertisers were less willing to do business with the platform while the protests were underway. San Francisco–based market research firm Sensor Tower shared data via email with TechCrunch that shows a similar trend. The average time spent on the official Reddit mobile app fell 17% day-over-day on June 12 as multiple subreddits went dark in reaction to the platform’s plan to charge for using its API. Similarly, session counts on the app dropped 7% on the first day of the protest started last week. Between June 12 and 14, the average time spent and session counts were down 14% and 8%, respectively, against the prior week’s (June 5–11) average for both metrics. In these three days, many renowned subreddits on the platform were private. While some subreddits decided to remain dark indefinitely, many started returning in the last few days. Sensor Tower’s data shows that the average time spent and session counts on the Reddit app from June 15–21 were still down 6% and 4%, respectively, compared to averages before the protest. However, the firm noted that the time spent and session counts grew 8% and 4%, respectively, in these seven days compared to averages for both metrics during the initial period between June 12 and 14. “Despite a slight inflection in user engagement with the organized protest largely concluding on June 14, some popular subreddits still remain dark, which is likely weighing on a return for user time spent and sessions to pre-protest levels,” said Abe Yousef, a senior insights analyst for finance at Sensor Tower. Alongside moderators protesting against Reddit’s move, Sensor Tower’s insights suggest some users also publicly voiced their dissent with the platform for charging for access to its data. The data shared with TechCrunch shows that nearly 91% of Reddit’s U.S. iOS reviews carried a one-star rating during the initial phase of the protest between June 12 and 14, compared to about 53% in the previous two months until May. There has been some ratings improvement lately as the one-star reviews of the Reddit U.S. iOS app dropped to about 86% between June 15 and 26, Sensor Tower’s data shows. “Despite a slight easing up in 1-star reviews, the percentage of 1-star reviews out of total reviews in the post [the initial] protest period is still significantly higher compared to the average of 53% examined in the previous two months,” Yousef said. The data shared by Sensor Tower also indicates the top three most mentioned terms in all of the Reddit U.S. iOS reviews included keywords “apollo,” “third party” and “3rd party,” suggesting users were bombing review ratings in light of the new API move. Similarly, the firm observes that downloads of the Apollo app surged to about 9,000 per day on average since May 31 compared to 3,000 downloads per day in the previous 60 days. This follows some reports suggesting the shutdown of the third-party Reddit app. The app, however, itself announced its closure on June 8. Reddit’s average worldwide daily active users on its mobile app fell modestly by about 2% during the beginning of the protest between June 12 and 14 compared to the previous day. However, the firm said the average daily active users largely returned to pre-protest levels in the last few days. Reddit did not respond to a request for comment on the third-party metrics. Experts are unsure if the current protest will significantly impact Reddit or if it will just be another controversial moment in the platform’s history. “In general, I think the impact [of the protest] will depend on how long the mutiny lasts and what the final result is,” James Angel, an associate professor at Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business, told TechCrunch. The 18-year-old platform, which was founded in 2005, is looking to file an IPO. Although it was valued at $10 billion during its last funding round in August 2021, the company is currently encountering difficulties in remaining competitive within the market. At the same time, the emergence of GPT and other generative AI-powered models have started treating Reddit — and other social networks — as a data farm to nurture their offerings. Reddit CEO lashes out on protests, moderators and third-party apps  Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Welcome to TechCrunch Fintech! This week, we’re looking at the respective demise of Tally and Score, plus examining Klarna’s latest business move. We also have a list of fintech companies…  Fabric has developed a custom RISC-V-based chip that is optimized to run the algorithms necessary to establish zero-knowledge proofs and enable fully homomorphic encryption.  BEVC is the latest life sciences VC to add planetary health to its portfolio, suggesting that the trend is catching hold.  As TikTok Shop gains traction, YouTube is expanding its partnership with Shopify to onboard more brands for its YouTube Shopping affiliate program, the company announced on Tuesday. The expanded partnership…  Waymo disclosed Tuesday it’s now giving more than 100,000 paid robotaxi rides every week across its three main commercial markets in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Phoenix. Those figures were…  Until recently, saving the world usually didn’t involve turning a profit. But as the world has warmed, a range of startups and investors have emerged that have squared the circle,…  The countdown continues! You have 4 days left to lock in your TechCrunch Disrupt 2024 tickets at the discounted rate. Don’t miss the chance to save up to $600 —…  On Monday, the U.S. government formally accused Iran of hacking the Donald Trump campaign. In a joint statement issued by the FBI, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence…  The United States Department of Justice filed a major lawsuit against Live Nation-Ticketmaster in May, arguing that the entertainment giant is acting as a monopoly. An additional 10 state attorneys…  Construction companies deal with a lot of documents — so many that it can be difficult to process and manage them all. According to one recent survey, a third of…  The Rounds, the startup that delivers recurring grocery and household essentials in reusable packaging, announced on Monday its $24 million Series B funding round. The new capital will go toward…  The U.S. Department of Defense is a mammoth organization. It not only employs millions of service members and hundreds of thousands of civilian employees, but also has the world’s largest…  Eppo has closed a new funding round that values the company at over $100 million.  Simulating the real world is a tremendously complex problem if you want to do it at any useful level of fidelity. Traditional techniques are holding back design teams at vehicle…  NASA and the space industry are in agreement: If we want to establish a permanent human presence on the moon, we’ll need to make use of every native resource we…  AI models have proven capable of many things, but what tasks do we actually want them doing? Preferably drudgery — and there’s plenty of that in research and academia. Reliant…  Update: Authorities have yet to access the inside of the sunken yacht, and Mike Lynch is still classified as missing. Other details have emerged in the interim. The accident appears…  Global technology giants are pushing back against attempts by India’s telecom networks to bring internet services under stricter regulation, rejecting arguments that such measures are necessary to create a “level…  Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Powered by WordPress VIP