Despite overall declining usage since Elon Musk's acquisition, X's hold on the microblogging market may be stickier than first thought. The app formerly known as Twitter saw its daily active users drop 16% in September, according to The Wall Street Journal, citing data from research firm Sensor Tower. The firm also said that the average time spent daily per user also fell 2% year-over-year in the third quarter. However, another firm has a slightly different view on X's metrics, finding that the time U.S. daily active users are spending on X has actually been growing, and the usage by X's U.S. power users remains largely unchanged. Image Credits: Apptopia Sensor Tower isn't the only firm to point to declining usage. Another research firm, Similarweb, recently said X traffic and monthly active users were in decline.  Though app intelligence provider Apptopia largely agrees with Sensor Tower and others that X's daily active users have been falling, it sees that drop-off starting in May of this year. Downloads also started dropping when the app rebranded to X in July. But that could mean, the firm suggests, that the declining daily active user numbers are not necessarily related to the reduced retention of longtime Twitter/X users, but due to a lack of new users coming on board because the Twitter brand name disappeared from the app stores. (Plus, when Instagram Threads launched this summer, it immediately started advertising on the term "Twitter," further complicating matters.) In other words, it's not a "users fleeing" situation so much as it is a problem with new users backfilling the losses, post-rebrand. Estimates from Apptopia also found that new rivals to X, like Threads, aren't necessarily wooing users away from one app to the other. In fact, the overlap between the two apps is lower than you might think. Over a month after Threads' launch, only 10% of X users had tried out Instagram's new Twitter competitor, and that figure dropped to 5% shortly after the app's release. Image Credits: Apptopia But what's interesting here is that even when Threads was able to get X users to try it, X's daily active users would spend more time on X than on Threads. At launch, Threads was initially competing fairly well against X, as Threads users who also used X were spending 23.8 minutes on the Instagram Threads app, compared with 31.1 minutes on X. However, as of September, those numbers have shifted. Now, users of both apps spend 3.7 minutes on Threads versus 16.9 minutes on X. That indicates X is retaining some of its pull, even as Meta announces that Threads is nearing 100 million monthly active users. Meanwhile, X's U.S. power users -- or those who are in the top decile of usage in the given time period -- are still heavily engaged with X, Appotopia's data found. This group now accounts for 72.4% of the total time spent among X users in the U.S., only slightly down from 73.1% in January 2022. In other words, the percentage of total time spent that U.S. power users are responsible for hasn't significantly changed since either Musk taking over Twitter or its subsequent rebranding to X. In addition, X's U.S. daily active users were spending, on average, 18.8 minutes per day on Twitter/X as of January 2022. When Threads launched in July, they continued to spend 19.8 minutes on X. And as of September 2023, that number grew once again to 20.6 minutes. Though overall, X may be seeing some declines, this "stickiness" factor around X usage has already caused its first casualty among would-be rivals. A startup called Pebble (formerly T2) that tried to take on X by copying Twitter features announced this week that it would shut down, citing the competitive environment. “The durability of the network effect of Twitter is stronger than anticipated," noted Pebble CTO Michael Greer at the time. The founders also pointed to a landscape littered with Twitter clones angling for attention. Given these new findings, Threads may still have a shot at competing with X because of its tight integration with Instagram and the resources of Meta behind it to grow an independent user base, but other X rivals like Spill, Spoutible, Bluesky, Mastodon and others may find it hard to convince X users to fully disengage to join their app instead. Pebble, the Twitter alternative previously known as T2, is shutting down One year post-acquisition, X traffic and monthly active users are in decline, report claims New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.