Video Gamer is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Prices subject to change. Learn more Looking for all the Hogwarts Legacy The Bell Tower Wing Field Guide Pages? The Bell Tower Wing in Hogwarts Legacy has a dizzying 34 Field Guide Pages for players to find. Tracking them all down is no small feat and requires several hours of exploration. To help you speed up the process, we’ve pulled together a guide to the locations of all Field Guide Pages in The Bell Tower Wing in Hogwarts Legacy. There are five types of Field Guide Pages in The Bell Tower Wing. Each one requires a specific spell to either reveal or grab the page in question. If you don’t have these spells quite yet, we recommend pushing forward with the story before committing to find all the Field Guide Pages in The Bell Tower Wing. For a breakdown of how to get each spell, check out our dedicated guide. Here are all The Bell Tower Wing Field Guide Pages locations: Fast travel to the Library Floo Flame. Take one of the spiral staircases up to the upper floor and cast Revelio in front of the large painting of a man in a red frock in a frame built into the wall between two ornate bookshelves. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame in The Bell Tower Wing of Hogwarts. From where you spawn in, take the left stairs (those going south), and head through the door in front of you. Take a sharp left down some more stairs. Follow the path down. When you reach the large dragon statue, take a right and head into the first door on your left. Cast Revelio near the glass case with a cannon inside to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. To the left of the large double door ahead of you is a statue. Cast Revelio to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. To the right of the large double door ahead of you is a piece of wooden furniture with a strange ornament on top. Cast Revelio to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Head right up the stairs. To the right of the door ahead is a glass display case with a cat inside. Cast Revelio to see the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Head right up the stairs, then another right up a short flight of stairs. Here, you’ll find a dragon basin. Cast Confringo to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Turn right and you’ll see a set of three bells. Cast Revelio to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Take a left up the stairs and look right for a display case with two bladed-weapons above. Cast Revelio to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Take a left up the stairs, then left up another flight of stairs. On the wall ahead, spot the scorched outline of a wizard and cast Revelio to bring up the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Head left up the stairs, then left up another set of stairs. Follow the path up and past the eye chests until you come to the music room. Cast Revelio near the lectern made up of frogs sitting on cushions at the center of the room to see the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Go up the stairs on the left and through the door ahead. Climb the stairs ahead of you and take a left about yet another set of stairs. Look right as you reach the first landing for a moth mirror puzzle.  To find the moth, go back down the stairs and through the large red door ahead (use Alohomora on the lock if needed) into the History of Magic classroom. At the back of the room is another locked door. Use Alohomora to open it. Go through and the moth is sitting on a plant pot on your right. Return to the mirror and release the moth to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Go up the stairs on the left and through the door ahead. Climb the stairs ahead of you and go through the large red door ahead into the History of Magic Classroom. Use Revelio near the stained glass windows on the right to see the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Go up the stairs on the left and through the door ahead. Climb the stairs ahead of you and go through the large red door ahead into the History of Magic Classroom. Open the door at the back of the room and look right for a statue of a sphinx. Cast Revelio to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Go up the stairs on the left and through the door ahead. Climb the stairs ahead of you and go through the large red door ahead into the History of Magic Classroom. Open the door at the back of the room. A flying page loops around the pillars ahead. Cast Accio to grab it. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Go up the stairs on the left and through the door ahead. Climb the stairs ahead of you and go through the large red door ahead into the History of Magic Classroom. Open the door at the back of the room. Walk straight ahead into the Ancient Egypt-themed section. At the back is a statue. Use Levioso on the globe to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Go up the stairs on the left and through the door ahead. Climb the stairs in front of you and follow them up left as high as you can. On the top landing, go through the door straight ahead of you (use Alohomora). A dragon basin is on the left side of the room near some furniture wrapped in white blankets. Cast Confringo to get the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Transfiguration Classroom Floo Flame in the Astronomy Wing. Turn around and use Alohomora on the second door on your left. Head up the stairs and you’ll find a statue. Cast Levioso on the globe to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Go up the stairs on the left, through the door ahead, and take a sharp right down the stairs into the dungeon. Continue you down until you spot a large tapestry with a K on it. Walk straight into the K to access a secret area. Go through the door at the end of the statue-lined corridor. Cast Revelio on the left-most tapestry – the one with yet another K on it – to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Go up the stairs on the left, through the door ahead, and take a sharp right down the stairs into the dungeon. Continue down, past the K tapestry and the armored horse statue, until you see a large dragon statue on your left. Cast Revelio to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Go up the stairs on the left, through the door ahead, and take a sharp right down the stairs into the dungeon. Continue down until you see the K tapestry in front of you. Take a left, then another sharp left and cast Revelio in front of the dragon ornament to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Look right and up you’ll see a page flying in the air near the ceiling above. Use Accio to get it. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Head through the large doors in the Clock Tower courtyard and grounds outside that you’d take if you were heading to Hogsmeade Valley or the Highlands. Go through the archway on your right. Follow the path past the dragon-shaped topiary. A flying page loops around above the fountain ahead. Cast Accio to pull the page to you. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Head through the large doors in the grounds outside. Enter the right-most tower on the rampart. Cast Revelio inside to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast Travel to the Hogwarts North Exit Floo Flame. Turn around to face the castle. Head through the archway and take a right past the winged-boar statue through the large double doors ahead. Use Alohomora to open the door on your right and cast Revelio to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast Travel to the Hogwarts North Exit Floo Flame. Turn around to face the castle. Head through the archway and take a left past the winged-boar statue through the large double doors ahead. Use Alohomora on the door at the back of the room. Inside is a moth mirror.  To find the moth, leave the building and follow the ramparts left, past the stairs, until you can climb over a small wall. Look left and you’ll see the moth sitting on a closed-off doorway. Bring it back to the mirror to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast Travel to the Hogwarts North Exit Floo Flame. Turn around and face the castle. Go through the archway, take a right, and follow the rampart to the tower highlighted in the image above (the fourth tower), not far from the Beasts Classroom. Head inside and cast Revelio to reveal the Field Guide Page. Travel to the marker on the map above. Up on a slight grassy ledge between the rampart and the Quidditch pitch, cast Revelio to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast Travel to the Hogwarts North Exit Floo Flame. Turn around to face the castle. Head through the archway and take a left past the winged-boar statue. Look up to find a dragon bowl attached to the side of the rampart building. Cast Confringo at the bowl, then Accio to grab the Field Guide Page. Fast Travel to the Hogwarts North Exit Floo Flame. Head to the room above the main gate leading out of Hogwarts. Inside, you’ll find a statue. Cast Levioso at the globe to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast travel to the Bell Tower Courtyard Floo Flame. Head through the large doors in the grounds outside. Go through the archway on your right. Follow the path past the dragon-shaped topiary and fountain and through another archway. Cast Revelio on the beehive- like mounds on your left to reveal the Field Guide Page. Fast Travel to the Beast Classroom. A page flies above the Beasts building in a loop. Use Accio to grab it out of the air. Confusingly this one isn’t technically in the Hogwarts Grounds. Head to Owlery by following the path up from the thestral stables as marked in the map above. Enter the building and climb up the stairs until you can’t go any further unless you take a ladder. Cast Revelio to reveal the Field Guide Page. We recommend getting the next two pages while you’re here. Head to Owlery tower south of Hogwarts (see image above). Climb all the way to the top to find a statue overlooking the castle. Cast Levioso on the globe to reveal the Field Guide Page. Head to Owlery tower south of Hogwarts (see image above). Climb all the way to the top. There’s a page looping around in the air between the columns of the tower spire. Cast Accio to grab it. That covers the location of all 34 Field Guide Pages in The Bell Tower Wing in Hogwarts Legacy. Check out our guides with the location of pages in The Astronomy Wing, The South Wing, and The Library Annex. We also have guides covering the Hogwarts Demiguise Statue locations, Hogsmeade Demiguise Statue locations, and The Highlands Demiguise Statue locations. Otherwise learn how to climb the battlements and how to get money fast in Hogwarts Legacy. For help with side quests, check out how to find the Ghost of Our Love treasure location near Hogwarts. How many Field Guide Pages are there in The Bell Tower? There are a total of 34 Field Guide Pages to find in The Bell Tower in Hogwarts Legacy. Where is The Bell Tower in Hogwarts Legacy? The Bell Tower is located in the southern part of Hogwarts. 
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy and may receive occasional deal communications; you can unsubscribe anytime.
