Biomechanics by OMSignal  The new OMbra by OMSignal records biomechanics to give users more information about their workout and fitness. Real-time biometrics – including running distance, cadence, pace, heart rate and calories – are detected by inbuilt sensors in the back of the bra and recorded in a small OM Smart Box fixed to the bra. Stats are then sent to the user’s iOS device via an app.Features of the bra include four-way stretchable fabric in a range of colours, which is designed to adapt to different shapes, absorb pressure and reduce stress on the back and shoulders. Antimicrobial and sweat-wicking mesh panels are integrated on the front and back of the bra for breathability. The OMbra is designed for secure movement in three dimensions and has adjustable straps, lateral stitches and double-layered compressive sides. It also has a racerback design to dissipate the straps’ force to the side of the bra instead of the back. fitness-kit.net keyword: OMSIGNAL Sensors from Sensoria Wearable fitness technology firm Sensoria, creator of the Sensoria smart sock, has added a new sports bra product to its collection of smart running garments. The Sensoria Fitness Sports Bra is a medium support smart bra onto which heart rate monitors can be directly clipped – no need for an additional strap. It’s compatible with the Polar H7 and Garmin Premium, but use of the Sensoria heart rate monitor is recommended; this can be paired with the Sensoria Fitness mobile app to track the wearer’s fitness activity. Made from 74 per cent polyamide, 18 per cent polyester and 8 per cent elastane, the Sensoria Fitness Sports Bra is designed to be light and breathable to minimise body temperature fluctuations. Sweat wicking technology is also used to remove humidity. The bra is machine washable and antimicrobial, and comes in the colours of white, red, royal blue and neon green. fitness-kit.net keyword: SENSORIA Myzone: Close to your heart The MYZONE Sports Bra with integrated training technology, launched at the Las Vegas Consumer Electronics Show 2016, is a soft, one-piece bra featuring a built-in sensor strap and clip-on MYZONE module that measures heart rate and calorie burn. MYZONE fitness tracking is designed to let the user know how much effort they’re putting in during a workout – both cardio and weight training. It also offers calorie-crunch data, in conjunction with personal body metrics, for accurate and personal calorie-burning calculations. Manufactured from sweat-proof, quick-drying fabric, the MYZONE Sports Bra comes in small, medium and large and has no rear fastening. It will be available in a range of colours.fitness-kit.net keyword: MYZONE Biomechanics by OMSignal  The new OMbra by OMSignal records biomechanics to give users more information about their workout and fitness. Real-time biometrics – including running distance, cadence, pace, heart rate and calories – are detected by inbuilt sensors in the back of the bra and recorded in a small OM Smart Box fixed to the bra. Stats are then sent to the user’s iOS device via an app.Features of the bra include four-way stretchable fabric in a range of colours, which is designed to adapt to different shapes, absorb pressure and reduce stress on the back and shoulders. Antimicrobial and sweat-wicking mesh panels are integrated on the front and back of the bra for breathability. The OMbra is designed for secure movement in three dimensions and has adjustable straps, lateral stitches and double-layered compressive sides. It also has a racerback design to dissipate the straps’ force to the side of the bra instead of the back. fitness-kit.net keyword: OMSIGNAL Sensors from Sensoria Wearable fitness technology firm Sensoria, creator of the Sensoria smart sock, has added a new sports bra product to its collection of smart running garments. The Sensoria Fitness Sports Bra is a medium support smart bra onto which heart rate monitors can be directly clipped – no need for an additional strap. It’s compatible with the Polar H7 and Garmin Premium, but use of the Sensoria heart rate monitor is recommended; this can be paired with the Sensoria Fitness mobile app to track the wearer’s fitness activity. Made from 74 per cent polyamide, 18 per cent polyester and 8 per cent elastane, the Sensoria Fitness Sports Bra is designed to be light and breathable to minimise body temperature fluctuations. Sweat wicking technology is also used to remove humidity. The bra is machine washable and antimicrobial, and comes in the colours of white, red, royal blue and neon green. fitness-kit.net keyword: SENSORIA Myzone: Close to your heart The MYZONE Sports Bra with integrated training technology, launched at the Las Vegas Consumer Electronics Show 2016, is a soft, one-piece bra featuring a built-in sensor strap and clip-on MYZONE module that measures heart rate and calorie burn. MYZONE fitness tracking is designed to let the user know how much effort they’re putting in during a workout – both cardio and weight training. It also offers calorie-crunch data, in conjunction with personal body metrics, for accurate and personal calorie-burning calculations. Manufactured from sweat-proof, quick-drying fabric, the MYZONE Sports Bra comes in small, medium and large and has no rear fastening. It will be available in a range of colours.fitness-kit.net keyword: MYZONE