Last week, the news broke that Steven Yeun (The Walking Dead, Nope, Minari) has joined the cast of Marvel Studios' Thunderbolts, and his role may now have been revealed. At the time, we were told that his character would be a major part of the film and "vital" to the Marvel Cinematic Universe going forward, which led to speculation that he could be playing Sentry. Now, online rumors are claiming that Yeun has indeed been cast as the mega-powerful being. It's worth noting that Sentry has yet to be confirmed as the movie's villain, so we won't be putting too much stock in this just yet. If Yeun is indeed playing a take on Robert Reynolds, he would be an outside-the-box choice, but the Academy Award-nominee certainly has the talent to pull it off. Though other characters might well be added, the Thunderbolts roster currently consists of Red Guardian (David Harbour), Ghost (Hannah John-Kamen), Yelena Belova (Florence Pugh), Bucky Barnes/The Winter Soldier (Sebastian Stan), John Walker/U.S. Agent (Wyatt Russell), and Taskmaster (Olga Kurylenko). Contessa Valentina Allegra de Fontaine (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) will put the team together, and may also be partially responsible for Sentry's creation. Harrison Ford will replace the late William Hurt as Thaddeus "Thunderbolt" Ross, who may wind up transforming into the Red Hulk. Bear breakout Ayo Edebiri is also on board in a secret role. Jake Schreier (Robot and Frank, Dave) is set to direct, with Black Widow scribe Eric Pearson penning the script. Thunderbolts is slated to open on July 26, 2024. 
ComicBookMovie.com, and/or the user who contributed this post, may earn commissions or revenue through clicks or purchases made through any third-party links contained within the content above.
 
Home |
Index |
Site Map |
About |
Terms Of Service |
Community Guidelines |
Privacy |
Copyright |
Trademark
Contact |
Advertise
 
2024 ® © ™ Best Little Sites LLC, ComicBookMovie.com. All Rights Reserved.
 
DISCLAIMER: As a user generated site, ComicBookMovie.com is protected from liability under the DMCA (Digital Millenium Copyright Act) and "Safe Harbor" provisions. Content herein has been submitted by users who have agreed to our Terms of Service and Community Guidelines. ComicBookMovie.com will disable users who knowingly commit plagiarism, piracy, trademark or copyright infringement. ComicBookMovie.com and Best Little Sites LLC are not liable for inaccuracies, errors, or omissions.
 
Learn more about our copyright and trademark policies
 
Contact Us for removal of copyrighted images, trademarks, or other issues.
