Enterprise GenAI Platform AI Copilot for Sales AI Research Solution for Due Diligence GenAI Platform for Healthcare AI Customer Service Agent GenAI Platform for Finance GenAI Platform for Manufacturing GenAI Platform for Logistics Generative AI Development Generative AI Integration Services Generative AI Consulting Company Hire Generative AI Engineers AI Agent Development AI Copilot Development AI Marketing Agent Development Hire Prompt Engineers Adaptive AI Development Company ChatGPT Developers Stable Diffusion Developers Large Language Model Development AI Development AI Consulting Hire AI Engineers AI as a Service Hire Action Transformer Developers MLOps Consulting Services Enterprise AI Development AI Chatbot Development Company Enterprise AI Chatbot Development Company Transformer Model Development Data Engineering Services Hire Data Scientist Data Analytics Services Data Annotation Services ML Model Engineering Machine Learning Development ML and Data Science Consulting Big Data Consulting Web3 Development State of Web3 Rust Development Web3 Game Development Metaverse Development Metaverse Application Metaverse Gaming Space Metaverse Avatar Development NFT Marketplace Development NFT Marketplace Solution Blockchain Development Blockchain Consulting Substrate Development Ethereum Blockchain Services Hyperledger Development Golang Development Cosmos Development Solana Development Tezos Development Stellar Development  Smart Contract Audit Crypto Wallet Development Solution Software Development  SaaS Development  Software Consulting UI/UX Design Service Enterprise Software Development Web Application Development Digital Transformation Hire ML Developers DevOps Engineers Offshore Engineers  App Developer Hire Golang Developers Blockchain Developer Hire Dedicated Developers Hire Cosmos Developers Hire Stellar Developers Full Stack Developer IoT Development Industrial IoT Solutions Firmware Development IoT Healthcare Software IoT Product Development Hardware Design Metaverse Integration Metaverse 3D Space Metaverse Gaming Space Metaverse Social Media Metaverse Application Metaverse Decentralized Metaverse Development AI Consulting RPA Consulting Blockchain Consulting DevOps Consulting Covid-19 Technology Consulting Digital Risk Management Fintech AI Consulting and Development Company Fintech Software Development AI Use Cases for Banking and Finance AI in Due Diligence AI for Financial Compliance GenAI for Finance and Banking GenAI for Asset Management AI Loan Underwriting AI-based Credit Scoring AI for Financial Document Processing AI for Financial Modeling AI for Financial Planning Insurance AI Consulting and Development Insurance Software Development AI for Insurance AI for insurance Claims Processing AI for Claims Processing GenAI for Insurance AI for Fraud Detection Build Enterprise AI solutions Manufacturing AI Development Company Manufacturing Software Development AI for Demand Forecasting AI for Anomaly Detection GenAI for Manufacturing AI for Predictive Maintenance AI for Production Planning AI for Product Lifecycle Management Build Enterprise AI Solutions Build Predictive ML Models AI for Quality Control AI Use Cases for Manufacturing Logistics AI Consulting and Development Company Logistics Software Development AI for Logistics and Supply Chain AI for Fleet Management AI for Supply Chain Optimization Automotive Supply Chain Optimization Fleet Management Using AI Efficient Route Optimization GenAI for Supply Chain Build Enterprise AI solutions AI for Operational Efficiency Hospitality AI Consulting and Development Company AI for Hospitality Travel App Development GenAI for Travel AI for Personalized Travel AI for Customer Support AI for Sentiment Analysis AI for Demand Forecasting AI for Market Research AI for Sales AI for Price and Promo Optimization Retail AI Consulting and Development Company Retail Software Development AI for Retail AI for E-commerce AI for Fashion Recommender System for Retail AI for Store Replenishment AI for Inventory Management AI for Predictive Analytics AI for Dynamic Pricing Solution Healthcare AI Consulting and Development Company Healthcare Software Development AI for Healthcare AI for Medicine AI for Fraud Detection GenAI for Healthcare AI for Drug Discovery AI for Telemedicine Healthcare Enterprise AI Solutions AI for Customer Support AI for Regulatory Compliance Consumer Electronics Software Development AI for Product Design AI for Product Management AI for Production Planning AI for Product Lifecycle Management AI for Market Research AI for Inventory Management AI Powered Dynamic Pricing Startup Product Development AI for Startup AI for Product Development AI for Product Management AI for Product Lifecycle Management AI for Product Design GenAI for Business AI Driven Development Hire our DevOps engineers to scale your business quickly and get DevOps services, ranging from development, automation, plugin integration to API development. Our DevOps engineers work as your extended team, therefore, you get a complete control over the team. Using a wide variety of tools and technologies, including Jenkins, GIT, Docker, Kubernetes, Maven and more,  our DevOps Engineers can help you manage core server operations and application development. Our goal is to reduce the time-to-market for a product by automating the software delivery process. Our Deployment automation services enable you to deploy your software to testing and production environments with the click of a button. Our team can seamlessly implement DevOps services and solutions using continuous integration and continuous deployment approach. The objective is to securely write, test, as well as release high-quality code with a myriad of tools like Jenkins, Bluemix, etc. Our team of DevOps engineers can help you configure clusters and servers for improving security. Our team is skilled in the monitoring of logs and the implementation of patches. We have in-depth knowledge of DevOps tools including, AppDynamics, Splunk, New Relic, etc. Our team Identifies the best DevOps model and toolchain for your business needs and optimize your existing IT structure and resource usage to meet your goals faster, with fewer errors and less investment. Our DevOps engineers can integrate your current infrastructure with cloud to reduce the cost and increase the scalability of the IT ecosystem. We work on the different cloud platforms including, AWS, Google Cloud and Azure. Our tech experts can help organizations develop and automate robust infrastructure to meet the growing and fast-changing business needs. With DevOps infrastructure automation, companies can boost cross-team collaboration, enhance efficiency, fasten their IT operations and track performance using monitoring tools. When you send us an inquiry and connect with us to share your project requirements with our experts., we share the CVs of our DevOps engineer who have the skill set that your project requires. Once you shortlist CVs of DevOps engineers you wish to work with, you can interview them. Once our Engineer qualify your requirements, you can hire them for your project and they work for you as your extended team.                         Our DevOps Engineers have completed over 100 projects using DevOps development model. Following are some of the projects handled by our team of DevOps Engineers. Internet of Things 
Multi-Room Speaker Controls App Riva is a powerful multi-room audio solution controlled by iOS and Android devices to stream multiple speakers without any acoustic latency. Our team of developers, designers and architect teamed up with the OEM and platform provider to offer a robust and scalable app experience. Riva speakers are Google and Apple certified and have won the CES awards. CMS and Mobile App Development 
Digital Solution for Award-Winning Island Guidebooks Our Full Stack Developers  work with Wizard Publications to convert their series of four island guidebooks into a mobile app. It is a perfect companion to our award-winning island guidebooks. The GPS feature helps you to navigate on the islands to remote locations without any signal on your iPhone or iPad device. We develop a CMS to update and publish content to the mobile app. You can explore hidden beaches, restaurants, hotels, activities and more. Team Size : 40+   Total No of Hour: 800+  Development: Mobile App for both Platform, CMS    Our developers leverage cutting-edge cognitive technologies to deliver high-quality services and tailored solutions to our clients. Our team extension model is designed to assist clients seeking to expand their teams with the precise expertise needed for their projects. Our project-oriented approach, supported by our team of software development specialists, is dedicated to fostering client collaboration and achieving specific project objectives.  Fill out the contact form protected by NDA, book a calendar and schedule a Zoom Meeting with our experts.  Get on a call with our team to know the feasibility of your project idea.  Based on the project requirements, we share a project proposal with budget and timeline estimates.  Once the project is signed, we bring together a team from a range of disciplines to kick start your project. Once you let us know your requirement, our technical expert will schedule a call and discuss your idea in detail post sign of an NDA.All information will be kept confidential.     Send me the signed Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)  DevOps engineers assist you to scale your business quickly by providing DevOps services like: They use a wide variety of tools to help you manage application development and core server operations. Yes, we have experienced DevOps engineers. Our team has expertise in the following fields: End-to-End Deployment AutomationOur team can enable you to deploy your software to testing and production environments with our deployment automation services. Continuous Integration and Configuration ManagementWith the objective to securely write, test and release high-quality code, our team can implement DevOps services and solutions seamlessly by using:  We use tools like Jenkins, Bluemix, etc. Testing and MonitoringOur team of DevOps engineers can help you configure clusters and servers to improve security, with skills in monitoring of logs and implementation of patches. We also have in-depth knowledge of DevOps tools including: DevOps Consulting ServicesOur team will identify the best DevOps model and toolchain for your business needs. We can optimize your present IT structure and resource usage to meet your goals quickly with less errors and low investment. Managed Cloud ServicesWe work on different cloud platforms like AWS, Google Cloud and Azure. Our DevOps engineers can integrate your current infrastructure with cloud, to: Infrastructure AutomationOur tech experts can help your organization to build and automate robust infrastructure to meet your growing and fast-changing business needs. With DevOps infrastructure automation, you can boost your company’s: Yes. The hired DevOps engineer will work only on your project. The tools our DevOps engineers use are: Serverless Architecture is a software design model where a third-party service hosts applications and removes the need for server hardware and software management. Digital Transformation in Banking allows financial institutes to know what customers want and strengthen customer engagement with personalized offerings.  Cloud Computing in healthcare sector allows care providers to store patient data on the cloud while avoiding costs of maintaining physical servers. Get In Touch
+1 (415) 301-2880
info@leewayhertz.com
jobs@leewayhertz.com 95 Third Street
    San Francisco, California         Secure your insights, get PDF now. 
Name



 
Email Address

