Comment Chinese subsidiaries of American venture capital firms are investing money from U.S.-based funds into Chinese space startups, even as the Pentagon warns of Beijing’s growing activity in the space arena, according to data reviewed by TechCrunch. The data, collected by PitchBook, includes information on past limited partners and investments of the Chinese units of Sequoia Capital, Matrix Partners and Lightspeed Venture Partners. Space industry investments represent a very small but notable portion of these firms’ portfolios, with Sequoia Capital China and Lightspeed China investing in two companies each and Matrix China investing in eight. Startups that have landed funding include companies working on launch, satellite manufacturing and Earth observation. According to recent reporting from The Wall Street Journal and Politico, the White House is considering new screening requirements on U.S. investment flowing to foreign-based technologies that could be sensitive to national security, like semiconductors, though it’s unclear whether space technologies would be considered as part of a future order. But one investor, who asked to remain anonymous, citing co-investments with Sequoia Capital, told TechCrunch that the stakes are high.  “The dividing line between what is an aerospace technology and what is a defense technology is even more blurry than in the case of semiconductors, which we need to drive our cars and use our phones,” the investor said. While Sequoia Capital China did not disclose the LPs that contributed to its most recent $9 billion fund, LPs that have contributed to previous funds include the Ford Foundation, the employees’ retirement plan of Duke University and the Bush Foundation, according to PitchBook. Matrix Partners China and Lightspeed China Partners also include U.S. endowments, pensions and other American-domiciled money. LPs have no control over the funds’ investment decisions, though they can set certain limits or restrictions on how the capital is allocated through vehicles known as “vice clauses.” Sequoia Capital, Matrix Partners and Lightspeed Venture Partners, as well as their Chinese affiliates, did not respond to TechCrunch’s inquiry into what percentage of the Chinese funds comes from U.S. money. The U.S. has some regulations in place governing foreign investment in U.S. companies, such as the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., but in general, outbound investment in Chinese companies is not in violation of U.S. law or regulatory policy. For example, the U.S. Department of Treasury does maintain a Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies list, which prohibits the purchase or sale of securities from certain public companies in China that are related or linked to that country’s military. However, the list does not include private companies. “I think the ongoing conversation or debate about investment now has shifted towards [ … ] trying to understand exactly how much and what kind of investment are [VC and private equity companies] contributing to Chinese technology development, especially in early-stage companies,” said Ngor Luong, a research analyst at Georgetown University’s Center for Security and Emerging Technology. A Sequoia Capital spokesperson told TechCrunch that its structure consists of “independent entities with separate investment decision authority.” LandSpace Technology Corp., a Chinese startup that is developing a rocket powered by liquid methane and liquid oxygen (“methalox”) engines, has received investments from Sequoia, Matrix and Lightspeed. China SME Development Fund, a state-owned and operated fund, is also an investor. Several of the top American launch companies, including SpaceX and Rocket Lab, are also developing methalox-fueled rocket engines for their next-gen vehicles. LandSpace’s $175 million Series C plus round in 2020 was jointly led by Sequoia Capital China, Matrix Partners China and three Chinese venture firms. Overall, the rocket company has raised at least $300 million (2.1 billion yuan) since its founding eight years ago. Matrix Partners China and Sequoia Capital China have also contributed funds to iSpace, another Chinese launch firm. That company is also developing a methalox-powered rocket. The exact amount of money that each firm contributed to these rounds is not disclosed. It’s not just launch companies that are attracting investment. Chinese affiliates of U.S. VC firms have also contributed capital to satellite startups like MinoSpace, Spacety and GalaxySpace: Lightspeed China co-led MinoSpace’s $46 million pre-Series B round in 2021, while Spacety attracted investment from Matrix China in 2018. Just this week, the U.S. Treasury Department issued sanctions against Spacety for allegedly supplying synthetic aperture radar data to aid Russia’s war effort against Ukraine. Spacety denied the allegations in a statement. Even acting as two separate entities, Sequoia’s brand recognition — as the flagship American fund — is itself valuable for Chinese tech startups, who can parlay that association to garner more support and backing from other investors, Luong said. The commercial space industry in China has flourished since 2014, when Beijing shifted its policy on private investment in the space sector. Prior to that, nearly all of China’s space program was driven by two state-owned enterprises: China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) and China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation (CASIC). Many Chinese space startups are headed by founders or CEOs with previous work experience at these enterprises. Ispace’s founder, Peng Xiaobo, was a former director of R&D at CASC subsidiary China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology. It is without question that the U.S. Department of Defense views China’s activity in the space domain as one part of a broader effort to establish itself as a global power. Consequently, the DOD has made major changes of its own — to procurement processes and how it works with startups in particular — to ensure it has a competitive advantage in space. If the White House issues an order requiring U.S. firms to report China-based deals in industries considered sensitive to national security — or if it takes a more aggressive approach, restricting some investments altogether — it could be the start of a radical shift in how capital flows between the two countries. Should space-related technologies be included in the order, the overall effect on the Chinese space startup scene would likely be marginal, as most of the money funding these companies is from domestic Chinese investors. But as tensions increase between Washington and Beijing, American policymakers may look to cut off any real or perceived Chinese advantage in developing tomorrow’s technology. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Fabric has developed a custom RISC-V-based chip that is optimized to run the algorithms necessary to establish zero-knowledge proofs and enable fully homomorphic encryption.  BEVC is the latest life sciences VC to add planetary health to its portfolio, suggesting that the trend is catching hold.  As TikTok Shop gains traction, YouTube is expanding its partnership with Shopify to onboard more brands for its YouTube Shopping affiliate program, the company announced on Tuesday. The expanded partnership…  Waymo disclosed Tuesday it’s now giving more than 100,000 paid robotaxi rides every week across its three main commercial markets in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Phoenix. Those figures were…  Until recently, saving the world usually didn’t involve turning a profit. But as the world has warmed, a range of startups and investors have emerged that have squared the circle,…  The countdown continues! You have 4 days left to lock in your TechCrunch Disrupt 2024 tickets at the discounted rate. Don’t miss the chance to save up to $600 —…  On Monday, the U.S. government formally accused Iran of hacking the Donald Trump campaign. In a joint statement issued by the FBI, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence…  The United States Department of Justice filed a major lawsuit against Live Nation-Ticketmaster in May, arguing that the entertainment giant is acting as a monopoly. An additional 10 state attorneys…  Construction companies deal with a lot of documents — so many that it can be difficult to process and manage them all. According to one recent survey, a third of…  The Rounds, the startup that delivers recurring grocery and household essentials in reusable packaging, announced on Monday its $24 million Series B funding round. The new capital will go toward…  The U.S. Department of Defense is a mammoth organization. It not only employs millions of service members and hundreds of thousands of civilian employees, but also has the world’s largest…  Eppo has closed a new funding round that values the company at over $100 million.  Simulating the real world is a tremendously complex problem if you want to do it at any useful level of fidelity. Traditional techniques are holding back design teams at vehicle…  NASA and the space industry are in agreement: if we want to establish a permanent human presence on the moon, we’ll need to make use of every native resource we…  AI models have proven capable of many things, but what tasks do we actually want them doing? Preferably drudgery — and there’s plenty of that in research and academia. Reliant…  Update: Authorities have yet to access the inside of the sunken yacht, and Mike Lynch is still classified as missing. Other details have emerged in the interim. The accident appears…  Global technology giants are pushing back against attempts by India’s telecom networks to bring internet services under stricter regulation, rejecting arguments that such measures are necessary to create a “level…  Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Powered by WordPress VIP