Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC 
                  By          
            Kavya Pillai
          

            Jan 18, 2023
          
 
          Share         
    You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
   The Sequoia backed car repair startup has stated that due to being cash-strapped they will lay off around 70% of their workforce, along with having their accounts audited by a third party. The co-founder of the car repair startup company, Amit Bhasin said that the co-founders take 'full responsibility' for the current situation.Bhasin on a LinkedIn post said, As entrepreneurs, we identify problems, come up with solutions, and explore every opportunity to grow those solutions to meet unmet needs. But in this instance, we got carried away." He further added, "Our passion to survive the intrinsic challenges of this sector and manage capital, took the better of us and we made grave errors in judgment as we followed growth at all costs, particularly in regard to financial reporting, which we deeply regret".The co-founder also shared that they will be seeking "capital solutions." Before this, SoftBank and Malaysian sovereign fund Khazanah Nasional were to lead a 75-80 million USD funding for GoMechanic. The deal was later called off due to the accounting irregularities.A close source said, "GoMechanic had reported overinflated numbers and fictitious garages. Some of its favored partner garages were found to be making disproportionately more money during due diligence".The investors of GoMechanic issued a joint statement, "The investors of GoMechanic were recently made aware by the company's founders of the serious inaccuracies in the company's financial reporting. We are deeply distressed by the fact that the founders knowingly misstated facts, including but not limited to the inflation of revenue, which the founders have acknowledged. All of this was kept from the investors." They added, "The investors have jointly appointed a third party firm to investigate the matter in detail, and we will be working together to determine next steps for the company."This will be the fourth Sequoia Capital-backed startup to report accounting irregularities. The financial service unicorn company BharatPe, e-commerce startup Zilingo and Trell the social commerce startup were also accused of accounting irregularities.GoMechanic was founded by Kushal Karwa, Amit Bhasin, Rishabh Karwa, and Nitin Rana in 2016. The startup has a network of partner garages\workshops that provide car repairs and servicings at subsidized rates. The startup charges a commission from these garages.Prior to this, GoMechanic was in talks to raise a funding round in 2022 with Tiger Global, at a valuation of approximately 1.2 billion USD which was also suddenly canceled. Entrepreneur Staff 
          Driven by competitiveness in education and growing STEM job markets, the demand for math education is booming which makes it an opportune time to enter the education and math tutoring industry.
         
          The sculpture was created by artist Daniel Arsham.
         
          The problem of misleading AI pictures and videos could be solved with another technology: content credentials.
         
          Join us for this free webinar to learn how data combined with storytelling can help power financial stability and smart growth for years to come.
         
          California is the first state to launch this kind of initiative.
         
          This generative new technology will be taking over a lot of busy work, imminently.
         
							Successfully copied link
						 We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur. 
            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          
 
