Armed with some data from our friends at CrunchBase, I broke down the largest US startup funding rounds from March 2023. I have included some additional information such as industry, company description, round type, founders, and total equity funding raised to further the analysis.  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series C
Description: San Francisco-based Humane is a platform that creates and sells consumer hardware, software, and services. Founded by Bethany Bongiorno and Imran Chaudhri in 2017, Humane has now raised a total of $230.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Microsoft, Tiger Global Management, Lachy Groom, Qualcomm Ventures, and Top Tier Capital Partners.
Investors in the round: Forerunner Ventures, HICO, Hudson Bay Capital Management, Kindred Ventures, Lachy Groom, LG Technology Ventures, Microsoft, Qualcomm Ventures, Sam Altman, Socium Ventures, Tiger Global Management, Top Tier Capital Partners, Valia Ventures, Volvo Cars Tech Fund
Industry: Consumer Electronics, Electronics, Hardware, Software
Founders: Bethany Bongiorno, Imran Chaudhri
Founding year: 2017
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $230.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Venture
Description: San Diego-based SOCi is a marketing platform for multi-location brands. Founded by Afif Khoury, Alo Sarv, and Tony Rindsberg in 2012, SOCi has now raised a total of $235.5M in total equity funding and is backed by Stanford University, JMI Equity, Vertical Venture Partners, Ankona Capital Partners, and GrowthX.
Investors in the round: Blossom Street Ventures, JMI Equity, Renew Group, Vertical Venture Partners
Industry: Advertising, Food and Beverage, Marketing, Professional Services, Real Estate, Retail, Software
Founders: Afif Khoury, Alo Sarv, Tony Rindsberg
Founding year: 2012
Location: San Diego
Total equity funding raised: $235.5M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series B
Description: Brooklyn-based Amogy offers an innovative clean energy system using ammonia as a renewable fuel. Founded by Hyunho Kim, Jongwon Choi, Seonghoon Woo, and Young Suk Jo in 2020, Amogy has now raised a total of $208.3M in total equity funding and is backed by Yanmar Ventures, Amazon, DCVC, Temasek Holdings, and Newlab.
Investors in the round: AP Ventures, Aramco Ventures, DCVC, Korea Zinc, MOL PLUS, SK Innovation, Temasek Holdings, Yanmar Ventures, Zeon Ventures
Industry: Clean Energy, CleanTech, Energy, Renewable Energy, Sustainability
Founders: Hyunho Kim, Jongwon Choi, Seonghoon Woo, Young Suk Jo
Founding year: 2020
Location: Brooklyn
Total equity funding raised: $208.3M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series A
Description: Menlo Park-based Character.ai provides open-ended conversational applications that let users create characters and converse with them. Founded by Noam ShazeerView Noam Shazeer’s profile in 2021, Character.ai has now raised a total of $150.0M in total equity funding and is backed by Andreessen Horowitz, Elad Gil, SVA, A.Capital Ventures, and Paul Buchheit.
Investors in the round: A.Capital Ventures, Andreessen Horowitz, Elad Gil, Nat Friedman, SVA
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Information Technology, Software
Founders: Noam ShazeerView Noam Shazeer’s profile
Founding year: 2021
Location: Menlo Park
Total equity funding raised: $150.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Venture
Description: San Francisco-based Anthropic is an AI-driven research company that focuses on increasing the safety of large-scale AI systems. Founded by Daniela Amodei, Dario Amodei, Jack Clark, Sam McCandlish, and Tom Brown in 2021, Anthropic has now raised a total of $1.3B in total equity funding and is backed by Google, Spark Capital, Sam Bankman-Fried, Caroline Ellison, and Eric Schmidt.
Investors in the round: Spark Capital
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Information Technology, Machine Learning
Founders: Daniela Amodei, Dario Amodei, Jack Clark, Sam McCandlish, Tom Brown
Founding year: 2021
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $1.3B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series B
Description: San Francisco-based Adept AI is a machine learning research and product lab building general intelligence. Founded by Ashish Vaswani, David Luan, and Niki Parmar in 2022, Adept AI has now raised a total of $415.0M in total equity funding and is backed by NVIDIA, Microsoft, General Catalyst, Spark Capital, and Greylock.
Investors in the round: A.Capital Ventures, Addition, Atlassian Ventures, Caterina Fake, Frontiers Capital, General Catalyst, Greylock, Microsoft, NVIDIA, PSP Growth, Spark Capital, SVA, Workday Ventures
Industry: Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Robotics, Software
Founders: Ashish Vaswani, David Luan, Niki Parmar
Founding year: 2022
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $415.0M  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series E
Description: San Francisco-based Rippling is a human resource management company that offers an all-in-one platform to help manage HR and IT operations. Founded by Parker Conrad and Prasanna Sankar in 2016, Rippling has now raised a total of $1.2B in total equity funding and is backed by Sequoia Capital, Y Combinator, Kleiner Perkins, Social Capital, and UpHonest Capital.
Investors in the round: Greenoaks
Industry: Employment, Human Resources, Information Technology, IT Management, Productivity Tools
Founders: Parker Conrad, Prasanna Sankar
Founding year: 2016
Location: San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $1.2B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. Round: Series I
Description: South San Francisco-based Stripe is a developer-oriented commerce company that helps small and large companies accept web and mobile payments. Founded by John Collison and Patrick Collison in 2010, Stripe has now raised a total of $8.7B in total equity funding and is backed by Google, Sequoia Capital, Andreessen Horowitz, General Catalyst, and Y Combinator.
Investors in the round: Andreessen Horowitz, Baillie Gifford, Founders Fund, General Catalyst, GIC, Goldman Sachs Asset Management, MSD Partners, Temasek Holdings, Thrive Capital
Industry: Finance, FinTech, Mobile Payments, SaaS
Founders: John Collison, Patrick Collison
Founding year: 2010
Location: South San Francisco
Total equity funding raised: $8.7B  The TechWatch Media Group audience is driving progress and innovation on a global scale. With its regional media properties (NYC Tech, LA Tech, London Tech, Paris Tech, Boston Tech) TechWatch Media Group is the highway for technology and entrepreneurship. There are a number of options to reach this audience of the world’s most innovative organizations and startups at scale including developing prominent brand placement, driving demand generation, and building thought leadership among the vast majority of key influencers in the global business community and beyond. Find out how to run a digital campaign that will return your investment here. ABOUT US
ADVERTISE
EDITORIAL GUIDELINES
LEGAL
PRIVACY
TERMS OF USE CONTACT US
ADVERTISE
TIPS
WRITE FOR US NYC VC
NYC TECH EVENTS
NYC TECH NEWS
NYC STARTUPS
NYC COWORKING
TECH DIRECTORY  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC  © 2023 AlleyWatch | All Rights Reserved | Proudly Made for NYC Join the millions and keep up with the stories shaping entrepreneurship. Sign up today. 