Comment Not unlike a post-internet-era Bloomberg Terminal, OpenFin was a startup that joined the revolutionary world of user interfaces to fast-moving information back in 2010. If you cast your mind back, those old interfaces were not good, to put it mildly. Think what it was like ordering a cab 15 years ago? Any app that made that experience better became a way to own the user. And in the same way, OpenFin realized it could put very timely information in front of very pressurized users in the financial world, and thus amp-up their productivity by several degrees. It seems so simple, really. But that simplicity has, today, led OpenFin to secure a $35 million Series D funding round, taking it to $82 million raised to date. This round was led by Bank of America with significant participation from Pivot Investment Partners and ING Ventures. Additional investors in the round include CME Ventures, CTC Venture Capital, SC Ventures and Tribeca Early Stage Partners. OpenFin’s web-based OS has managed to carve out a place in the financial services market as an interface for applications, and, the company says, it’s now used by more than 3,800 banks and wealth and asset management firms in 60+ countries. Admittedly, one of its main competitors is Island, which bills itself as a secure web browser for the enterprise. To date, that company has raised $285 million from the likes of Insight Partners and Sequoia Capital, among others. However, it’s clear there’s more than just a battleground of browsers at stake here. The so-called “toggle tax,” where users switch from one app to another hundreds of times a day, is well known to cost an inordinate amount of time — and time, especially in the financial world, is money. Over an interview, Mazy Dar, CEO of OpenFin told me: “We realised that the problem that we were solving wasn’t a financial problem specifically. It’s really an enterprise problem… where you have desktops that are locked down.” “Think of this as Spotlight Search on steroids. A single search interface that can plug into all of the apps that you’re using. So with one search you can search across all the apps and get really rich results that can then drive workflow,” he added. Other major OpenFin investors include Barclays, CME Ventures, DRW Venture Capital, HSBC, ING Ventures, J.P. Morgan, SC Ventures and Wells Fargo Strategic Capital. VC investors include Bain Capital Ventures and NYCA Partners. The number of financial institutions using OpenFin is claimed by the company to have reached 3,800, across 60+ countries, with the latest deal being with the London Stock Exchange. The company has also expanded its footprint to the U.S. government sector through a strategic partnership and investment from In-Q-Tel (the CIA’s investment arm). Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Welcome to TechCrunch Fintech! This week, we’re looking at the respective demise of Tally and Score, plus examining Klarna’s latest business move. We also have a list of fintech companies…  Fabric has developed a custom RISC-V-based chip that is optimized to run the algorithms necessary to establish zero-knowledge proofs and enable fully homomorphic encryption.  BEVC is the latest life sciences VC to add planetary health to its portfolio, suggesting that the trend is catching hold.  As TikTok Shop gains traction, YouTube is expanding its partnership with Shopify to onboard more brands for its YouTube Shopping affiliate program, the company announced on Tuesday. The expanded partnership…  Waymo disclosed Tuesday it’s now giving more than 100,000 paid robotaxi rides every week across its three main commercial markets in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Phoenix. Those figures were…  Until recently, saving the world usually didn’t involve turning a profit. But as the world has warmed, a range of startups and investors have emerged that have squared the circle,…  The countdown continues! You have 4 days left to lock in your TechCrunch Disrupt 2024 tickets at the discounted rate. Don’t miss the chance to save up to $600 —…  On Monday, the U.S. government formally accused Iran of hacking the Donald Trump campaign. In a joint statement issued by the FBI, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence…  The United States Department of Justice filed a major lawsuit against Live Nation-Ticketmaster in May, arguing that the entertainment giant is acting as a monopoly. An additional 10 state attorneys…  Construction companies deal with a lot of documents — so many that it can be difficult to process and manage them all. According to one recent survey, a third of…  The Rounds, the startup that delivers recurring grocery and household essentials in reusable packaging, announced on Monday its $24 million Series B funding round. The new capital will go toward…  The U.S. Department of Defense is a mammoth organization. It not only employs millions of service members and hundreds of thousands of civilian employees, but also has the world’s largest…  Eppo has closed a new funding round that values the company at over $100 million.  Simulating the real world is a tremendously complex problem if you want to do it at any useful level of fidelity. Traditional techniques are holding back design teams at vehicle…  NASA and the space industry are in agreement: if we want to establish a permanent human presence on the moon, we’ll need to make use of every native resource we…  AI models have proven capable of many things, but what tasks do we actually want them doing? Preferably drudgery — and there’s plenty of that in research and academia. Reliant…  Update: Authorities have yet to access the inside of the sunken yacht, and Mike Lynch is still classified as missing. Other details have emerged in the interim. The accident appears…  Global technology giants are pushing back against attempts by India’s telecom networks to bring internet services under stricter regulation, rejecting arguments that such measures are necessary to create a “level…  Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Powered by WordPress VIP