George Schoenstein, SVP of Marketing, Fusion Connect.   Generative artificial intelligence (AI) is a significant impact on the way you earn a living and whether you'll do so in the future. It's no longer just an abstract, futuristic concept. It's here. Nearly half of the global workforce fears losing their job amid the rise in generative AI tools such as ChatGPT, Google AI and more, according to a recent study by Salesforce, and for good reason. Two-thirds of companies worldwide are already determining how to integrate AI into their workflows. Generative AI is about to provide the biggest disruption to our workflows since the internet's emergence. It will drive a nonlinear growth in productivity across all industries and divide the workforce into three categories based on user adoption. If you want to advance your career in communications, you must ramp up your understanding of AI and incorporate its productivity hacks to make it work for you. If you don't, you will be left behind. People have been fighting automation since the Industrial Revolution. It hasn't gone their way. The Luddites, a band of rogue English textile workers, revolted when manufacturers introduced machinery in the 1810s because they knew they were being replaced. Likewise, protests and unionizing efforts occurred when the Ford Motor Company attempted to speed up its assembly lines in the 1930s. Productivity was at the heart of both cases. Why would an employer pay two people if greater efficiency allowed them to pay just one? When we pay someone to do a job, we don't pay them for their effort. We pay them for the outcome. If someone uses it to achieve 40 hours of production while working just 10, they become twice as valuable if they work just 20 hours—or four times as valuable if they work the full 40. They can also rapidly develop multiple outcomes: AI-assisted tools can increasingly generate work that has been solely the realm of creatives, such as writing and graphic design, accelerating a process that otherwise would take humans days or even weeks to produce. A Sortlist survey found 41% of employers expect ChatGPT to double their marketing and public relations teams' productivity. Even a fraction of that output would still be a colossal step forward because, although a McKinsey study noted remarkable increases in technology have "put a supercomputer in every pocket," productivity growth has averaged just 1.4% over the last 15 years. We're now able to draft pitches, generate images and explore new ideas within minutes. Applications of the technology are only increasing from there. It's clear that by using AI you complete a task faster than if you'd done it entirely yourself. So, if you don't want to use it to further your career, someone else likely will. Generative AI's widespread use will radically alter the shape of the workforce. Three distinct categories of workers will emerge: pioneers, followers and Luddites. I believe the pioneers will be the early adopters and gain a significant first-mover advantage. They are the top 10%, the people who seize every opportunity to drive things forward. They will become leaders by improving their productivity and, in turn, finding ways to fast-track other processes. They will generate desired outcomes and regularly review processes to continue increasing efficiency. Roughly 80% of the workforce will form the followers—those who have AI tools forced upon them, or emerge in their existing tools, like Microsoft’s new Copilot. They may become marginally more productive but will engage with those tools only when prompted. They prefer to stick with traditional methods rather than embrace change. The Luddites will be the 10% of workers who refuse to embrace generative AI. They may dismiss or discredit it, approach it with a poor attitude, or lack the willingness to hone their skills. They may even go a step further and find ways to manipulate tools to produce negative outcomes. They will fail to become productive members of the workforce and be cast aside. Our jobs are being redefined as you read this. So, what's it going to be? Want to be in control of your career? Don't just find ways to incorporate AI tools in your workflows. Leverage them to produce the best possible outcome. The World Economic Forum listed prompt engineers—those who enter information into generative AI tools—as a job of the future. It noted that so many companies will incorporate these tools that the position will be ubiquitous. Right now, though, Salesforce's study showed 66% of leaders don't think their employees have the skills to successfully use AI. That means it won't take much effort to get ahead of the curve. If you're an expert operator of generative AI tools, you will likely manage processes, not just be a cog in the machine. At this stage, you still must develop quality control standards to guard against plagiarism and false outputs. You must also apply layers of human refinement to ensure what's produced is still professional grade—but it won't be long before AI can handle those responsibilities, too. In many cases, effectively leveraging these tools still requires sophisticated skills. Once you develop them, you will have successfully protected yourself against the next wave of automation. The best workers have incorporated a variety of digital tools over the years, including social media, video conferencing and communication platforms such as Microsoft Teams. Generative AI is merely the next step. One economic study presented to the U.S.-European Union Trade and Technology Council last year noted, "AI can now address nonroutine tasks, including tasks in high-skill jobs that until now had never been threatened by any kind of automation." It's time to start thinking about AI to strengthen your skill set as opposed to being threatened by it. If you don't, it won't be long before you're squeezed out of the job market and become irrelevant. Forbes Communications Council is an invitation-only community for executives in successful public relations, media strategy, creative and advertising agencies. Do I qualify? 