kras99 - stock.adobe.com Software development was thrown into the spotlight right at the start of 2022, with the discovery of a vulnerability in the open source Log4J logging service used by developers to monitor their Java applications. This set the stage for a focus on improving the resilience of open source components. Due to the way developers use open source, code libraries often depend on other libraries, which themselves depend on libraries. This creates a software supply chain, where the responsibility for fixing a vulnerability is far removed from the developer writing code. It is this risk in the software supply chain that has led to the White House working with leading software companies to establish a bill of materials for software, which could be used to enable developers to understand where all the components comprising a new piece of software actually comes from and who has responsibility for these components. Beyond security, businesses have also found that it is very difficult to become a software-driven business. Low-code tooling is helping to alleviate the dire lack of skills, but businesses also need to work in a truly agile way and understand how to run software initiatives as normal business operations, rather than big-bang projects.  Here are Computer Weekly’s top 10 software development stories of 2022. Overworked IT departments need a better way to deliver digitally enabled products and services at the speed the business requires. Tech job adverts in the UK are still on the rise, with recruiters saying finding the talent they need for roles could be the biggest challenge of 2022. Software developers are taking longer to fix vulnerabilities and many do not know about the dependencies of open source software components they are using, study finds. We speak to Brad Miller, the chief technology officer at Capital One bank at how to provide flexibility and support for remote software development teams. Once an application programming interface (API) is published, its developer then has responsibility to ensure it is kept up to date and is secure. A 10-point plan to improve the security and resilience of open source software was presented this week at a summit in the US. Conor Barr, chief product officer at retail integration platform Patchworks, discusses whether low or no code could help those low on tech skills to excel in the e-commerce market. In this special edition of the Computer Weekly Downtime Upload podcast, OpenUK’s Amanda Brock speaks to Cliff Saran about open source challenges. GitLab survey shows developers want to produce high-quality code, but ‘shifting’ security left is hard to achieve. When teams use low code for application development, it can save time and money. But don’t neglect testing for potential issues just to deploy the app sooner.  The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Data is one of the most important assets in any organization. To truly protect it, you need a DDR strategy. Here's what you need ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
