
By Amber Guetebier
 Updated on Mar 30, 2023 9:56 PM EDT 15 minute read We may earn revenue from the products available on this page and participate in affiliate programs. Learn More › Owning a lawn care service can be rewarding, especially because so much of the business takes place in the fresh air. But whether a business is offering a stand-alone lawn-mowing service or it’s growing to include landscaping, keeping track of employees and expenses is critical to becoming one of the best lawn care services. Business owners who want to spend more time outdoors and less time behind a computer can purchase the best lawn care scheduling software to meet their business’s needs. These software programs can help owners tackle various tasks, from invoicing and billing to scheduling service visits. Business owners won’t want to overlook this important element that’s key to running a successful lawn service business. The following lawn care scheduling software programs are among the best on the market. Before investing in lawn care scheduling software, there are several factors to consider. These factors include how the software integrates with the business’s current management systems, whether a mobile app is available, and what additional features the software offers. In addition, the price will be a factor in deciding which lawn care software is right for the business. When customers are looking for the best lawn care scheduling software, they’ll want to know what functions and features the software offers them. Functions include what the software is designed to do and what areas of business it will aid. These can consist of service scheduling, business automation, and fleet management. How the software achieves these functions are its features. Features include client management databases, GPS mapping, dispatching, online booking portals, client messaging, automatic invoicing, and vehicle tracking. Business owners will want to consider which areas of their business need the most assistance to determine which functions and features are paramount to invest in. Lawn care software with a mobile app version can be particularly beneficial for lawn care and landscaping businesses since workers are in the field every day. A mobile app can allow technicians on a jobsite to stay connected with management and clients. Different lawn care scheduling software will offer different pricing, varying from free to over $200 per month. While it is common for lawn care software to have monthly subscription tiers, not all do. Some software may have free versions with limited features, and users can unlock more advanced features with a paid version. Customers who purchase lawn care scheduling software will want to know what the software offers for the different price points. Landscaping or lawn care scheduling software can offer a variety of integrations with other software programs. Most offer the ability to integrate with QuickBooks, which is ideal for organizing other business documents, including customer invoices and tax documentation. Some may provide integrations with mobile payment software such as Stripe, making invoicing and processing credit cards in the field more accessible. When evaluating the best lawn care scheduling software, we looked at elements such as integration with existing business management software, the cost of software (including how paid versions stacked up against free software), how the software might match up with specific business sizes and needs, and the overall user experience. Here are the notable options in the field of lawn care billing software and beyond. Pros Cons Why It Made the Cut: Jobber offers many desired features for businesses, both large and small, all at several price points—making it a match for varying budgets, too. Lawn care businesses need a way to communicate with clients and arrange the essential day-to-day business operations—which is where Jobber comes in. Businesses can create estimates, schedule services, send invoices, and get paid using this software. It is compatible with QuickBooks, which makes compiling documents easier during tax season, and Stripe, which allows workers to take payments in the field.  The software enables businesses to set up user-friendly, client-facing hubs where customers can book appointments, message the company, and get quotes. Some reviews claim they could not add or change scheduled events through the mobile app; however, business owners just need to change the permissions to allow events to be modified on mobile.  Jobber offers a slew of additional personalized features, such as thank-you messages, referral programs, and feedback surveys that can be sent directly to clients. These features can result in a business generating more leads for future clients. Invoices can be emailed or texted depending on the client’s preference, making communication more seamless.  Those interested in Jobber’s offerings can try out a 14-day free trial before committing to a subscription plan.  Pros Cons Why It Made the Cut: ServiceTitan delivers critical features such as client management and scheduling along with an extensive library of resources to help owners run and grow their businesses. ServiceTitan offers lawn care businesses the ability to organize their scheduling and client management needs, including invoicing, reporting, and client communication, all in one place. The software also offers a comprehensive library of resources, including blog posts, webinars, and podcasts, for customers to learn how to maximize ServiceTitan’s capabilities and better run their business.  ServiceTitan customers can upgrade specific areas, like their phones, marketing, or payroll system, for more functionality. This a la carte method allows users to get more support in the areas they need without paying for services they might not need. Clients can access the user-friendly hub to book appointments, message technicians or the company directly, and get quotes for requested services. ServiceTitan technical support is available via phone, email, or live chat; ServiceTitan recommends live chat for the fastest response time.  Pros Cons Why It Made the Cut: Yardbook is a software that offers many of the features of paid lawn care scheduling software without the fees, making it ideal for small businesses or those just starting out. Business owners looking for effective, streamlined software that doesn’t break the bank will want to look at Yardbook.  Yardbook is easy to navigate and allows users to quickly access in one place everything they need to run their businesses. This includes scheduling, giving quotes, invoicing, receiving payments, and messaging directly with clients. While there is a paid version of Yardbook, the free version will provide a smaller-scale business with what it needs without the need to upgrade. Some functionality may not suit a business as it grows, as there are fewer options to add or remove features, and the invoices are standardized.  Businesses will want to be aware that Yardbook login does not offer two-factor authentication, which can be a data security risk. Currently, the mobile app is available for Android users. Still, Yardbook offers everything many costlier software programs offer for those on a budget, including integration with Stripe and QuickBooks.  Pros Cons Why It Made the Cut: Service Autopilot offers lawn services the option to automate many necessary daily functions, making business operations smoother. Like other lawn care software, Service Autopilot allows owners to quote, route, invoice, and market their businesses—with one key difference. This software enables lawn care services to automate all of these functions. By automatically sending out invoices or follow-up surveys, business owners don’t have to spend as much time doing those tasks themselves. Service Autopilot requires a startup fee and can be a pricier option than other lawn care management software; however, the ability to automate can be a big advantage for companies with limited resources who want to make sure vital tasks don’t fall through the cracks. The mobile app version is compatible with both iOS and Android. It allows for even more convenient business management, particularly when landscapers or lawn care professionals are in the field.  Pros Cons Why It Made the Cut: Verizon Connect enables lawn care business owners to manage their vehicle fleets without leaving the office, including dispatching and tracking vehicles. Landscaping or lawn care maintenance companies looking for a way to manage a fleet of multiple vehicles will find Verizon Connect to be a simple solution. This software’s functions let managers track multiple vehicles and teams to ensure they are arriving on time at jobsites. The software will also allow business managers to monitor driver behavior, such as speeding and taking unnecessary routes or stops. Business owners will want to know that the contract terms can be unclear, with some users noting that their contract was for a longer term than anticipated or that they were overcharged for services. Interested customers will want to get as many details as possible up front when scheduling a demonstration. Still, fleet management is streamlined and even allows lawn care companies to dispatch vehicles as well as provide reminders for vehicle services and maintenance. Pros Cons Why It Made the Cut: Smart Service is a QuickBooks extension that allows lawn care business owners to manage scheduling and dispatching services. QuickBooks is a software that many businesses use to file taxes, run payroll, and more. And while it can be used for day-to-day operations such as invoicing and reporting, Smart Service can be a valuable upgrade to the software. It allows business owners to seamlessly integrate customer information and schedules with QuickBook, centralizing a business’s important information. Smart Service is only available as an add-on to QuickBooks and cannot be used on its own. The desktop software is compatible with Windows/PC, and the app is available for iOS and Android. Smart Service offers weekly live sessions for users to ask questions in real time and gain useful information about how to best use the software.  Jobber gets the top spot for the best lawn care scheduling software because it offers features that can fit lawn care businesses of any size, and the easy client communication aspect streamlines scheduling and management. For a low-cost option with many of a lawn care company’s desired features, Yardbook is our pick for the best budget choice. To find the best lawn care scheduling software, we researched dozens of business management software options with a focus on programs that offered features specific to the lawn care industry. The final list was selected after evaluation of relevant factors for each lawn care software including seamless integration, how much the software costs up front or ongoing, whether the mobile app version was easy to use, and how compatible with computer operating systems the software may be. We selected awards based on the companies’ strengths and standout features. Any lawn care business owner who is considering purchasing lawn care scheduling software will want to first analyze the size of the business and their goals before deciding on which lawn care business software will best meet their needs. Some software is better suited to landscaping businesses that have larger operations, and may include features such as fleet management. Other software may be more suited to small businesses that have fewer employees and clients. For example, if a small lawn mowing service is expanding its client base and wants to find software to help manage this, the best lawn care scheduling software will offer a straightforward way to manage existing client relationships along with streamlining day-to-day operations. As a business expands, lawn care scheduling software can help a lawn care business manage its time and employee power more effectively and help eliminate mistakes such as overscheduling, failing to invoice, or overlooking a client. A larger operation may find it needs software that assists fast, effective communication with customers and helps streamline quotes, invoicing, and more. Larger companies may be willing to pay more for the customization of these features. The cost of the best lawn care scheduling software can vary depending on how the software structures its pricing. Lawn care management software can be free with a fee for access to premium features. Some software may charge a monthly subscription fee starting as low as $30 to more than $250 per month. Additionally, some software programs for lawn care services charge a startup fee in addition to a tiered monthly pricing structure. There are many other additional costs to starting up and maintaining a lawn care service, such as purchasing some of the best lawn care products, tools, vehicles, and safety equipment—all of which can set lawn care business owners back thousands of dollars. It’s important that a new business consider the software that best suits its size and potential growth. While investing in software may not be as high a priority as acquiring top-rated lawn care equipment, missed invoices and poor client communication can cost a lawn care service money in the long run. Lawn care scheduling software can be a worthwhile investment for lawn care businesses both big and small. With integration into existing invoicing and expense-tracking software like QuickBooks, it’s easy to improve the customer experience while saving business owners valuable time. Every lawn care business has different needs, but there are some common questions that many lawn care and landscaping business owners may have before purchasing software for a lawn care business. The best lawn care scheduling software helps business owners and managers schedule services, manage client databases, and keep track of finances. There are even lawn care routing software options that help businesses optimize the best order in which to visit clients within a day. After taking into account our careful evaluation, we can say that the best lawn care software includes any of the software mentioned on our list. By using the best lawn care scheduling software, business owners or managers can keep track of their lawn care customers. To start a lawn care business, first decide what type of lawn care services the business will offer. Will it be mowing and seasonal cleanup, or will the business also offer basic landscaping such as hedge trimming? Next, it’s important to establish the business legally according to the business laws where you live. You’ll then need to purchase quality lawn care equipment, insure your company to protect it and any clients, evaluate the right rates for your services based on the local average cost, and implement a marketing plan to get clients. If you are starting a lawn care business, it is most likely that you will be required to get a general business license, although there are some places that require no licensing at all. It’s important to know the local licensing laws where you are starting your lawn care business. Lawn care services may charge by the hour or by the service and may set their pricing based on the size of the lawn. Many companies charge a weekly or monthly fee of a flat rate for specific services. Typically, lawn care costs range anywhere from $48 to $211, with the average cost being about $129. Lawn mowing is priced between $25 to $150 per week, with a national average of about $45. The price varies depending on the size of the yard, the frequency of mowing, and the services included. Mowing in patterns is not only attractive, but it can also help maintain the health of the grass by encouraging regular mowing, allowing the grass to receive the light and water it needs. To achieve specific patterns, attach a roller system to the lawn mower. Creating the patterns is dependent upon the direction you follow when you mow. There are several different patterns to try, all of which add big curb appeal to the lawn. Stripes are the easiest to achieve by changing the direction of the lawn mower at each edge of the lawn. Other patterns include checkerboard, waves, circular, and diamond patterns. Contributing Writer Amber Guetebier is a gardener, landscaper, and nursery professional with 25 years of experience. She began writing for BobVila.com in 2021 and writes about plants and botanical oddities at Rotten Botany, along with other online publications such as Angi, Cubby, and Motherly. We’re committed to testing and reviewing products so you can make an informed decision. Advertising does not influence our product reviews and it never will. We always focus our coverage on standout products and never hesitate to mention their flaws and quirks. By using our affiliate links, you’re supporting our work and helping us continue to provide expert analysis. Find out more about our product evaluation process. 
By Timothy Dale
 
By Tom Scalisi
 
By Nicole Fallon-Peek
 
By Tony Carrick
 
By Catherine Hiles
 
By Tom Scalisi
 
By Jeff Keleher
 
By Nicole Fallon-Peek, Jeff Keleher
 Subscribe to our newsletters for the best tips, tricks, and ideas to transform your home and yard. By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Articles may contain affiliate links which enable us to share in the revenue of any purchases made. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service. © 2024 Recurrent. All rights reserved. 