Cricket Australia have announced a long-term broadcast rights deal with Foxtel and Seven, keeping the sport on the two networks until 2031.  After months of speculation and negotiations, the parties reached an agreement on Tuesday that will see mass changes to the Australian cricket schedule. The biggest change will see the Big Bash League shortened from 61 matches to 43 matches, allowing for greater player availability and closer alignment with school holidays. The deal is worth $1.512 billion to Aussie cricket and is the largest deal in the sport's history.  MORE: Neser catch divides cricket world | McDonald floats 10-year first for Aussies As part of the new deal, Seven Network have now withdrawn their legal proceedings against CA relating to recent seasons impacted by COVID.  The new broadcast deal for Foxtel and Seven will include:  A seven-year $1.512 billion deal for Australian Cricket pic.twitter.com/6lyuAAITEk CA CEO Nick Hockley believes the extension is a major boost for Australian cricket fans, players and staff. “We are delighted to be continuing our broadcast partnership with the Foxtel Group and Seven under an improved deal," he said. “The quality and reach of the Foxtel Group and Seven’s cricket production is first class and the outstanding service they provide cricket fans was a strong consideration in our decision to continue with this successful partnership.“The breadth and quality of cricket to be played in Australia over the coming summers is extraordinary and we are looking forward to working with our partners to not only televise the games, but to promote and grow cricket by encouraging more kids to pick up a bat and ball.“This is also an important commercial outcome for all of Australian Cricket and one that will ensure we can continue to deliver important community programs, support volunteers and increase participation to keep cricket strong.“We sincerely thank all the broadcasters who participated in the process. The strong levels of interest in cricket again emphasised both the enduring value of cricket and the place it holds in the hearts of Australians.” CA revealed there was a 'competitive process' between other rival networks prior to the deal being finalised.  Liam is a content producer for The Sporting News Australia.