Argos owner Sainsbury's announced plans to shut around 100 stores by the end of 2024 earlier this year to focus on expanding its presence in supermarkets Another seven Argos stores are to shut their doors over the summer with the first set to close for good on August 8.  Argos owner Sainsbury's announced plans to shut around 100 stores by the end of 2024 earlier this year to focus on expanding its presence in supermarkets.  Around 45 Argos branches have closed in the last 12 months while around 25 new branches had been opened up in Sainsbury's stories reports the Sun.  Five Argos stores look set to shut across August however not all sites have a confirmed closure date as of writing.  The first store reportedly set to close will be Argos' Hull branch in St Stephans Shopping Centre which will shut it doors on August 8.  However, shoppers should not be concerned as a new Argos branch will open in Sainsbury's Sessle store the following day on August 9.  Argos' store at Alexandra Dock in Grimsby will be shutting its doors around August 9 but will be opening its new branch in Sainsbury's at the same time.  Scunthorpe's Argos branch at Lakeside Retail Park is due to relocate around August 15 or 16 - the new Argos site will be located in the Sainsbury's store on Doncaster Road.  Three Welsh stores are reportedly set to close in August however the date for all of these has not been confirmed.   These sites include the Argos store in Cardiff Bay, the branch at Parc Plaza in Bridgend, and the Cardiff store on Newport Road. Another store without an official closure date is the Argos at Riverside in Norwich - the new Argos site will open in the Sainsbury's on Queens Road reports the Eastern Daily Press.  An Argos spokesperson told the Mirror: “The transformation of our Argos store and distribution network has been progressing at pace for several years now, improving availability, convenience and service for customers.  "As part of this, we are continuing to open new Argos stores and collection points in many of our Sainsbury’s supermarkets, enabling customers to purchase thousands of technology, home and toy products from Argos while picking up their groceries.” Get our money-saving tips and top offers direct to your inbox with the Mirror Money newsletter