By Arthur Parashar and Nick Fagge   Published:  11:55 EDT, 10 March 2023   |  Updated:  12:08 EDT, 10 March 2023      7 View  comments  This is the heartbreaking moment that two brothers laughed and joked together as they took part in a 'sour challenge' video just days before they were found dead with their mother. Seven-year-old Maximus and Alexander, nine, were found alongside their mother Nadja de Jager, 47, inside their home on Mayfield Road, Belvedere, near Bexleyheath in south east London. Ms de Jager, who is understood to have worked as managing director of a local property company, described herself on Facebook as a 'single mother of two beautiful boys, a professional that loves travelling and fitness'. The emotional five-minute video, uploaded on YouTube just 11 days before their tragic deaths, illustrates the special bond that the two brothers had as they entertained viewers with their funny reactions to eating sour sweets. Max opened the moving video by saying: 'Hi guys it's Max and Alex with another video.' They then sweetly cuddled up to each other and showed off their toy puffins to the camera before delving into the challenge. Seven-year-old Maximus (right) and nine-year-old Alexander (left), were found dead at home along with their mother The brothers were laughing and joking while filming the video which was uploaded days before their deaths The 47-year-old mother who was found dead in her London home with her two sons has been identified as Nadja de Jager (pictured). She is understood to have worked as managing director of a local property company The brothers, who had also filmed a 'Mint Challenge' nine months ago, warmed viewers' hearts by making funny faces and bouncing up and down as they hilariously reacted to treats ranging from Skittles Giants Crazy Sours Sweets to pieces of lemon. In a sweet moment towards the end of the video, the brothers - in synchrony - rated the lemon as the most bitter and the Skittles Sours as the tastiest. Older brother Max finished the clip by saying: 'Bye, see you in the next video!' Tragically, there would be no later video uploaded.  Police confirmed the identities of the three victims on Friday and said they are not looking for anyone else in connection with the devastating tragedy.  Neighbours are now mourning the loss of the family following the grim discovery at lunchtime on Thursday. One resident told MailOnline: 'I'm absolutely shocked. 'The first thing I knew something bad had happened was when the police turned up at lunchtime yesterday. I've since found out that Nadia and her two boys are dead.' Police had called at 11.50am on Thursday to concerns for the welfare of the occupants of the home. Officers forced entry to the address to find the bodies. Detective Inspector Ollie Stride said: 'This is a deeply sad case and we are continuing to establish the circumstances that led to this tragic incident. Neighbours have described their shock following the grim discovery at lunchtime on Thursday. Pictured: Seven-year-old Maximus Police said that they are deeply sad case and are continuing to establish the circumstances of the deaths. Pictured: Nine-year-old Alexander  Maximus (left) and Alexander (right) were found dead after police were forced to enter the London property  'I would like to thank the local community for their cooperation while our officers go about their enquiries. 'Our thoughts today are very much with the family as they struggle to come to terms with their loss and we ask that their privacy be respected at this extremely difficult time.'  One neighbour told MailOnline: 'I didn't know her [Ms de Jager] well, only to say hello to, but she was always smart and her kids were well looked after. 'In the summer the boys would play happily in the garden. God knows what happened.' She added that the family appeared recently to be preparing to move out but then changed their minds.  'A couple of weeks ago it looked like they were moving out. She's taken the curtains down and thrown a load of old toys away,' she said. 'And then everything went back to normal.' Another neighbour told how the family had moved into the quiet residential street about five years ago but had not fully integrated. She said: 'She moved in about five years ago. I always said hello to her but she didn't really want to take it any further than that.' Officers and forensic teams at Mayfield Road, Belvedere, near Bexleyheath in south east London Detectives are not actively seeking anyone else in connection with the investigation (forensics teams are pictured at the scene on Friday) Post-mortem examinations will be arranged and next of kin were notified and they continue to be supported by specialist officers Mother-of-two Bukky Adekoya shared the feeling of shock at the children's murders. She told MailOnline: 'It's really really sad to think that something like this could happen in my street. 'I have only just found out what happened and I'm totally shocked. 'I have two children and I cannot imagine that this could happen here. It is a really nice place to live. It is quiet and there is a park at the end of the road where the children can play.' Another neighbour, who gave his name only as Victor, added: 'This is such a tragedy. This is a very safe and happy place to live. The children can play safely outside their houses or in the park at the end of the road. 'This is a very sought out location. If anyone puts their house up for sale it goes very quickly.' Post-mortem examinations are being arranged and the next-of-kin have been informed. The terraced property - which is on a road where the average house price in the last 12 months was £395,000 - was sealed off on Friday following the discovery of the bodies on Thursday morning Children's toys were pictured at the scene at a property on Mayfield Road in Belvedere, south London A bouquet of flowers has been left outside the property as neighbours reveal their shock at the tragic news on Friday  Police are pictured at the scene on Friday morning. Concerns were raised for the welfare of the occupants on Mayfield Road at 11.50am yesterday The terraced property - which is on a road where the average house price in the last 12 months was £395,000 - was sealed off on Friday following the discovery of the bodies on Thursday morning. Forensic teams were seen searching the grey Mitsubishi pick-up truck in the drive of the 1940s terraced house on Friday afternoon. A Met Police spokesman said: 'Police were called at 11:50hrs on Thursday to concerns for the welfare of occupants at an address on Mayfield Road in Belvedere. 'Officers and London Ambulance Service attended. At the scene, a 47-year-old woman and two boys, aged nine and seven, were found deceased inside the property. 'The Met's Specialist Crime Command is leading the investigation. At this early stage, detectives are not actively seeking anyone else in connection with the investigation. A crime scene remains in place.' A London Ambulance Service spokesman said: 'We were called at 12.16pm yesterday (March 9) to reports of an incident on Mayfield Road, Belvedere. 'We sent a medic in a fast response car and two incident response officers to the scene. 'Sadly three people were pronounced dead at the scene.' Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group