It's time to celebrate the arrival of spring in the Grand River Valley with a glass of Ohio sparkling wine. Each weekend during the month of April, three Northeast Ohio wineries along with Seven Brothers Distilling Co. will be featuring two glasses of their sparkling wine paired with a small plate for $10.  “We are excited to be a part of this group of wineries in the Grand River Valley to bring you the first Bubbly Trail in Northeast Ohio,” said winemaker Tony Kosicek, owner of Kosicek Vineyards.  Here are the details on each location and what they will serve. Ferrante Winery & Ristorante — A welcome glass of Grand River Valley sparkling riesling will be served upon arrival. Ricotta cavatelli in a light Champagne crème with sweet peas will then be paired with a glass of Sparkling Star Seeker moscato. Hours are 1-5 p.m. Friday through Sunday every weekend in April.  Kosicek Vineyards — A welcome glass of Sparkling Rhapsody will be paired with raspberry sorbet and a vanilla wafer followed by a glass of its estate sparkling riesling. Hours are 1-5 p.m. Friday through Sunday every weekend in April.  Laurello Vineyards — A welcome glass of sparkling rose will be paired with green apple slices, brie cheese and a drizzle of honey. A glass of sparkling Illuminata, which is a blend of riesling, gewurztraminer and muscat grapes, will follow. A portion of each bottle of sparkling rose sold will be donated to breast cancer research. Hours are 1-5 p.m. Friday through Sunday every weekend in April.   Seven Brothers Distilling will serve the Bubble Bee, a spring-inspired craft cocktail, made with its Seven Botanicals Gin, honey, lemon and a splash of Ferrante's sparkling moscato. A sweet and salty snack mix will make this a delicious pairing.  A glass of Ferrante Grand River Valley sparkling riesling will follow. Hours are 4-8 p.m. Friday, and 2-6 p.m. Saturday and Sunday every weekend in April.  Send me an email at philyourglass@gmail.com with any wine questions and follow me on Instagram @pmasturzo_philyourglass