Gary Chalupa went from being on a ventilator in 2021 to swinging clubs with his brothers at Benson Golf Course in 2023  Gary Chalupa went from being on a ventilator in 2021 to swinging clubs with his brothers at Benson Golf Course in 2023  The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Gary Chalupa went from being on a ventilator in 2021 to swinging clubs with his brothers at Benson Golf Course in 2023  After a nearly three year hiatus, Gary Chalupa is back on the green playing the sport he loves.  Chalupa shows off his "I Beat COVID" shirt.  "I wear it every chance I get as kind of a reminder," Chalupa said.  Back in July 2021, Chalupa contracted COVID-19 at his brother's annual golf trip.  "I couldn't breathe," Chalupa remembered.  His wife dropped him off at a hospital. Chalupa had to go in by himself. He awaited some scary news that he was being put on a ventilator.  "What little I knew about COVID back then meant I was going to die," Chalupa said. "I had a chance to call (my wife) and say goodbye and then I don't remember much." He said it was sometime around November of that year before he would come to.  "The nursing staff told me for every one day I was in the hospital it would take three days to recover. I was in the hospital for seven months, if you do the math, that's three months short of three years," Chalupa said.  But there was always something in the back of Chalupa's mind. Chalupa has golfed almost all of his adult life except for the three year stint serving overseas.  "At one point I had my handicap down to 8 now it's probably a 35," Chalupa said.  Even though he wanted to play his body was not ready.  "I couldn't even swing a golf club. I mean the desire has always been there but I wondered if I was going to be able to physically," Chalupa said.  Until now. He met his friends and brothers back at Benson Golf Course for their annual trip.   "No laughing when we go up to the tee box," Chalupa said.  To his and every one's surprise, Chalupa's got his swing back!  He definitely never lost the love for the game.  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.