From relaxing getaways to fun-filled adventures, there's plenty to do in Scotland this summer With the weather getting warmer and the sun shining more and more, we're all getting in the summer mood. It's time to take advantage of the better weather and explore Scotland some more, whether it's a solo trip, a memorable family experience or a fun day with friends. We've found seven different things you can do this summer to make 2023 one to remember. Embark on an extraordinary summer adventure at Blair Drummond Safari and Adventure Park.  With activities to suit all ages, this is a full day out! Encounter more than 300 magnificent animals, including giraffes, tigers and chimpanzees - all cared for by an expert team of keepers and vets.  Get up close and personal with lions, rhinos and monkeys in the drive-thru reserves, come face-to-face with lemurs in their walk-through enclosure, and learn lots of fun facts at educational talks and animal training demonstrations throughout the day.  Expend some energy in the giant adventure playground or go for a paddle in the pedal boats. Enjoy a variety of dining options, sheltered BBQ and picnic areas, accessible viewing platforms and exciting amusement rides.  This unforgettable experience is open daily from 10am to 5.30pm (Monday to Friday) and until 7pm on selected Saturdays and Sundays throughout July and August.  Where to go: Blair Drummond, Stirling, FK9 4UR Find out more: visit blairdrummond.com and follow on Facebook Plan your July getaway to Highland Perthshire with 30% off July self-catering breaks at Moness Resort. Cottage breaks include all the essentials, including linen, crockery and utensils, plus on-site dining and leisure facilities. There's free booking flexibility and book-direct benefits - use the promo code SUN23CO when booking.  Self-catering breaks include your very own kitchen and living space, and there are pet-friendly cottages, hot tub cottages and larger cottages also available. Additionally, there are hotel breaks including breakfast, a £25 food credit per adult and use of its leisure facilities from £149. Use the promo code SUN23H when booking. Where to go: Crieff Rd, Aberfeldy, PH15 2DY Find out more: visit moness.com and follow on Facebook Have a wild day out at Highland Wildlife Park, home of the Royal Zoological Society of Scotland (RZSS)! See your favourite animals against the stunning backdrop of the Cairngorms National Park and meet a range of native animals such as Scotland’s wildcat, as well as species from around the world including snow leopards, Amur tigers and Scotland’s only polar bears. You can also drive around the main reserve, where you will see many hoofed animals including bison, deer and elk. Your ROARsome day out awaits! Where to go: Kincraig, Kingussie, PH21 1NL Find out more: book online at highlandwildlifepark.org.uk and follow on Facebook Visit Edinburgh Zoo at a reduced rate this summer and see what your favourite animals get up to after hours! After 5pm on Saturday, July 8, 15 and 22, entry to the zoo will go down to £10 for children and £15 for adults. Whether you want to see the paddling penguins, mischievous meerkats or fabulous flamingos, this is a ZOOnique opportunity to enjoy Edinburgh Zoo whilst saving your pennies! Food and drink will be available to purchase throughout the night and the gift shop will remain open so you can take home a special souvenir. Where to go: 134 Corstorphine Rd, Corstorphine, Edinburgh, EH12 6TS Find out more: book online at edinburghzoo.org.uk and follow on Facebook Summer is here and it’s time to get your 'glamp on' with Lothian Glamping! Its Summer Special sees the Hare’s Warren Pod available for only £500 for four nights in early July and the first week in August, Monday to Thursday.  Would you like a luxury work-from-home environment or a break from the office? Lothian Glamping even has super fast wifi to help you stay connected, so you can work hard during the day and relax in the hot tub at night – what’s not to love? Whether it’s a luxury break in the heart of Scotland or a change of workspace for a few days, Lothian Glamping has got you covered this summer! Where to go: Ballencrieff Farm, Bathgate, EH48 4LD Find out more: visit lothianglamping.co.uk and follow on Facebook Discover a world of enchantment at Kelburn’s Secret Forest! Embark on a thrilling family adventure immersed in the beauty of nature. Unleash the power of outdoor play as you explore winding trails, hidden nooks, and majestic trees.  Let your children's imaginations soar as they navigate through nature's playground, building lifelong memories in the great outdoors.  From treehouse escapades to magical encounters, the Secret Forest invites you to unlock the magic within. Step into a realm where exploration and imagination intertwine, and let the forest unveil its captivating mysteries. Where to go: Fairlie, Ayrshire, KA29 0BE Find out more: visit kelburnestate.com and follow on Facebook PRIME Football Coaching is delighted to be hosting another football-filled holiday camp schedule in the Southside of Glasgow.  This will be its third consecutive year running summer camps from the Pro-Soccer venue at Rouken Glen Park and it is aiming for it to be its biggest and best yet!  The PRIME Football Coaching team look forward to hosting players of all abilities, aged from 4 - 14 years old, and providing them with a safe, fun environment to express themselves, make new friends and exercise throughout their summer holidays. Where to go: Rouken Glen Road, Glasgow, G46 7UG Find out more: visit primefootball.uk, click here for the summer schedule, and follow on Facebook