This video can not be played Kevin Sinfield reached the finish line during the Rugby League World Cup final Rugby star Kevin Sinfield has raised £1.5m for charity after completing seven ultra marathons in seven days. He was greeted with huge cheers when he reached the Old Trafford finish line during half-time in the Rugby League World Cup final. Sinfield has been raising money for motor neurone disease (MND) charities after the diagnosis of ex-Leeds Rhinos teammate Rob Burrow in 2019. He said he "just wanted to be a great friend" by fundraising to find a cure. "If we can all try and be a bit of a better friend from time to time, I think we'll have a bit of a better place to live in." This video can not be played Sinfield reunited with Rob Burrow outside Headingley Stadium The 42-year-old called Burrow "an absolute champion" and praised "the way the Burrow family have been so courageous and brave". Speaking during the Australia v Samoa game, an emotional Sinfield thanked the public for their support, saying: "There's one thing for sure - that our country cares. "It cares about people who need help and that MND community need us, they need support, they need love and we've got to find a cure." Sinfield's task started in Edinburgh on Sunday, and passed through Melrose, Newcastle and York. The Oldham-born star reached Old Trafford in Manchester on Saturday afternoon after covering 300 miles (482km). Sinfield thanked the public for their support during the arduous run He surpassed his fundraising target of £777,777 - a nod to the number 7 shirt worn by Burrow, who greeted him at Leeds' Headingley Stadium after the Yorkshire leg on Friday. The route covered locations that resonated with Burrow, ex-Bradford City footballer Stephen Darby and former Scottish rugby union player Doddie Weir, who all have MND. The funds will be split between five charities supporting people impacted by the debilitating condition, external, which affects the brain and nerves. Allow Twitter content? This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’. Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, external, Twitter, external and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk, external. Sinfield welcomed by Burrow on ultra marathon run Sinfield begins 300-mile Ultra 7 in 7 run for MND Rob Burrow-inspired exhibition explores MND 'I don't look too far into the future' - Slater on MND Rugby star and fundraiser receives OBE at Windsor MND Association Ultra 7 in 7 challenge ITV Emmerdale spoilers confirm Mack in danger after farm incident with dangerous bull Macclesfield pub to entertain punters in aid of foodbank Who is Mike Lynch? British technology tycoon missing after yacht sinks The Encrochat dealer and firearms 'broker' who circulated 'guns shopping list' My £1,400-per-month Salford flat is infested with cockroaches - it's all so s*** and I want out Cowabunga! Iconic 1990s retro toys comeback in supermarket deals Hillary Clinton tells Democratic faithful Kamala Harris 'writing a new chapter' Security fence breached by Gaza war protesters at Democratic convention UK tech tycoon among six missing after yacht sinks Power, oil and a $450m painting - insiders on the rise of Saudi's Crown Prince Who is British tech tycoon Mike Lynch? In pictures: Blue supermoon glows red Tinashe's Nasty named TikTok's song of the summer What to expect from the 2024 Democratic National Convention India's schoolgirls are leading a silent cycling revolution  Russians tell BBC they are worried and angry at Ukraine incursion Long-doubted by Democrats, Kamala Harris faces her biggest political moment Switzerland offers cash prize to get munitions out of lakes The story of the so-called M&S pyjama killer Amber and Julia look into a couple's life for clues about what led to their fatal lockdown row Scott Mills takes on Celebrity Race Across the World This series is no holiday! Four celebs, 24 countries, zero VIP treatment The role of social media in violent disorder How people used social media during the violence that broke out in parts of the UK Stranded whales caught on camera A pod of 77 pilot whales was found stranded on a beach in Orkney © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.