Let's overcome the climate crisis and create a promising future for all. Let’s respect, protect and restore nature so it can sustain all life. Let’s reimagine communities to build resilience and increase well-being. Raise money for the Foundation. Give stocks or other publicly traded securities. Help restore and protect nature for generations to come. Provide ongoing, reliable funds. Protect the people and places you love. Sorry, but your search returned no results. Try searching with different keywords. 

Load More

 The Butterflyway Project is a volunteer-led movement that is growing habitat for bees and butterflies in neighbourhoods throughout Canada. The Butterflyway Project is a citizen-led movement growing highways of habitat for bees and butterflies across Canada. In 2017, the David Suzuki Foundation initiated the Butterflyway Project, and its sister L’effet Papillon in Quebec, in five Canadian cities. This volunteer-led movement brings nature home to neighbourhoods, one butterfly-friendly garden at a time. From inception to 2023, the foundation trained 1,450 Butterflyway Rangers in hundreds of communities throughout Canada. Rangers then connected with neighbours to create habitat gardens in residential yards, school and corporate grounds, boulevards and parks. When 12 or more patches are established, a new Butterflyway is born. Here is a summary of Ranger accomplishments up to 2023: The Butterflyway Project is based on our Homegrown National Park Project, an award-winning initiative that created butterfly-friendly corridors in three Toronto neighbourhoods from 2013 to 2015. In 2020, the Butterflyway Project received the Canadian Museum of Nature’s Nature Inspiration Award. Project popularity surged in 2021, with 1,000 Canadians applying to become Butterflyway Rangers, and it has remained at that level ever since. Learn more about Butterflyway Rangers here. The David Suzuki Foundation is committed to helping Canadians rewild their neighbourhoods. Here is a list of additional pollinator and native plant gardening resources. Thank you for your interest in the Butterflyway Project. Ranger recruitment for 2024 is complete.  This map includes some of the many habitat gardens and Butterflyways planted and tended to by Butterflyway Rangers and their teams. You will be surprised how easy it is to grow native wildflowers and grasses from seed through winter sowing on a balcony or in a backyard. Let us show you how! Read our latest statements released to the media related to the Butterflyway Project Protect the people and places you love. Donate today. 
Yes — I want to donate today! 
 
						Canadian charitable number: BN 127756716RR0001
US charitable number: 94-3204049

The David Suzuki Foundation acknowledges Indigenous Peoples throughout Canada, including First Nations, Inuit and Métis — more than 900,000 people living in around 630 Indigenous communities and in cities and towns across these lands.
					 ©
					2024
					David Suzuki Foundation.
										Website by 					
Briteweb

 ©
		2024
		David Suzuki Foundation.
				Website by 		Briteweb
