Home > Trello Roblox Project Slayers is an action RPG style fighting game that will have you creating a character in the world of Demon Slayers, which is a popular anime and manga. If you want to get the best knowledge on how to do things in the experience, you will need to search the web for certain things. We’ll tell you where you can find the Trello so you can learn everything you need to know about the game. If you’re in need of some information on the game, you can likely find it by heading to the Project Slayers Trello page. Just click that link and you will arrive at the Trello, which contains a variety of details on how the experience functions. If you’re in need of some free stuff, you should consider heading to our Project Slayers Codes page which contains all of the freebies that exist in the game. We update it as soon as possible, which means it will always have the codes you need to get useful stuff. You can now make use of the daily spinner in the main menu of the game to get free stuff. Once you select your character, look to the right side of your screen for the spinner. Each spin has a 12.5% chance to land on any of the options. Here are the rewards you can get: The Trello page contains details on NPCs, quests, locations, items, weapons, trainers, breaths, demon blood arts, races, equipment, bosses, clans, gamepass, game mechanics, and a whole lot more. It’s a great way to get a lot of information at a glance. It is a bit simpler than a Wiki, because everything is on the same page and easily accessible! Unfortunately, the Trello is missing some information, particularly on the controls and how to drop items. For more specific information, we have guides on how to get spins, water breathing, become a demon, and all of the races that you can obtain in the game. Still have questions? Consider heading to the Project Slayers Discord to get them answered! The Discord has a Questions channel where you can ask stuff that isn’t covered on the Trello. If you’re looking to change up your clan or demon blood art you are going to need spins. These can be obtained through codes, purchasing with Ore, or buying them with Robux. Unfortunately, there’s no other way to get these right now! A lot of it depends on what type of breathing or demon art you plan on using. However, anything that is Supreme, Mythic, or Legendary is going to be very solid. We have more details on this in our Project Slayers Clan Tier List. Yes, there’s a Wiki for Project Slayers, but it isn’t as detailed as the Trello. While it will probably get better over time, I would stick with the Trello for now because it is currently the better option. You need to locate Muzan, who can only be found at night in a bunch of different locations. You will then need to collect 5 Blue Spider Flower Lillies and to bring Doctor Higoshima to Muzan. The Blue Spider Lillies spawn randomly around the map, even in towns, so you just have to kind of run around and get lucky. After you’ve got the flowers and bring them to Doctor Higoshima and then carry him to Muzan. As a reward, you will get Muzan’s Blood which has a chance to turn you into a Demon! Trello is a project management tool that allows people to write and edit cards that contain useful information. Roblox developers have used these quite often as a way to get important information about the experience to players of the game. Trello boards have a variety of uses and can be used for free, which makes them quite appealing to the Roblox crowd. That’s all you’ll need to find the Trello for Project Slayers. Be sure to head to the Roblox section of our website for more great information about games on the platform. Shaun Savage is the founder and editor-in-chief of Try Hard Guides. He has been covering and writing about video games for over 9 years. He is a 2013 graduate of the Academy of Art University with an A.A. in Web Design and New Media. In his off-time, he enjoys playing video games, watching bad movies, and spending time with his family. All comments go through a moderation process, and should be approved in a timely manner. To see why your comment might not have been approved, check out our Comment Rules page! This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Comment Nickname (Required)  Email (Required)   Save my nickname and email in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ