Video Gamer is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Prices subject to change. Learn more These Project Mugetsu codes will have you leveling up faster than you can shout “Bankai!” This Roblox experience borrows heavily from Tite Kubo’s hit anime, Bleach, allowing players to dive into a diverse and dangerous world to slay Hollows and other monsters. Project Mugetsu is one of the biggest and best anime Roblox games you’ll ever find, with over 10k active players most of the time. With so many players active at any given time, Project Mugetsu can be incredibly competitive. In addition to the usual Roblox promo codes, you’ll want to redeem PM codes below for free spins, rerolls, and boosts to help you make the most of your time in-game. These are currently no active Project Mugetsu codes. These are the expired Project Mugetsu codes that have been removed from the game: There are a lot of Roblox Project Mugetsu codes to redeem. Fortunately, it is remarkably easy to get those free rewards and redeem codes. Just follow these simple steps: It is that simple. Your chosen rewards should be automatically added to your character once you click Play. Our Project Mugetsu codes will help you make a solid start in the game, but it is far from the only Roblox experience to use codes like these.  PM codes are released periodically by developer Osiris Productions. Though you can keep track of any code announcements on Twitter or the game’s official Discord, your best bet is to bookmark this page as we update it regularly with all the latest codes for you to redeem for in-game rewards. Project Mugetsu codes grant a variety of rewards for free with no purchase required whatsoever. Inputting the code in-game can give you free spins, legendary orbs, rerolls, resets, and gold. Just make sure you codes as quickly as possible in case they expire. You can check out our list of Your Bizarre Adventure codes for another anime-themed Roblox game, or you can see if your personal favourite made our list of the top 10 best Roblox games currently available. Otherwise, check out the latest Coin Master free spins and coins links, Boku No Roblox codes, King Legacy codes, and Project Slayers codes for more Roblox game codes and freebies. Trent Cannon is a guides writer at VideoGamer. He has been covering video games since 2013, writing reviews, features, guides, and news about the industry. 
By subscribing, you agree to our Privacy Policy and may receive occasional deal communications; you can unsubscribe anytime.
