Apr 23, 2023 Staff photos / R. Michael Semple
This is an overview of the construction at the new Warren City School District wellness center, which is being built between the high school and the football stadium. The $36.1 million, 120,000-square-foot facility is more than half done.
 WARREN — The Warren City School District’s wellness center is taking shape, as anyone passing Warren G. Harding High School can see. Construction started last summer on the new $36.1 million, 120,000-square-foot facility. The two-story building is rising between the high school and the football stadium. John Lacy, Warren City School District director of operations, said about 50 to 60 percent of the project is done — and about half of the project costs have been spent, or $18 million. He said what people can see recently are the steel joists that have gone up. The joists are open-web steel trusses used as primary framing members for a floor or roof system. A 120-ton crane will be putting in the steel joists. “We are hoping to have everything under roof by next winter. The locker rooms will be able to be used this fall. We are hoping the esports and golf simulators are to be installed this fall,” Lacy said. Officials with Phillips Sekanick Architects have said the locker wing will open in August 2023 and the remainder of the building in early 2024. Lacy said much of the exterior roof work will be done in the fall.   GOOD WEATHER Because of a mild winter, the project is on schedule with no weather conditions affecting the work, Lacy said. “The mild winter helped wonderfully. You are starting to see the form take place,” Lacy said. At Tuesday’s board of education meeting, the board approved bids on several contracts for the project totaling more than $7 million including roofing and flooring work. These are Metalcrafts at $470,288 for miscellaneous metals; DCC at $1.679 million for general trades; TEMA Roofing at $2.396 million for roofing; Imperial Glazing Systems at $1.645 million for aluminum and glass; George Babyak Painting at $306,890 for painting; and LM Construction at $1.205 million  for metal framing and drywall. Lacy said with the approvals last week, there are few bids remaining for work on the remainder of the project.  He said officials have been reviewing value engineering, which helps in lowering the price of various projects involved with the main project. The district has engaged DeSalvo Construction for construction manage-at-risk services, which had solicited, tabulated and investigated bids for the bid packages and found respective lowest responsible bidders. Federal grant money is paying for the bulk of the project but the district also has set aside funds for covering project costs. CENTER PURPOSE Schools Superinten-dent Steve Chiaro has said the facility can be used for many purposes by a variety of students. He said the center will be not only for athletics but for educational and health care purposes, expanding wellness opportunities for students. The groundbreaking took place last July. The first floor will include a 200-meter track with a multipurpose surface inside. On the second floor will be an additional walking track. Besides the running track and walking track, a multi-sport practice area, yoga and sensory rooms, study stairs, esports facility and robotics lab will be included.  The facility will incorporate services of several health care providers focusing on student and community wellness.  Chiaro said while work is continuing, some of the facility will be able to be used in the fall before the rest is finished. Today's breaking news and more in your inbox MESOPOTAMIA — The Ohio Department of Transportation plans to rehabilitate the existing bridges on state Route 534 ... NILES — Starting this month, work will begin on a more than $2.5 million project to add a splash pad, gazebo, ... NEWTON FALLS — Village council has hired Jamie Vernaccini as its new finance director, effective ... Joseph G. Butler Jr. was an American industrialist remembered primarily for establishing the Butler Institute of ... Today's breaking news and more in your inbox  Copyright © Tribune Chronicle | https://www.tribtoday.com | 240 Franklin Street SE, Warren, OH 44483 | 330-841-1600 