This article is part of an ongoing series covering Benedikt Boehm and Prakash Sherpa's planned speed ascent of Cho Oyu, Tibet -- the 6th highest mountain in the world. For background information, click here. It's a quick one from Benedikt Boehm today. The weather at advanced base camp is clearing, and Boehm and Sherpa are preparing for their speed ascent push, which should occur on the 7th or 8th of October. Dyanfit/Benedikt Boehm From Boehm: "Today it's finally nice again as the weather report promised. It also says that it should actually stay nice for the next few days. The last few days have been bad, with non-stop storms and snow showers. You couldn't actually get out for a second. Today we finally dry and wash things and everything is ready for speed action and straight away afterwards." Boehm also noted that advanced base camp has mostly cleared out, with one team of climbers on the mountain. "One last small group went to camp 1 yesterday when the storm was full. And go to Camp 2 today and then try the summit tomorrow (October 6th). That would be too early for me because of the danger of avalanches. There is a lot of snow up there that has to settle first. Also better for walking. But they're all in a hurry because of the 14 peaks...We are now almost the last ones in the base camp. The Chinese have almost everything gone including all the officers. It's getting quieter on the mountain and in the base camp because the expedition around Gina has now set off for Shishapagma." For now, all there is to do is wait and see if the weather conditions line up for a summit attempt in the coming days. Stay tuned! Don't miss another headline from POWDER! Subscribe to our newsletter and stay connected with the latest happenings in the world of skiing. We're always on the lookout for amusing, interesting and engaging ski-related videos to feature on our channels. Whether you're a professional or just an amateur, we want to see your best footage and help you share it with the world. Submit your video for a chance to be featured on POWDER and our social channels. Be sure to subscribe to our YouTube channel to watch high-quality ski videos. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.