The second of three murder suspects publicly identified by the NYPD last weekend has turned himself into police in connection to the overdose deaths of two men targeted at Manhattan gay bars last year.  Robert Demaio, 34, of Brooklyn, turned himself into authorities at the 5th Precinct on Monday morning after an indictment was issued in the death of John Umberger, a 33-year-old political consultant who was found dead last May, senior police officials said.  24/7 New York news stream: Watch NBC 4 free wherever you are Demaio is one of at least two men seen entering and leaving the Upper East Side apartment where Umberger was staying the night of his murder, according to the officials. He, along with Jayqwan Hamilton, were also allegedly seen on videos recovered from Demaio's phone taken while they were inside the unit. In the background, Umberger can reportedly be seen lying unconscious.  Detectives were reportedly able to link Demaio and Hamilton to the crime through the video evidence, as well as rental car records that tied the former to a red Dodge Durango used the night of Umberger's death.  Demaio turned himself into police two days after the arrest of Jacob Barroso, a 30-year-old from New Britain, Connecticut. Both men are facing charges of murder, robbery, grand larceny and conspiracy. Hamilton remains at large. Barroso's charges stem from the death of Julio Ramirez, a 25-year-old Brooklyn social worker killed last April.  Police tracking the work of a major robbery ring identified the three men Saturday in connection to the deaths of Ramirez and Umberger, who after a night out in Hell's Kitchen, were each found dead from acute intoxication. The medical examiner's office said multiple drugs, including fentanyl, heroin, cocaine and lidocaine, were found in their systems.   The three men are believed to be a part of the Robbery Pattern 188. Police say this crew is responsible for at least 17 robberies in the borough, primarily in the Village and Hell's Kitchen.  The leading theory is the victims were targeted for money, not their sexual orientation, but the NYPD Hate Crimes Task Force continues to investigate the potential bias factor as a precaution, the officials said. Two law enforcement sources said there have been at least four suspects arrested in connection to the robberies, but no arrests had been made in regards to the murders before Saturday.  A second investigation, known as Robbery Pattern 90, is believed to involve a different crew that has robbed 26 people. There are several suspects in that case, which is going before a Manhattan grand jury, the law enforcement officials said. A spokesperson for the district attorney's office didn't immediately return requests for comment. An NYPD spokesman declined immediate comment, citing an ongoing investigation.  The two law enforcement officials said the homicide of acclaimed New York City fashion designer Kathryn Marie Gallagher, which came by drug-facilitated death, may be part of Pattern 90. The medical examiner's office last week said Gallagher died of acute toxication by the combined effects of alcohol, fentanyl, ethanol and p-fluorofentanyl.  The 35-year-old internationally recognized designer, who had more than two dozen collections under her own label Katie Gallagher and showed at Fashion Week in both New York and Paris, died in July 2022. She had been working on a Fall 2022 collection at the time she was found dead in her Eldridge Street apartment. The medical examiner's office said earlier in March that both Ramirez, a 25-year-old social worker, and Umberger, a 33-year-old consultant, died of lethal combinations of fentanyl, cocaine, lidocaine and ethanol found in their blood. The NYPD has said it was the lidocaine that would have ultimately incapacitated them. Ramirez also had heroin in his blood, the medical examiner's office found. It determined both men died by drug-facilitated theft, suggesting they were drugged for that purpose. Both had their bank accounts drained. Ramirez was found in a taxi in the early morning hours of April 21, 2022. He had last been seen leaving Ritz Bar and Lounge on West 46th Street with a group of men and they all got into a cab, though Ramirez was alone in the backseat when the driver realized he was unconscious. The taxi driver found a cop to report the unresponsive passenger, and Ramirez was pronounced dead at a hospital. Neither his wallet nor phone was on him.  Later, relatives say they discovered $20,000 missing from his accounts. Umberger was found dead in late May of an apparent drug overdose in his employer's Upper East Side townhouse, where he was staying. Surveillance video showed him leaving the Q NYC club on Eighth Avenue, with several men propping him up. He also had money stolen from his bank account. Further details on that timeline aren't clear. His mother, though, alerted cops he was missing and Umberger was found on June 1. She said his phone was gone, and his credit cards were missing, along with $25,000 from his bank account. Umberger's mother, Linda Clary, said on Wednesday that the indictments do give her "some sense of affirmation" regarding the circumstances of her son's death. "These people are predators and they’re looking for people who are alone, and they’re like a pack of hyenas who prey on the most vulnerable or isolated person," Clary said. Officials have said the deaths appear to be part of a string of people fatally poisoned with narcotics in what investigators say were schemes by criminal crews to incapacitate and rob people at NYC bars and nightclubs.  The killings — at least five in all, according to police — stretch back months and appear to be the work of different crews, operating independently but using similar tactics, police and prosecutors said in a December update.  Men surreptitiously slip revelers dangerous levels of drugs to knock them out, then take their wallets and phones, sometimes using their digital banking info to drain their accounts, officials said. In an earlier incident, Nurbu Sherpa, a 29-year-old chef, was found dead on the sidewalk after leaving a bar where he had been celebrating St. Patrick’s Day. Other men have come forward with stories about being drugged by strangers and waking up to find money gone. Many of the crimes remain unsolved, but the Manhattan district attorney previously announced that one suspect, Allen Kenwood, of the Bronx, had been charged with murder in Sherpa’s death and in the killing of Ardijan Berisha, 26. Berisha, of South Salem, New York, and a friend passed out on the sidewalk in July 2022 after drinking at a bar on Manhattan’s Lower East Side. Kenwood drugged both of his victims with fentanyl, prosecutors said, then robbed them. He is accused in three other instances where victims survived. The status of his case wasn't clear Wednesday.  Anyone with information on the robbery patterns is asked to call Crime Stoppers at 1-800-577-TIPS.