NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT A life insurance firm has sparked outrage after running an advert featuring a picture of Harold Shipman. DeadHappy, a Leicester–based firm with a reputation for running provocative adverts, used a picture of the serial killer alongside the text ‘Life insurance: Because you never know who your doctor might be.’ Former GP Shipman, dubbed ‘Dr Death’, is a notorious murderer believed to have killed hundreds of elderly and vulnerable patients in the north of England over two decades. Thought to be one of the most prolific serial killers of all time, the 57-year-old died by suicide in Wakefield Prison in January 2004 after he was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering 15 elderly patients four years earlier. The ad has been slammed on social media, with Kathryn Knowles, founder of insurance broker Cura, revealing she has logged an official complaint to the Financial Conduct Authority, the City regulator, and to the UK advertising watchdog ASA. Writing on Twitter, she said: ‘There is a firm that is promoting life insurance using the picture of a mass murderer to promote their services.  ‘I will name neither as I won’t give them the satisfaction of popping up in more search results. Please know that many of us in insurance find this beyond despicable. ‘I would hope the FCA and ASA will take action on this. I would like to lodge a formal complaint to both over this advert and will provide a copy to them.’ Speaking to the Telegraph, she said: ‘I just don’t see how anyone in their right mind could have thought this was the right thing to do. People within our industry are appalled, absolutely appalled.’ Referring to the living relatives of Shipman’s victims, she added: ‘Why would you put people through that?’ A family member of one of his victims did see the advert and condemned the stunt. Commenting on Twitter, Tim Hill said: ‘As someone whose relative was murdered by Harold Shipman, your latest advert utilising his image is despicable and unacceptable. I hope you enjoy yet another judgement from ASA and change your practices.’ DeadHappy, which refers to itself as a ‘disruptive life insurance company,’ has defended the stunt, although the advert does not appear to have been published on its official social media channels including its Facebook page. Andy Knott, founder of DeadHappy, said: ‘This isn’t why we exist. There are 8.5 million adults in the UK that potentially need (or hopefully even want) life insurance protection, but currently remain unprotected.  ‘The industry calls this “the protection gap”, and the unfortunate reality is that it’s growing daily. ‘We’re not simply disruptive, we’re just trying to make better products in order to close the gap. We are called DeadHappy and our strapline is “Life insurance to die for” so we are aware of the provocative (and to some the very shocking) nature of our brand. Chaos at Waterloo station as severe disruption expected for 'the rest of the day' Five motorcyclists die after two crashes less than an hour apart Bus crashes into theatre in London's West End Mum 'died saving her family' as knifeman chased her children down the street ‘But being provocative is different to being offensive and it is of course never our intention to offend or upset people. It is our intention to make people stop and think. If however you have been personally distressed by this advert we do sincerely apologise.’ He added: ‘Death is still a taboo subject in our society, which is why we feel so passionately about “changing attitudes to death”. ‘We do take risks with our brand and sometimes we may step over the line, whatever or wherever that line may be, and whoever chooses to draw it.’ Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk. For more stories like this, check our news page. Privacy Policy  Get us in your feed