The temperatures are cooling down past "sweater weather" making jackets be on the top of our list for our fall fashion. Adding a jean jacket to your outfit is the perfect way to layer it, especially on colder fall days. An all-time classic that becomes your new go-to, you can wear a denim jacket with just about anything — casual or dressy. Levi's jean jackets have been a trusted essential for decades and are undeniably iconic. Now's the perfect time to get your new wardrobe staple because Amazon just put dozens of Levi's jackets on sale with their early Black Friday deals.  Shop Levi's Deals There are plenty of Levi's styles to choose from at Amazon's sale. The cool and casual Levi's Original Trucker Jacket is a bestseller and has been popular since the late '60s — and it's currently 40% off. Whether you're going for an oversized look or the timeless Sherpa Trucker Jacket for the cooler days, there are tons of denim jacket options to choose from at these can't-miss early Black Friday prices.  Below, shop our favorite Levi's jean jackets from Amazon's Early Black Friday Sale to refresh your wardrobe for fall.  Sometimes the situation calls for a trucker denim jacket.  $90 $80 Levi's Sherpa Trucker Jacket adds warmth to any outfit. In addition to a sherpa neckline, the sleeves are quilted to keep you comfortable on chilly days. $108 $66 Levi's Hybrid Hoodie Trucker Jacket will have you looking effortlessly cool this fall.  $98 $69 The classic denim jacket designed for women has the rugged look with a petite fit. It's definitely on our list of cute jackets for a fall wardrobe.  $90 $55 Every woman needs a classic denim jacket in their closet — and this Ex-Boyfriend Trucker Jacket from Levi's boasts a chest pocket, jean flair that never goes out of style. $90 This Sherpa-lined jean jacket is made for a stylish woman. $108 $60 and Up For more savings, check out our 2023 Black Friday sales guide to the best deals on tech, holiday gifts, fashion, beauty and more. RELATED CONTENT: Style Gifts Style Sales & Deals Best Lists Style Style Best Lists Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Sales & Deals Style Style Style Style