Charlie Austin scored nine goals for Swindon this season after returning to the club in December Striker Charlie Austin has signed a one-year contract extension to stay with Swindon Town next season.  The 33-year-old rejoined the Robins in December almost 12 years after he last played for them.  He went on to score nine times in 20 appearances for the League Two club. Former Wales international Jonny Williams is among seven players being released by Swindon this summer, while defender Mathieu Baudry is retiring after a 17-year career.  Midfielder Williams, 29, who retired from international duty in March, was Swindon's top scorer this season with 10 goals and signed for the team in August 2021.  Cian Harries, Mo Dabre, Harry Parsons, George Cowmeadow, Oscar Massey and Morgan Roberts are also leaving the club. Swindon have triggered contract extensions for midfielder George McEachran and forward Rushian Hepburn-Murphy, while defender Tom Brewitt has also been offered a new deal.  Austin played for Swindon between 2009 and 2011, scoring 32 in 56 games for Swindon during his first spell with the club.  He went on to sign a £1m deal with Burnley and also played for QPR, Southampton and West Brom before playing in Australia for Brisbane Roar until December last year. "It was a no-brainer, but as things move on in football, my decision became clearer when the direction of the football club changed," Austin said. "They brought the new manager in, Michael Flynn, who is someone I'm really looking forward to working with and when they offered me the chance to stay another year, it was one I had to take." Austin scored on his return to the County Ground in January and in March he scored all four goals for Swindon against Rochdale, although they were held to a 4-4 draw.  BBC Sport League Two Swindon Town official site Reaction: Veteran Vardy scores as Leicester draw with Spurs on return to Premier League 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke Sinner beats Tiafoe to win Cincinnati Open title Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help How PFL uses boxing's blueprint to attract fans 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.