The company was fined £200,000 for the incident which happened in August 2021 Sign up to the Grimsby Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news We have more newsletters Sign up to the Grimsby Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news We have more newsletters A Stallingborough company has said it is "extremely sorry" after being fined £200,000 for a safety incident which caused an injury to the soles of a contractor's feet. Based on Laporte Road, chemical manufacturer Tronox - also known as Tronox Pigment Ltd - appeared at Grimsby Magistrates Court last week where it was fined £200,000 and ordered to pay £7,500 in costs, for breaching the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974. The company indicated a plea of guilty to the charges. The court heard that Tronox failed on August 9, 2021 to conduct their undertaking in such a way to ensure that people not in their employment who may have been affected were not exposed to risks to their health or safety. READ MORE: In this case, the person affected was attending the site to offload material and was exposed to risks to his health and safety, sustaining injuries to the soles of his feet as a result. Tronox UK Site Director, Jeroen Kossen, told Grimsby Live: “We are extremely sorry for the failings that took place resulting in this incident and for the impact it had on the individual.” A spokesperson for Tronox said that since the incident, the company has worked closely with the Health and Safety Executive and conducted an internal investigation, as well as making "many improvements" to the site. They said: "Grimsby Magistrates Court has sentenced Tronox to a fine of £200,000 in relation to a safety incident that occurred in August 2021, resulting in an injury to the soles of a contractor's feet. Following the incident Tronox worked closely with the Health & Safety Executive (HSE), cooperating fully whilst also conducting an internal, thorough investigation. "Stallingborough is a highly complex plant that manufactures titanium dioxide, a key ingredient in paint and plastics. Tronox has a relentless focus on safety and is constantly looking for opportunities to make improvements. Tronox invests significantly in enhancing the plant and developing its processes and people to ensure the safety of the Stallingborough site. "Following this incident, Tronox has made many improvements, including more advanced technology, improved processes and new approaches to training in safety leadership and safety management. Tronox is fully committed to an uncompromising focus on operating safe, reliable and responsible facilities." 