Chicago Reader 
					Chicago’s alternative nonprofit newsroom				 Have you ever wanted to explore swinging? For the uninitiated, “swinging” is when you engage in group sex and/or swap sexual partners within a group. If this sounds like something you’d be interested in, you’re in the right place! Thanks to the internet, it’s never been easier to find other swingers. There are dozens and dozens of sites out there that you can use, and we’ve put together the top fifteen for your convenience. So, read on to learn more about fifteen of the best swinger sites around! 1.  AdultFriendFinder – Best overall swinging site When it comes to swinging, AdultFriendFinder is our #1 pick. It’s simply the best overall, and we’ll tell you why. AdultFriendFinder has been around for a while, and they also focus on the niche of swinging and open relationships. This means that you can go to the AFF site knowing full well that you’ll find what you’re looking for. Want a threesome? Want a wife swap? Whatever you might want, AdultFriendFinder is one of the best bets around.  Swinging Tip: AdultFriendFinder has a huge community, so be sure to be transparent about what you want. This will help prevent you from wasting your time (or anyone else’s).  Pros: Cons: 2.  SDC – The original swinging site  SDC, or Swinger Dating Club, may be able to lay the claim to the original swinging site. That’s how long they’ve been around and, like SwingLifestyle, don’t let the site fool you. This is a large community dedicated to swinging. Swinging Tip: SDC has been around for a while, and while it might not have the bells and whistles of newer sites, it still maintains a large swinging community.  Pros: Cons: 3.  Seeking – Best for sugar swingers Some swingers also like sugar relationships, which is when a (typically) older person will lavish money and attention on a younger person in exchange for their company, dates, and anything else they agree to. If you’re looking for a sugar baby or daddy to join in on your swinging fun, then Seeking is the best place for you. It’s got a huge community and is one of the fastest growing sites around. While the site has tried to go a bit more mainstream lately, they still have a niche focus on sugar relationships, which can definitely include swinging. Swinging Tip: You may have better luck using Seeking as a sugar couple, because there’s a lot of competition among would-be sugar babies.  Pros: Cons: 4.  Ashley Madison – Best for poly-curious Ashley Madison is notorious for its slogan that encourages affairs (“Life is short. Have an affair”). So, you know what you’re getting with this site. That said, it can also be a great option for finding swingers, whether or not it involves cheating. Ashley Madison simply attracts the kind of people who are more likely to get down with swinging and other fun.  Another nice thing about Ashley Madison is that it really prioritizes discretion, meaning you can have your fun without blowing up your whole life (or at least have less of a chance of doing so).  Swinging Tip: Buy more credits if you want a lower cost-per-credit ratio. (This system is fairly common for hookup and swinging sites.)  Pros: Cons: 5.  Tinder – Best mainstream app Pretty much everyone and their mom knows Tinder at this point, so you probably don’t need much of an explanation from us. That said, not many people realize that a mainstream app like Tinder can also be a great avenue for swinging.  You may have to wade through a lot of people, but there are definitely people on Tinder who are looking for swinging and other “no-holds-barred” type action.  Swinging Tip: It’s important to realize that not everyone on Tinder is looking for swinging or even casual hook-ups. To avoid wasting time, be super transparent about what you’re looking for. Pros: Cons: 6.  BuddyBang – Most open-minded community BuddyBang isn’t a difficult concept to grasp, thanks to its very evocative name. The nice thing with BuddyBang is that it’s all about casual hookups, and many of the people in that boat are down to try swinging. So, while BuddyBang isn’t a “pure” swinger site, it’s worth a shot to find other swingers there.  Swinging Tip: Be prepared for people who are super ready to get down to business. If that isn’t what you’re after, then you may want to look elsewhere.  Pros: Cons: 7. Pure App – Best for fantasies Pure is similar to Ashley Madison in that it’s all about “shameless dating.” You don’t have to worry about being too kinky or anything like that here. This makes Pure a great option for people who are into swinging and other non-mainstream sexual activities.  The app also has some solid features that help improve safety and security, meaning you can rest easier when using it.  Swinging Tip: You may not have much success with Pure if you are in a small rural area, as it hasn’t quite taken off as much as some of the other sites reviewed here.  Pros: Cons: 8.  ALT – Best for alternative and BDSM swinging ALT is for the kinky ones out there, and we mean the really kinky ones. If you’re into swinging and also alternative and BDSM stuff, then ALT is probably your best bet. The great thing about this site is you can be completely yourself. No matter what you’re into, you’re likely to find someone who shares your kink or fetish.  Plus, there are plenty of people looking to find other swingers on here, making it a great all-around option.  Swinging Tip: If you’re into swinging but not necessarily BDSM and other kinky stuff, ALT may be a little bit too much for your taste.  Pros: Cons: 9.  SwingLifestyle – Best for long term swinging SwingLifestyle may have a super basic looking site, one that you will recognize if you used to hang out on internet forums back in the day, but it’s a legit swinger site. People have been flocking to SwingLifestyle for years, and you really know what you get with this community: an unabashed desire to find other swingers. Most users join this site for long-term swinging options, not just a one night stand. Swinging Tip: Don’t be turned off by SwingLifestyle’s old-school look. Give it a try and you may be pleasantly surprised.   Pros: Cons: 10.  FabSwingers – Best for pure swinging FabSwingers has actually gotten quite a bit of press, but not necessarily for the best reasons. That’s because it’s caused quite a stir in the UK due to various public figures (politicians, policemen, etc.) getting caught up while using the site. For the average Joe, however, you’re not likely to run the risk of much trouble, so feel free to take advantage of the big swinger community going on at Fabswingers. (As always though you should be mindful of your privacy and image.)  Swinging Tip: Don’t get turned off by the old-school site. While it could use a tuning up, it still has everything you need to find other swingers and get swinging.  Pros: Cons: 11.  3Fun – Best for threesomes   If you’re into swinging, chances are you’re open to threesomes. If so, 3Fun is a site that’s all about that one thing—threesomes. So, you have a great chance here to find other people looking for casual hook-ups.  There’s also a nice feature that lets you sign up as a “couple,” meaning your account can be used from two different phones simultaneously, helping make it easier to find a third person for your threesome. Swinging Tip: 3Fun is threesome specific, so if you’re looking for bigger group sex groups, then you may need to look elsewhere.   Pros: Cons: 12.  Feeld – Most judgement free site Feeld is similar to 3Fun in that it’s all about connecting open-minded people who may be looking for threesomes and other group sex activities. One nice feature with Feeld is its all about a sex-positive vibe and inclusivity, meaning that everyone is welcome and no one is judged. It’s definitely a good place to check for other swingers.  Swinging Tip: As a heads up, the sign-up process requires Facebook, and the site’s premium version doesn’t currently function with Android.  Pros: Cons: 13. Swapfinder – Best wife swap SwapFinder is another site dedicated specifically to swinging and swaps. This means that you’ll be embraced by a community with the same desires as you, which is always a comfort. SwapFinder may not have the household name status as a Tinder or even AdultFriendFinder, but it has a streamlined site and a growing community, making it worth your while.  Swinging Tip: Use the array of filtering features on SwapFinder for optimal results!  Pros: Cons: 14.  Kasidie – Best camaraderie Kasidie is unique among this list—actually, it’s kind of like Reddit—in that it’s a dating platform but also a social networking site/app. The cool thing about that is you might find more than just other swingers, you might even end up with some super cool new friends! (Or even both?). Kasidie has a pretty intuitive site and it’s been growing well in recent years. Since people there are generally open-midned adults and swingers, you’ll be in good company!  Swinging Tip: Keep in mind that Kasidie isn’t purely about swinging. It may be what has brought you all to the site, but you can also have non-sexual discussions as well.  Pros: Cons: 15.  Reddit R4R – Best 100% free option If you’re after someone to join your swinging group, or hoping to find one yourself, you might as well give Reddit’s personals forum a try. That’s because it will cost you absolutely nothing to give it a shot and make a post (or respond to others). This isn’t really a swinging site or app, just a subforum of a popular site. You will find a good number of people on here, though, so you just might get lucky.  Swinging Tip: This Reddit subforum is all about making a good first impression, so take your time in putting together a good post to communicate who you are and what you’re looking for.  Pros: Cons: Is it safe to use swinging apps? Overall, it’s perfectly safe to use swinging apps. It’s not really any different from using Tinder or Hinge or Bumble or any other dating app. That said, you should always be careful to avoid getting scammed online or, even worse, getting harmed by someone in-person.  How do you stay safe using swinging apps? It’s vital to trust your instincts and proceed with caution. The first time you meet someone it’s best to meet in a well-lit public spot (like a coffee shop). You can also let a friend or family member know that you’re meeting someone new and give them your location. These are little things that can make a big difference in keeping you safe.  Are there any free swinging apps? There are more free swinging apps if you’re a woman, because many of them provide free memberships to women. If you’re a man, you will have less luck in finding free sites, though some platforms do exist (like the r/R4R subreddit).  Can women use swinging apps for free? Yes, in fact, women can use many different swinging apps for free.  Swinging may have gotten particularly famous in Western culture in the 1970s during that era of “free love,” but it’s more popular than ever. Helping swinging grow in popularity is the fact that millions of people can find each other easily over the internet. With niche sites like the ones reviewed above, you don’t have to waste any time in finding a community with like-minded individuals. So, what are you waiting for? If you want to get swinging, simply check out the sites reviewed above. Whether you’re a swinging couple looking for others or all on your own, you’re likely to find what you’re looking for! Best of Chicago 2023About the Chicago ReaderReader Staff Reader CareersFreelance InformationContact UsDonate AdvertiseSubmit/promote your eventFind the PaperSubscribeShop the Reader StoreContests/Giveaways/Promotions Reader Classifieds Privacy Policy | Terms of Use