Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Destiny 2 players are constantly challenging Bungie with their creative ways to cheese bosses and other difficult enemies. The latest cheese comes from the newest Destiny 2 dungeon, Ghosts of the Deep. This cheese will see players utilize a very specific Exotic Grenade Launcher to claim an easy win in Ghosts of the Deep, whether that’s Master difficulty or just Normal mode.
      RELATED: Destiny 2: Tips For Solo Legend/Master Lost Sectors
                     The cheese is a great way to farm for some great weapons and brand new armor, especially when it requires players to barely do anything other than shoot one weapon consistently. Ammo will not be an issue, and neither will a team wipe, ensuring this best Destiny 2 Ghosts of the Deep cheese will see the loot-filled path to victory and triumphs.
                         One of the requirements for this Destiny 2 cheese is to bring a fellow Guardian into the fold. This is because players will need to die to activate the damage cheese that will slowly eat away at the health of the boss that they are trying to kill.
                         With the player bringing another Guardian, there is no chance of a wipe occurring, as the player can easily just be revived to apply and re-apply damage when needed. This cheese is not possible for solo players of Ghosts of the Deep, so it is vital to find a friend, a clan member, or even someone on the Destiny 2 LFG who is willing to cheese this dungeon.
                         The only weapon that is needed for the cheese is the Witherhoard. This Exotic Grenade Launcher can be acquired from the Monument to Lost Lights terminal vendor located in the Tower near the Vault area. The Witherhoard is located under the Shadowkeep Exotics for the price of 1 Exotic Cipher, 100,000 Glimmer, 150 Legendary Shards, and 1 Ascendant Shard.
                         Once the Witherhoard has been acquired, players do not need to worry about the Catalyst to begin the cheese. Instead, they are going to want to focus on its Exotic Perks, which allow for enemies hit by the Exotic Grenade Launcher to take damage over time thanks to the Taken Blight projectiles that it fires.
                         Considering that the Witherhoard is a Kinetic Weapon that uses Special ammo, players might be wondering how they can defeat both of the Ghosts of the Deep bosses with no way to receive ammo bricks. After all, players won’t be engaging in ads for these boss fights, as they will be focused solely on the bosses themselves. These bosses have health pools stronger than some Destiny 2 Raid bosses, but luckily there’s a way to get infinite ammo.
      RELATED: Destiny 2: Strongest Raid Bosses, Ranked In Terms Of Lore
                     To get ammo for the Witherhoard, players should equip two Special Ammo weapons and keep their Special Ammo and Heavy Ammo low. Every 30 seconds, players will obtain 3 Special Ammo. Keeping ammo reserves low will ensure an infinite supply of Witherhoard ammo to keep doing damage over time.
                         Considering that the only way to do damage to both bosses is through one single Witherhoard, players might not be happy with the fact that they will have to wait a while to pull off the kill. However, it’s a safe and effective way to clear through Ghosts of the Deep on Master difficulty and claim easy loot. Yet, there are ways that players can slowly speed up the damage phases that they will obtain.
                         Players will want to bring in a Solar Warlock or a Void Titan to extend the amount of damage they can deal. Inevitably, just from sitting there and doing passive damage, players will build their Supers. Warlocks can throw down an Empowering Rift or a Well of Radiance to increase damage, or Void Titans can unleash a Ward of Dawn for Weapons of Light, both will increase damage output, but not at the same time.
                         After setting off to the Ghosts of the Deep dungeon from the H.E.L.M. directory, and completing the first encounter to Break the Ritual, players just need to reach the second encounter to begin the boss cheese against Ecthar, the Shield of Savathun. Players will want to make sure they have the Witherhoard ready for this encounter. Once it is time, kill the 4 praying Acolytes to summon Ecthar to the surface.
                         All players need to do from here is shoot Ecthar with the Witherhoard, and then die. Once players are revived, the damage that was once coming up as “Immune” will now deal damage numbers. Players can repeatedly re-apply the Witherhoard damage, but if they receive the “Immune” numbers again, then players just need to die again. A strategy that does not require the best Raid Exotics to complete.
                         It’s best to be warned that ads will spawn during this fight, and Ecthar will be a rather lethal combatant. Players should clear out Acolytes and make sure they have some damage-resistant mods on for Ecthar. It’s also worth noting that players cannot kill all three of the Blistered Knights, otherwise, Ecthar will go underwater and await the proper non-cheese damage phase, thus wasting valuable time.
      RELATED: Destiny 2: Things Only Veterans Remember
                     Ecthar certainly has a lot of health, so as soon as he succumbs to the might of the Witherhoard, players want to be ready to destroy the Hive ghost shell so that there is no chance of Ecthar respawning. Although there are many ways to effectively reach DPS phases for Ecthar, the Witherhoard cheese in Ghosts of the Deep is the safest, even if there will be a barrage of ads shooting the player while they try and land consistent Witherhoard shots.
                         The final boss of Ghosts of the Deep is a Lucent Necromancer attempting to bring Oryx, the Taken King, back from the dead. Simmumah is the easiest boss to kill with the Witherhoard cheese because all players need to do to kill this wizard is to shoot it with the Witherhoard, and not use a Finisher on Oryx’s Hive ghost shell, which will activate the boss room, spawning countless ads and barrages of arc attacks from Simmumah.
                         The same tactic against Ecthar, the Shield of Savathun applies to the final boss in Ghosts of the Deep. Players are going to want to shoot Simmumah with the Witherhoard, and then die so that they can constantly shoot the Witherhoard and deal damage numbers. Since the boss fight has not technically been started, players won’t see a health bar, so they can either just wait for the boss to drop, or they can use the Exotic Sniper Rifle D.A.R.C.I. to check the health of the boss, as aiming this weapon at an enemy will show its health through the scope and other critical information.
                         Killing Simmumah Ur-Nokru with the Witherhoard cheese may take around 20 minutes, depending on the weapon buffs that players obtain through co-op plays with Ward of Dawn and Warlock Rifts or Well of Radiance, but it’s an effective and safe way to claim Master or Normal Ghosts of the Deep dungeon loot. It’s also vitally important that once Simmumah Ur-Nokru falls to the fate of the Witherhoard players find and destroy this wizard boss’ Hive Ghost shell, otherwise the boss will respawn, spelling disaster and time wasted.
                         Players can and should farm the third and final encounter endlessly. Although killing Simmumah Ur-Nokru with the Witherhoard takes some time, the risk of getting to a damage phase, and getting through the ritual and killing three Lucent Hive Light Bearers, the cheese might be more time effective anyway, especially since there is no risk of a wipe.
                         Once Simmumah Ur-Nokru is dead, players will open the chest at Oryx’s heart, and two legendary pieces of loot will fly out. In Master Difficulty, some other materials may come out, like Legendary Shards or Enhancement Prisms. However, the real stealer of the show is the two pieces of legendary loot, which could be a God Roll weapon from Ghosts of the Deep or a piece of Artifice Armor.
                         Another benefit of completing this Witherhoard cheese on Master Difficulty is the fact that they will be one step closer to completing the Ghoul title Triumph. Upon the first completion of this dungeon on Master Difficulty, players will receive the Sovereign Triumph for the Ghoul title, as well as the Recalcitrant Host Sparrow. However, the most interesting reward may be the increase in the Exotic drop rate for the new Exotic Trace Rifle, The Navigator.
                     Players can infinitely farm this encounter with the Ghosts of the Deep Witherhoard cheese to obtain 2 pieces of great loot every 20 minutes with consistent damage. It’s only a matter of time before Bungie patches this strategy, but while it is active, players should claim as much Artifice Armor as they possibly can so their characters can share Triple-100 stats across the best mods possible, as Artifice Armor usually has high stat rolls, as well as the ability to put 3 levels into any stat without costing a single mod level.
      Destiny 2 is available on PC, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S.
      MORE: Destiny 2: All Exotic And Legendary Fish
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. The Player's Handbook isn't the only D&D book getting a revision, with the 2025 Monster Manual having much work cut out for itself. Final Fantasy 16 lead Hiroshi Takai shares his thoughts on a potential Xbox Series X/S port in the wake of the confirmed PC version of the game. Ranga's evolution throughout the series is a narrative reflection of his growth from a simple Direwolf to a powerful guardian of Rimuru. Developer Game Science at last shows off Black Myth: Wukong PlayStation 5 gameplay footage just ahead of the action RPG's release. Rick and Morty: The Anime full-fledged series originated from the success of the anime shorts, as revealed by the executives. Brawhalla's recent Borderlands crossover event brings a multitude of new cosmetic items to the game, including skins, avatars, and more. Nvidia's high-end enthusiast-grade GPUs are some of the hottest PC hardware upgrades of 2024. Here is how they face off against each other.