The first International Dairy Federation (IDF) World Dairy Summit held in the United States in 30 years featured more than 1,240 dairy leaders from 55 countries celebrated IDF’s 120th anniversary and highlighted dairy’s innovations, market opportunities and contributions to global sustainability, food security and more. IDF President Piercristiano Brazzale and Director General Caroline Emond, along with U.S.-IDF Co-Chairs Nick Gardner and Shawna Morris emphasized the importance of bringing the global dairy sector together and released a declaration statement that called on governments, global organizations and the world’s food and beverage sector to support “Being Dairy.” “As it has been since the first World Dairy Congress held in 1903 in Brussels, the IDF WDS has been an unmatched opportunity to collaborate on the most promising opportunities and most important challenges in the dairy sector,” Brazzale said. “The hard work and dedication of everyone in the dairy sector produces delicious, nutritious, and simply irreplaceable food that feeds more than 6 billion consumers and sustains one billion livelihoods globally.” The summit delivered four days of dynamic programming, including eight main sessions and 21 break-out sessions focused on policy, scientific and technical insights and exclusive market analysis. “U.S. dairy is honored to have hosted this momentous IDF WDS 2023, bringing dairy’s premier annual gathering to the United States for the first time in three decades,” said Gardner, who also serves as the chair of the U.S. Committee to IDF and as U.S. Dairy Export Council senior vice president for sustainability and multilateral affairs. “Hearing from world-renowned speakers, forging relationships with peers, and even visiting some of the United States leading dairy regions - IDF WDS 2023 participants have seen U.S. dairy’s contributions first-hand and further strengthened our collective ability to champion dairy’s critical role in nutrition, food security, environmental stewardship, and more.”  Session highlights included:    IDF WDS 2024 will be held in Paris, Oct. 15 to 18, with the theme “Dairy 4 the Future.”  Photo courtesy of Roemer Photo. You must have JavaScript enabled to enjoy a limited number of articles over the next 30 days. 
	Sponsored Content is a special paid section where industry companies provide high quality, objective, non-commercial content around topics of interest to the Dairy Foods audience. All Sponsored Content is supplied by the advertising company and any opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily reflect the views of Dairy Foods or its parent company, BNP Media. Interested in participating in our Sponsored Content section? Contact your local rep!
 Consumer demand for reduced or zero-sugar products continues to rise exponentially each year. We will look at this topic in-depth, with presentations from Hari Meletharayil, Vice President of Product Research at Dairy Management Inc., and Shelley Balanko, Senior Vice President at The Hartman Group. Copyright ©2024. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing