We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. The Winter King is coming.  Agents of SHIELD's Iain De Caestecker features in the first pictures from new medieval drama The Winter King. Peaky Blinders' Otto Bathurst is directing the series, which is based on Bernard Cromwell's The Warlord Chronicles book series, for ITV. It's described as a "bold and revisionist take" on Arthurian legends and will follow Arthur Pendragon's evolution from outcast to fearsome leader.  Related: From Coronation Street to The Control Room: Iain De Caestecker explains how MCU shaped new role The photos themselves feature De Caestecker's young "exiled bastard" Arthur amongst trusted fellow warriors Sagramor (played by The Letter for the King's Ken Nwosu) and Lanval (played by Trigger Point's Matt Mella). Meanwhile, Gangs of London star Valene Kane's sharp-tongued character Morgan – Arthur's half-sister – is also seen on horseback. Another picture shows Derfel (SAS Rogue Heroes' Stuart Campbell) and Lunete (Venom: Let There Be Carnage's Olumide Olorunfemi) on the move together.    Derfel is described as a "left-for-dead orphan" set to transform into "the truest of all warlords". Related: The biggest times Agents of SHIELD crossed over with the MCU Ahead of the show's release, we also find one of Arthur's closest childhood friends Owain, portrayed by I Hate Suzie's Daniel Ings, out in the rain. The first-look photos also show Simon Merrells as the "savage" King of Siluria, Gundleus, and Andrew Gower of Outlander resting by the fire as Sansum.  We're yet to be introduced to Nathaniel Martello-White's "politically-minded" Merlin, though, or his apprentice Priestess Nimue (Ellie James). Eddie Marsan is also going to be part of The Winter King's cast, and he'll be portraying the High King of all Dumnonia, Uther.   The Winter King premieres next month on ITVX. Reporter, Digital Spy  Dan is a freelance entertainment journalist. Beginning his writing career in 2014, Dan's work first graced the pages of cult publications Starburst magazine and Little White Lies before moving onto Total Film, Digital Spy, NME and Yahoo Entertainment.  In the film and TV universe, he kneels at the altar of Jim Carrey, Daniel Plainview, Mike Ehrmantraut and Paulie Walnuts.
 Chicago Med adds Agents of SHIELD star for s9 Agents of SHIELD star's movie gets UK release date First trailer for Agents of SHIELD star's thriller Agents of SHIELD star's ITV drama confirms release First look at Agents of SHIELD star's new film Agents of SHIELD stars in picket line reunion SHIELD star responds to Disney boss' complaint Dichen Lachman joins new Planet of the Apes movie Marvel and The Crown duo join medieval ITV drama Marvel fans think Chloe Bennet is teasing return First trailer for Agents of SHIELD star's horror Agents of SHIELD star's next TV series confirmed DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. ©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.