















 Hollywood Life

 Latest Hollywood Celebrity & Entertainment News 
				Gabrielle Union falls for her boss's son in her first rom-com in almost a decade. Here's what you need to know about 'The Perfect Find.'			 
Movie News
  Gabrielle Union, 50, is back in the rom-com world in her upcoming Netflix movie The Perfect Find. Gabrielle plays a 40-year-old woman who is back on the rise in the fashion industry, but her career is in jeopardy when she falls for one of her much-younger co-workers. That co-worker just happens to be her boss’s son. The film, directed by Numa Perrie, is based on Tia Williams’ 2016 book of the same name. From the release date to the cast, here is everything you need to know about The Perfect Find. The Perfect Find will be released June 23 on Netflix. The streamer announced the film’s release date on March 13. Netflix has not debuted the trailer for The Perfect Find yet, but it has released some first-look photos from the movie. Gabrielle Union plays Jenna Jones in The Perfect Find. Gabrielle has not starred in a rom-com in almost a decade, since the 2014 sequel to Think Like A Man. Gabrielle said she could relate to her character in her new Netflix film. “Jenna is going through a work and love upheaval and trying to figure out her next chapter, and I was literally going through the exact same thing,” she told Netflix’s Tudum. “I felt like I was her in a way. I really related to the idea of trying to figure out what your next step is when you feel broken, you’re trying to put yourself back together. And then I really wanted to make a great classic, amazing rom-com.” Gabrielle is also an executive producer on the film via her production company, I’ll Have Another. Keith Powers, 30, plays Gabrielle’s on-screen co-worker/lover, Eric. Keith is best known for the film Straight Outta Compton. Gabrielle told Vanity Fair that she and her husband Dwyane Wade were friendly with Keith when he was dating actor Ryan Destiny. “It was just kind of a natural progression of a friendship that already existed, but it comes out of respect. He has an enormous amount of respect for Dwyane, I have an enormous amount of respect for Ryan, and it just made working super easy,” Gabrielle said. Gina Torres plays Jenna’s boss and Eric’s mom, Darcy Vale. Darcy and Jenna are former rivals who have to start working together. Their relationship gets even more complicated when Jenna falls for Eric. Lala Anthony, Aisha Hinds, D.B. Woodside, and Janet Hubert also star in the film. Netflix’s official description for The Perfect Find reads, “Will a 40-year-old woman with everything on the line — her high-stakes career, ticking biological clock, bank account — risk it all for an intensely lusty secret romance with the one person who could destroy her comeback, for good?” Gabrielle and director Numa Perrie teased more about The Perfect Find in their interview with Vanity Fair. Numa said it was important for her to channel Black fashion in the movie. “For production design, I said, ‘This is maximalism,’ ” Numa said. “Being Black in fashion is cruel. I wanted to really be able to celebrate what it could and can and should look like for Black women to have all of that space and all of that ownership.” Gabrielle said that she appreciates that The Perfect Find has a meaningful message for women. “[It] really sparked something inside of me about older women and how we can oftentimes disappear from society, almost, in terms of people looking at us as like we are past our prime,” the Bring It On star said. “That we carry no value, that no one sees value in a woman over 28, much less over 35, much less over 40. But baby, I’m thriving. So I wanted something that spoke to that that I hadn’t done before. Which is tough, because I’ve done a lot of rom-coms. This one is new. I’m thrilled.” 

					La La Anthony: See Pics Of The Television Personality				
 Follow Us: About Us Legal News Connect