We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports 31 July 2024 — Press release UK Atomic Energy Authority congratulates Dr Lloyd Fletcher on being awarded a Future Leaders Fellowship. 23 July 2024 — Press release STEP brand launch marks transition to next phase of pioneering programme to build a prototype fusion powerplant at West Burton site by 2040. 11 July 2024 — Press release UK Industrial Fusion Solutions Ltd (UKIFS) announces the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors to its Board. 20 May 2024 — Press release Four-year Engineering Design Services Framework is renewed with nine companies. 15 May 2024 — Press release The contracts were awarded through the Fusion Industry Programme to scale up projects dedicated to addressing fusion energy challenges.  8 May 2024 — Press release The competition will identify the best industry partners to form a world-leading public-private alliance led by UK Industrial Fusion Solutions Ltd. 

          See all latest documents
        
 UKAEA researches fusion energy and related technologies, with the aim of positioning the UK as a leader in sustainable nuclear energy. UKAEA is an executive non-departmental public body, sponsored by the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero. 

              Read more about what we do
            
 
      The following links open in a new tab
     General enquiries 01235 528822 Email 
mediaenquiry@ukaea.uk
 Email 
foienquiries@ukaea.uk
 Email 
eienquiries@ukaea.uk
 To make an information request under the Environmental Information Regulations 2004, please use the above email address. 
      Read about the types of information we routinely publish in our Publication scheme. Our Personal information charter explains how we treat your personal information.
     Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      