We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Departments, agencies and public bodies News stories, speeches, letters and notices Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Reports, analysis and official statistics Consultations and strategy Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Updated 1 January 2024 The Energy Price Guarantee scheme is now closed. Find out about other help and support available. 

 
  © Crown copyright 2024
 
  This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk.
 
  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
 
  This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/energy-bills-support/energy-bills-support-factsheet-8-september-2022
 This page explains how the EPG operated from 1 July 2023 to 31 March 2024. From 1 July 2023, households without a pre-payment meter no longer received an Energy Price Guarantee discount on their gas and electricity bills. This is because the Ofgem price cap was lower than the Energy Price Guarantee level, meaning households were paid rates capped by the price cap. For the period of January to March 2024, the Ofgem price cap was set at £1,928 for a typical household per year. Households using prepayment meters (PPMs) did continue to receive a small discount through the EPG, bringing their charges into line with comparable direct debit customers and saving them around £25 over the 9-month period. This removed the ‘premium’ paid by PPM customers under the Ofgem price cap. The PPM charges each customer saw varied by region. See the EPG regional rates. Ofgem’s decision to implement PPM standing charge levelisation means that the ‘PPM premium’ will be removed from 1 April 2024, following the end of government support through the Energy Price Guarantee. From 1 July 2023, households in Northern Ireland no longer received an Energy Price Guarantee discount on their gas and electricity bills due to falling wholesale energy prices. This is because of differences in the operation of the energy market, meaning households in Northern Ireland will likely experience a small increase in their energy bills. The PPM measure did not apply in Northern Ireland due to the specific circumstances of the energy market. The government engaged industry, the Utility Regulator and consumer groups in Northern Ireland, and concluded the difference between the costs faced by PPM and direct debit users does not exist in the same way that it does in Great Britain. Find out how the EPG operated between 1 October 2022 and 30 June 2023. Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. 
        To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
        Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab).
      