Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. Founded in 1993, The Motley Fool is a financial services company dedicated to making the world smarter, happier, and richer. The Motley Fool reaches millions of people every month through our premium investing solutions, free guidance and market analysis on Fool.com, top-rated podcasts, and non-profit The Motley Fool Foundation. The global economy is rapidly working on switching energy sources. Due to climate change concerns, the world is moving away from carbon-based fossil fuels to cleaner alternative energy sources, including renewable energy. The decarbonization of the global economy will take an estimated investment of more than $150 trillion over the next three decades. Renewable energy will play a crucial role in this energy transition. Here's a closer look at how to invest in the renewable energy industry. Renewable energy sources, such as wind, solar, and hydroelectric power currently supply over 20% of the electricity generated by the U.S. power sector. The industry has been growing briskly, quadrupling its electricity-generating capacity over the past decade. Given increasing climate change concerns, the pace has quickened in recent years. It needs to continue accelerating to help rapidly decarbonize the economy. Climate change is forcing companies and other institutions to focus on how they can do their part to decarbonize. Many companies are signing power purchase agreements (PPAs) with electric utilities and other electricity generators to specifically buy power produced from renewable sources. Meanwhile, others are investing directly in renewable energy development projects. Some are making renewable investments to be viewed as socially responsible global citizens. However, clean energy is increasingly economical due to the falling costs of solar panels, wind turbines, and batteries for energy storage, making the sector a more attractive investment opportunity. Governments are also working to accelerate global decarbonization by proposing and passing legislation to increase investment in the sector. For example, in 2022, the U.S. Congress passed the Inflation Reduction Act. The legislation will drive $369 billion in energy security and climate change investments. Many view the spending packages as only a down payment on the investment needed to decarbonize the economy. The view suggests that future legislation could further boost the country's investment level. Many companies focus on renewable energy, putting them in an excellent position to benefit from this investment megatrend. However, a few energy companies stand out above their peers as the best renewable energy stocks to buy. Top-tier green energy companies include: Here's a closer look at these leading renewable energy stocks.  NextEra Energy (NEE  1.08%) is one of the world's largest producers of wind and solar energy. It generates power at its Florida utilities and its energy resources segment, which sells electricity under PPAs to other utilities and large corporate buyers. Few companies are betting bigger on renewable energy than NextEra Energy. The utility unveiled its Real Zero plan in 2022 to eliminate carbon emissions from its operations by 2045. It aims to significantly expand its solar energy and storage capacity while replacing natural gas in its power plants with green hydrogen and renewable natural gas. NextEra has an excellent track record of creating shareholder value by investing in renewable energy. It has produced a total return of more than 225% during the past 10 years. Its above-average growth rate has powered strong investment returns. NextEra has expanded its adjusted earnings per share (EPS) at a 10% compound annual rate since 2013. Meanwhile, it has boosted its dividend at an 11% annual rate during that period, pushing its growth streak to 30 consecutive years. The company expects its investments to continue paying dividends to shareholders. It predicts earnings will increase at or near its 6% to 8% annual target range through at least 2026, powered by continued investments in renewable energy. NextEra expects to deliver around 10% annual dividend growth through at least 2026. Meanwhile, it is likely to maintain one of the best balance sheets in the utility sector, giving the company the financial flexibility to continue expanding.  Brookfield Renewable (BEP  -0.49%) is a global leader in renewable energy. It's one of the world's largest producers of hydroelectric power, which will make up 50% of its portfolio in 2024. Brookfield also has been increasing its wind (onshore and offshore), solar (utility-scale and distributed generation, such as rooftop solar), and energy storage expertise. The company sells the bulk of its power under long-term PPAs that generate steady cash flow. Brookfield has an excellent track record. It has increased its dividend payments at a 6% compound annual rate since 2001 while growing its funds from operations (FFO) per share at a 12% rate since 2016. The steady expansion of its portfolio through acquisitions and development projects has driven its growth. Brookfield sees even more growth ahead -- annual FFO per share growth of more than 10% through 2028 -- powered by its extensive pipeline of renewable energy development projects and additional acquisitions. The earnings growth should enable the company to hike its dividend by 5% to 9% annually -- making it one of the best renewable energy dividend stocks. It expects to maintain a top-notch balance sheet, giving it the financial flexibility to keep expanding.  Clearway Energy (CWEN  0.48%) is one of the largest owners of renewable energy generating facilities in the U.S. It complements its wind and solar energy portfolio with highly efficient facilities powered by natural gas. Clearway also sells its power via PPAs that generate a steady cash flow for the company. The company sold its thermal business in 2022, generating $1.35 billion in cash to spend on expanding its renewable energy operations. It has been steadily putting money to work by acquiring renewable energy assets. The deals are providing the company with increasing visibility for its ability to increase its dividend. As a result of its deals, Clearway Energy now expects to be able to hike its dividend towards the high end of its 5% to 8% annual target range through at least 2026. Meanwhile, it anticipates maintaining a solid financial profile. Clearway Energy is positioned to continue capitalizing on opportunities to increase its renewable energy operations in the coming years while creating substantial value for shareholders.  First Solar (FSLR  2.68%) develops and manufactures thin-film solar panels that use their larger size to generate more energy than competing technologies, making them ideal for utility-scale solar energy projects. As one of the world's leading solar panel makers, the company is in an excellent position as demand for solar panels accelerates. It's actively investing to increase its capacity to produce solar panels and meet demand. At the end of 2023, it had contracts in place to sell panels through the end of the decade, giving it significant visibility into future revenue. First Solar has the means to continue expanding because it boasts one of the best balance sheets in the sector. Even with its heavy investments in building new manufacturing capacity, the company expected to end 2024 with $900 million to $1.2 billion in net cash. The cushion gives it tremendous financial flexibility to continue expanding to capitalize on the increasing demand for solar panels. It broke ground on a new $1.1 billion manufacturing facility in Louisiana in late 2023 that should start producing panels in 2026. It also has the flexibility to make acquisitions to enhance its technology. For example, in 2023, First Solar acquired leading European thin film company Evolar to improve its ability to develop next-generation solar technology.  SolarEdge Technologies (SEDG  8.13%) develops and manufactures an optimized inverter system. This component maximizes the power produced by solar panels, helping to lower the cost of energy generated by the system. Like First Solar, SolarEdge Technologies should benefit from the accelerating growth of solar energy worldwide. The company has also started to leverage its expertise in inverters to create other smart energy solutions. It has expanded its offerings by making a series of acquisitions to gain technology, expertise, and products that address several energy market segments, including solar, storage, electric vehicle (EV) charging, batteries, uninterruptible power supplies, EV powertrains, and grid services solutions. It has continued expanding through acquisitions in 2024, acquiring EV charging optimization and management software start-up Wevo Energy. SolarEdge Technologies also has been able to expand into smart energy solutions, thanks in part to its strong financial profile. The company's core inverter business is profitable and generates lots of cash. It had almost $900 million of cash at the end of 2023, giving it the flexibility to continue expanding and capitalizing on the decarbonization megatrend. The oil and gas we consume gets around thanks to these companies. This form of socially responsible investing prioritizes good corporate behavior. Several oil companies are getting a jump start on the transition to renewable energy. Find out more about this trend. An in-depth look at the seven best electric vehicle (EV) battery stocks in the U.S. stock market this year. Climate change and socially responsible investing are major catalysts for the clean energy revolution. The trend will drive trillions of dollars of investment in renewable energy in the decades ahead. Although the rising tide of clean energy should lift all boats, the top renewable energy stocks should generate some of the best returns for investors. Green energy companies that have already proven to be value creators and have the financial strength to capture opportunities should yield outsize total returns in the coming years. Green energy sources include: The clean energy sector represents a massive opportunity for investors. However, they must pick stocks carefully since not all will take full advantage of this opportunity. Two key characteristics to look for are a strong balance sheet and a solar energy-focused growth profile. Those factors could give a company the power to generate higher returns. There are several top renewable energy companies. Brookfield Renewable is one of the best stocks for renewable energy. The company has a globally diversified renewable energy platform, including hydroelectric, wind, and solar operations. It also has a sustainable solutions business, which invests in manufacturing solar panels, producing green hydrogen, and making renewable natural gas. The company also has an excellent track record of growing shareholder value, including increasing its dividend at a 6% compound annual rate over the last 20 years. There are several renewable energy ETFs. The three biggest by assets under management (AUM) in early 2024 were: The Motley Fool got the chance to chat with investing expert Professor Priya Parrish of University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Here's what Parrish had to say about investing in the renewable energy realm. The Motley Fool: What is renewable or green energy? Professor Parrish: Energy generated from natural resources that does not product pollution. Solar, wind, and geothermal are examples of green energy sources that are also renewable. There are a number of businesses and investment opportunities related to the renewable energy sector, from infrastructure to financing and workforce development.  The Motley Fool: What’s your advice for someone looking to invest in renewable energy? Professor Parrish: Investors with a genuine passion for and commitment to sustainability are more likely to succeed, as the market is complex and changing fast. Entrepreneurs in this sector are also more driven to take capital from those firms with a mission alignment. This is related to the need for sustainability investors to understand these markets in-depth from multiple angles.  This includes: We see successful investors bringing forward both operating experience in the energy, utilities, or infrastructure industries as well as a sound understanding of energy and commodity markets and policies.  The Motley Fool: What are some of the pros and cons of investing in renewable energy? Professor Parrish: Investing in secular growth trends that are tied to real societal needs provides a strong investment backdrop for long-term investors. However, in the past few years we have seen an influx of capital looking to invest in sustainability deals as there is growing awareness of the opportunity. Many of these investors are unsophisticated and can create market noise. For investors willing to invest in developing a deep knowledge of renewable technologies, markets and companies, I think it is an opportunity worth pursuing.  The Motley Fool: What are some emerging areas of renewable energy? Are you particularly optimistic about any of them? Professor Parrish: In addition to energy transition, we are optimistic about related opportunities in waste reduction, climate risk management in the supply chain, sustainable food and agriculture, and carbon capture. 
Why do we invest this way?
Learn More
 Market-beating stocks from our award-winning analyst team. Calculated by average return of all stock recommendations since inception of the Stock Advisor service in February of 2002. Returns as of 08/19/2024. Discounted offers are only available to new members. Stock Advisor list price is $199 per year. Calculated by Time-Weighted Return since 2002. Volatility profiles based on trailing-three-year calculations of the standard deviation of service investment returns. 
Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services.
 Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. © 1995 - 2024 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered by Xignite and Polygon.io.