Michael Hillier and Rachel Fulstow will each be behind bars for at least 30 years Yorkshire breaking news and updates sent straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Yorkshire breaking news and updates sent straight to your inbox We have more newsletters Sick murderers Michael Hillier and Rachel Fulstow posed for pictures in Jamaica days after murdering Liam Smith. The pair jetted off as police tried to work with the little evidence and information they had after Liam's body was discovered by members of the public outside his home in Kilburn Drive, Shevington, Wigan in November last year. He had been shot and doused in acid. Officers were later able to pinpoint Hillier, from Sheffield, as a suspect, and that in turn led them to Fulstow, from York. A court has heard how they plotted a "revenge attack" after Fulstow told her boyfriend she had been raped by Liam in a hotel in York in 2019. They were convicted of murder earlier this week and on Thursday were handed life sentences, with Hillier told he must serve at least 33 years behind bars and Fulstow at least 30. Read more: Michael Hillier and Rachel Fulstow sentencing live as couple jailed for murdering devoted dad Liam Smith Greater Manchester Police has told how its Major Incident Team detectives established during their lengthy investigation that the preparation for Liam’s murder started in May 2022. Rachel searched Liam on the internet and Hillier purchased guns online, practicing his aim by shooting in his cellar. The court heard how Fulstow also searched the internet for Liam’s business, his address and searched phrases like ‘what is premeditated’, looked for Mitsubishi Shogun vehicles and the length of time it takes to burn a car completely. Hillier travelled from Sheffield to Wigan on 2 November 2022, a full three weeks before Liam’s murder, and carried out hostile reconnaissance on Liam’s address. Hillier lay in wait in a Mitsubishi Shogun fixed with cloned plates before heading back to Sheffield. All whilst Liam went about his daily business, unaware he was under Hillier’s watch. Hillier did not return to Liam’s address until 24 November where he waited for 10 hours in the same Mitsubishi Shogun on R22 ORA plates until he got out of his vehicle in a high vis jacket and head torch and walked up to Liam’s home to lure him out at around 6.30pm.  Liam came out of his house a few moments later to see who was outside his house and turned left out of his drive to be met with Hillier inside the Shogun armed with a shotgun. CCTV from a nearby address picks up the audio sound of one gunshot which proved to be fatal for Liam. Hillier drove around the block and took time to get chemicals out of his vehicle to pour onto Liam’s body; these chemicals were later confirmed as sulphuric acid and soda crystals. As he sentenced the pair at Manchester Minshull Crown Court, His Honour Judge Maurice Greene told them: "I have to sentence you for what can only be described as the brutal and cold blooded murder of Liam Smith which took place on 24th November 2022. I must also sentence you Rachel Fulstow for doing acts intending to pervert the course of justice... "Having murdered Liam Smith, you showed no remorse whatsoever and went on holiday to Jamaica, disposing of the remaining items on your return." The judge said the arrest of another man, who had previously been found with the fake number plates they had obtained, led to their downfall and Hillier was arrested. Fulstow was first interviewed as a witness. A photograph released by Greater Manchester Police shows the couple riding horses in the sea while on holiday in Jamaica. Another photograph shows them on a motorcycle, while another features the loved-up couple out at an event. Detective Chief Inspector Gina Brennand of GMP’s Major Incident Team, said: “My thoughts and the thoughts of the investigation team will always remain with Liam’s family. They will never ever get over this tragedy, nor should they be expected to, and the actions of Michael and Rachel were nothing short of despicable. “On the night of Liam’s murder, police and other emergency services were working incredibly hard to try and ascertain the facts. It was unclear what had happened to Liam that night and it was very concerning for local residents. “The investigation involved hundreds of hours of CCTV footage and phone records which were carefully filtered through by officers. I’d like to thank members of the public for responding to our appeals with information and footage, your assistance has helped us build a timeline of events prior to Liam’s death and has been crucial for helping us get to this outcome today.  “No sentence will ever be enough to reflect the despicable attack on a much-loved family man but we do hope the sentences bring some comfort to Liam’s family; that these two individuals will spend the majority of their lives behind bars to be constantly reminded of consequences of their actions.” YorkshireLive has launched a WhatsApp community and anyone who joins will get the latest breaking news and top stories sent direct to their phone. To join click here. 