RIO DE JANEIRO – Ihor Potieria beat Mauricio Rua with a first-round TKO Saturday on the preliminary card at UFC 283 at Jeunesse Arena in Rio de Janeiro. Take a look inside the fight with Potieria, who sent former champion and all-time legend “Shogun” into retirement with a loss. Jan 21, 2023; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Ihor Potieria (blue gloves) reacts to the fight against Mauricio Rua (red gloves) during UFC 283 at Jeunesse Arena. Mandatory Credit: Jason da Silva-USA TODAY Sports Result: Ihor Potieria def. Mauricio Rua via TKO (punches) – Round 1, 4:05
Updated records: Potieria (19-3 MMA, 1-1 UFC), Rua (27-14-1 MMA, 11-12-1 UFC)
Key stat: Potieria has 15 of his 19 wins by stoppage and now has more knockouts that submissions at 8-7. Jan 21, 2023; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Mauricio Rua (red gloves) reacts with Ihor Potieria (blue gloves) after their fight during UFC 283 at Jeunesse Arena. Mandatory Credit: Jason da Silva-USA TODAY Sports “When I was just 16, I said I’m going to be fighting ‘Shogun’ one day. But that was just a joke. The way it worked out, the way the energies work, is that you attract what you wish for. … Yes, it was his last fight, and I’m not sure anyone’s going to be happy about him losing, but the fact is I’m thankful to ‘Shogun’ for taking the fight because it’s legends like him that give us young guys a way. They show us the way. They usher us in as the new generation.” Jan 21, 2023; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Mauricio Rua (red gloves) fights Ihor Potieria (blue gloves) during UFC 283 at Jeunesse Arena. Mandatory Credit: Jason da Silva-USA TODAY Sports “I’m going to the UFC (Performance Institute) in Las Vegas, and they’re going to figure out what division is best for me. I have to, of course, be much heavier (than I am at light heavyweight). I need to be at least (240 pounds) to do anything (at heavyweight). I’m just 26, and everyone knows heavyweights and light heavyweights take much longer to develop their strength and their power. Both divisions are good for me, but I’m just a little small for (heavyweight).” “We’ll keep climbing up. We’ll keep fighting whoever the UFC gives me. I don’t know – you want to give me Jake Paul? I’ll fight Jake Paul. But this is not the kind of organization where you (pick your opponent). The next one is whatever the UFC tells me, and I’m going to be ready for whatever it is.” To hear more from Potieria, check out the video of the full post-fight interview above. For more on the card, visit MMA Junkie’s event hub for UFC 283. Be sure to visit the MMA Junkie Instagram page and YouTube channel to discuss this and more content with fans of mixed martial arts.
 Be sure to visit the MMA Junkie Instagram page and YouTube channel to discuss this and more content with fans of mixed martial arts. Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy Sign up for our newsletter to get updates to your inbox, and also receive offers from us, our affiliates and partners. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy 
				Please re-enter your email address.			 
			You'll now receive the top MMA Junkie stories each day directly in your inbox.		  





 
				© Copyright MMA Junkie 2024 



 Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
			Please enter an email address.		 Thanks for signing up. Please check your email for a confirmation. 
			Something went wrong.		