GO AD FREE | Get your Annual Digital subscription for only £30! Use code GAMES More on KentOnline News you can trust 21°C | 9°C 5 day forecast   Home   Medway   News   Article A fire in a block of flats is believed to have started because of an e-scooter. Three engines were called to the site in Wood Street, Gillingham, at around 8.20pm on Saturday. Crews attended with police and the ambulance service, and spent more than two hours fighting the blaze. A fire service spokesman said: “Three fire engines and a height vehicle attended, and crews tackled a fire in the lobby area of the two-storey building. “KFRS’ volunteer response team also attended to support impacted residents. UK Power Networks were also at the scene. “There were no reported injuries, and the cause of the fire is believed to have been linked to an e-scooter.” In April, a man was put in hospital after a devastating fire tore through his home and killed his XL American Bully dog. Kevin Record’s dog Shogun jumped onto the bed when the blaze erupted in Sheerness High Street to alert him to the flames. The 43-year-old woke to find sparks coming from his e-scooter but within seconds it exploded and flames began to rapidly spread. Panicked and disoriented, he managed to escape the fire and smoke-filled room, however he sustained life-changing burns to the right side of his body. KFRS crew manager Steve Smart was one of the first firefighters at the scene. He said: “Kevin absolutely had a lucky escape – if Shogun hadn’t of woken him up the outcome could have been very different. “We’re grateful to Kevin for sharing his story, which we know can’t have been easy, but we hope it will help to raise awareness of the risks associated with lithium-ion batteries and encourage people take extra care, and to use and store them safely to reduce the chance of a fire. “If you have any items powered by lithium-ion batteries please remember to only purchase devices and parts from reputable suppliers. “Charge and store them safely in line with the manufacturer’s guidance. Only charge them when you’re at home and awake, so you’ll know quickly if there’s a fire. Always unplug them after use and store them well away from escape routes or sleeping areas. “Also, it’s essential to have a smoke alarm on each floor of your home and to test it weekly – it could save your life.” Trying to find the right nursery, school, college, university or training provider in Kent or Medway? Our Education Directory has everything you could possibly need! This website and its associated newspaper are members of the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) © KM Group 2024