
BOURNEMOUTH
 
  CLIVE ANTHONY PHILLIPS, aged 55 and of Queen’s Park West Drive, Bournemouth, found guilty of using a Mitsubishi Shogun on the M27 Hedge End on June 19, 2021, when its condition, namely offside rear tyre under one millimetre, was such that its use involved a danger of injury to any person. Fined £241. To pay £34 surcharge and £300 costs. Driving record endorsed with three points.
 
  MEGAN JANET DEE HORNCY, aged 21 and of Stourvale Road, Bournemouth, admits assaulting an emergency worker, namely police staff, acting in the exercise of her functions as such a worker, by beating her at Bournemouth Police Station on February 24. Community order made, whereby the defendant must take part in up to 30 days of rehabilitation activity requirement. To pay £100 compensation. Also admits using threatening or abusive words or behaviour or disorderly behaviour within the hearing or sight of a person likely to be caused harassment, alarm or distress thereby at Bournemouth Police Station on February 24. No separate penalty. Also admits failing to surrender to custody at Poole Magistrates’ Court on March 10, having been released on bail in criminal proceedings on February 24. Community order made. Also admits failing to surrender to custody at Poole Magistrates’ Court on May 11, having been released on bail in criminal proceedings on April 19. Community order made. Also admits having a quantity of herbal cannabis at Boscombe Pier, Sea Road, Boscombe, on May 7. Community order made. Drugs to be forfeited and destroyed.
 
  CHRISTOPHER GEORGE HOY, aged 36 and of Tower Road, Bournemouth, admits failing to comply with the supervision requirements imposed following release from a period of imprisonment in that he failed to attend on February 14, February 21 and February 23. Fined £25.
 
  JOSEPH DAVID SETTY, aged 33 and of Charminster Road, Bournemouth, admits committing fraud in that he dishonestly made a false representation, namely selling an iPhone on Facebook, intending to make a gain, namely £100, for himself. Community order made, whereby the defendant must take part in up to 15 days of rehabilitation activity requirement and carry out 100 hours of unpaid work. To pay £100 compensation.
 
  MADELEINE PANKHURST, aged 51 and of Palmerston Road, Bournemouth, admits stealing three ladies M&S cashmere tops valued at £337 belonging to M&S at Castlepoint Shipping Centre in Castle Lane West, Bournemouth, on January 24. Community order made, whereby the defendant must take part in up to 15 days of rehabilitation activity requirement. To pay £114 surcharge.
 
EAST DORSET
 
  DANIEL PETER SHEARING, aged 27 and of Hainault Drive, Verwood, admits driving a DAF truck on the A52 Barrowby on January 10 at a speed exceeding 50mph, namely 57mph. Fined £347. To pay £92 surcharge and £85 costs. Driving record endorsed with four points.
 
  JAKE DAMER, aged 18 and of Hardy Crescent, Wimborne Minster, admits having a quantity of cannabis in Crown Mead car park, Wimborne Minster, on April 1. Discharged conditionally for 12 months. To pay £85 costs and £26 surcharge. Drugs to be forfeited and destroyed.
 
POOLE
 
  LEE COOPER, aged 41 and of Poole Road, Lytchett Matravers, admits stealing two GHD hair straighteners to the value of £508 belonging to John Lewis at Poole Retail Park, Redlands, Poole, on February 10. Committed to prison for four weeks, suspended for six months. To pay £508 compensation.
 
  JONATHAN ANDREW HALL, aged 48 and of Flaghead Road, Canford Cliffs, admits failing to comply with the requirements of a community order made on July 22, 2021, by failing to attend unpaid work sessions on February 21 and April 11. Fined £200.
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.