Are you heading to San Diego Comic-Con with money to burn? If so, there’s a good chance that you are one of the many fans who will be on the lookout for this year’s Comic-Con exclusives. While Comic-Con’s movie and TV panels tend to get most of the press, you have to keep in mind that this show also has one of the largest dealers’ rooms in the country. And everyone is bringing something to sell. That tends to be where you, the collector, come in. To further entice buyers, companies capitalize on Comic-Con by putting out exclusive collectibles, comics, prints, lithographs, action figures, statues, and everything else under the sun. Some of these items may even be available online for fans who can’t make it to San Diego. But if you really want them, then your best bet is always to be there in person on Wednesday, July 19 for Preview Night, or Thursday, July 20 for the first day of the show. To help you navigate this year’s Con, we’ve narrowed our list down to the 10 best San Diego Comic-Con 2023 exclusives, which you can find below. For decades, Alex Ross has brought comic book heroes to vivid life with his breathtaking paintings. And while owning one of those original paintings is often far out of reach for most fans, the Alex Ross Art booth is offering two prints by Ross that caught our eye. The first one, The Protectors, as seen above, was painted by Ross for the cover of Captain America & Iron Man #5. DC fans have a different option: Fastest Man Alive, a print featuring Superman and The Flash attempting to answer that question once and for all. You can find both at the Alex Ross Art booth at No. 2415 on the convention floor. If you follow the modern world of comic books, then you already know that Mark Brooks is one of the top cover artists in the industry. At this year’s convention, Brooks’ representatives at Comic Sketch Art will have three exclusive prints by Brooks featuring the X-Men’s Jean Grey as the Phoenix. In the image above, Jean is the White Phoenix of the Crown. Essentially, that’s her most evolved god-like form. The other variants are Jean as Dark Phoenix and Jean as Phoenix fused with a Venom symbiote. You can find these prints at booth 4901. Insight Editions is bringing a number of new books to booth 2129. But we’ve got our eye on Dune: Part One – The Photography, an intimate look at Denis Villeneuve’s acclaimed film. Brian Herbert, the son of Dune author Frank Herbert, co-wrote the book with contributions from Chiabella James, Rebecca Ferguson, and Tanya Lapointe. In the book, you can expect to see “a remarkable visual journey that fully captures the unique spirit of the production.” Bob, Agent of Hydra, is one of the lesser-known members of Deadpool’s supporting cast. The short version is that Bob was a lowly agent of Hydra who was coerced by Deadpool into betraying his fellow agents and helping him escape. Since then, Bob has been Deadpool’s friend and occasional sidekick. And he’s finally getting his own action figure in Hasbro’s Comic-Con exclusive Marvel Legends Series Deadpool & Bob, Agent of Hydra Two-Pack. The two-pack includes an alternate head, multiple accessories, and even a Hydra briefcase. You can find it at the Hasbro Pulse Desk at Booth No.3213. Since you may already be at booth 3213 for Bob and Deadpool, you may as well pick up this Hasbro exclusive as well. Meet Chuckles, one of the undercover operatives who works for G.I. Joe. He’s a fan-favorite who is known for his penchant for loud shirts and getting into some serious situations. Don’t underestimate the demand for this one. I am actually going to be in line for Chuckles on behalf of a friend who can’t make it to SDCC. Batman has quite a musical legacy on the big screen from Danny Elfman to Hans Zimmer and the Dark Knight’s current composer, Michael Giacchino. At this year’s Comic-Con, Mondo is releasing Giacchino’s The Batman – Original Motion Picture Soundtrack 3XLP – SDCC Exclusive Gotham Glow Vinyl. This is a limited edition release of only 500, so come out early for this one. The Shogun Warriors toy line brought characters from multiple anime properties together as figures in the ’70s. Toynami is continuing the line this year with the Macross Shogun Warriors Skull Leader VF-1S. Macross is one of the three anime series that were edited together as Robotech in America, which is why Skull Leader VF-1S may look familiar to you. It’s super cool looking, and you can find it at booth 3229. Thiry years ago, the Batman was broken by Bane in the landmark storyline Knightfall. To celebrate the occasion, McFarlane Toys is releasing a Batman Knightfall 30th Anniversary Gold Label Action Figure. There are literally hundreds of Batman action figures, but this one is particularly striking. And it captures the spirit of Batman’s run during the ’90s. You can find it at the DC booth at 4645 on the convention center floor. There are two busts at booth 2607 from Gentle Giant that are on our wish list. The first one is Star Wars: The Clone Wars Pre Vizsla Mini Bust. Pre Vizsla comes with the Darksaber, which is the mark of leadership of the Mandalorians. It’s limited to 750 pieces. And finally, Gentle Giant’s Indiana Jones bust closes out our list of the top SDCC exclusives. Indy comes with his customary whip and a torch. It’s also limited to 1,000 pieces. How do you celebrate Star Trek at Comic-Con when all of the actors stayed home? The actors and writers strike has greatly diminished the star power of San Diego Comic-Con, but Paramount+ had a novel solution. The streamer put its cards on the table early by promoting the remaining episodes of Star Trek: Strange New Worlds season 2, including a video preview for the upcoming musical episode. Star Trek: Strange New Worlds | "Subspace Rhapsody" Trailer (SDCC 2023) | Paramount+ San Diego Comic-Con is the place where pop culture converges for four-and-a-half days and brings fans of all strips together under one banner. Comic book readers, movie and TV fans, fantasy lovers, sci-fi enthusiasts, anime experts, gamers, and more can always find something they love at the show.  That's because Comic-Con is pop culture. But sometimes, Comic-Con leaves such an impression that it leaps out to other aspects of pop culture on screen or even in the pages of a book. For this year's SDCC, we're taking a look at seven times a Comic Con has appeared in pop culture. It's not always San Diego, but Comic-Con's influence is still felt in these projects.
Paul (2011) The pop culture event of 2023 is finally here! San Diego Comic-Con has been the biggest comic convention in the U.S. for decades, and a top destination for movie and TV stars for more than 20 years. This year's convention is going to be an exception that rule, since many of the actors, actresses, and writers will not be present due to the ongoing SAG-AFTRA and WGA strikes. But don't think for a moment that this means people won't show up for Comic-Con. The tickets were sold out months ago, and fans have plenty of other ways to get their Comic-Con on. Before we dive into this year's panels, we want to give you some much-needed advice to handle the long days inside and outside of the San Diego Convention Center. The first piece of advice is simple: Bring your own food and water whenever possible. Otherwise, you'll find yourself waiting in line for an hour for overpriced convention food and bottled water that's several more expensive than it would be in a regular store. Having your own food means that you waste less time in line, and you save more money for things you can actually keep. And if you need more food while you're at the show, there's a Ralphs at 101 G Street, which is just under a half mile away from the convention center. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.