Following a surge in phishing scams, the Ministry of Digital Affairs on Tuesday fined online marketplace Shopee and local bookstore Eslite for failing to protect customer data. Singapore-based Shopee and Eslite Spectrum Co were fined NT$200,000 and NT$100,000 respectively for contravening the Personal Data Protection Act (個人資料保護法), the ministry said in a statement. Shopee, which the Criminal Investigation Bureau in March said was the consumer-to-consumer (C2C) platform on which people were most likely to be exposed to phishing scams, failed to take concrete action to address the threats it faced, the ministry said. Photo: Hsu Tzu-ling, Taipei Times When Shopee was asked for information, it only provided a limited amount of data about customer safety, the ministry said, adding that it failed to prove it had taken the necessary measures to protect customer data. Shopee also failed to effectively supervise partners it outsources to, which contributed to the leak, the ministry said. Reports to the 165 anti-fraud hotline led to the discovery of the phishing attacks on C2C platforms, it said. The hackers’ goal is to steal personal or business information used by customers to carry out online transactions and use it to scam people, it said. Eslite was found to have poor account management during an on-site inspection, the ministry said. The bookstore came under fire last month after a customer’s private data were allegedly leaked to a supposed Chinese agent. NGO worker Cynthia Yang (楊欣慈) received a telephone call in February from someone claiming to be a Taiwanese pollster who asked questions about a book titled If China Attacks (阿共打來怎麼辦), which Yang had purchased from Eslite’s online bookstore. However, the caller’s accent and terminology suggested they were not Taiwanese, said Yang, who is deputy executive secretary of the Here I Stand Project, a Taiwanese non-profit organization that seeks to promote the nation’s youth internationally. The caller also kept emphasizing how “sensitive” the book’s contents were and insisted that “a military unification [of Taiwan and China] was inevitable,” Yang told a news conference held by her organization and the Taiwan Statebuilding Party on May 14. The ministry said that it would continue to monitor the companies and other e-commerce firms. Shopee and Eslite need to make improvements soon to avoid more fines, it added. 

                                                                                The Kaohsiung Museum of Fine Arts yesterday apologized for forbidding children from copying paintings by freehand drawing, saying it welcomes visitors to make sketches of paintings on drawing tablets or sketchpads.
The museum issued the remark after a museumgoer nicknamed “Mickeyelk Gesner” on Thursday posted on Facebook that her son had been sketching a painting by Pablo Picasso on a tablet computer at the exhibition “Capturing the Moment” on Wednesday when a museum worker told him to stop drawing.
“The staff told us, ‘Only taking photos is allowed. No copying. This is a rule,’” she quoted the worker as saying.
Physician Lee Chia-yan                                     

                                                                                A magnitude 5.7 earthquake struck off the coast of Yilan County at 5:06pm yesterday, the Central Weather Administration (CWA) said.
The earthquake occurred offshore, 38.3km south-southeast of Yilan County Hall, at a depth of 9km, CWA data showed.
The quake’s intensity, which gauges the actual effect of a seismic event, was highest in parts of Yilan County, where it measured a “weak 5” on Taiwan’s 7-tier intensity scale.
The temblor recorded an intensity of 4 in parts of Hualien, Taoyuan and New Taipei, and 3 in parts of Taichung, Nantou, Taipei, Hsinchu and Miaoli, CWA data showed.
There were no immediate reports of damage                                     

                                                                                China’s travel booking platform ctrip.com has removed the Evergreen Laurel Hotel in Shanghai from its listings after the chain’s Paris venue banned the Chinese national flag during the 2024 Summer Olympics, sparking an Internet furor.
The story — which had garnered 110 million views on Sina Weibo — had since been removed from the platform’s list of most popular posts.
On Monday, a Chinese influencer known as Instructor Zhang (張教官) accused the Evergreen Laurel Hotel in Paris of refusing his request for the Chinese flag to be displayed at the venue in a video uploaded to TikTok.
A person purported to be a                                     
HUGE UPGRADE: 
                                        Once Terminal 3 is completed, the airport’s passenger service capacity would expand to 82 million travelers per year from 37 million, an official said                                        The north concourse of Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport’s Terminal 3 is scheduled to begin operations in the middle of next year, Taoyuan International Airport Corp (TIAC) said yesterday.
The Terminal 3 project was launched as the number of air travelers accessing the nation’s largest international airport each year has already exceeded the combined capacity of terminals 1 and 2.
The two existing terminals were designed to be accessed by 37 million air travelers per year. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, about 48.36 million accessed the airport in 2019.
The airport operator yesterday organized a field trip for reporters to see Terminal 3 construction                                    