
                            11th September 2023 - 3 min read Online shoppers in Malaysia will now have another e-commerce platform to shop from, namely Temu, a popular Chinese online marketplace. This comes as Temu – which is owned by PDD Holdings, who also owns another equally well-known e-commerce platform in China, Pinduoduo – officially makes its way to Malaysian shores today. Temu primarily offers products that are shipped from China, spanning a wide range of categories like fashion, electronics, sports, health & household, as well as pet supplies. The platform also stated that it provides “free standard shipping on almost all orders”, with shipping time taking between 5 to 20 days. For payment, Temu accepts quite a broad range of payment options, including credit and debit cards (Visa, Mastercard, American Express, JCB, Diners Club, and UnionPay), FPX/online banking, as well as Apple Pay and Google Pay. Meanwhile, those who prefer e-wallet payment can pay using Touch ‘n Go eWallet. You can actually also pay for your purchases using something called Temu Credits, which are essentially shopping credits – somewhat similar to Shopee Coins on Shopee or LazCoins on Lazada. They can be earned or obtained via several channels, including participating in various promotional events found in Temu, as well as receiving them for late delivery compensation and refund payments. Another notable feature on Temu is its 90-day free-return policy, applicable to the first return for every order (excluding damaged/used and incomplete clothing set, items labelled as non-returnable, and free gifts). Essentially, any items that are still in mint condition will be eligible for a full refund – without any additional charges – within 90 days of purchase. Subsequent returns of the same order, meanwhile, will incur a shipping fee of RM8.50. Temu further highlighted that all customers will be eligible to tap into its price adjustment policy, where the platform will compensate you with the price difference if the price of your item is reduced within 30 days of your purchase. You can request for this compensation from the “Your Orders” page, by tapping on the “Request for a price adjustment” button; depending on whether you opt to receive your refund as cash or Temu Credit, the refund process can take up to 30 days or 3 minutes, respectively. Note, too, that items that are on clearance, promotions, or are no longer available may not qualify for this policy. To celebrate its launch, Temu is offering free shipping on all orders made today (11 September 2023), between now until 11.59pm, as well as a total credit of RM20 in the event of late deliveries. Do be aware, though, that you must meet Temu’s minimum order threshold of RM45 in order to be eligible for this promo. For context, Temu was launched in the US just last September. Since then, it has expanded into as many as 40 markets, including Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, and more recently, the Philippines. Malaysia is its second Southeast Asian country. Locally, it will compete with key e-commerce platforms like Lazada, Shopee, and TikTok Shop. (Source: Temu)  Δ  Δ Subscribe to our weekly newsletter that highlights everything from financial news to expert tips to the latest card and e-wallet deals. Stay tuned for what’s to come next in the personal finance world Subscribe to our exclusive weekly newsletter and we’ll bring you the week’s highlights of financial news, expert tips, guides, and the latest credit card and e-wallet deals. Stay tuned for what’s to come next in the personal finance world 