Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: EA) and EA SPORTS™ today revealed EA SPORTS Madden NFL 24 with new gameplay depth that delivers more control and realism on PlayStation®5, Xbox Series X|S, and PC versions, through the next evolution of FieldSENSE™ and the debut of SAPIEN Technology. SAPIEN delivers a leap forward in NFL realism by rebuilding the character skeleton providing more body definition and variation to on field physiques. SAPIEN makes characters more human and anatomically correct, improving authentic athletic motion and with FieldSENSE, creates true-to-life movement patterns on the field.  Dozens of improvements to foundational football elevate the Madden NFL 24 football experience, while the return of fan-favorite Superstar Mode and mini-games (on PS5™, Xbox Series X|S and PC versions) deliver fun new ways to play and learn the game. Plus, for the first time, fans can play with friends regardless of their platform with cross-play support and feature parity on PS5™, Xbox Series X|S and PC in head-to-head and certain online multiplayer modes.  "We set a new foundation for football gameplay with the introduction of FieldSENSE last year, which was one of the best-selling years in Madden NFL franchise history, and we're going even deeper in the areas our fans want most in Madden NFL 24," said Mike Mahar, Senior Producer, Madden NFL. "We've added more ways to play with mini-games and Superstar, more realism through FieldSENSE, deeper immersion with dozens of foundational football improvements and the introduction of SAPIEN Technology – all of which bring the game closer to what fans see from the NFL." Buffalo Bills fans have something special to celebrate as their quarterback, Josh Allen, becomes the first Bills player ever to land the cover of Madden NFL. One of the most dynamic playmakers in the league, Allen owns the NFL record for total touchdowns (177) through five career seasons, which propelled him to become the most used player in Madden NFL 23. "As a fan of Madden NFL since childhood, I'm honored to be the first Buffalo Bills player on the cover, and I wouldn't have gotten here without the support of my team and Bills Mafia," said Josh Allen. "Superstar and mini-games are back in Madden, and I'm really excited for fans to see how the experiences have evolved."  Gameplay in Madden NFL 24 for PS5™, Xbox Series X|S, and PC is more realistic, with improvements to FieldSENSE delivering increased control in throwing, catching, and tackling and SAPIEN delivering more body definition that improves the fluidity of athletic motion. More upgrades available on these platforms include:  Fans who pre-order** the Madden NFL 24 Deluxe Edition will receive numerous benefits including 3-day early access, 4600 Madden Points, Dual Entitlement to upgrade to the PlayStation®5 or Xbox Series X|S version†, and much more. Fans who pre-order the Deluxe Edition early by July 22 will also receive a player item from the AKA Ultimate Team Program. More details on Madden NFL 24 will be revealed throughout the summer so stay tuned to the Madden NFL website and social media on Instagram, Twitter and TikTok for the latest updates.  *Conditions apply. See https://www.ea.com/games/madden-nfl/madden-nfl-24/cross-play for details. **Conditions & restrictions apply. See https://www.ea.com/games/madden/madden-nfl-24/disclaimers for details. †Conditions apply. See https://www.ea.com/games/madden-nfl/madden-nfl-24/dual-entitlement for details. Bucky Brooks and Lance Zierlein are back with a new episode of Move the Sticks.  In the latest episode of the NFL Fantasy Football Podcast, Marcas Grant, Michael F. Florio and LaQuan Jones break down all the action from Week 2 of the preseason. With two preseason games down and three weeks until the season opener, Patriots rookie head coach Jerod Mayo said Monday he remains unsure who his starting quarterback will be in Week 1 against the host Cincinnati Bengals. Chargers QB Justin Herbert returned to the practice field and participated for the first time since suffering a plantar fascia injury in his right foot in July.