
                Agree & Join LinkedIn
               
      By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
     Shopify is facing a class action lawsuit for allegedly reducing promised severance pay for some employees that were part of recent layoffs. The lead plaintiff says he accepted an $88,000 severance package, which the company then lowered to $44,000 — or $36,000 if he didn't accept the new terms. Lawyers for the class action say Shopify sent a “vague statement about miscalculating” the payouts and they are seeking $80 million in damages and $50 million in punitive damages, per The Canadian Press. 
                Concierge @ Origin at Longwood. Professional Artist.Community Inclusion Support Worker. Former Shopify employee.
             Sharing to bring attention to this issue to my peers who were also laid off without cause recently by Shopify. It appears that they are not treating all former employees equally, allegedly. It's important to know your rights. 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
Caroline Pike commented on this
       
                2,116 followers
             We've launched a $130-million class-action #lawsuit against #shopify after the e-commerce giant illegally slashed #severance packages following their nationwide mass #layoff.

Samfiru Tumarkin LLP is standing up for #employee rights in this unprecedented situation.

"In my over two decades as an employment lawyer, I have never witnessed an employer renege on accepted severance agreements in this manner, particularly during times of economic uncertainty," said #employmentlawyer Lior Samfiru.

Get the details at www.ShopifyLawsuit.ca - including lessons for ALL Canadians about their employment rights. Leading the Way in Hertfordshire Real Estate | Editor ~ The Royston Property blog I am also one of those effected with refusal of payment 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 Class action lawsuit alleges Shopify reneged on severance deals offered to laid off workers.  After workers accepted first deal, the company allegedly sent them new package with less compensation. 

Plaintiff’s offer dropped from $88,000 to $44,000.

More: https://bit.ly/43uVQEs 
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                2,413 followers
             A class-action lawsuit alleges Shopify reneged on a deal it offered some employees who were laid off in a recent round of cuts.

Lior Samfiru, a lawyer pursuing the case, said he has never seen an employer do "anything like" what happened in this case in his two decades of practice. 

“The individuals did the reasonable thing, which is to accept, only to be told even though we made you reasonable offers, even though you accepted that reasonable offer, we’re just not going to do it and you have to sign a brand new agreement for a much lesser amount,” said Samfiru.

https://lnkd.in/guts85aW
#HR
#ClassActions
#severance  
        To view or add a comment, sign in
 
                38,444 followers
             A class-action lawsuit alleges Shopify reneged on a deal it offered some employees who were laid off in a recent round of cuts.

The class action alleges some of the Ottawa software business’s employees laid off at the start of May were presented with departure packages outlining hefty severance sums they would be entitled to should they sign the agreement within a few days.

However, once workers signed the agreements and before the deadline passed, Shopify allegedly told departing staff they would instead be given substantially smaller sums than were initially offered.

Find out more: https://lnkd.in/gAwKXjNc
#shopify  
        To view or add a comment, sign in
