The vocal investor and industry veteran Keith Rabois reveals that thousands of tech employees at Meta and Google perform "false work" and were hired to satisfy the "vanity metre" of recruiting. In addition to serving as the CEO of OpenStore, which provides funding to retailers using Shopify, Rabois is also a general partner at the venture capital company Founders Fund. He was an executive at the payments company in the early 2000s, earning him the nickname "PayPal Mafia". Speaking remotely from Miami at a gathering organised by the banking company Evercore, Rabois said that large IT companies were to blame for overhiring and that the current wave of widespread job cuts in the industry to control expenses was long overdue. SEE ALSO: Apple iPhone SE 4 To Be Manufactured With Left Over Parts Of These iPhones This has been the case for a very long time: all of these individuals were unnecessary. According to him, the vanity standard for employing personnel was a kind of false god. Later in the call, he calculated that Meta, the company that owns Alphabet's Google and Facebook, had thousands of idle staff. He said that there was nothing for these guys to accomplish because their employment was all pretend. What these folks truly do, now that it has been revealed, is attend meetings. He continued, saying that Google purposefully overhires computer expertise and engineers to keep them from switching to other businesses. He called this tactic "quite rational." Yet that implied that engineers had been content to be entitled, sit at their desks, and accomplish nothing, he said. SEE ALSO: Not At Google I/O 2023, But Pixel Fold Appears In The First Live Leak; Take A Look According to Rabois, the industry's emphasis will change from a growth-at-all-costs paradigm to one that emphasises profitability indicators like the revenue earned per person. Reduced headcount, according to Rabois, is one of the finest strategies to protect and produce free-cash flow. The remarks come as IT businesses across the industry have recently reduced their workforces in an effort to save expenses and withstand the economic storm due to recent increases in interest rates and inflation. According to the layoffs tracking website, more than 1,000 businesses fired more than 160,000 employees in 2022. According to the website, there have already been over 100,000 layoffs in 2023.