Sweden.se is publicly funded and produced, developed, maintained and operated by the Swedish Institute (SI). SI is a public agency that builds interest and trust in Sweden around the world. We work with Sweden promotion, cooperation in the Baltic Sea region and global development. This site was built with WordPress, a free and open-source publishing platform, and it was developed in close cooperation with communications agency Futurniture and digital agency Delorean (link in Swedish). Sweden is also present on Facebook, Instagram, X (former Twitter), YouTube and Spotify. The sweden.se team is based at SI. Contact us at [email protected]. SI's activities are governed by an annual government directive (only in Swedish), so-called appropriation directions. The Swedish Institute, the organisation behind this website, has a privacy policy that can be found at si.se. All materials contained on this website may be reproduced, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast, as long as it is for non-commercial purposes. Photos may not be re-used in any context. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content. The Sweden logo and brand are protected. Copyright Swedish Institute. All rights reserved. All Swedish Institute publications are available through Sharing Sweden. For specified purposes you can also contact the nearest Swedish embassy for free copies. Please go to swedenabroad.com for a list of addresses and phone numbers. The material on sweden.se is supplied by a large number of public content providers, as well as private, independent enterprises. Each organisation is fully responsible for its information published on sweden.se. The opinions, quotes and expressions, choices and priorities – including possible omissions – do not necessarily reflect the official policies and opinions of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs or the Swedish government. The website sweden.se assumes no liability or guarantee for the topicality, correctness and completeness of the information and data presented. Although every care is taken to provide links to suitable material from this website, the nature of the internet prevents us from guaranteeing the suitability, completeness or accuracy of any of the material that this website may be linked to. The Swedish Institute does not take responsibility for mistakes or omissions in the web material carried under sweden.se, whatever the reason for them. In addition, sweden.se is not liable for direct or indirect damages, including lost profits that could be incurred as a result of the use of the information or data found on this website. The use of this information does not entail any rights or obligations between sweden.se and the user of this website or third parties. This also applies to all the other websites cited either directly or indirectly that are referred to in a link. The website sweden.se is in no way responsible for the contents of the websites accessed by these links or for the way in which they maintain data protection. The Swedish Institute reserves the right to alter or remove any information published on the website at any time without prior notification. We welcome and encourage discussion and debate on the Swedish Institute’s social media accounts, and we ask you to keep conversations serious, inclusive and respectful. So, when you comment on, reply to or share our content, please follow the rules below. The comment field is moderated, and the following is not permitted: The Swedish Institute reserves the right to remove any content that is not permitted according to the list above, as well as the right to turn off comments sections when deemed necessary. Moderation decisions are also made based on the context in which comments or replies are made. Views on the moderation should be emailed to the relevant editorial staff.Users who violate any of the above-stated rules may be blocked by the Swedish Institute. If you feel that you have been blocked incorrectly, please contact the relevant editorial staff. The comments function is provided and monitored according to the Swedish Bulletin Board Systems Act (BBS, link in Swedish). Any individual who posts something that violates applicable Swedish law may be held personally liable. Please note that anything you publish on our social media accounts is visible to other users. Normally, comments and replies, as well as direct messages, on our accounts constitute official documents in accordance with Sweden’s principle of public access to official documents. This means that they are public documents, that can be accessed by the public. When you communicate with us through social media, your personal information is processed. Read more about the Swedish Institute’s privacy policy on si.se (pdf). Last updated on 27 April 2022 Share with your friends Copyright © 2024 Swedish Institute