When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission. This doesn't affect our editorial independence. If you’re looking for an iPhone but don’t want to spend a fortune, the third-gen iPhone SE, Apple’s cheapest current handset, is the phone for you. It features a powerful processor (the A15, which also appeared in the flagship iPhone 13 Pro from 2021) at an affordable price, starting at $429 in the U.S. or £429 in the U.K. For a phone that’s even cheaper, however, you may want to consider the second-gen iPhone SE from 2020. Apple no longer sells this device itself, but other vendors may still sell you one for a bargain price. In this article we round up the best deals and discounts currently available on each iPhone SE model, as well as cheap bundle offers worth considering. We cover both SIM-free and contract deals, identifying which retailers which have the handsets in stock, and which offer the best price. If you want to get yourself an iPhone SE, read on for the best deals. Apple’s most affordable iPhone starts at $429/£429. (And you can get it for less if you trade in an older qualifying phone.) The 2022 model is currently available in three configurations: That’s a slight price increase on the previous model. The 2020 iPhone SE is no longer available from Apple itself, but had the following MSRPs at launch: (If you’re buying the iPhone SE we recommend that you avoid the lowest-capacity model. We explain in a separate article: Why you shouldn’t buy the 64GB iPhone SE.) Apple sells the iPhone SE starting at $429/£429. You can buy from Apple right now. (That’s the U.S. store; depending on where you are, the U.K. store or the Australia store may be more suitable.) It’s also available from other retailers, who may offer discounts on Apple’s price. But this phone is relatively cheap (at least by Apple’s standards), so you’re unlikely to see any startling savings just yet. In the U.S., in fact, all the major retailers are sticking at Apple’s price. Best U.K. deals:  You can check the best and latest offers in our automatic pricing tables, below. Numerous retailers are stocking the iPhone SE. Just make sure you get the third-gen or 2022 version of the iPhone SE: many will continue to stock the second-gen model from 2020, which features the older A13 processor and doesn’t support 5G. U.S. readers should check the following stores: U.K. readers, meanwhile, should check the retailers below. Try the following stores and carriers for the best iPhone SE contract deals. As mentioned above, make sure you’re getting the 2022 model with the A15 processor and 5G. It’s also bearing in mind that you’ll want the contract to include 5G support too: you need both hardware and contract to support the tech, and this may cost extra. If in doubt, ask a member of the sales support staff. U.K. readers can browse the best contract deals using the table below: If you’d like to research further, try the following U.K. carriers: The iPhone SE model from 2020 is no longer sold by Apple itself, but there are good deals available from other vendors. You’ll see the lowest prices from third-party retailers in the automatic pricing table below. You can also buy the iPhone SE SIM-free from a number of other retailers. Try these U.S. stores: U.K. readers should try the following: You can pick up the iPhone SE from a number of different networks in the U.S. and U.K.: U.K. contract providers: We’ve also compared the original iPhone SE to the iPhone SE 2 if you want to know what kind of upgrades and differences to expect. Don’t forget you can save when you trade in your old qualifying phone with Apple or other retailers participating in a trade-in programme. Apple offers up to hundreds of dollars off the iPhone SE when you trade in your old iPhone (but if your phone is older, you’ll likely get much less). You’ll have to select the trade-in option during purchase and answer a few questions about your existing phone model, storage capacity and condition. You’ll need to provide your IMEI number as well. Read about Apple’s Trade In scheme in the U.S. and U.K. In the U.K. you could get even more money off if you trade-in via Currys PC World, which has offered up to £240 off previous iPhone SE models when you trade in an older iPhone. Head to Currys to see how much your device is worth. Amazon offers some good trade-in values, so you should see if you can get more there. Check out Amazon’s Trade In program in the U.S. U.K. readers can see how Amazon trade-in process works here. Apple reseller KRCS also offers a trade-in scheme. You can save on the iPhone SE by opting for a refurbished model. This is an excellent option for the second-gen model from 2020. Although you’re buying a device that has been pre-owned, buying refurbished isn’t the same as simply buying second-hand, the main difference being that the product has been repaired and rigorously tested to ensure it works just like new. Refurbished devices often come with additional warranty arrangements for peace of mind if you are to run into any issues after purchase. Decluttr (better known as MusicMagpie in the U.K.) is a great source to shop for refurbished deals, although right now its prices are higher than Amazon’s. You reduce the rate if you choose to trade-in your old device or old tech for cashback. When shopping refurbished, look out for Apple Certified Refurbished products. These have been repaired, with parts replaced as needed, and thoroughly tested (and cleaned) to meet the Apple standard. You can find Apple Certified Refurbished iPhones from the Apple Refurbished Store. We have a dedicated guide on buying refurbished iPhones with everything you need to know, as well as the best refurbished iPhone deals. Wondering if there’s a more affordable option than the SE? We answer the question What is the cheapest iPhone? in a separate article. Our iPhone buying guide, meanwhile, offers in-depth advice for those looking to buy or upgrade. David has been writing about technology for well over two decades, and got on board the Apple hype train when covering the original iPhone launch in 2007. He is an enthusiastic Apple Watch evangelist and feels that the HomePod is misunderstood. Macworld Sweden Macwelt Germany Subscribe to the Macworld Digital Magazine Manage Subscription Newsletter Follow us on WhatsApp