For All Online 
Programs On Campus, need or have Visa For All Campus 
Programs 
Cost per credit
$330
 
Total courses
20
 
Term length
8 weeks
 From launching new products to reinvigorating old brands, marketing is a critical aspect of business. Marketing shows consumers a product or service, explains how it fulfills their needs and desires, and gets them to take action. In SNHU’s Associate of Science (AS) in Marketing degree program, you’ll develop skills that tap into the left and right sides of your brain, enhancing your creativity alongside your strategic thinking. Skills you'll learn: The associate degree in marketing is designed to provide a solid foundation in business principles and practices. Plus, when you complete the program, you have the option to seamlessly transfer 60 credits into a bachelor's in marketing degree online – saving you time and money along the way. Marketing courses cover topics like communications, promotion, social media and branding. The curriculum also includes 2 free electives, giving you the option to explore your areas of interest further. That’s a big plus if you’re interested, for example, in deepening your understanding of data analysis, psychology or another marketing-related area. Visit the course catalog to view the full AS in Marketing curriculum. All undergraduate students are required to take general education courses, which are part of SNHU's newly redesigned program, The Commons. The goal of The Commons' curriculum is to empower you with some of the most in-demand skills, so you can succeed not only in your academic career, but in your personal and professional life too. Additional Information: SNHU has provided additional information for programs that educationally prepare students for professional licensure or certification. Learn more about what that means for your program on our licensure and certification disclosure page. In addition to earning your associate degree in marketing, you’ll find another way to build your resume at SNHU – certifications. Professional certifications from industry leaders like HubSpot are the gold standard in digital marketing and in high demand by employers. One of the required courses within the AS Marketing program focuses on strategic social media marketing tactics that help students prepare for the HubSpot Social Media Certification exam. The course will teach you how to develop a social media strategy that helps businesses engage consumers and grow their bottom line. Our no-commitment application can help you decide if SNHU is the right college for you and your career goals. Apply up until 2 days before the term starts! Upcoming term starts: October 28, 2024 | January 06, 2025 Attending college online at SNHU can be a life-changing experience. In fact, 93.2% of online students would recommend SNHU according to a 2023 survey with 21,000+ respondents. You’ll take your courses within SNHU’s Brightspace platform. This is where you’ll find your: Our faculty carry with them decades of experience in marketing. By bringing real-world insights to the classroom, they can help position graduates for success in an exciting, ever-changing field. Dr. Jessica Rogers has taught courses in management and marketing for more than a decade and has over 16 years of field experience in operations, management, sales and marketing. Rogers is a member of the American Marketing Association and Academy of Marketing Science. She serves as an editorial board member of The Journal of Education for Business, as well as a reviewer for The Journal of Business Research and The Journal of Social Media in Society. Position

Senior Associate Dean, Business Joined SNHU

2013 Education
 Prior to joining Southern New Hampshire University in 2023, Dr. Jolivette Wallace worked at Belhaven University for over a decade and owned and operated a 6-figure business. Wallace has earned numerous accolades throughout her career, including being recognized as a top 1% business faculty member during her tenure at Belhaven University and receiving the A Woman Who Sets the Standard Award from the International Women’s Review Board. Position

Associate Dean, Marketing Joined SNHU

2023 Education
 “Marketing is for the curious. You need to have a thirst for learning. If you want to join a career where your knowledge today stays static into the future, that’s not marketing. We are constantly learning.” Marcio Moerbeck, adjunct instructor At Southern New Hampshire University, you'll have access to a powerful network of more than 400,000 students, alumni and staff that can help support you long after graduation. Our instructors offer relevant, real-world expertise to help you understand and navigate the field. Plus, with our growing, nationwide alumni network, you'll have the potential to tap into a number of internship and career opportunities. Recently, SNHU has been nationally recognized for leading the way toward more innovative, affordable and achievable education: Founded in 1932, Southern New Hampshire University is a private, nonprofit institution with over 180,000 graduates across the country. SNHU is accredited by the regional accreditor New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE), which advocates for institutional improvement and public assurance of quality. No application fee. No test scores. And no college essay. Just a simple form with basic information. It’s another way SNHU helps you reach your goals sooner. It's easy, fast and free. Whether you're applying for an undergraduate or graduate degree, you’ll fill out a form to verify your previous education experience. As part of our admissions process, we'll help you request transcripts from your previous school(s) to see if you can transfer any credits into your SNHU program! (Also for free!) After reviewing your official evaluation, you can decide if SNHU is right for you! If you choose to enroll, just pick your start date and get ready for classes to begin. Talk to an admission counselor: 888.327.SNHU | enroll@snhu.edu SNHU is accredited by the regional accreditor the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE), which means we meet certain standards of academic quality, and have the tools and resources necessary for students to be successful. The university also carries specialized accreditations for some programs. This program and its concentrations are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP). Student achievement data can be found on the ACBSP accreditation page.  As a nonprofit university, SNHU offers some of the lowest online tuition rates in the country. And when you work with our Financial Services team, we'll explore ways to help you save even more on your education – and customize a payment plan that works for you. *before previously earned credits are applied Tuition rates are subject to change and are reviewed annually. **Note: Students receiving this rate are not eligible for additional discounts. Additional costs: Course materials vary by course. If 12 of your prior learning credits ($330/credit) are accepted toward your associate degree. Your remaining tuition cost: $15,840 If 24 of your prior learning credits ($330/credit) are accepted toward your associate degree. Your remaining tuition cost: $11,880 If 36 of your prior learning credits ($330/credit) are accepted toward your associate degree. Your remaining tuition cost: $7,920 If 45 of your prior learning credits ($330/credit) are accepted toward your associate degree. Your remaining tuition cost: $4,950 How we estimate your tuition cost: We look at the cost per credit multiplied by the number of credits you need to earn for an associate degree. Most associate degrees require 60 credits. SNHU allows you to transfer in up to 45 credits, requiring a minimum of 15 credits to be taken at SNHU. This is only a tuition estimator and doesn't account for other fees that may be associated with your program of choice. Transfer up to 45 credits toward your associate degree program at SNHU. If you’ve taken one course or many, we’ll evaluate them for you. Fill out the FAFSA to see if you’re eligible for grants or work-study. (You could also be offered loans, though you’ll have to pay those back later.) Earn credits in leadership, technology and more – while taking advantage of a 30% online undergraduate tuition discount for active-duty service members and spouses. Getting free money for college – from SNHU or an outside organization – could help you save hundreds or even thousands of dollars. Bring in credits from popular options like CLEP, Sophia Learning, Google and other common credit for prior learning (CPL) experiences. Receive an online tuition discount if your organization has partnered with SNHU for educational benefits. And consider asking your employer about tuition reimbursement. In the digital age, marketing runs the gamut from search engine marketing to social media marketing, TV commercials to YouTube videos and personalized journeys to performance-driven marketing. Thanks to the information collected via digital channels, marketing is more data-driven than ever. This shift has created new opportunities in the marketing field. Marketing is a dynamic career choice with plenty of potential. For entry-level job candidates with an associate degree in marketing, the field offers growing opportunity in several areas, including: Capture the attention of the public to promote something, like a product or service. Promote brands to connect with potential customers using the internet and other forms of digital communication. Study data to evaluate the performance of marketing activities. Gather, analyze and interpret information about a product or service and its customers. Inform customers about a company's activities, shape a positive brand image, build positive relationships and stimulate demand. Sell products or services to consumers or a business. Use social media to build a company's brand, increase sales and drive website traffic. Job growth for advertising, promotions and marketing managers through 2032, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).1 Median weekly earnings for those with an associate degree – 18% higher than those with only a high school diploma ($899), according to the BLS.1 Understanding the numbers
When reviewing job growth and salary information, it’s important to remember that actual numbers can vary due to many different factors—like years of experience in the role, industry of employment, geographic location, worker skill and economic conditions. Cited projections do not guarantee actual salary or job growth. Absolutely. If you’re interested in marketing, an associate degree in marketing is a great place to start. You’ll gain a fundamental understanding of the marketing discipline and a critical skill set for a variety of entry-level positions. You’ll also set yourself on the right path toward career success in this diverse and exciting field. Marketing is an integral aspect of business that can open doors to many opportunities. Southern New Hampshire University's (SNHU) online marketing associate degree provides a strong business-oriented foundation and a broad perspective on the marketing landscape at large. The program is fully online and accredited by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP). Marketing is not only a practical career choice. It also allows you to connect your personal interests or passions with your work. “Consider the student who loves music,” said Dr. Jessica Rogers, senior associate dean of marketing at SNHU. “Perhaps they work in marketing for the music industry or education. The sky's the limit. Every industry needs marketing in 1 way or another!” Virginia Hendricksen ’18 chose marketing because it allowed her to “stay true to my interest in human nature.” She also liked that it added “a business perspective that would equip me for any business job.” A career in marketing also means you’re always learning. “Marketing is for the curious,” said Marcio Moerbeck, adjunct faculty at SNHU. “You need to have a thirst for learning. If you want to join a career where your knowledge today stays static into the future, that’s not marketing. We are constantly learning.”  Earning an associate degree in marketing is also a great way to ease into continuing your journey with higher education. "The instructors (at SNHU) have been so attentive that I have since continued to pursue my bachelor’s degree," said Philip Hudnall '20. From market research to social media marketing, digital marketing to search engine optimization, the field of marketing offers plenty of opportunities for entry-level positions. An associate in marketing prepares you to take advantage of them. “A lot of degrees pigeonhole you, but marketing can lead you anywhere,” said Steve Geibel, adjunct instructor at Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU). “Some specific careers in the modern age of marketing include social media manager and email marketing manager – a lot of companies have someone just dedicated to that.” Driven by the increasing use of data, market research and analytics is 1 area with high growth potential for entry-level positions. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) projects 6% growth in employment for advertising, promotions and marketing managers through 2032.1 Graduates with an associate degree in marketing who choose this career path typically start out as assistants or coordinators. With your AS in Marketing, you may be qualified for roles like an assistant or associate in social media, marketing, communication, PR, digital marketing, research, event planning or sales. Positions in sales give you the opportunity to better understand a brand and how to position it – a necessary skill in the industry. An associate degree has the potential to boost your earning power. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), associate degree holders in 2022 brought home higher weekly median earnings than those with just partial college credit.1 Additionally, those with only a high school diploma had median weekly earnings of $853, while those with an associate degree had median weekly earnings of $1,005 – an 18% jump in wages.1 Also, an associate degree can be the perfect start to your educational journey. For Laura Swedberg '19, she was able to immediately add a credential to her resume as she transitioned into a bachelor's program at SNHU. "I have an incredible education that is recognized and valued by employers and other professionals," she said. For Philip Hudnall '20, he was able to use what he learned in class immediately at his job. "As someone who has worked in the retail field for many years, I wanted to bring added value to the company in which I serve, but also gain knowledge that I would be able to apply in various other industries in the future," he said. "My direct supervisors have been impressed by the amount of personal and professional growth that I have experienced during my time at SNHU. My professional experience – mixed with my newly found educational experiences  – have made me a much stronger candidate for projects and promotions in the future, and, in many cases, way more qualified versus others in my field."  Associate degrees are typically considered 2-year degrees. Some students move faster or slower depending on how busy their lives are or how much time they can devote to schoolwork. Generally, associate degrees require 60 credits of coursework, which translates to 20 college courses. That's half the academic requirements of a bachelor's degree. Already have some college experience? SNHU accepts up to 45 transfer credits toward your associate degree. That means you could start the associate degree in marketing with 3/4 of the credit requirements satisfied. If you meet those requirements, you could end up saving considerable time and money. Philip Hudnall '20 was able to transfer some credits from when he took classes in the '90s, giving him a head start in finishing his degree. "The time flew by," he said. "Before I knew it, I was starting and finishing classes with confidence and ease." Thinking about going on to earn your bachelor’s in marketing? Once you’ve completed your AS in marketing, you can take the next step without the hassle or expense of applying to another school. Southern New Hampshire University's (SNHU) associate program aligns seamlessly with our BS in Marketing, so you can transfer your credits. That means you’ll already be halfway to completing your bachelor’s degree at SNHU when you start. And if you want to take your education even further, SNHU offers an online master's in marketing, as well as an online MBA in marketing. Keep in mind that online bachelor's degree programs were built to help make earning your degree possible while maintaining a healthy work/life balance. With no mandatory login times and 24/7 access to the online classroom, you can complete your weekly assignments when it works for your schedule. "I chose SNHU for my program because I could prioritize my education while focusing on my work, family and personal hobbies," said Laura Swedberg '19. "I knew I would have the opportunity to create my own schedule and complete my schoolwork on my own time, while still feeling that I was being held accountable." Bridget Gallagher '21 knew the format would help her complete the degree she had started 10 years prior. "This program had the perfect number of classes over a shorter window of time than any other school I looked at," she said. "The 8-week terms were perfect for the way I learn." And with 6 terms throughout the year – and the ability to attend full time with 2 courses each term – the speed to completion of your degree can be determined on your terms. Earning your associate degree in marketing can increase your marketability in the field. From a professional standpoint, it demonstrates to prospective employers that you’ve achieved an important credential. From a practical perspective, it gets you that much closer to earning a bachelor's degree and qualifications for higher-level marketing positions. What if you end up stopping or pausing your education after finishing your associate degree? You’ll still fare better than if you started a bachelor's program and took a break halfway through. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, people with associate degrees will likely have better job prospects than those with just some college courses under their belt.1 Dr. Jessica Rogers, senior associate dean of marketing at Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU), points out another competitive advantage of earning your associate degree in marketing: “It offers students the opportunity to create a portfolio, which showcases what you’ve learned to prospective employers. It also provides the opportunity to earn industry-recognized credentials that employers value.” As a candidate for SNHU’s online marketing associate degree, you’ll have the opportunity to build your resume through certifications from industry leaders like HubSpot. A major course within our associate program lays the groundwork to prepare you to take the HubSpot Social Media Certification exam. Certifications like this add value and give you an edge in the eyes of prospective employers. Portability is another good reason to earn your associate degree in marketing. Thanks to its use of digital and online communication, marketing can be done from anywhere. All learning opportunities are worth it, but having a credential you can add to your resume shows employers you have the right knowledge to do the job. For Bridget Gallagher '21, her associate degree at Southern New Hampshire University was "absolutely" worth it. "I feel like I now have an entire community that wants me to succeed in whatever I choose to do," she said. "I now have an accredited degree in an area I already have experience in. Now when I apply to jobs online, my application won't automatically be disregarded because I don't have a degree." Laura Swedberg '19 also saw her degree take her in the right direction – so much so, that she continued on for a bachelor's at SNHU that she completed in 2021. "Before enrolling at SNHU, I was worried that college ... wouldn’t be worth it," she said. "I could not have been more wrong." 1Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Outlook Handbook, on the internet, at: Cited projections may not reflect local and/or short-term economic or job conditions and do not guarantee actual job growth.