MENU Email marketing is inexpensive and effective. Follow these tips to make the most of your email marketing campaigns and strategy for your business. Find out why you should use email marketing services, see dos and dont's and get recommendations for top software tools. Your email marketing strategy may need an update. Follow these best practices for successful email campaigns, and see what's ahead for the rest of the year. When considering tech purchases for marketing functions, your company may have a conflict between the CIO and the CMO. Who should be in charge? Forget WhatsApp or Facebook Messenger. The way to reach more Americans on their cell phones is by the humble SMS text message. Use SMS messaging in text message marketing campaigns to reach customers on their mobile devices. Learn the types of SMS messages and how to use them. Text message marketing is a powerful tool for reaching your customers. See some SMS marketing examples and adapt them to your campaign. Discover how text message marketing helps drive customer engagement and increases purchasing, plus tips on which SMS services to use. Text message marketing is an easy way to boost your digital marketing efforts. Learn why and how you should use it. Every business can benefit from social media, no matter its size or industry. Learn four benefits of using social media and pitfalls to watch out for. When you're selling intangible goods and services, you'll need to create a unique marketing plan and sales process involving trust. Learn what's involved. Email blasts are a small but impactful way to reach a wide audience. Find out how to craft a successful e-blast in this guide. Here is a quick introduction to the biggest e-commerce markets in the world and some interesting facts about the industry in those countries. Your brand reputation is important to your customers. Learn tips guaranteed to keep your reputation untarnished. Use these strategies to automate your email communications without coming across as cold to your customers. Southwest has built an impeccable reputation by putting customers first and prioritizing its employees. Here's what businesses can learn from Southwest. Check out these ways interactive voice response systems can improve your business’s customer service and positively impact your brand. Social media has changed marketing. Learn how to create a social media marketing strategy, what to avoid, and how to ensure successful social media campaigns. An executive summary of your marketing plan provides an overview of how you’ll reach your target audience and drive conversions. Here is how to create one. Lexie Lu, web designer and UX strategist, shares her insight on graphic design trends. When creating software and apps, businesses should strive for a user experience that doesn't exploit others. Here's how to keep ethics a priority. Companies are struggling to find and retain data analytics talent. Find out why there's a shortage of data analysts and what your business can do. These 50 websites will allow you to list your business for free. Here's why you should use online directories and how you can do so effectively. Do you need an Instagram business account? See how they differ from regular accounts and learn the pros and cons of managing an Instagram business account. With over one billion active users, Instagram makes it easy to grow your business on social media. Video can boost your marketing strategy and increase leads, user engagement and sales. Learn how to incorporate video into your marketing strategy. Social media marketing is an effective and affordable way to connect with your target market. Follow these tips to strengthen your social media presence. Millennials have markedly different spending habits from their predecessors. Learn how to shift your strategy to appeal to them. Contests can create excitement and engagement for your brand, and help find new customers. Learn how you can run a successful promotion. A direct sales business sells products or services outside of a retail environment. Follow these tips and strategies to build your direct sales business. Our mission is to help you take your team, your business and your career to the next level. Whether you're here for product recommendations, research or career advice, we're happy you're here!