M&S enjoyed a strong year as it kept its promotions “very limited” and continued to boost style, value and quality perceptions. M&S enjoyed a strong festive period bolstered by a rejuvenated clothing and home line and a growing uptake of its value food proposition. Marks & Spencer’s ongoing investment in style and Sparks  has led to growth in sales and profit  but chief executive Stuart Machin argues the journey is not over. M&S Food is bringing back Dawn French for a third installment of its Christmas fairy campaign. This year she is joined by Hollywood A-listers Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney. As M&S launches its first dedicated menswear campaign in eight years, its marketing director Anna Braithwaite talks about why men are easier – and harder – to convert into customers. Anna Braithwaite, M&S’s top marketer for clothing and home, says the brand is back on track now it has the right balance between style, quality and value. The online grocery company cites a 6.6% rise in active customers and discounted pricing for strong Q3 results. M&S re-entered the fold as one of the UK’s most valuable companies last week, but marketing director Anna Braithwaite tells Marketing Week it is still focused on achieving its transformation goals, adding ‘the job isn’t done’. M&S is outperforming its high street rivals across all key brand health metrics, according to data from YouGov BrandIndex. M&S surpassed expectations to post stronger than expected FY23 results. It’s an impressive turnaround from two years ago for the retailer which has stuck to its values even in difficult times. CEO Stuart Machin also praised the “outstanding performance” delivered by the clothing and home team, which grew its market share to its highest since 2015. Marks & Spencer hired brand and marketing manager Sophie Jacobs to act as a “custodian” of its brand characters earlier this year, as it aims to make them bigger “than ever”. Having recruited a marketer to manage its character brands in June, M&S is flexing mascots such as Percy Pig into new categories to broaden their appeal. While the cost of living crisis is putting pressure on customers, Christmas is still top priority, according to CEO Stuart Machin. After a last minute overhaul of its initial creative concept in May amid the cost of living crisis, M&S is focusing on the power of community in this year’s Christmas ad. All the latest marketing podcasts from Marketing Week, featuring analysis of marketing trends and interviews with top marketers. Xeim Limited, Registered in England and Wales with number 05243851
Registered office at Floor 14, 10 York Road, London, SE1 7ND