Media is more complex than ever. Discover the future of cross-media measurement with Nielsen ONE. Explore what consumers are watching, playing and listening to around the world. Client Login Solutions > Marketing optimization Overview As a marketer, you’re leveraging more channels and tactics to reach your customers than ever before. The question is, how do you know which activities are driving revenue and profit? We’re here to help. Nielsen Marketing Mix Modeling enables customers to assess the impact of their investments, understand what’s working, and optimize marketing budgets accordingly. It provides answers to critical marketing questions using industry-leading performance models for data coverage and granularity, so you can make current and future marketing decisions with confidence. Features Maximize the impact of your marketing campaigns with unmatched coverage across platforms and devices. Analyze marketing ROI insights in weeks with our automated and connected infrastructure. Optimize your marketing mix with customized simulations that help you plan for future campaigns. Dedicated support to provide you with modeling recommendations, insight delivery, and more. Use cases Determine how to best allocate your marketing budget and optimize ROI by understanding how much you should be spending on each marketing tactic. Answer critical questions like: • What is the return on investment of my marketing strategy?• What is the optimal mix for my channels and tactics?• What should my marketing budget allocation be next year? Learn how you can quantify the effectiveness of your platform in terms of return on investment, revenue growth, and incremental sales. Answer critical questions like: • How can I quantify the value of advertising on my platform?• How can I drive incremental revenue for my clients?• How does my platform compare to other media channels? Coverage Maximize your upper funnel campaign performance by measuring, understanding and shaping audience perceptions with Nielsen…  Understand the lift of your marketing efforts and discover which tactics are most effective in driving incremental sales…  Let’s discuss your business needs   Keep up-to-date with our weekly newsletter, Media Pulse. Copyright © 2024 The Nielsen Company (US), LLC. All Rights Reserved. Privacy notice | Terms of use | Do not sell or share my personal informationLimit the use of my sensitive personal informationNielsen Marketing Cloud Privacy Statement | Integrity Helpline | Health Privacy Notice 粤ICP备17078252号 | 粤公网安备44010402001179号 | 上海尼尔森市场研究有限公司广州分公司 Impressum  Contact us In an ever-changing world, we’re here to help you stay ahead of what’s to come with the tools to measure, connect with, and engage your audiences.