Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in “The winning isn’t just about the money”  Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile Our mission is to deliver unbiased, fact-based reporting that holds power to account and exposes the truth.Whether $5 or $50, every contribution counts.Support us to deliver journalism without an agenda. Louise Thomas Editor An ex-footballer who's emotional reaction to winning a £1m lottery jackpot went viral has shared stunning snaps of him enjoying his windfall with his partner. Terry Kennedy, 29, was a teammate of England star Harry Maguire at Sheffield United before being forced into early retirement due to a knee injury in 2016. But after scooping the life-changing win last year, he quit his job as a builder and has spent 12 months ticking off items from his bucket list with his partner Kay Yoxall, 26.  Before the couple had even collected their winnings, they immediately jetted off to Tenerife before heading to Dublin for a long weekend.  The lucky pair quit their jobs and haven't stopped travelling since, and have visited some incredible destinations such as Tokyo, New Zealand, Hawaii, Turkey and Italy. Highlights of their year travelling also include swimming with dolphins in Mexico and going on a helicopter ride in New York.  But their favourite trip so far has been a Caribbean cruise, which Kay described as 'just beautiful.' She said: "On average, we’ve managed to go somewhere different each month and we have lots more to pack in, so we can’t wait to create some more amazing memories together. "Swimming with dolphins in Mexico was on our bucket list of things to do too and we've now ticked that amazing memory off. "That was magical, as was every trip we've taken since winning changed our lives forever." Despite it being a year after the couple won the lottery, Terry has said that they 'have to pinch ourselves to remind us that this is real.'  Terry said: "This win is something which has absolutely changed our lives forever, including the ability it’s given us to travel the world. "It is always something you hope will happen to you but it is just a dream – you think it’s something that only happens to other people – not ordinary people like us! "And it may be a whole year on since we won but still, every single day, we have to pinch ourselves to remind us that this is real and it really did happen to us." Terry, from Barnsley, South Yorks,. bought the winning Lotto Lucky Dip ticket in November last year - but left the ticket on the counter and had to go back and pick it up. Luckily he did go back, because when he later checked the ticket he realised he had matched five numbers plus the bonus ball - making him a millionaire. He was working as a ground worker on a building site at the time and one of his colleagues videoed the moment Terry found out he had won the money. In the viral video, you can see the disbelief and shock on Terry's face as his work colleagues shout and celebrate with him.  Recalling the life changing phone call, Terry said: "Despite all the checks it isn’t until you hear on the phone that it is a £1million win that you really believe it.  "Making the call in front of my mates and colleagues was brilliant and I immediately took them to the pub for a celebratory pint. "Thinking about that call – and listening back to it today – still gives us both goosebumps – and if I am honest, brings tears to our eyes too. "It is a moment which will stay with me for the rest of my life." The couple are also using their winnings to renovate their four bedroom detached house in Rotherham, South Yorks,. into their 'dream home.'  The property sits on a third of an acre of land and has its own orchard, and they will be building a 'man cave' in the garden along with a home for their pet tortoise Travis. Kay said "We are loving just having the time ourselves to build a dream home – just as we want it to be. "The winning isn’t just about the money – it is about buying you that all important time which when you are working you just do not have. "We are really cherishing every moment of being able to do the work ourselves – with the support of professionals, where essential of course – to get our home to be just as we want it to be." Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies Lottery winners Terry Kennedy and Kay in NYC National Lottery / SWNS Terry Kennedy and Kay at home near Rotherham, UK. National Lottery / SWNS Lottery winner Terry Kennedy swimming with the fishes in Playa Del Carmen, Mexico National Lottery / SWNS Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today. Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Log in New to The Independent? Or if you would prefer: 