By Alyssa Guzman For Dailymail.Com   Published:  12:41 EDT, 17 December 2022   |  Updated:  14:07 EDT, 17 December 2022      634 View  comments  A Kentucky woman has won $175,000 at a white elephant gift exchange after a colleague 'stole' her original gift of a $25 TJ Maxx gift card. Lori Janes, of Louisville, was elated after scratching off a Kentucky Lottery Hit The Jackpot ticket she got on Wednesday at the Harmon Dental Center's holiday party.  The dental office manager originally picked up a $25 TJ Maxx before her coworker 'stole' the gift, per the rules of the game. White elephant - which sometimes goes by 'Yankee swap' or 'dirty Santa' - is a gift exchange game where players aim to go home with the best gift. In order of drawn numbers, players choose to either open a gift or 'steal' someone else's that's already been opened. The game comes to an end after everyone has had the chance to swap their gift and is satisfied with their loot.  Lori Janes, of Louisville (pictured), won $175,000 after scratching off a Kentucky Lottery Hit The Jackpot ticket she received on Wednesday at the Harmon Dental Center's holiday party The dental office manager originally nabbed a $25 TJ Maxx gift card before her coworker stole the gift, per the rules of the game. In return, she stole $25 lottery tickets from another coworker, sealing the deal and making the gift officially hers Janes was originally 'disappointed' in the nab, because she 'loves to shop at TJ Maxx,' the Kentucky Lottery said. In return, she stole $25 lottery tickets from another coworker, sealing the deal and making the gift officially hers.  'Once it got to me, it was done and mine to keep. That's when everyone was telling me to scratch them off,' Janes told the Kentucky Lottery.  Janes won $50 on the first ticket. As she scratched off the Hit the Jackpot ticket, she realized she had won a whopping $175,000. 'Everyone was going insane,' she said. 'People were getting their calculators out and double checking. A couple of people even scanned the ticket on the lottery's app, just to make sure. I couldn't believe it. It was a twenty-five-dollar gift exchange, and I won $175,000!'  When she called her husband and children to reveal the holiday surprise, they didn't believe at her, thinking she had read the ticket wrong - until they heard her coworkers cheering. 'We figured she didn't look at it right, but then we heard people in the background celebrating, it became real,' her husband, who was not named, told lottery officials.  Janes won $50 on the first ticket. As she scratched off the Hit the Jackpot ticket, she realized she had won a whopping $175,000 (pictured)  Her coworkers (pictured) cheered her on as she played. 'Everyone was going insane,' she said. 'People were getting their calculators out and double checking. A couple of people even scanned the ticket on the lottery's app, just to make sure' When she called her husband and children to reveal the holiday surprise, they didn't believe her, thinking she had read the ticket wrong until they heard her coworkers cheering  Just hours later, flanked by her family, she took home a giant check for $124,250 after taxes.  Sunrise Market in Fisherville, where the winning tickets were sold, will receive a $1,750 bonus.  Some of the prize money will go to paying off her daughter's student loans and toward the family vehicles, Fox News reported.   
	    Share what you think
           The comments below have not been moderated. 
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
     We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group