The player has 180 days to claim their prize, otherwise it will be reinvested in the good causes that the National Lottery supports Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters Our free email updates are the best way to get headlines direct to your inbox We have more newsletters The National Lottery is hunting for a missing winner who could be celebrating in style for the next 12 months after winning £10,000 a month for one year on the ‘Set For Life’ draw-based game. National Lottery players are now being urged to double-check their tickets for the chance to claim this life-changing prize. The search is now on to find the owner of the winning ticket, bought in Doncaster, who matched the five main numbers in the Set For Life draw on September 18, 2023. The winning Set For Life numbers on that date were 1, 3, 11, 28, 43 and the Life Ball was 9. The lucky ticket holder has until March 16, 2023, to claim their prize. Anyone not in possession of their ticket, for whatever reason, but who believes they have a genuine claim can still make a claim in writing to Camelot, but it must be within 30 days of the draw. Andy Carter, senior winners’ advisor at The National Lottery, said: “We’re desperate to find this mystery ticket holder and unite them with their winnings; this amazing prize could really make a massive difference to somebody’s life. The next 12 months could see the lucky winner banking £10,000 in every single one of those months. "We’re urging everyone who bought a ticket in this area to check their old Set For Life tickets again – the easiest way to do this is via the National Lottery app – or look anywhere a missing ticket could be hiding. Try checking in the pockets of clothing, in wallets, bags and down the back of the sofa. We have the champagne on ice and our fingers crossed that the lucky winner comes forward to claim their win.”  Players can buy and check their tickets online by downloading the National Lottery app or at national-lottery.co.uk. Players can also buy and check tickets in shops. Playing online via the app or website means that your ticket is checked and you get an email notification if you win a prize. You can also scan your retail tickets on the National Lottery app to check if you're a winner.  If nobody comes forward with the winning ticket before the prize claim deadline, then the prize money, plus all the interest it has generated, will go to help National Lottery-funded projects across the UK. By playing any National Lottery game, players generate more than £30million each week for National Lottery-funded projects. This money helps support everything from the local charity making a difference where you live through to helping Britain's athletes win medals at last summer’s Commonwealth Games. To date, more than £47billion has been raised for National Lottery Good Causes, with more than 670,000 individual grants awarded.  With all National Lottery draws, players have 180 days from the day of the draw to claim their prize if they have the winning ticket. Anyone who has any queries or who believes they have the winning ticket for any of the National Lottery draws within the 180-day deadline should call the  National Lottery Line on 0333 234 5050 or email help@national-lottery.co.uk.   Anyone concerned about lost or unchecked tickets may like to consider either setting up a National Lottery Direct Debit or playing online at www.national-lottery.co.uk. Numbers can be entered in advance and lucky winners are notified online if their numbers come up. For further information call 0333 234 4433 or visit www.national-lottery.co.uk ‘Set For Life’ is a draw-based annuity game from The National Lottery that offers a top prize of £10,000 a month for 30 years when the five main numbers and the Life Ball are matched. Players can win £10,000 a month for a year by matching the five main numbers. 