Metrion Biosciences Limited (“Metrion”), the specialist ion channel contract research and drug discovery company, today announced the launch of its High Throughput Screening (HTS) capability, as well as the expansion of its state-of-the-art lab and office facilities. Scott Maidment has been appointed as Head of HTS to lead the new service. The Company has signed a nine-year lease for an additional 8,160 sq. ft of space adjacent to its headquarters on Granta Park, Cambridge, UK, giving a combined total of 20,000 sq. ft (1,860 m2). The new facility and HTS capabilities, which include 384 well screening via FLIPR Penta and Qube-384, will provide significant additional capacity and flexibility to serve ongoing and future ion channel drug discovery projects for Metrion’s global client base. The Company has also installed an Agilent Bravo liquid handling robot, adding further capacity to its suite of automated sample preparation and compound handling instruments. Scott Maidment has been appointed as Head of HTS to lead the introduction of the new service. Scott joins Metrion from Charles River Laboratories, where he was Senior Research Leader. He has almost 30 years’ experience of bioscience laboratory work, including over 20 years in drug discovery contract research for global clients. Scott has extensive expertise in ion channel research gained through multiple HTS campaigns, screening support services, and integrated medicinal chemistry projects targeting transient receptor potential (TRP), two pore domain, calcium-activated K+, ligand- and voltage-gated channel families. Following significant growth in Metrion’s global business in 2022, particularly within the USA, the newly acquired space will ensure our ambitious plan for global commercial expansion continues to gather momentum,” Dr Andrew Southan, Chief Executive of Metrion Biosciences “The launch of our HTS capability adds another layer of depth to our ion channel drug discovery services and complements our automated and conventional electrophysiology services. Having personally worked with Scott on multiple drug discovery projects prior to joining the Metrion team, I have total confidence in his abilities as a HTS specialist to deliver first class screening services to our clients.” Scott Maidment, Head of High Throughput Screening at Metrion Biosciences, added: “Metrion sits at the forefront of the ion channel drug discovery industry as a research provider, and I am delighted to be joining the team at such an exciting phase of its commercial growth as it continues to strengthen its position on the global stage. I look forward to leading the new HTS capability, which will be invaluable to both new and existing client projects.” For more information: https://metrionbiosciences.com/. Posted in: Life Sciences News | Miscellaneous News Tags: Calcium, Compound, Drug Discovery, Electrophysiology, High Throughput, Ion, Ion Channel, Laboratory, Ligand, Liquid Handling, Medicinal Chemistry, Receptor, Research, Sample Preparation Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: APA Metrion Biosciences Limited. (2022, December 01). Metrion Biosciences invests in new High Throughput Screening capability and expanded facilities. News-Medical. Retrieved on August 19, 2024 from https://www.news-medical.net/news/20221201/Metrion-Biosciences-invests-in-new-High-Throughput-Screening-capability-and-expanded-facilities.aspx. MLA Metrion Biosciences Limited. "Metrion Biosciences invests in new High Throughput Screening capability and expanded facilities". News-Medical. 19 August 2024. <https://www.news-medical.net/news/20221201/Metrion-Biosciences-invests-in-new-High-Throughput-Screening-capability-and-expanded-facilities.aspx>. Chicago Metrion Biosciences Limited. "Metrion Biosciences invests in new High Throughput Screening capability and expanded facilities". News-Medical. https://www.news-medical.net/news/20221201/Metrion-Biosciences-invests-in-new-High-Throughput-Screening-capability-and-expanded-facilities.aspx. (accessed August 19, 2024). Harvard Metrion Biosciences Limited. 2022. Metrion Biosciences invests in new High Throughput Screening capability and expanded facilities. News-Medical, viewed 19 August 2024, https://www.news-medical.net/news/20221201/Metrion-Biosciences-invests-in-new-High-Throughput-Screening-capability-and-expanded-facilities.aspx. Cancel reply to comment John Yates In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024, we spoke to Professor John Yates about capturing cardiomyocyte cell-to-cell heterogeneity via shotgun top-down proteomics. Tim Simpson Hologic’s Tim Simpson Discusses the Future of Cervical Cancer Screening. Maria Marco In this interview conducted at Pittcon 2024 in San Diego, Maria Marco discusses her research on the health benefits, safety, and waste reduction potential of fermented foods, and the microbial processes involved in their production. 

                                                  
                                                        News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                                        with these terms and conditions.
                                                        Please note that medical information found
                                                        on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                                        between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
                                                  
                                                  

                                             Last Updated: Monday 19 Aug 2024  News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site Owned and operated by AZoNetwork, © 2000-2024 
                Your AI Powered Scientific Assistant
             Hi, I'm Azthena, you can trust me to find commercial scientific answers from News-Medical.net. A few things you need to know before we start. Please read and accept to continue. Great. Ask your question. 
                Azthena may occasionally provide inaccurate responses.
Read the full terms.
             Terms 
            While we only use edited and approved content for Azthena
            answers, it may on occasions provide incorrect responses.
            Please confirm any data provided with the related suppliers or
            authors. We do not provide medical advice, if you search for
            medical information you must always consult a medical
            professional before acting on any information provided.
         
            Your questions, but not your email details will be shared with
            OpenAI and retained for 30 days in accordance with their
            privacy principles.
         
            Please do not ask questions that use sensitive or confidential
            information.
         Read the full Terms & Conditions. Provide Feedback