
Sierra Space has made a leadership appointment as its first Dream Chaser spaceplane nears completion.
The company is developing what it calls the first end-to-end business and technology platform in space.

Steve Berroth will serve as the senior VP and general manager of the company's space transportation sector

Seasoned aerospace executive, Steve Berroth, has joined the company’s leadership ranks. He will serve as senior vice president and general manager for the company’s space transportation sector.
The veteran aerospace leader has built a storied career at premier aerospace companies prior to Sierra Space, leading the development, manufacture and first flights of some of the most sophisticated crewed and autonomous aircraft in the world.
Berroth’s career covers nearly four decades and includes experience in advanced aircraft production and programme management at Northrop Grumman, Triumph Group and Aerion, where he led the programmes for first flights of various aircraft.
At Northrop, Berroth was program director for the highly complex Fire Scout MQ-8C, an uncrewed autonomous aircraft designed to provide reconnaissance, situational awareness, aerial fire support and precision targeting support for the US Armed Forces.
“I am delighted to welcome Steve to Sierra Space’s senior leadership team,” said Tom Vice, Sierra Space CEO. “Steve’s vast leadership and program management experience in launching new and complex aerospace programs in high-growth environments will be a great asset to our team as we accelerate the Dream Chaser program towards first flight this year.”
At Sierra Space, Berroth’s portfolio includes Dream Chaser, a multi-mission space utility vehicle designed to transport crew and cargo to low-Earth orbit (LEO) destinations such as the International Space Station (ISS).

The company's Dream Chaser spaceplane is due to hit key milestones in 2023, including its first official NASA mission

The first Dream Chaser, Tenacity, is nearing completion and will subsequently ship to NASA’s Neil A. Armstrong Test Facility in Cleveland, Ohio, for final space environmental testing ahead of its first mission to the ISS later this year.
“It is a privilege to join Sierra Space at such a pivotal moment in the company’s upward trajectory,” said Berroth. “I am deeply looking forward to working with this incredibly talented team and helping ready the first Dream Chaser for launch. Reaching this key milestone unlocks so much rich potential as we develop the roadmap for a fleet of spaceplanes, two of which are already on the factory floor, and begin working on crewed variants that will take astronauts to Orbital Reef, the world’s first commercial space station.”
Berroth will be based out of Sierra Space’s facilities in Louisville, Colorado, and report to CEO Tom Vice.
www.sierraspace.com
 Sierra Space has made a leadership appointment as its first Dream Chaser spaceplane nears completion. The company is developing what it calls the first end-to-end business and technology platform in space. Seasoned aerospace executive, Steve Berroth, has joined the company’s leadership ranks. He will serve as senior vice president and general manager for the company’s space transportation sector. The veteran aerospace leader has built a storied career at premier aerospace companies prior to Sierra Space, leading the development, manufacture and first flights of some of the most sophisticated crewed and autonomous aircraft in the world. Berroth’s career covers nearly four decades and includes experience in advanced aircraft production and programme management at Northrop Grumman, Triumph Group and Aerion, where he led the programmes for first flights of various aircraft. At Northrop, Berroth was program director for the highly complex Fire Scout MQ-8C, an uncrewed autonomous aircraft designed to provide reconnaissance, situational awareness, aerial fire support and precision targeting support for the US Armed Forces. “I am delighted to welcome Steve to Sierra Space’s senior leadership team,” said Tom Vice, Sierra Space CEO. “Steve’s vast leadership and program management experience in launching new and complex aerospace programs in high-growth environments will be a great asset to our team as we accelerate the Dream Chaser program towards first flight this year.” At Sierra Space, Berroth’s portfolio includes Dream Chaser, a multi-mission space utility vehicle designed to transport crew and cargo to low-Earth orbit (LEO) destinations such as the International Space Station (ISS). The first Dream Chaser, Tenacity, is nearing completion and will subsequently ship to NASA’s Neil A. Armstrong Test Facility in Cleveland, Ohio, for final space environmental testing ahead of its first mission to the ISS later this year. “It is a privilege to join Sierra Space at such a pivotal moment in the company’s upward trajectory,” said Berroth. “I am deeply looking forward to working with this incredibly talented team and helping ready the first Dream Chaser for launch. Reaching this key milestone unlocks so much rich potential as we develop the roadmap for a fleet of spaceplanes, two of which are already on the factory floor, and begin working on crewed variants that will take astronauts to Orbital Reef, the world’s first commercial space station.” Berroth will be based out of Sierra Space’s facilities in Louisville, Colorado, and report to CEO Tom Vice. www.sierraspace.com Sierra Space 
                        2000 S Taylor Ave                                                                                                    CO 80027                                                    UNITED STATES                                         If you find this article informative, consider subscribing digitally to Aerospace Manufacturing for free.
                    Keep up to date with the latest industry news in your inbox as well as being the first to receive
                    our magazine in digital form.  Lockheed Martin has announced it has agreed to acquire Terran Orbital, a leading provider of satellite-based solutions for aerospace and defence. Lockheed Martin has announced it has agreed to acquire Terran Orbital, a leading provider of satellite-based solutions for aerospace and defence.    BAE Systems is celebrating the successful completion of NASA's Near-Earth Object Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (NEOWISE) mission, which has officially ended on 8th August after more than 14 years on orbit. BAE Systems is celebrating the successful completion of NASA's Near-Earth Object Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (NEOWISE) mission, which has officially ended on 8th August after more than 14 years on orbit.    Northrop Grumman has designed and manufactured a large composite solid rocket motor case using an innovative modular tooling approach. Northrop Grumman has designed and manufactured a large composite solid rocket motor case using an innovative modular tooling approach.    Lockheed Martin has announced it has agreed to acquire Terran Orbital, a leading provider of satellite-based solutions for aerospace and defence. Lockheed Martin has announced it has agreed to acquire Terran Orbital, a leading provider of satellite-based solutions for aerospace and defence.    Space-Comm Expo Scotland is just four weeks away with the inaugural event attracting global leaders and industry experts from across government, defence, business and academia to SEC Glasgow 11-12 September. Space-Comm Expo Scotland is just four weeks away with the inaugural event attracting global leaders and industry experts from across government, defence, business and academia to SEC Glasgow 11-12 September.    Archer Aviation has delivered its first Midnight aircraft to the US Air Force for evaluation under a $142m AFWERX Agility Prime contract. Archer Aviation has delivered its first Midnight aircraft to the US Air Force for evaluation under a $142m AFWERX Agility Prime contract.  