
Maia Luem May 3, 2023 0
 Pomp Beauty matches customers with professional estheticians, who recommend specialized skincare products. (Courtesy of Pomp Beauty) Startup funding around the Centennial State was up nearly $20 million in April compared to March.  According to a tally of Form Ds filed with the SEC last month, 62 startups around the state raised a total of $296 million (You can see our sortable spreadsheet here). That compares to $279.3 million raised by 58 startups last month, and $659.8 million raised by 40 startups in April 2022.  BusinessDen defines a startup as a business that’s less than 10 years old and excludes publicly traded companies, real estate ventures and funds.  Companies in Denver raised the most cash with $163.9 million across 29 deals. Startups outside of Denver and Boulder raised $92 million across 19 deals, while Boulder startups raised $40 million across 14 deals.  Here are some highlights from April:  Pomp Beauty (Denver): $3.27 million Denver-based Pomp Beauty raised over $3 million last month, according to SEC filings.  Founded in 2019 by Shannon Erley, the startup connects customers with estheticians virtually or in person, who then recommend specific skincare products for the client. Products are ordered directly from Pomp Beauty.  According to the website, Erley started Pomp Beauty after struggling with her skin. She felt it was frustrating and expensive to find skincare products that helped, so she created Pomp Beauty so people could easily find products that worked. Four years later, Pomp Beauty also sells makeup, hair products and perfumes. The startup works with medical director Dr. Ritvik Mehta, who provides access to brands typically found at dermatologist offices, and six licensed estheticians, according to its website.  This is the company’s second round of funding – it brought in $2 million in July, BusinessDen reported.  Shred Dog (Boulder): $2 million A Boulder-based children’s outdoor apparel company raised $2 million last month.  Founders Marc Dietz and Dallas Moore met in 2017 and wanted their kids to experience every outdoor adventure, but struggled to find the right gear.  The duo created Shred Dog in an effort to supply families with high-quality outdoor gear without the retail markup, according to its website. The company sells a variety of clothes for children, such as ski gear, camping gear, fleeces and hats, as well as some adult items.  This is the company’s first round of funding, per SEC filings. Sierra Space (Broomfield): $30.56 million After a record-setting raise of $1.4 billion in 2021 and racking in over $100 million last year, the aerospace startup brought in $30.5 million in its first capital raise of the year.  Sierra Space was founded in 2021 and is a subsidiary of Sierra Nevada Corp. According to its website, the company is working to commercialize space, focusing on three aspects: space transportation, space destinations and space applications.  
Pomp Beauty matches customers with professional estheticians, who recommend specialized skincare products. (Courtesy of Pomp Beauty)
Startup funding around the Centennial State was up nearly $20 million in April compared to March. 
According to a tally of Form Ds filed with the SEC last month, 62 startups around the state raised a total of $296 million (You can see our sortable spreadsheet here).
That compares to $279.3 million raised by 58 startups last month, and $659.8 million raised by 40 startups in April 2022. 
BusinessDen defines a startup as a business that’s less than 10 years old and excludes publicly traded companies, real estate ventures and funds. 
Companies in Denver raised the most cash with $163.9 million across 29 deals. Startups outside of Denver and Boulder raised $92 million across 19 deals, while Boulder startups raised $40 million across 14 deals. 
Here are some highlights from April: 
Pomp Beauty (Denver): $3.27 million
Denver-based Pomp Beauty raised over $3 million last month, according to SEC filings. 
Founded in 2019 by Shannon Erley, the startup connects customers with estheticians virtually or in person, who then recommend specific skincare products for the client. Products are ordered directly from Pomp Beauty. 
According to the website, Erley started Pomp Beauty after struggling with her skin. She felt it was frustrating and expensive to find skincare products that helped, so she created Pomp Beauty so people could easily find products that worked. Four years later, Pomp Beauty also sells makeup, hair products and perfumes.
The startup works with medical director Dr. Ritvik Mehta, who provides access to brands typically found at dermatologist offices, and six licensed estheticians, according to its website. 
This is the company’s second round of funding – it brought in $2 million in July, BusinessDen reported. 
Shred Dog (Boulder): $2 million
A Boulder-based children’s outdoor apparel company raised $2 million last month. 
Founders Marc Dietz and Dallas Moore met in 2017 and wanted their kids to experience every outdoor adventure, but struggled to find the right gear. 
The duo created Shred Dog in an effort to supply families with high-quality outdoor gear without the retail markup, according to its website. The company sells a variety of clothes for children, such as ski gear, camping gear, fleeces and hats, as well as some adult items. 
This is the company’s first round of funding, per SEC filings.
Sierra Space (Broomfield): $30.56 million
After a record-setting raise of $1.4 billion in 2021 and racking in over $100 million last year, the aerospace startup brought in $30.5 million in its first capital raise of the year. 
Sierra Space was founded in 2021 and is a subsidiary of Sierra Nevada Corp. According to its website, the company is working to commercialize space, focusing on three aspects: space transportation, space destinations and space applications. 
 Pomp Beauty matches customers with professional estheticians, who recommend specialized skincare products. (Courtesy of Pomp Beauty) Startup funding around the Centennial State was up nearly $20 million in April compared to March.  According to a tally of Form Ds filed with the SEC last month, 62 startups around the state raised a total of $296 million (You can see our sortable spreadsheet here). That compares to $279.3 million raised by 58 startups last month, and $659.8 million raised by 40 startups in April 2022.  BusinessDen defines a startup as a business that’s less than 10 years old and excludes publicly traded companies, real estate ventures and funds.  Companies in Denver raised the most cash with $163.9 million across 29 deals. Startups outside of Denver and Boulder raised $92 million across 19 deals, while Boulder startups raised $40 million across 14 deals.  Here are some highlights from April:  Pomp Beauty (Denver): $3.27 million Denver-based Pomp Beauty raised over $3 million last month, according to SEC filings.  Founded in 2019 by Shannon Erley, the startup connects customers with estheticians virtually or in person, who then recommend specific skincare products for the client. Products are ordered directly from Pomp Beauty.  According to the website, Erley started Pomp Beauty after struggling with her skin. She felt it was frustrating and expensive to find skincare products that helped, so she created Pomp Beauty so people could easily find products that worked. Four years later, Pomp Beauty also sells makeup, hair products and perfumes. The startup works with medical director Dr. Ritvik Mehta, who provides access to brands typically found at dermatologist offices, and six licensed estheticians, according to its website.  This is the company’s second round of funding – it brought in $2 million in July, BusinessDen reported.  Shred Dog (Boulder): $2 million A Boulder-based children’s outdoor apparel company raised $2 million last month.  Founders Marc Dietz and Dallas Moore met in 2017 and wanted their kids to experience every outdoor adventure, but struggled to find the right gear.  The duo created Shred Dog in an effort to supply families with high-quality outdoor gear without the retail markup, according to its website. The company sells a variety of clothes for children, such as ski gear, camping gear, fleeces and hats, as well as some adult items.  This is the company’s first round of funding, per SEC filings. Sierra Space (Broomfield): $30.56 million After a record-setting raise of $1.4 billion in 2021 and racking in over $100 million last year, the aerospace startup brought in $30.5 million in its first capital raise of the year.  Sierra Space was founded in 2021 and is a subsidiary of Sierra Nevada Corp. According to its website, the company is working to commercialize space, focusing on three aspects: space transportation, space destinations and space applications.   Your subscription has expired. Renew now by choosing a subscription below! For more informaiton, head over to your profile. 
Profile
 TERMS OF SERVICE: ALL MEMBERSHIPS RENEW AUTOMATICALLY. YOU WILL BE CHARGED FOR A 1 YEAR MEMBERSHIP RENEWAL AT THE RATE IN EFFECT AT THAT TIME UNLESS YOU CANCEL YOUR MEMBERSHIP BY LOGGING IN OR BY CONTACTING [email protected]. ALL CHARGES FOR MONTHLY OR ANNUAL MEMBERSHIPS ARE NONREFUNDABLE. EACH MEMBERSHIP WILL ONLY FUNCTION ON UP TO 3 MACHINES. ACCOUNTS ABUSING THAT LIMIT WILL BE DISCONTINUED. FOR ASSISTANCE WITH YOUR MEMBERSHIP PLEASE EMAIL [email protected] Maia Luem covers general assignment business news. She is a graduate of Loyola University Chicago. Email her at [email protected]. Comments are closed. © 2024 BusinessDen - All Rights Reserved © 2024 BusinessDen - All Rights Reserved Update your browser to view this website correctly. Update my browser now  ×