The HF X410R-G6 is a swift and highly-tuned server specifically designed for the FSI. Powered by Intel® Xeon W-3400 and 2400 Processors offering a remarkable 77% increase in memory speed compared to previous-generation ORION servers, allowing trading firms worldwide to overclock their systems constantly, resulting in superior performance MONTREAL, May 16, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Hypertec, a global IT provider specializing in workload optimized custom and high-performance servers, announced the launch of its 4th generation ORION HF X410R-G6 today. This new server is based on Intel's latest Xeon W 3400 and 2400 series processors and is our fastest 1U server for ultra-low latency trading and high-performance computing. The new ORION HF X410R-G6 features Intel latest Xeon W processor with up to 56 cores, operating at speeds up to 5.0GHz on 20 cores Xeon W 2475X, 5 PCIe slots Gen5, and DDR5 ECC memory at more than 6000MHz. These specifications (33% more cores, 77% faster memory) make it a game-changer in the world of nanosecond trading, setting a new bar for ultra-low latency trading and high-performance computing. "We are proud to announce the launch of the ORION HF X410R-G6, which represents the culmination of years of research and development," said Darcy Letemplier, VP Global Engineering at Hypertec. "Our new server is designed to be the fastest and most efficient system for ultra-low latency trading and high-performance computing available, and we believe it will have a significant impact on the industry." The ORION HF X410R-G6 offers a range of features that make it particularly well-suited for ultra-low latency trading applications. With its high processing power, PCIe slots, and DDR5 ECC memory, this server is designed to be a reliable, efficient, and a high-performance option for traders who demand the fastest possible execution times. "We believe that our new server will enable traders to execute trades with greater speed and accuracy than ever before, allowing them to gain an edge in today's fast-paced markets," said Jonathan Ahdoot, President of Hypertec HTS. "We are excited to see the impact that our new server will have on the financial services industry and look forward to continuing to push the boundaries of what is possible with high-performance computing." Hypertec's ORION HF X410R-G6 is available for purchase now. For more information, please visit [https://hypertec.com/ciara/high-frequency-server/. About Hypertec Hypertec is a global IT provider specializing in custom and high-performance servers. With over 30 years of experience in the industry, Hypertec has a proven track record of delivering reliable, high-performance computing solutions to businesses of all sizes. For more information, visit http://www.hypertec.com. Media Contact Frédérick Ranger, Hypertec Inc, +1 514.236.8648, franger@hypertec.com Catherine Masson, Hypertec Inc, +1 514.236.8648, cmasson@hypertec.com   SOURCE  Hypertec Inc © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about. Your update on what’s going on in the Fintech space. Keep up-to-date with news, valuations, mergers, funding, and events. Sign up today!