 


The Tech Outlook - Daily Tech News, Interviews, Reviews and Updates

 boAt’s new Wave Sigma Smartwatch will be available on Amazon India soon. As of now, the ‘Notify Me’ button is live on the e-commerce platform and you can turn on the same to be notified when the device is launched. However, the price and launch date of the same hasn’t been announced yet. But if you look at the renders of the smartwatch we can say that it may be launched on the 24th of August.  The Wave Sigma comes with a 2.01-inch HD Display, which serves visual brilliance and excellent brightness to the user. It offers up to 550 nits of brightness. The watch houses the option of various watch faces, which you can set according to your taste and mood. The watch is powered by CREST PLUS OS. With the use of various sports modes and features, you can win boAt coins and also win exciting vouchers. The watch also provides its users with various health monitoring facilities. The health features of the watch are supported by Crest App Health Ecosystem, which enables you to access custom fitness plans, fitness crew, wellness crew, etc. Some of the health features are Heart Rate Monitor, SpO2 monitor, Sleep Tracking, and Energy & Sleep Scores. The watch offers the latest Bluetooth calling, with the call feature having the option of an Interactive Dial Pad, etc. Overall, the watch comprises about 700 + different modes, through which you can explore various activities. The battery life of the watch can last up to 30 days in standby mode. Under heavy usage, the watch’s battery backup can last to about 7 days and with BT calling, it can last up to about 2 days. The watch is IP67 rated for protection against sweat, dust, and water. A Mass Communication graduate with aspiration inclined towards art, film, music and journalism. Possesses hands on experience in Scriptwriting, Journalistic Writing and Audio/Radio/Music Production.  

Moto Watch 120 With Up To 10 Days Battery Life And 100+ Sports Mode Now Available In… 

  

Google Pixel Watch 3, Pixel Buds Pro 2 And Google 45W USB-C Charger Launched; Check… 

  

Huawei Watch GT 4 46mm Variant With Huawei TruSeen 5.5+ Technology And 100 Workout… 

  

Fastrack Launched GAMBIT, The First Ever Micro Motor Watch Collection 

 


Our Reviews 

  
TOZO PA1 Portable Bluetooth Speaker Review: Where Affordability Meets Sturdiness 
  
TOZO PA 2 Bluetooth Speaker Review: A Top-Tier 16W Powerhouse 
  
Tozo S5 Smartwatch Review: A perfect blend of features and… 
  
TOZO OpenEgo Open Ear Earbuds Review: The Perfect Blend of Comfort and… 
 


Fact Check 

  
Xiaomi Japan Apologised For The Confusion It Caused… 
  
A Giant Asteroid Said to have Crashed into the Atmosphere… 
 


Reviews 

  
TOZO PA1 Portable Bluetooth Speaker Review: Where… 
  
TOZO PA 2 Bluetooth Speaker Review: A Top-Tier 16W… 
 


Offers 

  
Google Pixel 7 Pro (12GB/128GB) Available At An Amazing 47%… 
  
Get Sony’s Range Of Bravia TVs At Amazing Discounts And… 
 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.
Accept
Read More
