 Sigma Computing has launched Input Tables, a first-of-its-kind feature that allows Sigma users to add data directly to the warehouse.  With Input Tables, technical and business users can build scenarios, augment existing models, and comment and collaborate at cloud scale. Input Tables enables enterprises to migrate all of their analytics and data-driven work to the cloud, eliminating the legacy risks and constraints created by data extracts to spreadsheets. Sigma remains the only product designed for cloud data warehouses to enable users to freely analyze that data by using a familiar spreadsheet-like interface. With Input Tables, users can now build live scenario models by copying data from their stale, local spreadsheets and turning them into first-class data tables. They can also comment directly into tables, adding a human perspective to data sourced from applications. What that means is a whole new level of predictive analysis is possible. We’re no longer using data only to look at the past, but the real-time present as well as the future.   “Sigma is again first to market with features that bring more users to the cloud data warehouse. With Input Tables, enterprises can expect business and technical users alike to migrate offline workflows to the cloud, ensuring better scale, better collaboration, better governance and, most critically, better decisions based on live data,” said Mike Palmer, CEO of Sigma Computing.  “Input Tables enable all users to retain the speed and flexibility of their local applications with the scale, diversity, and security of the cloud. Leaders can expect transparency, speed and accuracy as business processes and decisions move online.”  Sigma Input Tables helps organizations overcome the data-to-warehouse barrier by enabling users to bring data directly to the warehouse without the need to write code or use additional  technical resources. Input Tables create Sigma-managed tables within a user’s cloud data warehouse directly from typed user inputs, referenced drop downs, or large copy-and-pasted data. Some additional benefits of Sigma Input Tables include:  “Sigma’s input tables have been a turning point for Strategus, giving our users the power to incorporate their data by bridging the gap between information and analysis,” said Mark Sussman, Director of Data and Analytics at Strategus. “With everything else in the marketplace, analysis is the endpoint; in Sigma, analysis is the starting point.”