The British Army's 1st Deep Recce Strike (DRS) Brigade Combat Team is looking to redefine modern warfare through integrated operations.  This latest issue of Global Defence Technology once more brings you all the latest insight and analysis into the technologies, policies, and influencing factors in the defence space. The British Army is looking to create a new integrated operating concept for its Brigade Combat Teams in a bid to establish a counter to the quantitative military advantage enjoyed by countries such as Russia and China. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 Meanwhile, with the global market for uncrewed surface vessels registering persistent growth, the Asia-Pacific region cements its place as the second strongest region in this sector, showcasing a range of imported western systems as well as indigenous platform development. Also, don’t miss the latest insight, news, and data in the artificial intelligence (AI) thematic supplement, bringing a comprehensive analysis of the AI sector, market trends, and how the technology looks set to change the shape of defence planning. Whether you are desktop, tablet, or smartphone, you can read the magazine for free online. Elsewhere, we explore the difficulties faced by the US Navy as it attempts to improve availability of its nuclear-powered attack submarine fleet, while also ensuring industrial capacity enables replacement classes to be introduced on schedule. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     In addition, read in depth features on China’s cyberespionage/warfare operations, an analysis into the US military’s diminishing popularity in the United States, UK progress in the space domain, and editorial comment on the reluctance by Washington to call properly classify the ongoing crisis in Niger. For all this and more, on sea and in the air, read on and follow the latest developments @DefenceTech_Mag. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                        Global Defence Technology : Airforce Technology Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the military aerospace industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024