New Delhi, October 13, 2023 – London & Partners (L&P), in collaboration with the Dubai World Trade Centre and the Global Growth Hub, is leading a delegation of 33 companies, comprising 14 from London, 14 from India, and 5 Indian venture capitalists. The visit opens up an incredible opportunity for the Indian companies at the forefront of innovation to showcase on a global stage, as they look to expand internationally. The companies participating at the Summit are innovators across diverse industry sectors such as Enterprise Tech and Software, Sustainability, and Fintech. The companies from India are Intangles, Quidich Innovation, Knorish, Simform, Bootnext Tech Ventures, Network Science, Vajra Global, (x)cube Labs, Readleaf Technologies, Open Financial, EinNel Technologies, TekMindz, Finlabs India and Data Sutram. The companies will have an opportunity to participate in the Supernova pitching contest, which offers prize money. Concierge matchmaking services will connect companies with potential partners and investors of their choice, while invitations to multiple receptions and networking events will provide unparalleled opportunities for networking and collaboration. Some of these offers are tailored exclusively for companies working with London & Partners, setting them apart from regular attendees and showcasing businesses. Mr. Hemin Bharucha, Country Director, India, London & Partners, expressed his enthusiasm for this initiative, saying, ''There is tremendous potential in India's burgeoning tech and startup ecosystem. Expand North Star Summit, offers an unparalleled opportunity for Indian companies to make the most of what the strong international business ecosystem has to offer. At London & Partners, we are delighted to play a pivotal role in supporting Indian innovators in this delegation as they look for opportunities to grow their business internationally." The Expand North Star Summit, strategically positioned at the crossroads of India, Dubai, and London, endeavours to create a dynamic nexus for trade and investment among these three influential global players. With a focus on elevating the international profile of Indian companies, the summit seeks to provide a platform for them to showcase their innovations and expand their global reach. Moreover, the event's core mission is to foster invaluable partnerships and collaborations between Indian enterprises and their counterparts in London, fostering a synergy that propels innovation and growth on a global scale. This strategic initiative represents a remarkable opportunity for businesses to thrive in an interconnected world. About London & Partners London & Partners is the business growth and destination agency for London. Our mission is to create economic growth that is resilient, sustainable, and inclusive. We are a not- for-profit company and operate as a social enterprise, half funded by the Greater London Authority (GLA) and half from other sources including our portfolio of commercial ventures. For more information, visit: www.londonandpartners.com About Expand North Star Summit The Expand North Star Summit is a flagship event at GITEX 2023, showcasing India's innovation and collaboration with Dubai and London. Spearheaded by London and Partners, this platform empowers Indian companies to access global markets, connect with potential partners, and elevate their global presence. For more information, please visit https://www.expandnorthstar.com/home. About GITEX GITEX, the Gulf Information Technology Exhibition, is one of the world's largest technology events that connects business leaders, innovators, and futurists. GITEX offers a platform for the world's biggest tech companies, startups, and governments to come together and share their visions for the future. For more information, please visit https://www.gitex.com/. (Disclaimer: The above content is a press release and PTI takes no editorial responsibility for the same.). (This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)  Email: info@devdiscourse.com Phone: +91-720-6444012, +91-7027739813, 14, 15  © Copyright 2024