    
   SCROLL TO SITE SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 If all you know about 5G is that the new cell phone tower transmitters cause health problems or kill birds, it’s time to learn a bit more about it. 5G technology introduces an era of incredibly fast wireless internet—and it’s not only for your cell phone. Many major internet service providers (ISPs) now offer 5G home internet, allowing homeowners to wirelessly connect homes without cables, fiber optics or other physical connections. Internet speeds with 5G already reach and surpass the top speeds cable or DSL internet offer. As 5G infrastructure remains in early stages of rollout, the availability of the technology is limited. We’ve put together a guide to the best 5G home internet of 2024 so you can learn more about the pros, cons and availability of 5G internet from the largest ISPs. The Forbes Home team is committed to bringing you independent, unbiased ratings and information. We use data and expert advice to inform all of our content. Plus, our advisory board of licensed professionals fact-checks and reviews our content for accuracy and relevancy. You can read more about our editorial guidelines for the ratings below. Verizon    Verizon’s name is nearly synonymous with fast cellular coverage, but when it comes to the Best 5G Home Internet of 2022, it tops our list. Verizon’s 5G Home Internet option comes with no data caps and the equipment is professionally installed, free of charge. Though hypothetically 5G could see speeds up to 10 gigabits per second, or 10,000 Mbps, Verizon currently advertises a typical download speed of 300 Mbps. The company offers two plans—its standard 5G Home Internet for $50 per month  (which sees speeds up to 300 Mbps) and its Plus plan, for $70 per month  (which advertises speeds up to 1,000 Mbps). Though these prices are on the higher end for the advertised download speed, Verizon wireless customers with mobile plans can qualify for a 50% discount. T-Mobile Home Internet    Only a few years ago, T-Mobile seemed on the verge of losing the cellular carrier wars because of its lack of ability to compete with Verizon or AT&T in the growing 5G market. Since the Sprint and T-Mobile merger in 2020, T-Mobile has ramped up the expansion of its 5G network. As a home internet provider, T-Mobile offers more unthrottled data than its competitors. And though it still has some gaps in its 4G coverage, it’s actually winning the race to 5G coverage in some areas. Though T-Mobile only offers one home internet plan, it has no data cap, full 5G speeds anywhere available and it only costs $50  a month. The biggest downside to T-Mobile is its use of low-band 5G instead of millimeter wave. Its speeds may be a bit slower, which may be tough for gamers or those who like to stream high-quality 4K video. Choosing the best 5G home internet provider can be a complicated decision and may depend on a number of key factors. One of the first determinations to make before diving too deep into the 5G market is whether you are in the coverage area of any 5G home internet provider you may consider. While some ISP companies’ 5G infrastructure is available relatively widely across the country, others’ networks are only just arriving in smaller cities and towns. Though Verizon is known to have one of the widest cellular networks in the U.S., T-Mobile actually now has the largest and most widespread 5G infrastructure in the country—great for 5G home internet users. Starry Internet uses a larger, faster band of 5G, so it is only available in select cities (though where it does exist it is one of, if not the best option for 5G home internet). Like with any technology (and especially with new technologies), cost remains a major factor in selecting a 5G home internet provider. So, how much does 5G home internet cost? T-Mobile offers a flat rate of $50 per month for supposedly “unlimited” 5G download speeds with no data cap. In reality, its speeds are closer to 3,000 Mbps (which remains a lightning fast speed at an extremely low price). Verizon’s standard internet plan is also $50 per month, but maxes out around 300 Mbps while its Plus plan sees speeds up to 940 Mbps with a $70 per month price. Plans are discounted 50% for existing Verizon wireless cellular customers. Starry Internet is one of the cheapest options, especially for those looking for the faster data speeds associated with millimeter wave 5G (see differences below). Starry is currently only advertising speeds up to 200 Mbps for between $30 and $50 per month. For its high speed “Gigabit” plans, expect to pay $80 per month. All three 5G home internet companies we featured offer contacts with no annual requirements, hidden fees or price hikes. This makes it easier to trust your 5G home internet company, since you can start or stop service at any time. Unlike some 5g home internet services which use a tethered computer or other device connected to a cellular network, fixed 5G companies including Verizon, T-Mobile and Starry all offer a dedicated modem/router that can handle more connections and higher speeds. All three companies make devices, though Verizon and T-Mobile both currently offer no-extra-cost professional installation. Depending on your service area or which ISP company you choose, 5G Home Internet providers will use two different types of 5G technology. Sub-6 5G was quickly deployed by providers like T-Mobile and Verizon because it only required small upgrades to existing cellular towers, while millimeter wave 5G (or mmWave) required larger infrastructure changes. Sub-6 5G refers to the area of the radio spectrum used for the network. Sub-6 uses frequencies below 6GHz (gigahertz). Note: 3G, 4G and 5G all refer to the “Generations” of data networks, not the GHz frequency used as a part of transmission. While Sub-6 5G is certainly faster than 4G or 3G networks as it uses radio waves that literally travel faster, it is only a slight step-up and is mostly an improvement in data speeds for semi-urban areas. Additionally, mmWave 5G refers to data networks broadcasting at frequencies between 30 and 300 Ghz. These are called millimeter waves because the radio waves are literally one to 10 millimeters long compared to the lower gigahertz waves used by Sub-6 5G, which are centimeters long. The important takeaway here is that millimeter waves are smaller and have a shorter range, but are overall faster. This means your data connection will be faster, but the towers that transmit have to be closer to your home. Adding new transmission towers to the infrastructure takes time, so mmWave 5G is currently only available in denser urban areas where demand is higher and where 5G transmitters can be added to tall buildings. Starry Internet only uses mmWave 5G, so while it offers some of the best home internet speeds, it is only available in select cities. Verizon offers both mmWave and Sub-6 5G depending on location and T-Mobile currently only offers Sub-6 5G. The type of 5G each ISP company uses will reveal the speed you can expect. We know mmWave 5G will bring faster internet vs. Sub-6, which has slower speeds. Each company will also advertise and offer a variety of different download and upload speeds, which may vary from the theoretical limits and capabilities of each technology. The base 5G home internet plans of the three companies we featured all offer around 200 or 300 Mbps of download speed. For most customers, this should more than cover streaming HD content and other web browsing. For gamers—or those who download or upload large amounts of data—300 Mbps is on the lower end. If high download and/or upload speeds are important to you, make sure to check to see the kinds of speeds offered by any company you’re considering.
 The internet is typically delivered to your home via a physical line such as a coaxial cable or fiber optic cable. In more rural areas, you might have the internet beamed from a satellite to a receiving dish attached to the house. 5G Internet offers a bit of the best of both worlds, with the wireless aspect of satellite internet but a more localized and grounded transmission tower, usually attached to buildings or cell towers. While weather can impede or even stop internet service via satellite, it has much less effect on fixed wireless 5G home internet, which is only really susceptible in extreme weather scenarios. Cable or fiber lines are less likely to be affected by weather unless they’re suspended by pole and a line is downed. Availability may determine what your options are. While more dense, urban areas have high-speed 5G internet available, more rural areas likely won’t have the coverage to use 5G home internet. As 5G infrastructure expands beyond urban areas, it may soon bring higher speeds to homes previously not being served by cable or fiber connections. For many customers, 5G home internet may cost less than cable or fiber internet. Because companies do not have to install or service individually-run cables, 5G home internet may offer the same or even better speeds for lower cost of delivery than wired connections. Many 5G home internet providers, including Verizon, T-Mobile and Starry all feature plans with no annual contract which may also save homeowners money if they do not need to purchase service for a whole year. 5G home internet is a great choice for those concerned about installation costs and hassle. Though some 5G home internet companies require limited installation, the installation process is, in general, much easier and cheaper than a wired internet connection. In fact, some 5G home internet is as simple as plugging in a router. The router connects to the nearest 5G tower or transmitter—this lack of or limited installation may also be preferable for those concerned about strangers visiting their homes. For some people, 5G home internet may be worth it due to its low pricing and comparable performance to cable internet and fiber optics. For instance, 5G home internet has fast download speeds equivalent to what you get from cable internet. However, 5G home internet’s slower upload speeds and significant technical drawbacks compared to cable and fiber internet. To determine the best 5G home internet ranking, the Forbes Home Improvement editorial team analyzed 10 major companies, with each product’s star rating determined by evaluating a variety of metrics, including: Customer rating platforms like BBB, Consumer Affairs, Trustpilot and Google were considered when scoring a company on support. When assessing a company’s customer support performance, the Forbes Home team evaluated live chat (pre-service) options and phone service. Each company’s 5G plans were assessed for lowest price and highest price, whether an annual contract was required, whether a company offered free pro installation and unlimited data available in each company’s plans. Internet companies were scored based on minimum and maximum available download speeds, accounting for 10% of the scoring. How many states a company serviced granted or lost it points, as well as availability in Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, totaling 19% of the scoring. Editorial points were given to companies with an extra edge in offerings, customer support and ratings and download speeds. 5G stands for 5th generation and refers to the newer, faster generation of internet-delivery infrastructure that Internet Service Providers (ISPs) are installing across the U.S. While 5G means faster cellular data connections, many companies are also offering home internet via the same 5G technology. Verizon, T-Mobile and Starry Internet—the three largest 5G home internet providers—all offer speeds from 200 Mbps to 1,000 Mbps depending on the subscription plan level. Speeds between 200 and 300 Mbps are good for a family of casual internet users, while higher speeds may be required for gamers or those who download or upload large amounts of data. T-Mobile offers the fastest 5G home internet for the lowest cost, with speeds of up to 3,000 Mbps. These speeds are only possible in some parts of T-Mobile’s coverage area. Overall, Starry Internet offers the fastest 5G home internet service with speeds of around 1,000 Mbps. 5G home internet functions essentially the same as home Wi-Fi. The key difference between 5G home internet and home Wi-Fi is simply in how the data gets to your home. 5G home internet is delivered via cell towers and other transmitters directly to your home while home Wi-Fi traditionally enters homes via wired connections and is broadcast via a Wi-Fi router. If you live in a strong signal area with few obstructions, 5G Home Internet can be configured to support online gaming. However, since 5G home internet is less fast and reliable than a wired cable setup, online gaming can be disrupted frequently.  
				Chauncey grew up on a farm in rural northern California. At 18 he ran away and saw the world with a backpack and a credit card, discovering that the true value of any point or mile is the experience it facilitates. He remains most at home on a tractor, but has learned that opportunity is where he finds it and discomfort is more interesting than complacency.
			 
				Lexie is a deputy editor at Forbes Home and has over 6 years of professional experience as a writer and editor in the home improvement space. She's previously worked at sites such as HomeAdvisor and Angi (formerly Angie's List).
			 
				Sami Allen is an editor with a decade of experience in editorial and who is currently the managing editor at Forbes Home. She got her start in lifestyle writing and editing at Oprah Magazine and more recently sharpened her home repair and design skills at websites like The Spruce and HomeAdvisor.
			