Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Flag carrier Swiss International Air Lines, better known as SWISS, is fast expanding its route network for the 2024 summer schedule - which will commence from March 31st to October 26th. The airline is introducing a range of new regional short-haul and intercontinental long-haul destinations within Europe and North America to meet growing demand.
                         The demand surge is especially prominent from the younger generations, as highlighted by the airline's Chief Commercial Officer Tamur Goudarzi Pour when he said:
                         "In the wake of the pandemic, it has become more apparent than ever that travel is a deeply-rooted human need, especially among the younger generations. The demand for air travel continues to rise steadily, and the loadings on our flights are now higher than ever. And we are delighted that we will further expand our route network next summer on both the short- and the long-haul front."
                         For next year's summer season, SWISS will add a new non-stop flight service to and from Slovakia's second-biggest city, Košice. The city is seen as the key center of Eastern Slovakia and is becoming attractive to foreign investors in Switzerland. The airline hopes to bridge the gap between the nations. 
                         Currently, Helvetic Airways and Austrian Airlines operate the only direct flight services from Zurich to Košice. At this time of writing, it's uncertain if SWISS will launch the route from Zurich, Geneva, or both, as tickets are yet to go on sale, and a specific start date has not been revealed yet. What is known is that the flag carrier plans to operate this route three times weekly using the Airbus A220s.
                         The other new non-stop regional service would be to and from Romania's second-largest city, Cluj-Napoca. Similar to the new service to Košice, SWISS has yet to announce from where it will connect Cluj-Napoca, and there has again been no mention of a specific start date. The Romanian city will also be served thrice-weekly and with the Airbus A220s.
                         Get the latest aviation news straight to your inbox: Sign up for our newsletters today!
                         While the Star Alliance member was a little shy on the regional details, it offered much more insight into the new international routes. Beginning on March 28 next year, SWISS will operate non-stop daily flight services from Zurich International Airport to Washington Dulles International Airport. Since the commencement is still within the winter timetable, the flight will depart from Zurich at 13:20 and arrive in Washington at 17:40.
                         The return flight will take off from Washington at 21:40 and arrive home in Zurich at 10:45 the following day. But once the summer timetable starts, the westbound service will depart at 13:00 instead and arrive in Washington at 16:20, while the eastbound service leaves at 20:45 and arrives back in Zurich at 10:50 the next day. All flight services for this route will utilize the airline's Airbus A330-300s, and it will be a year-round route.
      Find flights between Zurich and Washington here.
                     This differs from the airline's new provisional summer seasonal route from Zurich to Toronto Pearson International Airport, which will commence on May 10 next year. Operating on a five-times-weekly frequency - no service on Mondays or Wednesdays - the westbound flight departs Zurich at 09:55 and arrives in Toronto at 13:00. The eastbound flight departs later the same day, at 16:35, arriving back at 06:30 the following day. The Airbus A330-300s will also be deployed for this route.
      Find flights between Zurich and Toronto here.
                     We'd love to see you on Instagram - follow us here!
                         With these new route additions, the 2024 summer schedule will see SWISS operating to at least 113 destinations from Zurich and Geneva. And if the popularity and demand for the Zurich-Toronto route shakes out to be strong, the airline could consider going year-round on this new adventure.
      What do you think of SWISS's new routes? Let us know in the comments below.
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. We hope you like the items we recommend and discuss! Simple Flying has affiliate and sponsored partnerships, so we receive a share of the revenue from some of your purchases. This won’t affect the price you pay and helps us offer the best product recommendations. A spokesperson for the airline said the incident “shouldn’t happen.” The carrier is boosting flights to The Maldives and fellow oneworld Alliance hubs in London, Miami, and Tokyo. The order is worth $10.1 billion! Emirates has ordered additional 90 Boeing 777X and made changes to its Boeing 787 order. In a primetime exclusive interview, Ben Minicucci said, “Boeing is better than this.”  Tim Clark stated that the engines of the Airbus A350-1000 cannot perform properly, which is why the airline has not ordered the A350-1000.