As part of Co-op Fortnight, we're highlighting some of the incredible individuals and charities across the UK that Co-op has supported to help local communities - here, we meet Co-op Funeralcare's Mark Stevens, a man who understands the importance of a humble coffee morning When you lose a loved one, sometimes it’s the little things that matter the most. A supportive word, an arm around the shoulder, or even just a natter and a cuppa. You can’t escape the grieving process, but kindness and love can give much-needed emotional support. It’s something that Mark Stevens has seen first-hand so many times. And it’s why the funeral director with Co-op Funeralcare in Redfield, Bristol - and a Co-op member pioneer - has helped to organise countless get-togethers and coffee mornings for those dealing with a bereavement. “Alongside supporting the families through funerals, we also have bereavement groups which we were running once a month for families to drop by and for people who have lost loved ones to discuss things with others who are also experiencing grief,” he explained. “Because of where we are based, we are quite a diverse community and it’s nice to bring people together.”  Mark’s work is part of Co-op’s wider support for the bereaved. Co-op’s partnership with Cruse Bereavement Support and Cruse Bereavement Support Scotland is to bring communities together to support one another with grief. Co-op members help fund this activity every time they choose Co-op. And as a business that stands for something different, Co-op has a continued focus on bringing people together to help create happy, healthy communities for everyone - as well as supporting sustainability local causes through the Local Community Fund. Mark - a local gamechanger supported by the Co-op - utilised the chapel for meetings, with groups of up to 10 people coming back regularly to enjoy a cup of tea and a natter – together, no one has to deal with grief alone. “It's a little get-together,” he said. “The people who were attending turned up every month and became quite friendly - it's nice for them to bounce off each other and get their views on what happened, what they are doing, and how they are getting over things.” Find out more about Co-op’s support for the bereaved at coop.co.uk/griefandbereavement Mark is well aware of the impact of loss on mental health - and not just for those recently bereaved. “It is not only the families’ mental health, it is also us managing our inner emotions,” he said. “There are things that really relate back to us - just because we work in the funeral industry doesn’t mean that we’ve never lost people. “So, sometimes it’s quite nice to relate to the families when they are telling us stories, and go ‘I know exactly what you mean’. It’s a rewarding job, that’s a sure fact.” Mark and other colleagues can access support too. He said: “We have a LifeWorks service that we can call up. A couple of years ago, I phoned them myself and they set up some counselling. And our managers are supportive.” It’s that empathy and kindness that’s the hallmark of the work Mark does with Co-op Funeralcare. From the first call and the arrangements to the funeral and aftercare, Mark and his team are there to ensure everything runs smoothly. He said: “It’s a lot of responsibility and with funerals, you don’t get a dress rehearsal, they have to go right on the day - and we endeavour to make sure that happens.”  Aftercare services, including Co-op Legal Services, are also available for you to check if you need probate.  But how did Mark become a funeral director in the first place?  “It was losing a family member back in 2008,” he said. “I went to collect his ashes from the funeral home and there was an advert [for a funeral director] in the window and I thought, ‘do you know what I could do that’ - and 16 years later, here I am.” To find out more about Co-op Funeralcare, head to co-operativefuneralcarebristol By shopping, Co-op members help to raise funds to support projects they care about - and have already helped to raise £117m for local communities. This is helping bring people together to access food, mental well-being support, and provide skills and education for young people. Alongside other membership benefits, Co-op members can choose which local cause to support, volunteer, and get involved in their local community. Join Co-op membership to get £3 off when you spend £10 in-store until Tuesday, August 1. Becoming a Co-op member is really simple and costs £1. You’ll get access to exclusive offers, discounts and events, and for every £1 spent, you’ll earn 2p for yourself and 2p for your local community. You'll receive your £3 discount via the Co-op App as soon as you register as a new member. Co-op Fortnight is an annual celebration of the power and success of co-operatives across the UK, running from Monday, June 19 to Sunday, July 2, 2023. Visit www.uk.coop/fortnight.