Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Before we look at why Spain's high-speed rail network could affect the country's domestic air travel, let's first look at how Spain became a world leader in high-speed trains. In the 1980s, Spain was looking to revitalize a stagnant economy in Andalusia in the south of the country to coincide with the Seville Expo 1992, built a high-speed rail line linking Seville with Córdoba, Puertollano, Ciudad Real, and Madrid.
                         Several months later, a second high-speed rail line opened, connecting the Spanish capital to Malaga using the Madrid to Córdoba line. Following the success, the Spanish government joined Madrid with the country's second-largest city, Barcelona. When the Madrid–Zaragoza –Barcelona rail line opened in 2008, it was serious competition for one of the world's most traveled air routes.
                         Calling it the "Puente Aéreo" (Air Bridge), Iberia operated the flights like a bus service. Once the plane landed and passengers got off, others would board, and the plane would take off. At its height, Iberia flew between Madrid and Barcelona every 30 minutes and at peak times of the day every 15 minutes.
                         With Barcelona and Madrid 404 miles apart, as the crow flies, traveling by air between the two cities takes one hour and 26 minutes. Traveling by high-speed rail takes two hours and 30 minutes. However, if you consider the time it takes to get between the city center and the airport, plus all the added security at the airport, it is faster to travel between the two cities by rail.
                         The only downside to traveling domestically by rail rather than flying in Spain was that for many years, traveling by train was, in many cases, twice as expensive as flying, thanks to low-cost carriers like Ryanair. In the summer of 2021, in a bid to boost European rail connectivity, the EU mandated that states had to open up their rail networks to fellow European competition.
                         Spain embraced the new rules and now sees state-owned RENFE facing competition from French railway operator SNCF, who created a Spanish subsidiary called "Ouigo España." The new rail operator undercut RENFE fares, forcing the Spanish company to make its low-cost subsidiary called "Avlo."
                         At the end of 2022, a third rail operator entered the marketplace called "Iryo." Owned by Italian rail operator Trenitalia, Air Nostrum, and the infrastructure investment fund Globalvia Iryo uses state-of-the-art Frecciarossa high-speed trains.
                         Since the flight shame movement emerged in 2018, people have started thinking more about their carbon footprint. It is also well-known that flying creates twice the carbon footprint as traveling by high-speed electric train.
                         Get the latest aviation news straight to your inbox: Sign up for our newsletters today.
                     When Austrian national flag carrier Austrian Airlines asked for financial aid during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Austrian government said it would help, provided they discontinued all flights that could be made by train in under three hours.
                         Meanwhile, after pressure to stop flying between Brussels and Amsterdam, KLM partnered with Thalys, offering a direct rail link between Brussels-Midi/Zuid railway station and Schiphol Amsterdam Airport (AMS).
                         Earlier this year, France banned all domestic flights that could be done in less than two and a half hours. Banning short-haul domestic flights in Europe is a trend that looks like it has legs, and with Spain building more high-speed rail lines all the time, I would not be surprised to see a ban on some domestic flights.
                         As someone who lives in Spain, providing that the fares are comparable, I would take the train over the plane every time. It is more comfortable than flying and cuts out all the hassle you must endure at the airport. As of May 2023, Spain had 2,464 miles of high-speed tracks, making it the country with the second-longest network of high-speed rail lines after China.
      What do you think about banning short-haul domestic flights in Europe? Please let us know what you think in the comments.
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Hawaiian Airlines and Southwest Airlines have scheduled a total of 1,000 flights and 144,027 seats during August. The airline will operate 197 flights to three destinations under 175 miles from Newark. Turkish Airlines stands out on this list.  The airline landed in hot water for one of its social media posts recently. What are the main differences between the world's most renowned aircraft manufacturers?  The aircraft is set to compete with the Airbus A350 and Boeing 777 in the long-haul market, along with its C919 narrowbody jet and the upcoming C929.