Sign in to Sign in to Sign in to Sign in to Skills  Sign in to A Cloud Guru  Sign in to Flow  Loading form... If this message remains, it may be due to cookies being disabled or to an ad blocker. In this course, you’ll practice creating network traffic to analyze how DNS queries and responses operate. When you're finished, you'll have a fundamental understanding on how to find anomalies within DNS. Get this
course plus top-rated picks in tech skills and other popular topics. Expert-led courses Give up to 50 users access to our full library including this course free for 30 days Know exactly where everyone on your team stands with the skills you care about most Understanding how network protocols operate is an implied skill required to be successful in cyber security. In this course, Network Protocols for Security: DNS, you’ll learn to analyze DNS network traffic. First, you’ll explore a typical DNS request to understand how queries and responses operate. Next, you’ll modify the local hosts file to see one method where DNS can be taken advantage of. Finally, you’ll analyze a command and control conversation to gain further insight into malicious DNS conversations. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of DNS needed to find anomalies and malicious activity amongst network traffic.
 Understanding how network protocols operate is an implied skill required to be successful in cyber security. In this course, Network Protocols for Security: DNS, you’ll learn to analyze DNS network traffic. First, you’ll explore a typical DNS request to understand how queries and responses operate. Next, you’ll modify the local hosts file to see one method where DNS can be taken advantage of. Finally, you’ll analyze a command and control conversation to gain further insight into malicious DNS conversations. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of DNS needed to find anomalies and malicious activity amongst network traffic. Brandon DeVault is a Security Researcher focused on threat hunting at CrowdStrike. He is also a member of the Florida Air National Guard with a variety of offensive and defensive experience. Prior to joining CrowdStrike, Brandon worked full-time as an author with Pluralsight and at Elastic, creating and delivering security content. He also worked with Special Operations Command, where he had two deployments to Afghanistan on deployable communications teams. His experience spans incident response... more, threat hunting, penetration testing, satellite communications, and system/network administration. Get this
course plus top-rated picks in tech skills and other popular topics. Expert-led courses Give up to 50 users access to our full library including this course free for 30 days Know exactly where everyone on your team stands with the skills you care about most Sign up to get immediate access to this course plus thousands more you can watch anytime, anywhere. Sign up with your email to join our mailing list. Loading form... If this message remains, it may be due to cookies being disabled or to an ad blocker.