
     
      Wall Street has been salivating over imagined riches in China for a long time. Now it finally has its chance—but things aren’t exactly going to plan. 
     
      After years of foot-dragging and half measures, China progressively opened up its financial markets in the past decade. First, foreign investors were allowed to buy stocks listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen through a trading link with Hong Kong. Then, in the wake of the 2018 and 2019 China-U.S. trade war, foreign firms were permitted to run their own wholly owned investment shops in the country, tapping into China’s burgeoning demand for asset management. 
     
      Ernst & Young last year estimated the industry’s assets under management in China amounted to about $16 trillion. Firms such as BlackRock and Fidelity have raised money for yuan-denominated mutual funds. Investment banks such as Goldman Sachs Group can also now assume full ownership of their existing securities operations in China. They were previously required to set up joint ventures with local partners. 
     
      But things haven’t exactly been smooth. 
     
      First, the big opening for foreign investment firms has coincided with an uninspiring Chinese stock market. After a strong start this year, the rally in Chinese stocks fizzled out quickly. The CSI 300 Index, which tracks major stocks listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen, is up only 2.4% this year—underperforming most other major markets. And that is after two straight years of losses in 2021 and 2022. Offshore investors, including those based in Hong Kong, currently own around $364 billion of stocks in Shanghai and Shenzhen. That is still less than 3% of the total market, according to Wind. 
     
      And apart from the poor market performance, foreign institutional investors continue to face regulatory problems. Strict data rules in China, for example, make it hard for their Chinese subsidiaries to share much essential information with headquarters back home—including, in some cases, basics like how their funds are actually doing and who their clients are. 
     
      Meanwhile, foreign investment banks—which helped introduce many Chinese companies to global investors in the past—are also falling behind their local rivals in the initial public offering league tables. That is especially true now that many Chinese companies are choosing to list in Shanghai and Shenzhen, instead of Hong Kong. Since 2020, the volume of initial public offerings on mainland Chinese exchanges has surpassed that of Hong Kong every year, according to Dealogic. 
     
      Foreign investment bankers, like their asset-management kin, also face a very different regulatory regime and worsening geopolitics between China and the West. And, unfortunately, those two problems are often intimately linked: Western regulators are continually calling for more transparency regarding listed Chinese firms’ finances and business practices, while Beijing is increasingly obsessed with data and technological security. And the fact that China was essentially closed off for most of the past three years also doesn’t help. 
     
      No foreign banks are among the top 10 in underwriting IPOs in mainland China this year and last year, according to Dealogic. In 2018, half of the top 10 were foreign banks, including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. Some U.S. banks have also dropped out of their IPO mandates in Hong Kong as investors have become less enthusiastic about Chinese stocks. 
     
      China was long seen as a gold mine waiting for Wall Street to excavate—if only it were allowed to start digging. But as it turns out, it isn’t that easy. Plenty of digging has been going on, but the gold still seems remarkably scarce. 
Write to Jacky Wong at jacky.wong@wsj.com Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment. You are just one step away from creating your watchlist! Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image. Your session has expired, please login again. You are now subscribed to our newsletters. In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder. This is a subscriber only feature Subscribe Now to get daily updates on WhatsApp Enter OTP  Our team will get back to you shortly