e-Edition e-Edition 
			Trending:		 This Advent season finds our social fabric a bit tested and threadbare. That reflects neither complaint nor critique, but rather a shared consensus view that things are not all they could be. Is that so different than previous seasons or is there something novel, a new wilderness
in the mix? John the Baptist would likely suggest that wilderness is wilderness and lostness is lostness, and to acknowledge either one is to know truth. To broach the wilds is about bringing a knowing attitude that is more than mere characterization, a way of living where we are called to work past the rough edges in troublesome moments that we inevitably encounter. Locally, there is a new group in town that has figured out how to smooth a few rough edges by reclaiming old and useful elements from our outdated past. It is called Sew Blessed, and its participants make no bones about their commitment to repurpose the past into something good for the future. From scraps of discarded cloth resources — sheets, shirts, pants, and other cast-off or used clothing — come shirts and shorts and dresses, baby caps and bibs, pillowcases and neck pillows, and the very real possibility that blessings will be realized by both giver and recipient. All of us have opportunities each day to bring something sparkling and welcome to others’ lives. Mohammad Ali once suggested that “Service to others is the rent you pay for your room here on earth.” While that suggests a transactional exchange, it is the heart of the intent that makes the difference… something called grace. All of us have the capacity to give and receive. For some, it is difficult being on the receiving end because we have not always been taught to know how to respond graciously to gifts of blessings. Instead of hemming and hawing and fumbling around in answer to niceties and favors of one kind or another, can we learn to get past our reluctance and respond with a simple heart-felt ‘thank you’? Those who have grown up in churches tend to use far too many words in the thanking process. Perhaps we should embrace a more straightforward approach: fewer words, more action. How might that look? Mark Twain encouraged writers of English to not let “fluff and flowers and verbosity creep in. When you catch an adjective,” schooled Twain, “kill it.” It need not be quite that forthright, but it is a reminder that conversation occurs and is understood in a variety of ways… even through repurposed T-shirts and bedsheets. If it is any consolation, people who met Jesus (often under challenging circumstances) did not always know how to respond either. Some ran in joyous reply to signs and miracles before them. Others danced and sought out others with whom to share, even when Jesus suggested otherwise. Wise men brought gifts of their own to an infant Jesus. Still, others brought gifts of anointing and listening and being present in the moment, even at the foot of the cross. Do not underestimate the power of simplicity this Advent season, whether in gifting or receiving. It is a wonderful glimpse into the understanding that there is another way of living that Christ is asking us to take part in. Can we be gracious enough to respond to the invitation with a simple ‘yes?’ (Thank You) Ken Frantz is a non-salaried ordained pastor serving the Haxtun Church of the Brethren. He lives with his family near Fleming. Comments are always welcomed at goodhope@haxtuntel.net. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group