Love Island favourites Molly-Mae Hague and Tommy Fury are celebrating their four year anniversary today, after falling in love in front of the nation. The 24 year old pair shot to fame on the smash hit reality dating show after Molly-Mae entered as a bombshell and quickly captured Tommy's heart. They went on to finish in second place and since then, their careers - and life together - in the spotlight have soared. The happy couple share a jaw-dropping £3.5million Cheshire mansion and often jet off on sunny holidays and working getaways, consistently including their followers on their ventures. They go all out for one another on their birthdays, with lavish displays and an abundance of gifts.  In January of this year, they welcomed their first child together, daughter Bambi. Since then, they’ve shared sweet updates throughout the first months of their daughter's life.  Baby Bambi’s safe arrival was confirmed on Instagram, with Molly-Mae sharing a gorgeous black and white image of herself and Tommy with their baby girl. She simply posted the date, 23/01/23, followed by a white heart emoji. In the picture, captured at the hospital, Tommy cradled their newborn daughter in his arms, as new mum Molly-Mae leaned in with her arm around his neck. The new parents smiled proudly into the camera. Here, we take a look back at their love story together. In 2019, Molly-Mae Hague entered the Love Island villa on day four as a bombshell, where she enjoyed dates with Curtis Pritchard and Tommy Fury. It quickly became apparent she only had eyes for Tommy Molly-Mae and Tommy stepped into a fairytale for their final date on the fifth series of Love Island, where they captured the hearts of the nation Tommy and Molly-Mae on the fifth episode of Love Island in2019, where they enjoyed getting to know one another in the hot tub. Molly-Mae entered the villa as a bombshell on day four The couple were clearly loved up during their appearance on Love Island: The Reunion, on 4 August 2019. They finished in second place on the smash hit reality dating show The Love Island runners up were pictured arriving at Stansted Airport in Essex following the final of the reality TV show on 31 July 2019 The happy couple were pictured sharing a kiss while holding hands on a night out in London in August 2019. The duo weren't shy about packing on PDAs Tommy referred to Molly-Mae as his "wife" after sharing a loved up photo to Instagram of the pair enjoying a sunny getaway. He simply captioned the image: "Happy wife, happy life." Molly-Mae shared a sweet selfie of the couple holding a rose on Valentine's Day 2021. She captioned the image: "The light of my life. I fall for you everyday" Molly-Mae and Tommy have enjoyed many holidays and exciting getaways together, including a trip to Hollywood, Los Angeles in California. They posted this cute selfie snapped in front of the iconic Hollywood sign The couple were all smiles as they were pictured at the Molly Mae x PrettyLittleThing new collection debut at the Londoner Hotel in London on 16 February, 2022 They revealed they were expecting their first child in September 2022, with a sweet black and white image showing Tommy kissing her blossoming bump After confirming they were expecting their first child together, the couple revealed the sex of their baby with an adorable clip which showed pink confetti erupting from a burst balloon Molly-Mae shared a stunning bump photo at Christmas time, as the couple prepared for the birth of their first child together Molly-Mae shared a carousel of images from the couple's last New Year's Eve before becoming parents. She captioned the images: "Acting like we weren’t back home for 9pm Hope you all had the best NYE" Molly-Mae Hague and Tommy Fury welcomed their daughter Bambi in January 2023 Molly-Mae Hague shared a sweet selfie with her, Tommy and their baby girl, Bambi. Over the top of the image, Molly-Mae simply penned: "my family" The happy couple were all smiles as they posed with their young daughter while away in Barbados for Molly-Mae’s best friend and agent Francesca Britton's wedding Molly-Mae and Tommy posed in their glad rags as they attended the wedding of Francesca Britton in Barbados. The blonde beauty was a bridesmaid for the occasion Molly-Mae and Tommy shared a string of holiday snaps, and posed with their daughter Bambi while relaxing by the pool Happy anniversary, Molly-Mae and Tommy! 