Global site navigation Losing a loved one is extremely painful. It comes with unmatched sadness and grief. The best way to honour a departed soul is by giving them a befitting funeral. For this to happen, you will have to write a funeral invitation letter notifying other friends and relatives of the interment ceremony. Writing a good funeral invitation letter may be the difference between a smooth and a chaotic interment ceremony. When a person dies, emotions tend to run high among relatives and friends, making it easy for people to be at loggerheads. This can be avoided by thinking about funeral invitations before sending them out. Everyone wishes to hold a smooth interment ceremony for their loved ones. The event becomes smooth if all concerned persons are invited to the event. A proper invitation to a funeral is written in proper language and is done after a date and venue for the funeral have been set.  Read also Obaapa Christy: My makeup and dresses are very expensive so I charge high to perform at events A funeral ceremony invitation letter is a letter requesting people to attend a funeral service for a loved one. It is natural for non-family members to want to grieve with you. Therefore, learning how to write a simple invitation letter for a funeral ceremony is essential.  Before writing the letter, ask yourself the following questions. Once you gather all the information needed (from the above questions), you are ready to draft the letter. Below is a list of what it should include. Read also Couple do their traditional marriage ceremony on Zoom, video shows them dancing 'together' As you create the invite, plan how the letters will reach the target audience. In the contemporary era, there are multiple modes of sending letters. Below is a sample of a simple funeral invitation letter. Ensure you include all necessary information. You do not want to leave guests with questions about the ceremony. The format is appropriate for individuals and groups. Wendy Wawe Bobo AK-039878 Kumasi 23rd October 2015.   The HR Manager Quality Me Limited AK-039878 Kumasi.   Dear Sir/ Madam, RE: Funeral invitation for the late Kwaw Abednego It is with deep grief that I inform you about the demise of Kwaw Abednego. Kwaw was my first-born son who passed away on 17th October 2015 after a severe case of convulsions. Before his demise, Kwaw was in good health. There will be a funeral ceremony on 30th October 2015 at the Bobo family farm (next to Ibeguwin Primary School) in Ikabom Village, Kwikwi Location, Kumasi. The ceremony will start at 10.00 AM. The ceremony will begin with a church service before his body is laid to rest. Drinks and refreshments will be offered to all in attendance. Read also European Space Agency chief eyes tapping private industry partners From now until 30th October 2015, the family is accepting support in cash or kind through +123478652 or +123456789. Feel free to call either of the two numbers for any clarifications or details you may need. Your presence and support are highly valued. Sincerely, (insert signature) Wendy Wawe Bobo. In the above sample, it is assumed the Human Resource Manager will inform other employees of the event. If this is not the case, you should write a letter addressed to the group of employees. If you are wondering how to write a funeral invitation letter to a group, fret not. The structure is similar to the sample above. However, the address should indicate the group instead of the individual. If letters are inappropriate for your target audience, you can send funeral invitation cards. The cards should contain the same information as the letters. Cards are smaller, so you have little room for wordiness. Read also Guide on how to plan a birthday party and get everything right Keep your cards brief and precise. You can include a picture of the deceased on the card for aesthetics. The picture will also allow the audience to identify the person being laid to rest. Check out an example of the wording to use on the card. FUNERAL INVITATION FOR THE LATE KWAW ABEDNEGO In memory of Kwaw Abednego The family of the late Kwaw Abednego invites all family, friends, colleagues, and other interested parties to his funeral ceremony. The church service and laying of his body to rest will be held at the Bobo family farm (next to Ibeguwin Primary School) in Ikabom Village, Kwikwi Location, Kumasi. The late Kwaw was the first-born son of Wendy Wawe Bobo and Ikafor Bobo. He was the brother of Kejum and Nedit. Kwaw was a cheerful and bubbly person who will surely be missed by many. For clarifications and support, kindly call/ text +123478652 or +123456789. Read also 30 interesting websites to cure boredom that work pretty well May the Lord rest Kwaw's soul in eternal peace. If cards or letters are not the best options for you, you can send people a burial invitation text message. This is often cheaper but is more appropriate for people you have a casual relationship with. As you type the message, ensure you include all the key points mentioned above. Use simple and clear language for the audience to understand. Avoid slang. The text should not be too long either. You can send the text message via the SMS app on your device or via WhatsApp or other social media platforms. You can write it using the format described above. The overall structure is similar to that of a formal letter. If you have been wondering how to write a funeral invitation letter to a church, use the format explored above. You can also send the congregation a well-detailed card. Read also 10 alternatives to I hope you had a great weekend that work amazingly well You can invite them via an official letter, card, or burial invitation text message. Whichever option you use should contain all the important details of the event. A formal invitation letter follows the general format of a formal letter. It should mention all the necessary details about the event. You can write your request to the event owner. Ensure you address the recipient of the letter politely, mention all key details, and use formal or informal language, depending on the occasion. If you lose a loved one, you may need to write a funeral invitation letter to your boss, colleagues, or even friends. We hope the information above helps you to write a proper letter to your intended audience. READ ALSO: How to organise a lawful public protest in Ghana: What does the law state? Read also Abroad-based brother shows up at sister's wedding unannounced & 2 other beautiful lovers' moments Yen.com.gh recently published an article on how to organise a lawful public protest in Ghana. Lawfully initiated protests are important tools citizens can use to trigger positive change in governance.  There have been many walks and protests taking place in Ghana in recent years. Citizens are more aware of their role in governance and can push for changes through lawful protests.   Source: YEN.com.gh 

                Chris Ndetei                                    (Lifestyle writer)
                            
Christopher Ndetei is a junior reporter writer who joined the Yen team in May 2021. He graduated from the Machakos Technical College in 2009 with a diploma in ICT. Chris has over two years of experience in content creation and more than ten working in the hospitality industry. He covers lifestyle/entertainment, focusing on biographies, life hacks, gaming and guides. In 2023, Christopher finished the AFP course on Digital Investigation Techniques. You can reach him at chrisndetei@gmail.com
 

                Cyprine Apindi                                    (Lifestyle writer)
                            
Cyprine Apindi is a content creator and educator with over six years of experience. She holds a Diploma in Mass Communication and a Bachelor’s degree in Nutrition and Dietetics from Kenyatta University. Cyprine joined Briefly.co.za in mid-2021, covering multiple topics, including finance, entertainment, sports, and lifestyle. 
In 2023, she finished the AFP course on Digital Investigation Techniques. She received the 2023 Writer of the Year Award.
In 2024, she completed the Google News Initiative course. 
Email: cyprineapindi@gmail.com
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you