Carbohydrates are a macronutrient found in a variety of food sources. There are several types, which can differ in terms of nutritional value and effects on health. Carbohydrates are a major macronutrient and one of your body’s primary sources of energy. Some weight loss programs discourage eating them, but the key is finding the right carbs — not avoiding them completely. You may have heard that eating complex carbs is better than simple carbs. But nutrition labels don’t always tell you if the carbohydrate content is simple or complex. Complex carbohydrates are digested more slowly and release glucose into the blood stream more gradually. Simple carbohydrates are digested quickly and spike blood sugar faster and higher. Understanding how these foods are classified and how they work in your body can help you choose the right carbs. Carbohydrates are an important nutrient found in numerous types of foods. Most of us equate carbs with bread and pasta, but you can also find them in: Carbohydrates are made up of three components: fiber, starch, and sugar. Fiber and starch are complex carbs, while sugar is a simple carb. Depending on how much of each of these is found in a food determines its nutrient quality. Simple carbs are sugars. While some of these occur naturally in milk, most of the simple carbs in the American diet are added to foods. Common simple carbs added to foods include: Try to avoid some of the most common refined sources of simple carbs and look for alternatives to satisfy those sweet cravings: Sugary soda is bad for your health in several ways. You can try water flavored with lemon instead. Satisfy your sweet tooth with fruit, rather than baked goods full of simple carbs and added sugars. Bake your own goods using substitutes like applesauce or sweeteners, or look for other mixes that contain more complex carbs. An easy way to avoid fruit concentrate is to look closely at nutrition labels. Always choose 100 percent fruit juice or make your own at home. Try our recipe for kiwi strawberry juice. Breakfast cereals tend to be loaded with simple carbohydrates. If you just can’t kick the habit, check out our rundown of breakfast cereals, from the best to the worst for your health. Complex carbs pack in more nutrients than simple carbs. They’re higher in fiber and digest more slowly. This also makes them more filling, which means they’re a good option for weight control. They’re also ideal for people with type 2 diabetes because they help manage blood sugar spikes after meals. Fiber and starch are the two types of complex carbohydrates. Fiber is especially important because it promotes bowel regularity and helps to control cholesterol. The main sources of dietary fiber include: Starch is also found in some of the same foods as fiber. The difference is certain foods are considered more starchy than fibrous, such as potatoes. Other high-starch foods are: Complex carbohydrates are key to long-term health. They make it easier to maintain a healthy weight and can even help guard against type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular problems in the future. Be sure to include the following complex carbohydrates as a regular part of your diet: Whole grains are good sources of fiber, as well as potassium, magnesium, and selenium. Choose less processed whole grains such as quinoa, buckwheat, and whole-wheat pasta. Some of these are apples, berries, and bananas. Avoid canned fruit since it usually contains added syrup. Eat more of all your veggies, including broccoli, leafy greens, and carrots. Aside from fiber, these are good sources of folate, iron, and potassium. Choosing the right carbs can take time and practice. With a little bit of research and a keen eye for nutrition labels, you can start making healthier choices to energize your body and protect it from long-term complications. Carbs are made up of fiber, starch, and sugars. The American Diabetes Association recommends getting 25 to 35 grams of fiber per day. Share this article Not all carbs are created equal. Carbs from whole, fiber-rich foods are generally healthy, while added sugars and refined carbs are extremely… Carbs get a bad rap, but numerous healthy foods contain carbs. Here are 12 high carb foods that are incredibly healthy. Low fat diets were long thought to aid weight loss, but many people now assert that low carb diets are more effective. This article explains whether… Reducing carbohydrates in the diet is a great way to lose weight and improve health. This page explains how many carbs you should aim for each day. The road to being healthy is different for each of us. For some, setting a goal to lose weight is part of a larger wellness plan, but a weight loss… For optimal health, it's a good idea to consume a variety of foods that are high in nutrients. Here are 12 of some of the most nutrient-dense foods… A recent study presents evidence of a connection between the artificial sweetener erythritol and an increased risk of blood clots. After consuming… A new study compared the effects of a keto diet and a diet low in added sugars and found the keto diet was associated with raised "bad" cholesterol… A new study found a link between processed red meat and dementia risk. The saturated fat and preservatives in processed meats might contribute to this… Eating a healthy diet that is low in sugar may help slow signs of biological aging, a new study suggests. Here's why. OUR BRANDS