Home » 3D By Editorial team By Editorial team | October 16, 2023 | Last update: March 25, 2024 The Netherlands-based DXRS, an extended reality developer, announced last week that it had secured a pre-seed investment round from the Brabant Development Agency (BOM) and two prominent informal investors. The new investment round is the next step in developing the Indoor Spatial Platform, which creates the much-needed scalability to meet the increasing market demand. DXRS’ extended reality becomes en vogue as it gives the platform, indoor localisation technology, and application framework to turn a simple-looking 3D building scan into an immersive experience. All this is possible without involving Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, NFC, and similar infrastructure technologies. With real-time contextual information and precise indoor localisation, extended reality, for instance, can help visually impaired and blind people navigate public facilities like train stations. Considering extended reality technology’s capabilities, it can open the door to limitless applications. Executives from DXRS and BOM are confident that the financing round can assist DXRS’s mission to develop extended reality technology for the masses. Victor van Dinten, co-founder of DXRS, says, “This financing round enables us to attract unique talent and take the next crucial step in our product development. In our vision, innovation is key. This means that we are at the forefront of technological development.”  “At the same time, we want to offer a scalable platform on which organisations can innovate securely, affordably, and with respect for privacy with extended reality,” adds van Dinten. Daan van Lange, investment manager at BOM, says, “DXRS develops extended reality technology with which they make a direct impact in their initial target markets. The solutions that DXRS provides deliver clear added value for vulnerable individuals in our society.” “Moreover, the underlying platform is remarkably scalable as a building block for augmented and virtual reality experiences, seamlessly aligning with our sub-focus on immersive technologies,” adds van Lange. Lukas van Delft and van Dinten founded DXRS in May 2022 to provide an integrated platform for immersive experiences. The software company aspires to bridge the gap between the real and digital worlds and map a sustainable future through mixed-reality technology. DXRS offers three products and services – DXRS Experience (immersive user experience applications), DXRS Studio (mixed reality toolbox and content management platform), and DXRS Capture (reality capturing and processing services). The startup aims to improve customer experience, workforce planning, and asset management in multiple industries. DXRS’ services are usable for different uses, including mobility hubs, sports and events, healthcare, facility management and real estate, parking and insurance. DXRS’ extended reality products are currently available for mobile and desktop devices, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR) technologies. DXRS has worked with permanent clients such as ProRail and Amsterdam UMC. DXRS also actively participates in the regional Brainport ecosystem, where the outlying Eindhoven region is prominent for its advanced IT infrastructure in the Netherlands. Topics:  Follow us:  The editorial team of Silicon Canals brings you technology news from the European startup ecosystem.  Current MonthSeptember

06sep(sep 6)10:00 am08(sep 8)3:00 pmEvent of the Month: TechVillageMATCHING FOUNDERS AND INVESTORS IN THE MOST BEAUTIFUL MOLDOVAN VILLAGE
Event DetailsTechVillage is a 3-day event for startups and investors that are tired of the conventional. It’s for those that are looking to interact and build lasting business connections in a


Event Details

TechVillage is a 3-day event for startups and investors that are tired of the conventional. It’s for those that are looking to interact and build lasting business connections in a new setting.
If you are an investor or startup founder and you like the rural scenery, you like to get your hands dirty (literally), and explore new cultures, cuisines and wines, while interacting with other investors and founders, you’ll love it at TechVillage.






Learn More




CalendarGoogleCal




TimeSeptember 6, 2024 10:00 am - September 8, 2024 3:00 pm(GMT+03:00)



LocationButuceni, Orheiul VechiOther Events



OrganizerXY PartnersLearn More  







 September 06sep(sep 6)10:00 am08(sep 8)3:00 pmEvent of the Month: TechVillageMATCHING FOUNDERS AND INVESTORS IN THE MOST BEAUTIFUL MOLDOVAN VILLAGE TechVillage is a 3-day event for startups and investors that are tired of the conventional. It’s for those that are looking to interact and build lasting business connections in a TechVillage is a 3-day event for startups and investors that are tired of the conventional. It’s for those that are looking to interact and build lasting business connections in a new setting.
If you are an investor or startup founder and you like the rural scenery, you like to get your hands dirty (literally), and explore new cultures, cuisines and wines, while interacting with other investors and founders, you’ll love it at TechVillage. CalendarGoogleCal September 6, 2024 10:00 am - September 8, 2024 3:00 pm(GMT+03:00) Butuceni, Orheiul Vechi Learn More 01 02 03 04 05 About Silicon Canals Partner with Silicon Canals Impressum Contact Silicon Canals Disclaimer Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Editorial Policy Silicon Canals 2014 - 2024 | Website: Bright Idiots | Images: Depositphotos [wp_dark_mode style="2"]