CHAMPIONSHIP OPENER: Mayo players, from left, Diarmuid O'Connor, Jack Coyne, Jack Carney, Ryan O'Donoghue and Matthew Ruane with the cup after the Allianz Football League Division 1 Final match between Galway and Mayo at Croke Park in Dublin. Photo by Ramsey Cardy/Sportsfile Roscommon and recently crowned league champions Mayo have named their teams ahead of their Connacht Senior Football championship quarter-final on Sunday in Hastings Insurance McHale Park (4pm). Rossies manager Davy Burke has made two changes to the side which defeated Donegal in their final league game. Tadhg O'Rourke and Niall Kilroy are replaced by Conor Daly and Ciaràn Lennon.  Conor Carroll starts in goals with Conor Hussey, Conor Daly and David Murray making up the full back line. Niall Daly is joined by captain Brian Stack and Eoin McCormack in the half back line.  Dylan Ruane and Keith Doyle team up in midfield. Ciaràn Murtagh, Ciaràn Lennon and Ends Smith link up in the half forward line. Diarmuid Murtagh moves into full foward with Conor Cox and Ben O'Carroll either side of him. Meanwhile,  Cillian O’Connor and Donnacha McHugh come into the Mayo squad as Kevin McStay makes one change to the team that won last weekend’s Division 1 final. Former captain and two-time young footballer of the year O’Connor is named on the bench, while Castlebar Mitchels McHugh replaces Sam Callinan in the starting line-up for the clash in Castlebar. Despite being replaced at half-time due to injury in the victory over Galway in Croke Park, full-back McBrien is deemed fit to be given the No3 jersey. Should they see action, McBrien, McHugh and last Sunday’s man of the match Colm Reape will be making their first championship appearances. Of the team that began in last year’s All-Ireland quarter-final defeat to Kerry, there are only eight survivors – captain Patrick Durcan, Stephen Coen, Aidan O’Shea, Matthew Ruane, Jordan Flynn, Diarmuid O’Connor, Conor Loftus and Jack Carney. Elsewhere, Armagh kick off their championship when they take on Antrim on Saturday in BOX-IT Athletics Grounds (5pm). Ethan Rafferty will take his place between the posts with James Morgan, Aaron McKay and Aidan Forker in the full back line. Ciaran Mackin, Greg McCabe and Barry McCambridge make up the half back line with Ben Crealey and Shane McPartlan in midfield. Stefan Campbell, Rory Grugan and Jason Duffy team up in the half forward line with Jemar Hall, Conor Turbitt and Tiernan Kelly completing the full foward line. Tipperary and Waterford have named their sides who face each other in their Munster Senior Football Championship quarter-final. Michael O'Reilly starts in goals for David Power's Tipp side. He has Shane O'Connell, Jimmy Feehan and Colm O'Shaughnessy in front of him. Kevin Fahey, Colman Kennedy and Keith Ryan make up the half back line. Paudie Feehan and Jack Kennedy are the midfield partnership with Emmet Moloney, Teddy Doyle and Mikey O'Shea in the half forward line. Captain Steven O'Brien is joined up front with Stephen Quirke and Sean O'Connor. Ephie Fitzgerald's Waterford side is manned in goals by Paudie Hund. Conor Ò Cuirrìn, Darragh Ò Cathasagih and Liam Fennell will take up their place in the full back line. Dermot Ryan, Brian Looby and Jordan O'Sullivan are in the half back line with Michael Curry and Brian Lynch in midfield.  Conor Murrary,Darragh Corcoran and Jason Curry will start in the half forward line with the full forward line of Michael Kiely, Sean Whelan-Barrett and Eoghan McGrath Butler. Laois open their Joe McDonagh Cup campaign when they take on Offaly in Tullamore on Saturday (3pm). Enda Rowland starts in goals with Fiachra C Fennell, Padraig Delaney and Donnachadh Hartnett manning the full back line. Ryan Mullaney, Ian Shanahan and Liam O'Connell  are in half backs with Patrick Purcell and Jack Kelly in the middle of the park with Aaron Dunphy, Aidan Corby and Martin Phelan just in front of them. Full foward line sees Tomàs Keyes, Jordan Walsh and Ross King.  
MAYO (SFC v Roscommon): C. Reape (Knockmore); J. Coyne (Ballyhaunis), D. McBrien (Ballaghaderreen), D. McHugh (Castlebar); S. Coen (Hollymount-Knockmore), C. Loftus (Crossmolina Deel Rovers), P. Durcan (c, Castlebar Mitchels); M. Ruane (Breaffy), D. O’Connor (Ballintubber); F. McDonagh (Westport), J. Carney (Kilmeena), J. Flynn (Crossmolina Deel Rovers); A. O’Shea (Breaffy), J. Carr (Ardagh), R. O’Donoghue (Belmullet). 
Subs: R. Byrne (Castlebar Mitchels), S. Callinan (Ballina Stephenites), T. Conroy (The Neale), J. Doherty (Burrishole), F. Irwin (Ballin Stephenites), D. McHale (Knockmore), E. McLaughlin (Westport), C. McStay (Ballina Stephenites), C. O’Connor (Ballintubber), P. O’Hora (Ballina Stephenites), P. Towey (Charlestown Sarsfields). 
ROSCOMMON (against Mayo): C Carroll, C Hussey, C Daly, D Murray, N Daly, B Stack (c), E McCormack, D Ruane, K Doyle, C Murtagh, C Lennon, E Smith, C Cox, D Murtagh, B O'Carroll 
Subs: C Lavin, C Walsh, R Dolan, R Hughes, R Fallon, C Connolly, D Smith, C McKeon, N Kilroy, P Carey, E Nolan  
ARMAGH (against Antrim): E Rafferty, J Morgan, A McKay, A Forker, C Mackin, G McCabe, B McCambridge, B Crealey, S McPartlan, S Campbell, R Grugan, J Duffy, J Hall, C Turbitt, T Kelly 
Subs: S Magill, R Finn, C Higgins, R McQuillon, S Sheridan, C Mackin, C McConville, E Woods, J Kieran, A Nugent, J Òg Burns 
TIPPERARY (against Waterford): M O'Reilly, S O'Connell, J Feehan, C O'Shaughnessy, K Fahey, C Kennedy, K Ryan, P Feehan, J Kennedy, E Moloney, T Doyle, M O'Shea, S O'Brien (C), S Quirke, S O'Connor 
Subs: K Beben, L Boland, D Brennan, C Cadell, W Eviston, M Kehoe, D Leahy, T Maher, L McGrath, R Quigley, M Russell 
WATERFORD (against Tipperary): P Hunt, C Ò Ciorrìn, D Ò Cathasaigh, L Fennell, D Ryan, B Looby, J O'Sullivan, M Curry, B Lynch, C Murray, D Corcoran, J Curry, M Kiely, S Whelan-Barrett, E McGrath Butler 
Subs: A Beresford, C Maguire, D Fitzgerald, J Devine, R Browne, D Reidy, J Keane, N McSweeney, B O'Brien, B Hynes, D Quirke 
LAOIS (against Offaly): E Rowland, F C Fennell, P Delaney, D Hartnett, R Mullaney, I Shanahan, L O'Connell,  P Purcell, J Kelly, A Dunphy S Maher, A Corby, M Phelan, J Keyes, S Bergin 
Subs: P Walsh, P Dunne, L Senior, G Lynch, P Lalor, C Stapleton, F Mahoney, J Duggan, T Keyes, J Walsh, R King. More in this section Sport Newsletter Get the latest news from the world of sport along with the best opinion from our outstanding team of sport writers, direct to your inbox every Friday Please click here for our privacy statement. Puzzles hub     By clicking on 'Sign Up' you will be the first to know about our latest and best sporting content on this browser. You have accepted push notifications for this content. If you would like to manage your push notification preferences, you can do so here. Latest news from the world of sport, along with the best in opinion from our
      outstanding team of sports writers Puzzles hub At the heart of the GAA Monday, August 19, 2024 - 4:00 PM Monday, August 19, 2024 - 2:00 PM Sunday, August 18, 2024 - 8:00 PM © Examiner Echo Group Limited, Linn Dubh, Assumption Road, Blackpool, Cork. Registered in Ireland: 523712. © Examiner Echo Group Limited