Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds  The Chinese spy balloon might be down, but the diplomatic temperature continued to rise Sunday as officials in Beijing blasted the U.S. decision to shoot it out of the sky.  Describing it as "a clear overreaction," Tan Kefei, a spokesperson for China's Defense Ministry, said in a statement Sunday that his country reserved "the right to use necessary means to deal with similar situations." In a similarly strongly worded statement, China's Foreign Ministry said it was "a serious violation of international customary practice."  Both statements described the balloon as a "civilian unmanned airship," and China had previously said the orb was used for research and "meteorological purposes." An American F-22 Raptor shot down what the Defense Department called a "high-altitude surveillance balloon," with a single missile off South Carolina on Saturday afternoon. The U.S. military will now focus on salvaging parts of the craft from a debris field that spans about 7 nautical miles.  First spotted over Montana, which is home to Malmstrom Air Force Base, the site of one of America's three nuclear missile silo fields, the massive white orb, which is about the size of three school buses, headed southeastward over Kansas and Missouri at around 60,000 to 65,000 feet.  Shortly after the strike, President Joe Biden told reporters that he made the order to shoot it down after he was briefed about it Wednesday but that the Pentagon "decided that the best time to do that was when it got over water."  More from NBC News: While he described the Chinese suggestions of further action as "ominous," David Sacks, a research fellow in U.S-China diplomacy at the nonpartisan Council on Foreign Relations think tank, said he doubted it had done much to alter relations between the two countries. "They will issue a statement with a little bluster in it, but I don't think that China is going to try to respond in any way," he said, adding that escalating the issue would be of little benefit to China. Beijing would not have wanted Secretary of State Antony Blinken to postpone his visit to China, which had been scheduled to start Monday, Sacks said.  Blinken said Friday he told senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi in a phone call that sending the balloon over the U.S. was "an irresponsible act" that was "detrimental to the substantive discussions that we were prepared to have." His visit to China would have been the first by a U.S. secretary of state since 2018.  Some on Chinese social media mocked the U.S. decision to shoot down the balloon, and others expressed anger. Some of the more hawkish news outlets criticized the move, and the state-run Global Times newspaper called it "an obvious overreaction."  Several commentators also questioned the decision, while Jin Canrong, a specialist in Sino-U.S. relations at Beijing's Renmin University of China, questioned the decision to postpone Blinken's visit.    In a post on the Chinese microblogging site Weibo, he said there had been opposition to the trip inside the U.S., particularly from Republican lawmakers.    "It should be said that Blinken's visit to China itself is not a bad thing, but the atmosphere is not good," he said, adding that the U.S. always liked to "create a little bargaining chip for themselves" before high-level meetings "to force the Chinese side to give in."      "This does not work. The Chinese side has long stopped buying this," he added. Rescheduling the trip could prove problematic for the Biden administration "until China provides a more convincing and fulsome explanation regarding these latest espionage allegations," Craig Singleton, a senior China fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a Washington, D.C., think tank, said Saturday before the balloon was shot down.   "Expectations were generally low that Blinken's trip would result in any diplomatic deliverables, and at this point, a meaningful reset between the two superpowers appears all but off the table," he said.  Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal 
      Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
     Data also provided by