Spark the scientific breakthroughs that innovate treatments to improve the lives of patients. Fund a research grant today. Call (877) 272-6226, email info@pancan.org or  
      PanCAN Patient Services provides free, in-depth and personalized resources and information on pancreatic cancer. PanCAN Patient Services is the place to contact when facing pancreatic cancer. Our highly trained and compassionate Case Managers provide free, personal one-to-one support and information about the disease. We can also find resources for any questions you have related to pancreatic cancer. No organization supports pancreatic cancer patients like we do. Through our Patient Services, we provide more resources and speak with more pancreatic cancer patients and caregivers than any other organization in the world. It is critical to consult with specialists who diagnose and treat a high volume of pancreatic cancer patients. PanCAN Patient Services can provide a list of specialists in your area. Seeing specialists, doctors who diagnose and treat a high volume of pancreatic cancer patients, improves outcomes. LEARN MORE You have a right to seek a second opinion. Seek a second opinion, as needed, at any point in your diagnosis. LEARN MORE Every pancreatic tumor is different. Patients who receive treatment based on their tumor’s biological characteristics have better outcomes. The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network strongly recommends molecular profiling of your tumor to help determine the best treatment options. Our Case Managers can talk with you about molecular profiling and our Know Your Tumor precision medicine service. Learn About Precision Medicine Clinical trials should be considered during every treatment decision, including at diagnosis. A PanCAN Patient Services Case Manager can help you start your search.   Pancreatic cancer patients who participate in clinical research have better outcomes. Every treatment available today was approved through a clinical trial. The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network strongly recommends clinical trials at diagnosis and during every treatment decision. Learn More     See how many clinical trials are within a 50-mile radius of you. View Results Seeing healthcare professionals who focus on symptom management and supportive care improves outcomes and is critical for your quality of life. The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network strongly recommends that symptom management and supportive care should be provided early in your diagnosis as well as during and after treatment. Good nutritional care improves outcomes and is critical for your quality of life. Seek good nutritional care, including access to pancreatic enzymes and a registered dietitian. Support for the pancreatic cancer patient is critical to improve quality of life and overall well-being. Having a support system of caregivers, family, friends, healthcare professionals and a patient advocate is important to address and manage the needs of the patient. Connect one-on-one, or explore support groups.   Learn about a wide variety of topics from specialists. Watch Now →  Get reliable in-depth information about pancreatic cancer. Request Now → We have a wide variety of additional printed information, like our Diet and Nutrition booklet, available by request. Contact PanCAN Patient Services to access these resources and for answers to your pancreatic cancer questions. 
(877) 272-6226
 PanCAN Patient Services is generously funded by sponsors and donors like you and In Memory of
Skip Viragh In Memory of
Carol Kulok Theodore W. Batterman Family Foundation, Inc. 1500 Rosecrans Avenue, Suite 200  Manhattan Beach, CA 90266 - Map Phone: (310) 725-0025 Toll Free: (877) 573-9971 Fax: (310) 725-0029 Email: info@pancan.org Gear, apparel, accessories and more to  show off your purple pride. Get Our Latest News! ©2024 Pancreatic Cancer Action Network. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Policy 
                    Pancreatic Cancer Action Network®, PanCAN®, PurpleStride®, Wage Hope®, Know Your Tumor®, Powerful Knowledge. Personal Treatment.®, 
                    Precision Promise℠ and Demand Better For Patients. For Survival.℠ are the trademarks of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, Inc.
                 
                The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network is registered as a 501©3 nonprofit organization. Contributions to the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network 
                are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network’s tax identification number is #33-0841281.
                