
      Alphabet's (NASDAQ: GOOGL) is steadily moving toward attaining its zero-carbon goals.
Reportedly, its division Google partnered with NV Energy, a utility company owned by Berkshire Hathaway, to power its data centers located in Nevada with geothermal electricity.
Google strives to boost the...     
      SAN ANTONIO — A case study in the disjointed state that supply chain management can find itself in was having lunch at the Momentum conference, a gathering of 1,000-plus people who in one way or another rely on the supply chain software capabilities of conference host Manhattan Associates (NASDAQ:...     
      Goldman Sachs analyst raised the price target for Mastercard Inc (NYSE: MA) to $482 (from $433) and maintained a Buy rating.
The analyst expects a mixed outlook for overall credit card spending and anticipates card volume growth to decelerate globally and domestically by ~70bps...     
      Microchip Technology Incorporated (NASDAQ: MCHP) will receive incentives worth $162 million from the U.S. Commerce Department to support the onshoring of the company's semiconductor supply chain. 
"With this proposed investment, President Biden is...     
      Mastercard Incorporated (NYSE: MA) on Tuesday said that U.S. retail sales excluding automotive increased +3.1% year-over-year this holiday season.
According to preliminary insights from Mastercard SpendingPulse, online retail sales increased 6.3% year-over-year, while in-store sales were...     
      Visa Inc (NYSE: V) and Mastercard Inc (NYSE: MA) are under scrutiny by U.K. regulators contemplating a cap on some fees charged to local merchants per card transaction. 
This regulatory consideration aims to control the costs that have significantly increased since...     
      Liquidity Services (NASDAQ: LQDT) reported Q4 revenues of $79.96 million, missing the analyst consensus of $82.73 million. Revenues rose 6% Y/Y.
The company reported adjusted EPS of $0.26 per share, beating the estimate of $0.24.
GMV for the fiscal fourth quarter of 2023 was $315.6...     
      Yesterday, Mastercard Inc (NYSE: MA) disclosed a dividend increase and a new share repurchase program.
The company raised its quarterly cash dividend per share by 16% to $0.66 from $0.57 earlier. 
The dividend is payable on February 9, 2024, to shareholders of record as of...     
      Deutsche Bank initiated coverage on the shares of Lattice Semiconductor Corp (NASDAQ: LSCC) with a Buy rating and announced a price target of $70.
Founded in 1983 and publicly traded since 1989, LSCC specializes in the design of field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs). ...     
      Mastercard Inc (NYSE: MA) is reportedly partnering with Feedzai, a regulatory technology platform, to combat money laundering and financial scams online using artificial intelligence.
As per the deal, Feedzai will integrate with Mastercard's CipherTrace Armade platform to help banks...     
      Mastercard Incorporated's (NYSE: MA) senior executive reportedly slammed the usage of central bank digital currencies, claiming there isn't enough reason for the widespread use of them right now.
Ashok Venkateswaran, Mastercard's blockchain and digital assets lead for Asia-...     
      Private equity firm F9 Investments, LLC has proposed to acquire all the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of LL Flooring Holdings Inc (NYSE: LL) for $3.00 per share.
F9 Investments, together with its affiliates, collectively owns approximately 8.8% of LL...     
      Worldline's warning of a "macroeconomic deterioration" in core geographies like Germany hurts the entire FinTech sector pre-market, Mizuho analyst Dan Dolev noted.
Key stocks like Affirm Holdings, Inc (NASDAQ: AFRM) (Buy rating, price target $24),...     
      Mastercard Inc (NYSE: MA) shares are trading lower after the company reported Q3 FY23 results.
Net revenues stood at $6.53 billion, up 14% Y/Y and 11% Y/Y on a neutral currency basis, beating the consensus of $6.52 billion.
Payment network net revenue rose 12% Y/Y (+10% Y/Y on a currency-...     
      Needham analyst N. Quinn Bolton initiates coverage on Lattice Semiconductor Corp (NASDAQ: LSCC) with a Buy rating and a price target of $90.
The analyst forecasts a 12.2% CAGR over the coming three years for revenue from the company's Nexus platform, launched in 2019.
Also, the...     Thank you for subscribing! If you have any questions feel free to call us at 1-877-440-ZING or email us at vipaccounts@benzinga.com