ServiceNow, the leading digital workflow company making the world work better for everyone, today announced a major Now Platform expansion with the Now Assist family of solutions. Available in the Now Platform Vancouver release, Now Assist for IT Service Management (ITSM), Customer Service Management (CSM), HR Service Delivery (HRSD), and Creator embed the power of generative AI across all workflows on the Now Platform to help accelerate productivity, improve experiences, and increase agility for customers. To power new features within Now Assist, we are releasing a domain-specific ServiceNow large language model (Now LLM), built for the enterprise and optimised for productivity and data privacy.   “Organisations are seeking a trusted partner to help them navigate this dynamic and fast-moving era of intelligence,” said CJ Desai, president and chief operating officer, ServiceNow. “ServiceNow has thousands of customers already using the Now Platform to digitise and streamline processes across the enterprise. With our Vancouver release, we’re combining the power of the Now Platform with new generative AI features to bring AI-driven intelligence to every corner of the business, creating a catalyst for productivity and better enterprise experiences."  According to Goldman Sachs, generative AI will lift human productivity, adding almost $7 trillion to global GDP in the next decade1. The Now Platform operationalises generative AI to drive growth and help reduce costs for every customer across every business function with enterprise-grade AI designed for digital trust and privacy. Now Assist is woven into all processes and workflows to help optimise performance and follows ServiceNow guidelines for ethical and responsible development and use.  All aspects of Now Assist incorporate generative AI features, such as case, incident, and agent chat summarisation, virtual agent, and search, that can be applied to a broad range of scenarios and functions, so every persona from employees to agents to developers can harness the power of generative AI. This foundational approach allows enterprises to bring the power of generative AI to any department and expand to other parts of the business quickly and easily.   ServiceNow’s generative AI strategy provides customers with broad and secure LLM support, through either general purpose LLMs or ServiceNow-developed models. General-purpose LLMs provide customer flexibility and currently include access to Microsoft Azure OpenAI Service LLM and OpenAI API. Built into the ServiceNow platform, domain-specific LLMs are designed specifically for ServiceNow’s workflows, use cases, and processes, and are tailored to agents, employees, customers, and IT administrators who use ServiceNow. This allows for an excellent end-user experience, unprecedented time-to-market, and the highest levels of transparency and governance.   For example, features within Now Assist for Search are powered by a ServiceNow fine-tuned LLM based on the NVIDIA NeMo framework and served using NVIDIA Triton Inference Server software, both part of the NVIDIA AI Enterprise software platform. These features bring to market new capabilities built from the ServiceNow and NVIDIA partnership announced in May. https://www.servicenow.com/products/vault.html With the launch of Now Assist, ServiceNow also rolled out its generative AI pricing packages. These new SKUs allow customers to get started with Now Assist quickly and easily through pricing models built on a number of factors including value, flexibility, and simplicity. Details about generative AI pricing can be found here.  All generative AI innovations announced today are part of ServiceNow’s Now Platform Vancouver release and will be generally available in the ServiceNow Store on Sept. 29 to all customers.  The Now Platform Vancouver release also enhances security and governance, simplifies critical processes in healthcare and finance, and accelerates talent transformation through AI. Highlights include:   Please see the full release here.   “Deloitte’s AI-enabled solutions, shaped by our innovative mindset, help our clients unlock business value at scale from the ServiceNow platform," said Asish Ramchandran, Chief Commercial Officer, ServiceNow Alliance at Deloitte Consulting LLP. "As a ServiceNow customer, we see the value of the platform, which will only be augmented by the addition of advanced AI capabilities, enhancing experiences and productivity for our people and clients globally while ultimately driving positive business outcomes and greater efficiency.”  “With Now Assist for ITSM, we are able to resolve more incidents in less time, increasing productivity for the IT team while improving our employee experience,” said Darla Wolf, Senior Digital Employee Experience Manager at Coursera. “At Coursera, using generative AI tools to boost the IT team’s efficiency has enabled us to improve support for employees, who are working every day to help millions of learners and organisations access world-class learning from top universities and companies.”  “NEC has been advancing our corporate transformation with the aim of maximising corporate value in terms of business strategy, business portfolio, financial strategy, culture, and people. Through collaboration with ServiceNow, NEC will promote efforts to integrate generative AI into every aspect of employee digital experiences and drive initiatives for advanced utilisation. This will enable us not only to obtain profound expertise in digital transformation, but also to create social value,” said Hiroshi Kodama, Corporate EVP, Chief Information Officer and Chief Information Security Officer, NEC Corporation. “We will continue to help our customers progress towards their transformation goals as well as creating a better society. I believe ServiceNow and NEC will achieve this together throughout our further collaboration."  “As a B2B business, leveraging the generative AI capabilities within ServiceNow’s Now Assist for CSM will greatly improve our ability to support our customers. These new capabilities will allow us to quickly provide a specific answer to customers' queries, so they can get back to servicing their own customers,” said Lori Cobb, Sr. Director Digital & Technology, Global Customer Operations & Support, Travelport. “The ability to summarise the support case details during the escalation process and case closing notes will reduce the clerical work performed by our help desk agents. Removing this after call work from their daily tasks will enable them to focus on providing premier support to our customers.”  "WSU is constantly exploring new ways to deliver personalised experiences to our students and staff. Innovating with cutting-edge technologies we aim to be a market leader in transforming the higher education landscape. Our approach to AI is always with our people at the heart, ensuring that this technology continuously enhances and adds value to the human experience.” said Peter Tow, Executive Director, Strategic Project, Implementation, and Improvements at Western Sydney University. "We are very excited for ServiceNow to introduce generative AI across its workflows as part of its Now Platform Vancouver release. With these new capabilities, we will be able to harness the power of generative AI to drive innovation, enhance productivity, and tackle complex challenges at scale with creativity and precision for the benefit of our people.”  Receive our daily news straight to your inbox Onrec is for HR Directors, Personnel Managers, Job Boards and Recruiters providing them with information on the Internet recruitment industry such as industry news, directory and events.
 Onrec is for HR Directors, Personnel Managers, Job Boards and Recruiters providing them with information on the Internet recruitment industry such as industry news, directory and events. Copyright © ONREC. All rights reserved