 When one takes a gander at IoT, seldom are they left without encouragement for the future of intelligent solutions. Baked into IoT are perennial demands for innovation, and it’s up to businesses to remain agile as dynamic shifts take place. One such business is multinational information technology consulting and solutions provider, LTIMindtree. Furthering innovative excellence and empathy is LTIMindtree’s mission, and its technology-led vision for long-term value in sustainable IoT has proven successful for its teams thus far. We got the chance to speak with Sriram Jayaraman, part of LTIMindtree’s Consulting & Technology Office. LTIMindtree will also be at IoT Evolution Expo, taking place from February 14-17, 2023 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. LTIMindtree is a Platinum sponsor of IoT Evolution Expo and will be found at Booth #228. Regarding IoT, Jayaraman had this to say:
  IoT Applications are achieving scale these days. What are your thoughts as to what is contributing to IoT's accelerating growth? We are seeing the following pivots drive IoT’s accelerated growth: Do you think we have enough professionals skilled in IoT applications and deployment, or does the industry need to hire and train more people? The demand for skill is constant and only growing. The bigger challenge is to abstract the complexity and democratize IoT skills at scale. A platform-led approach by enterprises solves this challenge. 
Private networking, be it with LoRaWAN or cellular, is on the rise. What are your thoughts about these trends and what we should expect in the future? This trend will continue and with private networks with 5G connectivity, it will be the new normal for connected enterprises.
  How has your company changed in the last few years? What IoT applications or technologies are driving your growth? We’ve seen a massive growth and adoption of IoT, which has ensured synchrony of mind, machine, and material to improve predictability, resilience, and profitability in our business. For instance, Material NxT, our fully integrated track-and-trace solution, allows enterprises to manage materials across their supply chains in real-time and from anywhere. Intuitive dashboards make it easy to accurately monitor material availability, location, utilization, and reconciliation. 
Is there any recent news from your company you would like to talk about? It has been a phenomenal start to 2023 for LTIMindtree as we witnessed 74.8% growth after a successful merger. According to the latest IT Services Brand Value Rankings by Brand Finance, we are the fastest-growing brand, after that merger’s completion; i.e. between L&T Infotech and Mindtree in 2022. The merger will allow further investment in technologies and talent, helping LTIMindtree to become a major player in the industry. 
We saw some big mergers/acquisitions in 2022. What should we expect in 2023? We couldn’t agree more, as LTI & Mindtree started operating as a merged entity from November 2022. Two industry-acclaimed challengers coming together to become a leader! For us, this merger was a historical debut – LTIMindtree presents a new kind of technology consulting firm for 2023. LTIMindtree is now a scaled-up IT services provider with a client portfolio of more than 750 leading global enterprises from all key industry verticals. We have nearly 90,000 professionals spread across more than 30 countries on five continents. LTIMindtree is the fifth-largest IT services company in India, in terms of current market capitalization. 
We have experienced some supply chain issues across a variety of industries. How has this made the use of IoT more essential? Issues like supply chain volatility can only be addressed by improving visibility and intelligence across the supply chain. We are currently creating digital replicas of the supply chain, powered by digital twin and by establishing supply chain control towers (which are AI-powered) to prescribe and adapt to the changing business climate. 
Some IoT solutions are more fascinating than others – for example, the IoT rat trap or the living wall. What IoT applications have you implemented or heard about that caught your attention? All autonomous intelligent systems are fascinating, and we certainly don’t limit ourselves to just one! For example, the ability to deliver clean drinking water, powered by IoT, is a developed solution we’re immensely proud of. 
If you had a magic wand, what would you do to progress the industry? In short, standardize protocols and communications across multiple OEMs. 
Why are you excited about IoT Evolution Expo 2023?  Why should attendees be sure to stop by your booth in the exhibit hall? LTIMindtree is proud to be a Platinum sponsor at the upcoming IoT Evolution Expo. Join us at Booth #228 to learn how LTIMindtree can improve productivity, enhance operational visibility, save costs, deliver smart, intuitive experiences for your end customers, and envision a future that is sustainable with net zero emissions. Click here for more information on LTIMindtree’s participation at IoT Evolution Expo. 
If you are speaking at IoT Evolution Expo 2023, what is the session and why do you believe it’s an exciting one for attendees? I will be speaking on the barriers in building connected intelligent sustainable enterprises and the corresponding mitigations. If you want to understand complex real-world challenges and how they are addressed, this is a session one must attend! 
Editor


Click here to read full bio

 According to intelligence firm ABI Research, the satellite IoT interconnectivity market is project to surpass 26 million connections by 2030, represen… Announced earlier this morning, Genians is reinforcing its commitment to securing the digital future by extending its global reach into IoT and critic… This article takes a quick dive into Ceva, Inc.; its market-ready solutions, recent achievements and more. On Monday, Wialon announced some remarkable growth numbers, spanning the last nine years or so. It has reached a record number of connected vehicles (… Yesterday, Oracle announced that it is incorporating AT&T's IoT connectivity capabilities and network APIs into its own Enterprise Communication Platf… Sing up to receive our updates and other IoT Evolution news! 

 


 
  
  
  

 © 2024 All Rights Reserved 