Now that the latest and greatest products from the Samsung Galaxy S23 series are now out in the open, it is that time of the year again when consumers have to decide just how to get the best deal when it comes to buying from local telcos Starhub, M1, and Singtel, or even on Lazada and Shopee. Be it the 6.1-inch Samsung Galaxy S23, the 6.6-inch Samsung Galaxy S23+, or the top-of-the-line Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, getting the best bang for your buck will leave you some room to get some cool accessories to match your latest gadget as well.  Pre-orders for the Galaxy S23, Galaxy S23+ and Galaxy S23 Ultra are now already available. The pricing for the S23 series is as follows: As for the various goodies when pre-ordering the Samsung S23 series with telcos like Singtel, Starhub, and M1 and e-commerce stores: In addition, new and existing Samsung Members can enjoy an additional free 1-year extended warranty on their new Galaxy S23 Series device upon redemption via Samsung Members app within 7 days of device delivery/collection. There’s also the Samsung Trade Up Programme, where eligible devices can help offset the costs of getting yourself a new S23 when buying from the Samsung Experience Stores or online. Consumers who pre-order their Galaxy S23 Series from telecommunication operators, the Samsung Online Store, or in-person, can collect their devices starting 10 February, Friday. Customers of M1 and Singtel can opt to collect their new S23 devices through in-store collection, delivery, or POPStation collection, while StarHub customers can receive their devices via delivery only. Online pre-orders can be collected via in-person collection at the Samsung Experience Stores or delivery, while walk-in pre-orders can collect from the same outlet. For potential S23 adopters interested in seeing the phones first, Samsung has a public Galaxy Experience Space in Singapore, located at Gardens by the Bay, West Lawn from 3 February to 25 February 2023. Alternatively, you can always learn more from your fellow geeks here at Geek Culture. Jake is a full-time trophy hunter and achievement gatherer on consoles, and part-time Steam Sale victim. He has a thing for Batman and awesome statues, and running out of space for both. Send help. Everything you loved with the previous flip, and now, combined with AI. Best Bubs deserve the best phone accessories. AI: Use it or run the risk of being left behind. We are a collective bunch of geeks who love to share our passion with the rest of the world. Just like the Beholder we have adopted as our mascot, we have both depth and width of geeky topics we cover. By visiting this page, you declare yourself one of us! If you have grown up with a steady diet of all things related to video games, Star Wars, Star Trek, sci-fi, gadgets, toys, Transformers one way or another, this will be your second home. Copyright © 2013-2024 Geek Culture LLP.Privacy Policy | Work With Us | Join Us 