| Written by  To create a Texas LLC, you’ll need to submit the Certificate of Formation to the Secretary of State. You can apply online or by mail, and the filing fee is $300. Ready to start an LLC in Texas? Follow these 6 easy steps: Or, save time by using a trusted formation service:  Northwest ($29 + State Fees)  LegalZoom ($249 + State Fees) Starting a limited liability company (LLC) in Texas is the best way to protect your personal assets and add credibility to your small business. Follow our How to Start an LLC in Texas guide below to get started. You can also learn how to form a limited liability company in any state by visiting our main How to Start an LLC guide. Effortless LLC Formation Focus on your business while Northwest’s experts handle your LLC paperwork quickly and reliably for just $29 plus state fees. Before you register your company, you’ll need to come up with a name. Your business name needs to be catchy for branding purposes and legitimate for legal purposes. We’ll go over some of the basics below. 1. Brainstorm some possibilities. We highly recommend using our LLC name generator tool to get the ideas flowing. 2. Make sure your name meets Texas naming requirements: 3. Is the name available in Texas? Do a Texas LLC name search with the Secretary of State to find out. 4. Is the URL available? Before you commit 100% to a name, check to see if there’s a good web domain available. We recommend buying your domain right away because even if launching a business website isn’t on your radar right now, it will be soon. Domain Name Search When you file your Certificate of Formation,  you’ll need to list a registered agent. A registered agent’s job is to accept legal documents like service of process and tax notices for your LLC.  Your registered agent can be a person or a registered agent service. You can act as your own registered agent, but many business owners choose to use a registered agent service. Here are a few things to think about before you decide to act as your own registered agent: After the Certificate of Formation is filed, your registered agent must consent in writing or via email. Note that the statement of consent doesn’t need to be filed with the Secretary of State. This statement should include: To learn more about Texas Registered Agents, read our guide. Get Free Registered Agent Services Northwest offers a free year of registered agent service when you form your Texas LLC with them. It’s time to officially form your LLC by submitting your Certificate of Formation to the Texas Secretary of State. The filing fee is $300. You can file online with the Texas SOSDirect system, or fill out a hard copy of Texas Form 205 and mail it in to: Secretary of StateP.O. Box 13697Austin, TX 78711 Now is a good time to decide if your LLC will be member-managed vs manager-managed, as you will need to state your management structure when filing the Certificate of Formation. Here are the 5 main “Articles”: For detailed instructions, visit our Texas Certificate of Formation guide. Creating an LLC operating agreement (also known in Texas as a company agreement) is the only way to legally lock down your LLC’s management structure and ownership structure. Having an operating agreement in place will give you something to return to if a dispute or lawsuit arises.  Even single-member LLCs benefit from having an operating agreement. Your operating agreement should outline the following: You can add as many provisions to your company agreement as you want, as long as they don’t conflict with Texas business law. Take a look at our What is an Operating Agreement guide to learn more. Download a template or create a custom Free Operating Agreement using our tool. An Employer Identification Number (EIN) is like a Social Security number (SSN) for your company. It is a federal tax identification number that the IRS and the state of Texas will use to track your business activity. Your EIN will come in handy when it’s time to: The best way to get an EIN is by using the free online application on the IRS website. If you prefer though, you can mail in your Form SS-4 to the IRS to get your Employer Identification Number: Internal Revenue ServiceAttn: EIN OperationCincinnati, OH 45999 Need Help Forming a Texas LLC? We’ve reviewed and ranked the top LLC formation services. When forming a Texas LLC, one of the important steps is to complete the Beneficial Ownership Information (BOI) Report with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). This report — also known as the FinCEN BOI report — is designed to combat money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activities by requiring LLCs to disclose information about their beneficial owners. This is free to file through the FinCEN website.  New LLCs must complete this filing within 90 days of formation. Existing LLCs must file before January 1, 2025.  Failure to complete this filing requirement will result in a $500 per day fine. While creating an LLC is an important milestone, it is just the beginning of your entrepreneurial journey. In this section, we’ll discuss some essential steps that every founder needs to take after the formation process. From obtaining necessary licenses and permits to opening a business bank account and securing insurance, there are several steps that will help you establish a strong foundation for your new venture. By following these steps, you can avoid costly mistakes and set yourself up for long-term success. A business bank account helps separate personal expenses and company expenses, which is required to maintain your LLC’s corporate veil. A corporate veil protects your personal assets from creditors in potential lawsuits against your business.Learn more by reading this guide to Banking for Entrepreneurs. For a multi-member LLC, you’ll also want to set up capital accounts for LLC members. We also recommend checking out our review of the best business bank accounts. A business credit card will help separate personal and business expenses while building your company’s credit history. Strong credit history will be useful for raising capital in the form of small business loans. Hiring a business accountant is one of the best ways to ensure you’re taking advantage of LLC tax benefits; possibly saving you and your business thousands of dollars per year. When you start a new venture, it’s a good idea to begin a relationship with a business accountant as soon as you can to help set your company up for success. Business insurance helps manage risk. The most common forms are general liability, professional liability, and workers’ compensation. Find out the real cost of getting insurance for your business. Get a free quote or call 855-965-3168. To operate an LLC in Texas, you will need to comply with federal, state, and local government regulations such as health permits, building permits, and signage permits.  Business licenses and permit requirements vary from state to state. To get started, visit our How to Get a Business License in Texas guide. To help facilitate this process, you can also utilize a business license service. Texas annual reports consist of two filings: the franchise tax report and the public information report. If your LLC’s annualized revenue totals more than $1.23 million, you must pay a graduated tax using one of the state’s franchise tax forms; LLCs that do not meet this threshold must still file a “No Tax Due” form alongside their public information report. You can file both the franchise tax report and public information report either online with the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts or by using the applicable forms. Companies selling a physical product are generally required to register for a seller’s permit with the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts. Visit our Texas Sales Tax guide to learn more. Additionally, if you have employees, you will need to sign up for unemployment insurance tax with the Texas Workforce Commission. Most Texas LLCs will need to report their income to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) each year using Form 1065: Partnership Return (multi-member LLCs) or Form 1040 – Schedule C (single-member LLCs). How you pay yourself will affect your federal taxes. Visit our guide to learn more about how to pay yourself from your LLC Pass-through taxation entails a business’s profits passing through to the LLC member’s individual tax returns. Like a sole proprietorship, a limited liability company is taxed as a pass-through entity, also known as a disregarded entity.  Once this process is completed and after any tax-deductible expenses are taken out, the LLC members pay self-employment taxes and income tax on their portion of the business income.  Alternatively, Texas LLCs can choose to elect to be taxed as an S corporation (S corp) or C corporation (C corp). If S corp tax status is elected, LLC members can be taxed as employees of the business, potentially reducing tax burden. Yes, an LLC can be owned by a business entity or individual. The business assets are owned by the LLC, and the members own the LLC. A member can be another LLC or corporation or a single individual. Most limited liability companies are single-member LLCs. On the federal level, a Texas limited liability company is taxed as a pass-through entity. This means that the income and losses of the LLC flow through to the individual members, and are reported on their individual tax returns. The LLC itself does not pay taxes on its income. LLCs can also choose to be taxed as an S corporation or C corporation. On the state level, a Texas LLC is subject to state income taxes as a pass-through entity. LLCs in Texas are also subject to state franchise taxes. A Texas DBA (doing business as), also known as an assumed name, is any registered name that a business operates under that isn’t its legal business name. An assumed name can be used by any type of business, including a sole proprietorship, partnership, or limited liability company. You can file an assumed name certificate with the state’s SOSDirect system online. Learn how to get a DBA in our Texas DBA guide. Processing time for an LLC in Texas is 3 days if filing online or 5 to 7 days if filing by mail. Annual reports are called “franchise tax reports” in Texas. The report is due by May 15th of each year and it helps the state keep track of LLCs and their officers. The report also helps the state keep track of any changes in the company, such as a change in management or a change in address. Small businesses only need to register with the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts if they are selling goods and therefore collecting sales tax. You can register online through the state website. An LLC formation service is a great option for those looking to form a company in Texas. Services like these can provide you with the resources and assistance you need to complete the process quickly and easily. They can also help you save money on filing fees, as well as provide you with valuable resources and support along the way. Some of the most popular services include Northwest, LegalZoom, and ZenBusiness. However, it’s important to note that using a formation service is not the cheapest option – it’s typically more expensive than doing it yourself. But for most people, it’s likely worth the extra cost in order to get the help and support of a professional service. If you have formed a Texas LLC, you are not required to submit any paperwork to the IRS. The limited liability company is a separate legal business entity, and as such, is not subject to federal income taxes. However, the LLC may be required to file informational tax returns with the IRS, depending on the amount of income generated by the business. A limited liability company is a popular business structure due to a variety of benefits; LLCs offer personal asset protection, also known as limited liability protection. Forming a registered business entity for limited liability protection is important for all small business owners because it protects their personal assets from creditors and other liabilities. Other benefits include increased tax options and credibility. Here is the contact information for the Texas Secretary of State: Mailing Address:Texas Secretary of StateP.O. Box 12887Austin, TX 78711-2887 Physical Address:1019 Brazos St.Austin, TX 78701 Phone: (512) 463-5555 Email: Corpinfo@sos.texas.gov Texas LLC Name Search Get a Texas DBA Start a Texas Corporation Form a Texas Nonprofit Texas Woman-Owned Business Certification LLC Cost in Texas Texas Business Insurance Further Reading Topics to Explore Browse Tags reviews Best LLC ServicesBest Registered Agent ServicesBest Banks for StartupsBest Website BuildersBest Business Plan SoftwareBest Press Release ServicesBest Incorporation ServicesBest Payroll Services startups Company ProfilesTop Startups to WatchStrategy StoriesFeature NewsPodcast how-to guides Start a StartupStart a Small BusinessStart an LLCStart a CorporationGet a DBAStart an S Corp topics Startup IdeasStartup ResourcesStartup FundingStartup LeadershipStartup Marketing connect with us! sign up for ournewsletter © 2024 TRUiC, All rights reserved About Us | Terms of Use | FTC Disclosure | Privacy Policy | Contact Us This website is meant to be opinion and information based, not legal advice of any kind. We spend hundreds of hours per month updating and refining our content as things change, but to be used as-is. For questions while starting a business, we recommend consulting with an attorney or accountant. Names, trademarks and logos mentioned all belong to their respective owners. Some of the links may be affiliate links, earning us a small commission if you decide to use them, allowing us to continue creating content.  Form your LLC with Northwest ($29 + state fee) 
Form Your LLC
 Form Your LLC It only takes 5 minutes