Google's Pixel 7 Pro is now on sale.   Samsung kicked off the summer sales period with some decent discounts to its smartphone and tablet range a couple of weeks ago. Now, with new device launches on the horizon, Microsoft and Google have joined in It’s not just smartphones and laptops, Google’s Pixel Watch is cheaper, alongside some devices from the Nest range. Upcoming devices are also competing for pre-orders, with Google’s Pixel Fold coming with a free Pixel Watch, and Motorola’s Razr Plus being bundled with a Lenovo tablet. Keep an eye on these foldable phones because those prices will likely fluctuate as competition between companies intensifies this summer. Google’s Pixel 7 Pro has a huge $200 off directly from the Google store, which is a big discount for a phone that launched last October. The $180 off Samsung Galaxy S23 deal from a few weeks ago is still active, the Galaxy S23 Plus is also $100 cheaper. As mentioned earlier, Google is bundling the Pixel Watch with all pre-orders of the upcoming Pixel Fold until July 2nd. Motorola is also throwing in a free Lenovo tablet with all Razr Plus purchases in the UK. Is it worth it pre-ordering for freebies? Scroll down for my thoughts. Samsung's Galaxy Book Pro 360 folds in half.  Microsoft has knocked between $150 and $300 off the Surface Laptop 5, there’s also $100 off some iterations of the Surface Pro 9 on the Microsoft store. The Surface Duo 2 remains sold out on the Microsoft store. Samsung’s Galaxy Book range has up to $300 off for certain models, including the Galaxy Book Pro 360. Samsung’s Galaxy Buds2 Pro earbuds are $30 cheaper on the company's website, whereas Google’s rival Pixel Buds Pro have $50 off. The Pixel Buds Series A are down $20, too. Bigger discounts are saved for the watches. Samsung’s Galaxy Watch 5 Pro has $50 off, which is a good deal for one of my favourite wearables from last year. The Pixel Watch gets the same $50 discount, but with a another model on the way with a bigger battery, it might be worth waiting. Discounts across the Google store have also reached the Nest Hub second generation, check out my review here. There’s also $30 off the Nest Doorbell. The flagship phones are leading the charge. The Pixel 7 Pro deal is hard to ignore, it’s also a great phone with one of the best cameras on the market. Almost $200 off for the S23 ultra so close to its release date is also a good deal. The Nest discounts are decent, but in all honesty you can find them cheaper on Ebay. Second hand tech is safer to buy if it’s wired because there aren’t concerns about battery health and, unless they’re faulty, won’t be any different to brand new devices in terms of performance. Samsung’s Galaxy Book 360 series is also one of the underrated laptop ranges out there. A $300 discount is a good deal for a solid, unique laptop. It’s very difficult to turn down a free Pixel Watch, but generally it is not wise to pre-order tech. Wait for the reviews and also wait for other buyers to test out the new kit. If all is quiet on Google’s product forums, or on the Google Pixel Reddit sub, then go ahead and pick up the Pixel Fold. But remember this is first generation technology from Google. This isn’t a product line that the company has spent years refining based on customer and reviewer feedback. It’s also worth pointing out that the terms and conditions for that pre-order deal state that you may have to return the Pixel Watch if you send your Pixel Fold back, otherwise you will be charged full price. The same goes for the Motorola Razr Plus deal. Stay tuned for my reviews of both.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.