
Published: Dec 3, 2022 03:52 pm 
 Completing the BitLife Death Note Challenge is easy once you know how to achieve each objective. Start by creating a male character out of Japan, and then follow the steps below. To complete Death Note Challenge in BitLife, players will need to achieve the following main objectives: The first objective in the Death Note challenge is to be born as a male in Japan. To do this, select Japan as your birthplace and male as your starting gender while creating your initial character. The second part of the Death note challenge is to have 100% Smarts and Looks stats for the character. Apart from choosing a Japanese male as your character, make sure that the character has good stats for the Looks and Smarts parameters. Anything above 90 is acceptable. Maintain and improve both stats throughout your lifetime by visiting the Salon, Gym, and Library during your school/college period. Also, use the Work Harder option from the Activities tab from time to time to excel in-class tests. With time, both stats will gradually increase to 100%. Related: How to Commit Murder in Bitlife The third task in the Death Note challenge is to become a Detective. After high school, apply for a university with a major in Criminal Justice. Once you graduate from university, join a Law school immediately. After Law school, join any post in the police department. This move will allow the game to show more jobs related to the police department in future listings. Once you gain some experience, find the Jr. Detective job and crack the interview. Now, work your way up by putting in extra hours. With effort, you will become a Detective in 10 years. The penultimate challenge is to convert one of your co-workers from enemy to friend. To do this, choose any person from your police office circle. First, become closer by giving gifts, complimenting, and spending time with them. Once the friend meter is high, use the Befriend option to affirm your friendship. Also, click on their name from the Relationship tab and change your status from friend to Best friend. Once they have become your Best Friend, change your status from friend to enemy using the same status list. After changing your relationship quote, you will see a dip in your friendship meter with them. Recover and rebuild the relationship again by using the same tactics like gifting, complimenting, and spending time. Again change the status from Enemies to Friends to successfully tick off the quest.  The ultimate task in Death Note is to murder more than ten people in BitLife. You can murder from your school or office circle to finish the objective. Use the murder option under the Crimes tab to murder people. Since the quest does not provide any specification of the murder method, you can select any tactic of your choice. After killing more than ten people, the Death Note challenge will be over. For more on BitLife, check out BitLife’s Highest Paying Jobs & Careers or How to have perfect relationships in BitLife on Pro Game Guides. Comments are on moderation and will be approved in a timely manner. Please read the following rules before commenting: Comment Nickname*  Email*   Save my nickname and email in this browser for the next time I comment.  

  Δ This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.