Markets 


 Hot Stocks 


 Fear & Greed Index 


 
            Latest Market News 


 
            Hot Stocks 


 
            Louisiana lawmakers have sent a bill to the state’s governor that would require online platforms to obtain a parent’s consent before creating an account for users under 18, the latest in a raft of legislation restricting digital services for kids and teens. 
     
            The legislation, known as HB61, covers a broad range of companies and content, including video games, social networks, and other services that allow users to create accounts and exchange text, photos or videos online.
     
            Under the bill, online platforms could use third-party services to obtain a parent’s consent.
     
            The bill’s passage comes after states including Utah and Arkansas signed similar bills into law this year requiring parental consent for minors who wish to access social media. 
     
            US lawmakers have spent years calling for new safeguards to address concerns about social platforms leading younger users down harmful rabbit holes, enabling new forms of bullying and harassment and adding to what’s been described as a teen mental health crisis.
     
            But some users, digital rights advocates and child safety experts have said the wave of new state legislation risks undermining privacy for teens and adults, puts too much burden on parents and raises questions about enforcement.
     
            Louisiana was also one of the first states to pass age-verification requirements for adult websites, a move that has also been replicated in other states and which has prompted websites such as Pornhub to launch an opposition campaign.  
     
            If HB61 is signed by Gov. John Bel Edwards, the legislation would take effect in August 2024. 
     Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited. © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.  CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.