Comment If every company has become a tech company, then The New York Times is a prime example. Although it launched as a print newspaper 171 years ago, in 1851, today that same company is very much a tech-driven media business. While the transition has been ongoing to some extent for decades, the NYT brought in Jason Sobel in the summer of 2021 as chief technology officer to accelerate the transformation into a modern tech organization. Sobel brings 15 years of pure engineering expertise to the job, including long stints at Airbnb and Facebook, where he helped to lead infrastructure. The Times brought in an engineer with this kind of expertise precisely because it needed someone to build the same kind of technology that was being built by the biggest tech companies. In fact, Sobel said that he has found that the technical side of things isn’t all that different from his prior experience, except that everything he does is done in service of the editorial business. “So it’s funny — it actually isn’t that different. I mean, the newsroom does make a difference in some ways. There’s obviously the strong editorial voice that’s always going to be important in the kinds of content we write and how we deliver it,” Sobel told TechCrunch. But when it comes to building a technology organization, Sobel said what the paper of record is building actually feels quite familiar. “We have a cross-functional team of designers, engineers and product managers all working together to ship websites and apps and back-end tech. So I’ve been surprised at how similar it is,” he said.  Sobel has to balance several different platforms, some of which are internally facing and some external. What’s more, he inherited some legacy technologies that go back decades, and he has to make all of this work together. That tech debt can be challenging when trying to modernize the tech stack. “We have some systems that were initially built in the ’70s, for example, that have been updated and evolved and iterated. But Facebook, Airbnb didn’t exist [for decades] after that. So there’s [ … ] some more tech debt in certain areas than you might find [at newer companies],” he explained. To combat that tech debt, he began to create a common set of services so teams could focus purely on building an application and not all of the adjacent pieces. “One really big component of our strategy, and probably the biggest technology priority I’ve had, is around trying to centralize more of our core technology. I think the team had this idea before I joined but it’s probably one of the biggest problems facing us,” he said. He attributes this issue to fragmentation as the teams moved from on-prem to the cloud. Lacking a centralized set of services, they were built from scratch multiple times for each new application. Sobel’s goal has been to reduce some of the redundancy by providing centralized services like authentication, messaging (push notifications and email) and payment services. “So a lot of what our current strategy is, and that I’m personally really focused on, is trying to find a lot of those common patterns and figure out how to make them more shared across our team, which I think is a common narrative for growth-stage companies.” Sobel said he saw a similar change at Airbnb, so moving his team to this approach felt familiar. “We actually went through the same thing that Airbnb, where we went from a monolith to a micro services approach, and we almost had the same problem. We had a proliferation of technologies and a proliferation of solutions, and then the CTO had the same idea of building a shared platform.” Sobel’s team, where the engineering practice is housed, has its own requirements for common services around containers, infrastructure and other nitty-gritty details that developers need to deal with, something Sobel wants to simplify as much as possible. “Within our engineering team, for example, we built a container platform. And for people building a new service, we wanted them to use our container platform, rather than going and rolling their own thing. We found a lot of people who are excited about doing that this year. We’re trying to get to an early majority,” he said. But it takes a level of change management to get people to buy into a new way of doing things and go with a centralized approach. “Some of the decisions we’re making in service of this strategy really fundamentally changes how people do their jobs. And so I think when I joined, the strategy was in place, but we needed to really land it and get started. And I think a lot of that involved change management.” Sobel added, however, that it’s his job to get that buy-in and nudge more people toward using these centralized tools. “This platform is only valuable if we can get our our internal developers using it. And so we’re trying to push that next tranche of people onto it right now,” he said. In terms of building internal systems, he takes advantage of open source when it makes sense but tends to favor a hybrid use case, moving between managed services and open source and adapting as needed. “I think we’re in that sort of fairly common place now where our platform is a blend of managed services from cloud providers that we then build on top of and adapt for our use case, or we take an open source solution and do the same thing,” he said. The team is still growing, and while he didn’t want to share exact numbers, he said his operation was second only to the newsroom. Because the NYT isn’t a pure tech company, he’s sometimes had to convince candidates for senior-level roles that working for a newspaper is as challenging an endeavor as any tech company — and actually rather similar to their previous jobs in terms of the work they’ll be doing. “So that’s a big part of what I’m focused on, trying to get ahead of that question and how do we help people in a broader-base way understand that The Times does engineering much like any company folks would call ‘a tech company.’” Ultimately, what draws people is the fact that his team is a huge contributor to the success of the entire company. “We really believe it is probably one of the biggest differentiators for us as a business and as an organization. We think one of the reasons that business has done so well over the last few years is because we’re pretty far ahead of our peer news organizations in that way.” Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  Powered by WordPress VIP