Econsultancy EMEA/USA: +44 (0)20 7970 4322 | email: subs.support@econsultancy.com


 EMEA/USA: +44 (0)20 7970 4322 | email: subs.support@econsultancy.com 
 Take the Digital Skills Index to see how you measure up across 11 topics integral to modern marketing. It’ll help you identify your strengths and weaknesses, benchmark you against your peers, and provide tailored learning journeys to develop further. With the digital marketing skillset expanding alongside evolving business and consumer needs, organisations face a ‘war on talent’ as demand outstrips supply. This quick guide looks at how businesses can optimise their recruitment process to attract and retain the right candidates. This quick guide provides advice for businesses seeking to define or rework their brand purpose. It looks at why brand purpose has become a vital component of modern marketing, and why integrating and communicating it effectively can help win customer loyalty and increase employee satisfaction and retention. Leadership is changing in a digital world where rapid change continues to create both challenges and opportunities for businesses and leaders alike. This quick guide contains useful insight and practical models to help leaders understand and navigate this changing environment. A report exploring how organisations can adapt to changing circumstances by applying key agile principles to marketing, ecommerce and innovation practice, with best practice recommendations, case studies and useful frameworks for identifying the key building blocks of achieving greater agility, enhanced innovation and organisational change. Pragmatic advice for marketers, HR professionals and other leaders about how to apply, support and promote a digital culture within teams and organisations, in order to enable greater agility and improved customer experience. This webinar looks at the strategic and commercial benefits of neurodiversity and offers guidance on creating inclusive experiences for customers and empoyees. A webinar covering practical ways that marketers and leaders can amplify and support the behaviours and approaches that can ensure their team culture is fit for purpose for a fast-moving, digital-empowered world. Econsultancy founder Ashley Friedlein and a panel of senior brand marketers discuss what multichannel strategy will look like post-pandemic. Drawing on the findings of Econsultancy’s Best Practice report on Agility and Innovation, this webinar details practical ways for marketers and innovators to scale organisational and team agility. This quick guide provides an overview of the changing B2B landscape and the key strategic pillars of a successful digital transformation, including how to optimise the B2B customer experience. This quick guide looks at how businesses can build a digital culture to promote innovation and resilience. It also provides reflection questions for leaders to use in nurturing a digital culture within their teams. This quick guide provides an introduction to agile methodologies and the practice of innovation, looking at key principles, techniques and frameworks to aid strategy and project development. This quick guide looks at the business benefits of planning for the long term by foregrounding customer needs and adopting an agile approach. It discusses how businesses can develop a long-term strategy to help them face challenges both present and in the future. This quick guide introduces businesses to the modern marketing mindset, developed through Econsultancy research. It explains the 10 key characteristics that define it and highlights the benefits organisations can reap from cultivating a modern marketing mindset among their employees. This quick guide gives an overview of the changing dynamics affecting organisational structures and resourcing in the modern marketing landscape. It offers guidance and practical models to help leaders identify and work through the challenges and requirements of digital capability at all levels of maturity in an organisation. This quick guide looks at the definition of neurodiversity and outlines why it is important and beneficial for organisations to consider the broad spectrum of neurodiversity in all aspects of businesses, from recruitment to accessibility, through to developing a whole approach to digital inclusivity. A quick version of the Digital Transformation and the Role of Data Best Practice Guide, providing marketers with a starting point for actioning digital transformation by building a data-led strategy. Research from Upwork has indicated that generative AI in the workplace may be hindering, rather than helping, productivity. A new approach to skills could tackle this problem. Which skills are most useful in a digital team, which have been commodified, and which sectors are still ripe for transformation? A survey by Dotdigital highlights the potential skills gap developing in the realm of AI marketing tools, as martech companies warn training should be an ongoing concern. What are the principles of launching an effective learning programme, and how can you design truly persuasive learner communication plans to get your training off to the best start possible? The Charity Digital Skills report has revealed staff and volunteer skills as a top-5 constraint to progress with digital and data in the sector (47%), with more than 2 in 5 charities saying they most need funding to access training. Benjamin Lang is Head of Partnerships for Northern Europe at Shopify, having joined the business in 2022 from his previous role at payment service provider Mollie. Alongside his career, he spent 13 years as an elite rower, representing France at the Rio Olympic Games in 2016 and attending the Beijing Olympic Games 2008 as part […] Neurodiversity benefits society as a whole, as well as the workplace. This report demonstrates how organisations can unlock both strategic and commercial advantages by creating more inclusive experiences for both customers and employees, with guidance on turning theory into practice. Based on a study of over 1,500 professionals and learning executives, this new report looks at the digital skills gap, a critical issue that brands must address in the face of rapidly evolving technology, ever increasing digitisation and changeable markets. This edition of Digital Transformation Monthly reports on key trends shaping digital marketing and ecommerce, including the launch of a new fashion resale marketplace, new regulation of BNPL services in the UK and Netflix’s upcoming ad-supported subscription tier. This edition of Digital Transformation Monthly reports on key trends shaping current marketing practice, including the latest AI innovations, ‘closed-loop marketing’, and the increased adoption of digital banking. This special edition of Digital Transformation Monthly looks at the rise of retail media networks and the conditions that have led to their growing appeal, featuring key stories from individual retailers. May’s edition of Digital Transformation Monthly looks at developments in the travel industry, from loyalty schemes to Uber’s rise as a super app, the online marketplaces helping big brands contribute to the circular economy, AI advancements within the beauty industry, and many more stories. April’s edition of Digital Transformation Monthly looks at the rise of online marketplaces from established retail brands, Amazon’s net-zero carbon ambitions, AI innovations within healthcare and many more stories. March’s edition of Digital Transformation Monthly looks at the launch of the first flight subscription service in the US, Subway’s digital-only Super Bowl menu, M&S’s new live shopping series, plus the launch of a new ‘recommerce’ platform and many more stories. The Digital Trends Report from Adobe and Econsultancy, now in its 12th year, is based on a global survey of 10,000 marketers, consultants, and practitioners. February’s edition of Digital Transformation Monthly looks at brands experimenting with new physical and virtual retail spaces, online marketplaces and digital rewards schemes, plus the latest developments from established banks adopting fintech practices, and many more stories. B2B businesses embarking on digital transformation programmes must factor in a growing demand for ecommerce and a shift in approach towards customer-centricity. This report provides best practice on the opportunities and challenges involved. Xeim Limited, Registered in England and Wales with number 05243851
Registered office at Econsultancy, Floor 14, 10 York Road, London, SE1 7ND