How to do all the new FIFA 23 skill moves like Heel Fake and First Time Feint Turn 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 It's not too late to brush up on your FIFA 23 skill moves ahead of the new season. While FIFA 23 will shortly be replaced by EA Sports FC 24, there's still plenty of action happening in Division Rivals and the weekend league. You can bolster your hopes of online glory using the Heel Fake, First Time Feint Turn, Stutter Feint, and Heel to Ball Roll, and master three relatively fresh fake shots too. Everything you need is here, in GR's FIFA 23 skill moves guide.   The FIFA 23 skill moves list is split into five categories. Every player in the game has an independent 'skill moves' rating, which you can find on their attributes screen, and determines how many tricks he or she can pull off. One-star players can only unleash moves in that category, whereas five-star players can nail every last one. As you'd expect, most defenders have lower ratings, while wingers can often be found with four stars and above. For a peek at all this year's top players, check out the FIFA 23 ratings guide.  These are the basic tricks that anyone can pull off – even goalkeepers. Even so, you're brave busting any of them out using Nick Pope. The First Time Feint Turn is new this year. 99% of outfield players have two-star skills so you shouldn't have any trouble doing these nifty tricks. Most midfielders and forwards have three star skills, enabling them to pull off 'classic' FIFA favourites such as the Roulette and Heel Chop. Four new moves join the four-star category for FIFA 23: the Heel to Ball Roll, Jog Open Up, Stand Open Up, and Explosive Fake Shot. To use the latter your player much have both Acceleration and Sprint Speed ratings of 85 or more. The best of the best – and priciest of the priciest, in so far as Ultimate Team is concerned. The Heel Fake is brand new for FIFA 23. Those with five-star skill moves also have bespoke juggling moves. Nail these to properly humiliate opponents, if that's your thing. Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more I'm GamesRadar's sports editor, and obsessed with NFL, WWE, MLB, AEW, and occasionally things that don't have a three-letter acronym – such as Chvrches, Bill Bryson, and Streets Of Rage 4. (All the Streets Of Rage games, actually.) Even after three decades I still have a soft spot for Euro Boss on the Amstrad CPC 464+. Madden 25 rookie ratings guide to all the best young players All the Madden 25 X-Factors and Superstars in one guide New edition of Warhammer Kill Team fixes a weird rule I've always disliked GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 