Econsultancy EMEA/USA: +44 (0)20 7970 4322 | email: subs.support@econsultancy.com


 EMEA/USA: +44 (0)20 7970 4322 | email: subs.support@econsultancy.com 
 This best practice guide provides practical advice for empowering successful and powerful remote working. Also drawing on the results of the Covid-19 Business Impact survey, conducted in mid-March 2020, it offers a look at how businesses in the UK and North America are reacting to the Covid-19 pandemic. This guide covers the challenges specific to hiring for the skillsets required by modern marketing teams in the digital age. It looks at how to use job descriptions as a marketing tool, overcoming the skills gap, building diversity and inclusion into the hiring process, and more. A report drawing on the Effective Leadership in the Digital Age research, which set out to answer one key question: what does it mean to be a ‘digital leader’ in the context of digital transformation?  Introduction Many marketing leaders have been forced to rethink the structure of their marketing teams in order to take advantage of the new capabilities and tools that are available to the modern marketer. Many have also done so as a result of changes in the wider business landscape. In response to these changes, Econsultancy has […] This report will identify the key issues, challenges and opportunities around the evolving skills of modern marketers in response to the rapidly changing digital marketing and media environment. It expands on Econsultancy’s Modern Marketing Model (M3) by examining the key skills required to be successful in marketing organisations. It is based on a series of in-depth interviews with marketing leaders, a quantitative study of over 500 marketers and a review of the academic and professional literature related to marketing skills. With the digital marketing skillset expanding alongside evolving business and consumer needs, organisations face a ‘war on talent’ as demand outstrips supply. This quick guide looks at how businesses can optimise their recruitment process to attract and retain the right candidates. This quick guide provides advice for businesses seeking to define or rework their brand purpose. It looks at why brand purpose has become a vital component of modern marketing, and why integrating and communicating it effectively can help win customer loyalty and increase employee satisfaction and retention. A July survey of 1,600 global decision-makers found that China is currently leading the pack in adoption of generative AI, with businesses confident in their level of internal skills and tools as well as regulatory compliance. Which skills are most useful in a digital team, which have been commodified, and which sectors are still ripe for transformation? A survey by Dotdigital highlights the potential skills gap developing in the realm of AI marketing tools, as martech companies warn training should be an ongoing concern. What are the principles of launching an effective learning programme, and how can you design truly persuasive learner communication plans to get your training off to the best start possible? The Charity Digital Skills report has revealed staff and volunteer skills as a top-5 constraint to progress with digital and data in the sector (47%), with more than 2 in 5 charities saying they most need funding to access training. Data from Econsultancy’s Digital Skills Index shows sectors such as Pharma and Manufacturing score lower on digital marketing and ecommerce proficiency, with investment in learning remaining a key element in transformation. Xeim Limited, Registered in England and Wales with number 05243851
Registered office at Econsultancy, Floor 14, 10 York Road, London, SE1 7ND