Larian Studios explain how the parasites tie into the RPG goodness Four years ago, Baldur's Gate 3 was announced with a trailer that showed how a human could succumb to the small illithid tadpole stuck inside his noggin, thus becoming a mind flayer. The process begins with excruciating headaches, escalates to fingers twisting by themselves, and culminates with an octopus head spouting out of the body. That gross transformation is what you’re (maybe) trying to avoid at the start of Baldur’s Gate 3, but developer Larian Studios have now explained how the parasites "tie into" its RPG systems. Yep, you can choose to either embrace or resist the tempting corruption, with the former giving you some pretty cool party tricks, while the latter means you won’t be subjected to David Cronenberg-esque body horror. Tough decision, I think. In a new Steam blog, Larian explain how these decisions will work in-game. Embracing the illithid powers unlocks a hidden skill tree “used to enhance your command over your newfound illithid capabilities.” Those capabilities include 25 mind-flayer-inspired abilities that are split into five categories: psionic (letting you turn foes into ragdolls), manipulation (mind control), health restoration (self-explanatory), and abilities that can either damage or debuff enemies. “You can even become a displacer beast,” the big tentacled felines often seen in the Dungeons & Dragons bestiary.  To progress through the skill tree nodes, you’ll need to find more mind maggots inside random jars or within previously infected skulls. Oh, and your wrinkly brain represents the illithid skill tree, so you’ll need to attach the writhing worms into each node yourself. Maybe not a character build for squeamish folks, then.   Larian notes that some companions can eat the parasites to gain cool powers, but some others will refuse and their perception of you can “undergo a significant shift.” The team warns that “things can also get a bit more… complicated. But we won’t spoil it.” We’ll find out what those complications are when Baldur’s Gate 3 leaves early access on August 3rd on Steam and GOG. For now, check out the game's exact release times in your region. Disclosure: Former RPS deputy editor Adam Smith (RPS in peace) now works at Larian and is the lead writer for Baldur's Gate 3. Former contributor Emily Gera also works on it. 
Baldur's Gate 3
 
PS5, 
            Xbox Series X/S, 
            PC
 
        Rock Paper Shotgun is the home of PC gaming
       
        Sign in and join us on our journey to discover strange and compelling PC games.
       

Baldur’s Gate 3 mod update will be Larian’s ‘final handover’ to players                    
 

Baldur’s Gate 3 will add official mod tools this September, making it even easier to play dungeon master                    
 

Baldur's Gate 3 once had a portable hole, but Swen Vincke says it would have been a "crime against humanity"                    
 

Baldur’s Gate 3 had “a bit” of crunch, as director claims that will “always” be the case to get games finished                    
 

How Baldur's Gate 3 might have brought back Candlekeep, the library fortress where Baldur's Gate began                    
 

Larian's new Polish studio is a "match made in heaven" for the Baldur's Gate 3 developer's upcoming RPGs                    
 

D&D makers are spending $1 billion on their own video games, promising they’ll be ‘quality and authentic’ like Baldur’s Gate 3                    
 

Baldur’s Gate 3 companions are being modded into Stardew Valley, so you can romance Astarion all over again                    
 Rock Paper Shotgun is owned by Gamer Network Limited. © 2024 Gamer Network Limited, 1-6 Grand Parade, Brighton, BN2 9QB, United Kingdom. Registered under company number 03882481. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.