
	Miso soup and California rolls are the most-ordered takeout items in Vancouver so far this year, according to a national food delivery app. 
	In honour of National Takeout Day on April 15, SkipTheDishes released a list of the top 10 most ordered items in Vancouver and across Canada in 2023 thus far. 
	After the sushi restaurant stalwarts at the top of the list comes fountain pop, an item the company kept separate from "canned pop," which also made the list. 
	Indian favourites butter chicken and naan – both garlic and plain – also rank highly among Vancouverites' takeout tastes, as do chicken donair and french fries. 
	The full top 10 list for Vancouver follows. 
	Interestingly, the nationwide list skews more heavily toward Indian staples. Four of the top 10 spots across Canada are occupied by various types of naan, with SkipTheDishes strangely including entries for both "naan" and "plain naan." 
	There's also yet a third category of pop on the national top 10 list, and no sushi rolls to be found. 
	The national top 10 list follows. A refreshed Democratic Party gathered Monday night for a valedictory speech from U.S. President Joe Biden, whose decision to end his re-election bid released newfound energy with Vice-President Kamala Harris's rise to the top of the ticket.  Protesters broke through a fence set up by police near the site of the Democratic National Convention on its opening day Monday as thousands took to the streets to voice their opposition to the war in Gaza.  Former U.S. president Donald Trump has posted a fake social media image of pop superstar Taylor Swift asking people to vote for him in the November election.  The Conservative Party of Canada has deleted a video that promoted Canadian values but featured what the Defence Minister's office says are Russian fighter jets.  A Cambridge woman is calling for action after her dog was attacked by two off-leash dogs late last month.  Saskatchewan RCMP say a male youth from Carry the Kettle Nakoda Nation is facing 10 charges, including manslaughter, after an 18-year-old woman was shot dead in Wolseley, Sask. early Sunday morning.  Statistics Canada says the median family after-tax income in 2022 fell compared with 2021, after adjustment for inflation, with young people being the hardest hit.  The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month. The federal political party's decision comes as some embassies, civil servants, and local organizations pulled out of the event amid the controversy.  Speaking from the Democratic National Convention in Chicago on Monday, the Canadian ambassador to the United States says Canada is 'starting from a very good position' with the Democrats’ presidential ticket of Kamala Harris and Tim Walz.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  The Sooke School District has acquired a 7.2-acre plot of land in North Langford to build a middle school, as enrollment within the district continues to grow.  The union representing Air Canada pilots says job action could happen next month if a new collective agreement isn’t reached.  Mounties in West Kelowna are looking for a suspect they say broke into a local home while a mother and her child were inside.  When the McDougall Creek fire sparked on Aug. 15, 2023, no one could’ve imagined it would mushroom in size, consuming homes, infrastructure and livelihoods in the West Kelowna area with damage that will take years to address.  Thieves in B.C.'s Okanagan recently made off with an enclosed trailer containing a classic muscle car, local police say.  It's "early days" on the plan to rebuild Jasper following wildfires that destroyed a third of the picturesque town in the majestic Alberta Rockies, says the province's minister of municipal affairs.  Workers at Canada's two main railways could go on strike as early as Thursday, stranding $55 million worth of Alberta cargo per day.  One year ago, an esteemed arctic climate researcher died while conducting field work in a remote part of the Canadian arctic, prompting the University of Alberta to review and enhance its safety protocols for field researchers.  A suspicious death Friday evening in the northwest Calgary community of Carrington has community members concerned.  British Columbia’s health minister took time during a recent city council meeting to emphasize the province’s success in retaining and recruiting nurses compared to Alberta.  A new movie starring Hollywood heavyweights Robert Pattinson, Jennifer Lawrence and LaKeith Stanfield began filming in Calgary Monday.  Trucks have started rolling into what will become Lethbridge’s Whoop-Up Days midway.  More than 1,500 backpacks have been filled with back-to-school essentials for those in need ahead of the school year.  Lethbridge post-secondary schools are trying to help out students feeling the financial pinch, as a new survey reveals a quarter of Canadian students have thought about dropping out due to increasing costs.  Residents of a Manitoba community are in shock following an apparent triple homicide and suicide last week, as RCMP continues to investigate.  A Winnipeg business owner wants something to be done after his office was broken into at least four times in the past two months.  The first group of dogs – who were part of a seizure of over 130 pups from a home north of Winnipeg – are ready for adoption.  Day one of an inquest into the death of Nicole Lafontaine, a 31-year-old woman who fell from a fifth story window of Regina's YWCA building, has officially wrapped.  Saskatchewan RCMP say a male youth from Carry the Kettle Nakoda Nation is facing 10 charges, including manslaughter, after an 18-year-old woman was shot dead in Wolseley, Sask. early Sunday morning.  No injuries were reported after the smell of smoke and haze forced the evacuation of Regina's Cornwall Centre Monday morning.  The Saskatoon Police Service alleges its officers were assaulted on Saturday night during cruise weekend, but witnesses are telling a different story.  The mayor of Sandy Bay, a remote northern village, said the community has declared a state of emergency, as an intense wildfire threatens the area.  A Saskatoon man faces a second-degree murder charge after the remains of Jordan Lee Morin were found at a home in Riversdale on Friday.  Toronto has shattered records for the wettest summer season after a weekend of intense rain and windy weather.  Flooding in Toronto and southern Ontario last month resulted in more than $940 million worth of insured damage, the Insurance Bureau of Canada (IBC) announced Monday.  Zanne Fernwood was running some errands on her motorbike in Toronto's Greektown area late Monday afternoon when she unexpectedly became a witness to a spectacular crash involving a black hot rod.  t's been 10 days since the big rainstorm caused flooding across Montreal, and one street in Dorval was especially hit hard.  Montreal officials are continuing their analysis to find out what led to a major water main break that caused immense flooding just under the Jacques Cartier Bridge.  Jason Michael Olivo lives in the Jardins Victoria condo complex in Lachine. His unit flooded in July of last year. Now it has happened again.  The number of organizations and leaders in Ottawa pulling out of Capital Pride events continues to grow in response to a statement the group made expressing solidarity with Palestinians last week.  Ottawa Mayor Mark Sutcliffe met with Ontario Premier Doug Ford on Monday, but there is still no commitment from the province on funding for transit services as the mayor warns of looming cuts without help from upper levels of government.  In the biggest change to Ottawa's curbside waste policy since 2012, households will be limited to three items of curbside waste every two weeks starting Sept. 30.  The sentencing hearing for the youth charged with stabbing two staff members at Charles P. Allen High School in Bedford, N.S., resumed on Monday morning.  A search for a kayaker who went missing in Halifax on Sunday is underway.  Two lifeguards who helped rescue four swimmers at Black Brook Beach along the Cabot Trail in Cape Breton said high waves created a dangerous situation on Sunday.  An arrest was made after a two-hour standoff in West Lorne Monday afternoon.  Critics of leadership at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) are calling the departure of two high paid executives a step in the right direction.  Member of Parliament for London North Centre, Peter Fragiskatos, was in Sarnia Monday on behalf of the agriculture minister to announce a sizable donation to Bioindustrial Innovation Canada (BIC).  The community of Ayr, Ont. is starting to rebuild after a destructive EF1 tornado tore its way through the village over the weekend.  A Cambridge woman is calling for action after her dog was attacked by two off-leash dogs late last month.  The Dutchie’s Fresh Food Market on Gateway Park Drive in Kitchener appears to be closed.  In hopes that it will help their investigation, Greater Sudbury Police have released the name of a man who was found dead at Bell on July 31  Sometimes, despite couples' best efforts to stay together, marriages come to an end far earlier than either party hoped or predicted. Here is some advice from Barry Nussbaum, a family lawyer who has counselled countless couples, about the details you don't want to neglect when getting divorced.  A sentencing hearing began Monday in a Sudbury for Liam Stinson, who was found guilty in May of three counts of first-degree murder and arson causing bodily harm.  Newfoundland has caught a lucky break with Hurricane Ernesto expected to pass south of the island, but the fast-moving storm will still bring a lot of rain in a short time overnight on Monday, Environment Canada says.  The project of the university's Folklore and Language Archive aims to find the first names of women who contributed remedies, recipes and local beliefs, but were only credited as a 'missus,' with their husband's last name and often his first name or initials.  Hurricane Ernesto is expected to pass Bermuda and make its way south of the Maritimes on Monday, then approach Newfoundland and Labrador later that day, a Canadian meteorological expert advised on Friday. 