 Since 1979, we’ve helped people honour lives. We bring families, friends and communities together to say goodbye on their terms and within their means.   No one knows you like you. So when it comes to your funeral, it makes sense to pre-plan so you can get every detail just the way you want it.  Australian Funeral Directors Association (AFDA) is the peak industry body with Member firms in every State and Territory.  Let your loved ones know you're thinking of them during this difficult time.  My Tributes has partnered with the following services to offer support and resources. HOLLAND, Mavis FAMILY and FRIENDS are invited to a Service of Farewell and to Celebrate MAVIS' Life on THURSDAY September 7, 2023 at 10:00 a.m. in the Harrison Heritage Chapel, corner of Golden Grove Road and Jack High Lane, Ridgehaven. Ridgehaven 8265 6060 

Publication:
  The Advertiser

 

Date Listed: 
2/9/2023 

 

Location: 
Adelaide 
 HOLLAND, Mavis FAMILY and FRIENDS are invited to a Service of Farewell and to Celebrate MAVIS' Life on THURSDAY September 7, 2023 at 10:00 a.m. in the Harrison Heritage Chapel, corner of Golden Grove Road and Jack High Lane, Ridgehaven. Ridgehaven 8265 6060 

Funeral by :  
 Sidney Harrison Funerals 
 

Website:

https://www.harrisonfunerals.com.au 

 

Phone number :  

088447...

 Find grief support in NSW to find solace on your healing journey and guidance on how to support someone who is grieving? Read My Tributes article where we provide support on expressing your love and friendship for your best friend in a eulogy. Writing a funeral notice for your parents can be a difficult task. Read  6 funeral notice wording examples to  help you during your time of grief. Explore modern approach to funeral attire. Celebrate life with bright colors and personalised styles. Why 'no black attire' is the new way to honours loved ones 
Place a notice
 



 
Place a notice
 


 Find us on
           
FAQs
 


              Need help? Start with our FAQs
            
 


              13 11 35
            
 
            We partner with trusted brands to ensure we can deliver valuable information and product recommendations
            to you. We may receive a commission from our affiliate partners when you purchase products through our
            site.
          