The listing sparked a backlash on social media, with one person saying they will now take their "business elsewhere". Monday 14 August 2023 13:16, UK DIY retailer B&Q has apologised after two books titled "White Supremacy" were included in a product listing photograph on its website. The books featured in a listing for a wooden radiator cover. B&Q has apologised and said the product was offered by a third-party seller which it has now suspended. The DIY retailer has also removed the listing from its site. The image sparked a backlash on social media after it emerged. One user on X, the website formerly known as Twitter, wrote: "Uhhh B&Q can you explain why you have a product picture featuring two books that say 'white supremacy'????" Another, called Esheru, wrote: "Who are you trying to kid @BandQ? Deeply apologetic really doesn't cut it! 
                  Woman killed in Manchester triple stabbing named as Alberta Obinim
                 
                  One person dead and six missing after superyacht with 22 on board is sunk by tornado off coast of Italy
                 
                  Superyacht sinks latest: Daughter, 18, of British tycoon Mike Lynch missing; yacht 'in wrong place at wrong time'
                 "How was this actually missed? I am certain that this went through several departments/teams and dept heads before being signed off. "I for one will take my business elsewhere." A B&Q spokesperson told Sky News: "We deeply apologise for the offence this may have caused from a product that was offered for sale by a third-party seller. "B&Q is committed to creating an inclusive place for our colleagues to work and our customers to shop, and in this instance, this product was not picked up by our screening process. "We can confirm we suspended the seller and removed the product, and all images associated with it, from diy.com as soon as we became aware of the content. "We are actively reviewing our screening process to prevent this happening again, as we are committed to maintaining a respectful and inclusive online environment."