Congrats, Brother! Hulk Hogan, 70, is officially off the market for the third time as the WWE icon married girlfriend Sky Daily, 45, in Florida on Friday — just months after the pair revealed their engagement. The newlyweds tied the knot in an intimate ceremony in Clearwater, Fla. with their closest family members present to witness the joyous occasion, the Daily Mail reported. The pair held their special day at their place of worship — Indian Rocks Baptist Church — with their pastor, Aaron Filippone, officiating the wedding. Daily donned an elegant white wedding dress courtesy of Rue de Seine’s bridal gown collection with 18-karat white gold earrings encrusted with 4-karat diamonds with a matching bracelet and necklace, according to photos obtained by TMZ. Hogan, whose real name is Terry Gene Bollea, wore a traditional black tuxedo with a simple white corsage. The couple exchanged rings to cap off the memorable day with a source telling TMZ they are valued at $500,000. Hogan and his bride were so ready to become husband and wife that the wedding was allegedly a spur-of-the-moment decision. “It was a low-key wedding,” a source told the Daily Mail.  “Neither of them wanted over the top, just a small affair with their nearest and dearest to declare their deep love and commitment to each other.” Their children were the only people invited to attend their romantic ceremony — but not everyone from the Hogan clan made it out to watch the nuptials. Brooke Hogan, the former WWE champion’s daughter from his first marriage, did not make it to the ceremony on short notice, according to the outlet. Nick Hogan, 32, along with his partner Tana Lea, was, however, in attendance to see his father become a married man again. Daily’s three children also all attended the intimate ceremony. The two had announced their engagement in July, when they were guests at the wedding of their friends actor Corin Nemec and his wife Sabrina Nova. “She was crazy enough to say ‘Yes’ brother,” he said, according to an Instagram video viewed by the Los Angeles Times. The yoga instructor dated the superstar wrestler for over a year before the engagement. Hogan was twice married ahead of Friday’s ceremony.  He married his first wife, Linda, in 1983 and share children Brooke and Nick.  The pair divorced in 2007. The Hulkster married three years later to Jennifer McDaniel, but the ill-fated relationship fell apart when he announced the pair divorced in 2021.   Advertisement