
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- Investor Ideas)  Public interest in Cryptocurrency and everything tied to the digital landscape has seen exponential growth in recent years, garnering interest from long-term investors, traders, and global brands. The power of Web3 has been blurring the lines between physical and virtual, allowing people to earn money digitally through online games. Renowned crypto gambling experts cryptogambling.tv conducted a study using data from google Keyword Planner to reveal the most popular games to earn cryptocurrency based on monthly search volume from the last 12 months.
Taking first place is Axie Infinity, with an estimated average of 535,202 searches per month. The Vietnam-based studio Sky Mavis developed the online video game, which is playable on Android, IOS, and Windows. It was launched in 2018 and revolves around a virtual universe where players can train pet creatures called "Axies". Axie owners spend time training their pets to increase their value over time, then sell them any time to other online players for Ethereum.
Second on the list is virtual metaverse SecondLive, with a 496,313 average monthly search volume. The Windows, Mac, and Android-compatible game allows users to create their avatars and roam around an open virtual space where they can build their lifestyle of choice. Users can buy and sell items within the game's online marketplace using BNB (Binance Coin), which can be traded for other fiat currencies.
Ranking in third place is Stepn, a move-to-earn mobile game where users can earn cryptocurrency by walking, jogging, or running, promoting a healthy lifestyle while also earning money. The Web3 app boasts an estimated average search volume of 478,794 on Google over the past 12 months.
Virtual reality platform Decantraland is in fourth place with 382,000 average monthly Google searches. The web browser-based VR platform allows users to interact with various online games and activities and, more notably, buy virtual land using the in-game currency MANA. The game is powered by the Ethereum blockchain and uses the native MANA token, which can be traded for US dollars and other fiat currencies.
  RollerCoin  is an online crypto mining game where users compete against friends to earn Bitcoin and many other cryptocurrencies, including Ethereum. It has ranked fifth with a monthly average search volume of 320,129 on Google over the past 12 months.
Placing in sixth with 193,072 monthly searches on Google over the last year is The Sandbox, an Ethereum-powered game. The playable metaverse was launched in 2012 by mobile game development brand Pixowl allows its users to purchase virtual land and customize it with fun games and experiences. The community marketplace enables users to trade in-game assets using The Sandbox's native currency, SAND, which can be exchanged directly for fiat currencies.
  Illuvium  has placed seventh on the list of most popular play-to-earn online games according to Google, boasting 67,372 average monthly searches. The role-playing sci-fi adventure game allows players to earn the in-game ILV token through various methods, such as capturing and selling the Illuvial creatures on the Illuvidex marketplace.
  Gods Unchained  has ranked in eighth position with 57,846 average monthly searches on Google. It is a free-to-play online trading card game in which you can partake in battles using fantasy cards. Players can trade and purchase cards using the native GODS token tradable for real-world currency.
  Alien Worlds  is landing in ninth place with 43,079 average monthly searches on Google. It is a virtual sci-fi game where players can explore space with other players and complete missions to collect Trillium (TLM).
Finally, Voxies has taken the final position among the list of most Googled online games to earn cryptocurrency with 7,035 average monthly searches. The 2000s-inspired tactical RPG game allows players to compete with others in various challenges and quests to accumulate the game currency VOXELS and other tradable assets via the marketplace.

Commenting on the study, a spokesperson from Cryptogambling.tv said:
"Axie Infinity's colorful theme and multi-platform compatibility have undeniably contributed to its popularity over the last few years. The game features cute digital creatures that can be trained and used for battle like those games on the retro gaming consoles. The only difference now is that you can earn money by playing it from your mobile device. The power of cryptocurrency has truly impacted the financial technology industry, and it is now impacting the gaming industry. People can now not only game for the joy of the experience, but to earn money for themselves."
Credit: cryptogambling.tv .
For more information contact Regan Kelly: 
MENAFN26042023000142011025ID1106105004  Renowned crypto gambling experts cryptogambling.tv conducted a study using data from google Keyword Planner to reveal the most popular games to earn cryptocurrency based on monthly search volume from the last 12 months. Taking first place is Axie Infinity, with an estimated average of 535,202 searches per month. The Vietnam-based studio Sky Mavis developed the online video game, which is playable on Android, IOS, and Windows. It was launched in 2018 and revolves around a virtual universe where players can train pet creatures called "Axies". Axie owners spend time training their pets to increase their value over time, then sell them any time to other online players for Ethereum. Second on the list is virtual metaverse SecondLive, with a 496,313 average monthly search volume. The Windows, Mac, and Android-compatible game allows users to create their avatars and roam around an open virtual space where they can build their lifestyle of choice. Users can buy and sell items within the game's online marketplace using BNB (Binance Coin), which can be traded for other fiat currencies. Ranking in third place is Stepn, a move-to-earn mobile game where users can earn cryptocurrency by walking, jogging, or running, promoting a healthy lifestyle while also earning money. The Web3 app boasts an estimated average search volume of 478,794 on Google over the past 12 months. Virtual reality platform Decantraland is in fourth place with 382,000 average monthly Google searches. The web browser-based VR platform allows users to interact with various online games and activities and, more notably, buy virtual land using the in-game currency MANA. The game is powered by the Ethereum blockchain and uses the native MANA token, which can be traded for US dollars and other fiat currencies.   RollerCoin  is an online crypto mining game where users compete against friends to earn Bitcoin and many other cryptocurrencies, including Ethereum. It has ranked fifth with a monthly average search volume of 320,129 on Google over the past 12 months. Placing in sixth with 193,072 monthly searches on Google over the last year is The Sandbox, an Ethereum-powered game. The playable metaverse was launched in 2012 by mobile game development brand Pixowl allows its users to purchase virtual land and customize it with fun games and experiences. The community marketplace enables users to trade in-game assets using The Sandbox's native currency, SAND, which can be exchanged directly for fiat currencies.   Illuvium  has placed seventh on the list of most popular play-to-earn online games according to Google, boasting 67,372 average monthly searches. The role-playing sci-fi adventure game allows players to earn the in-game ILV token through various methods, such as capturing and selling the Illuvial creatures on the Illuvidex marketplace.   Gods Unchained  has ranked in eighth position with 57,846 average monthly searches on Google. It is a free-to-play online trading card game in which you can partake in battles using fantasy cards. Players can trade and purchase cards using the native GODS token tradable for real-world currency.   Alien Worlds  is landing in ninth place with 43,079 average monthly searches on Google. It is a virtual sci-fi game where players can explore space with other players and complete missions to collect Trillium (TLM). Finally, Voxies has taken the final position among the list of most Googled online games to earn cryptocurrency with 7,035 average monthly searches. The 2000s-inspired tactical RPG game allows players to compete with others in various challenges and quests to accumulate the game currency VOXELS and other tradable assets via the marketplace.  Commenting on the study, a spokesperson from Cryptogambling.tv said: "Axie Infinity's colorful theme and multi-platform compatibility have undeniably contributed to its popularity over the last few years. The game features cute digital creatures that can be trained and used for battle like those games on the retro gaming consoles. The only difference now is that you can earn money by playing it from your mobile device. The power of cryptocurrency has truly impacted the financial technology industry, and it is now impacting the gaming industry. People can now not only game for the joy of the experience, but to earn money for themselves." Credit: cryptogambling.tv . For more information contact Regan Kelly:  MENAFN26042023000142011025ID1106105004 MENAFN26042023000142011025ID1106105004 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN