By Elmira Tanatarova For Mailonline   Published:  04:52 EDT, 31 May 2023   |  Updated:  05:14 EDT, 31 May 2023      35 View  comments  An 85-year-old grandmother has raised nearly £60,000 for charity after completing a 1,000-mile bike ride in memory of her three children - who all passed away in their forties. Mavis Paterson, affectionately known as Granny Mave on social media, powered through her month-long trek across Scotland. She set off on April 29 - and on May 28 had victoriously smashed her target.  After completing the bike ride on Sunday emotions were high as she was pictured tearfully embracing her grandchild, and later, posing with a glass of Merlot. She started in the Mull of Galloway and went up the west coast and along the north. Then, the grandmother made her way down the east coast before returning to her starting point, where she was this weekend greeted by cheering crowds.  Mavis Paterson, affectionately known as Granny Mave on social media, powered through her month-long trek across Scotland Mavis, who raised a whopping £59,186.11 for Macmillan Cancer Support, completed the challenge in honour of her three late children, who all passed away four years apart. According to Sky News, Sandy passed away from a heart attack in 2012 and only one year later, Katie died after getting viral pneumonia. Bob then tragically lost his life in an accident in 2016. In a YouTube video on her channel, Mavis has spoken about how setting new Herculean goals has helped her deal with the heartbreaking loss. 'I thought this is grief that I'll never... get over,' she explained in her video. 'To lose all my children was the saddest thing that could happen to me and they were all in their forties.  'Sandy died when he was 43, Bob died when he was 46 and Katie died when she was 49. 'I couldn't believe it and I didn't think I'd be able to carry on.' After completing the bike ride on Sunday it appeared emotions were high as she was pictured tearfully embracing her grandchild, and later, posing with a glass of Merlot Mavis, who raised a whopping £59,186.11 for Macmillan Cancer Support, completed the challenge in honour of her three late children, who all passed away four years apart Mavis has spoken about how setting new Herculean goals has helped her deal with the loss of her children. Pictured 700 miles into her journey Mavis, in her clip, said that her bicycle helped 'a lot' - and feels setting new physical challenges comes from a 'fire in her belly'. 'I'm just a wee old lady here, taking on challenges,' she added. According to the BBC, she got involved with the charity after her mother Cathy and younger sister Sandra passed away from cancer. And the pensioner is no stranger to powering through challenging feats. Mavis started cycling in her early fifties and biked across America when she was 52. She has also climbed Mount Kilimanjaro and, in 2019, was in the Guinness World Records book as the oldest female to have cycled from Land's End to John o' Groats. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group