🙌Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! Get us in your inbox Sign up to our newsletter for the latest and greatest from your city and beyond By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions.  Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! The best of Chicago for free. Sign up for our email to enjoy Chicago without spending a thing (as well as some options when you’re feeling flush). Déjà vu! We already have this email. Try another? By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions.  Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! Love the mag? Our newsletter hand-delivers the best bits to your inbox. Sign up to unlock our digital magazines and also receive the latest news, events, offers and partner promotions. Déjà vu! We already have this email. Try another? By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. Legendary singer and civil rights activist Mavis Staples is coming to Symphony Center for one night only on February 4. The Chicago icon will entertain the audience with her unique brand of soul, gospel and R&B. She’ll be joined for the evening by special guest Celisse. Been there, done that? Think again, my friend. By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. 🙌Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! Popular on Time Out   Discover Time Out original video   Get us in your inbox By entering your email address you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to receive emails from Time Out about news, events, offers and partner promotions. 🙌 Awesome, you're subscribed! Thanks for subscribing! Look out for your first newsletter in your inbox soon! About us Contact us Time Out products Time Out magazine