SkyDrop gets CAA approval for drone deliveries in NZ. Video / Supplied Pilots say claims by whistleblowers at the Civil Aviation Authority about poor culture are “serious” and warrant a ministerial investigation. Video / NZ Herald Audio of the moment a person was fatally shot has emerged. Video / Supplied Prime Minister on Turangawaewae Marae to celebrate Kingi Tuheitia’s 18th coronation celebrations. Video / Joseph Los'e Ingrid Rafael says she was awake during the procedure and felt pain. Video / Fox13 British Olympic gold medalist Alex Yee pipped triathlon rival Hayden Wilde to first place AGAIN by surging ahead in the final 14 seconds of the pair's latest race. A polar vortex from Antarctica is clipping the edge of New Zealand, bringing chilly weather to the whole country today including snow to near sea level in the lower South Island. A person has been shot dead inside a vehicle on Marvon Downs Ave in Pakuranga, Auckland this morning. In today's headlines with Wilhelmina Shrimpton, more snow for South Island, crackdown on boy racers and fate of cathedral to be decided. It's a wet commute for many across the North Island, with gusty winds to boot! Chunky showers mark the South Island, with the possibility of snow to low levels today in Southland. CAA whistleblowers have issued a grim warning and say changes to the agency’s investigative approach could mean “more people will die” in aviation accidents. Transport Minister Simeon Brown has announced a crackdown on drunk and drugged drivers, setting the Police a target of performing 3.3 million roadside alcohol tests a year. Wilson St in Pahiatua was flooded this morning after a night of heavy rain. Video / Supplied Claims efficiency hasn't improved after Government cuts to services.
Somerset House on fire.
Calls for increased protection for Southern Right Whales.
Video / NZ Herald Part of the rooftop of historic Somerset House catches fire. Video / X Truck hits police car during Hamilton Invasion crackdown. Devlin Rodgers goes from 130kg Mongrel Mob prospect to 75 kg champion body builder.
Video / Devlin Rodgers Erica Stanford playing the bassoon in the Grand Hall at Parliament with her education adviser Emma Chatterton on the piano. Bree Tomasel and Lance Savali discuss co-hosting duties. Video / TVNZ Ranui resident Tracey Pilgrim has been offered a council buyout for her flood-damaged house but at $180,000 below CV. Video / Sylvie Whinray Erica Stanford on what success means to her as Education Minister. Video / Mark Mitchell This quick and easy recipe is perfect for busy nights.
Video / Fresh Media Jennifer Ward-Lealand and Michael Hurst talk about their confronting new play. The Waitangi Treaty principles bill is in the firing line, over 1000 firefighters contain a blaze in Turkey, and NZ Tourism confirms our numbers of tourists remains low. Parents Maria Munkowits and Ollie Ward celebrate their triplets Ari, Eli, and Casey's first birthday. Video / Dean Purcell Enjoy savoury waffles topped with beef patties, bacon and avocado.
Video / Fresh Media Consumer NZ says the Commerce Commission’s recommendations over food pricing don’t go far enough, and believes they put too much onus on consumers. Listen to “Good Luck, Babe!” now
Director: Chappell Roan
Producer: Cristobal Saez
Video / Chappell Roan During his time at Dunstan High School in Otago, Finn Butcher saw the motto 'seek wisdom as gold' every day. Twelve years later it rings truer than ever.
Video / NZ Herald Witness Susan Ormonde speaks about Philip Polkinghorne visiting her house the day before Pauline Hanna's funeral. The World Health Organisation has declared mpox a global public health emergency for the second time in two years. Video | Corey Fleming All Whites’ midfielder Ben Old makes a strong early impression at Saint Entienne, set to become the first Kiwi to start in France’s top division. Video / NZ Herald Barrister Clive Elliott told Newstalk ZB’s Mike Hosking about the next steps to expect from the Kim Dotcom saga. Video / NewstalkZB In today's headlines with Wilhelmina Shrimpton, supermarkets leave Kiwis out of pocket, five people charged over Matthew Perry death, City Mission food parcels still suspended. No one has been allowed to film inside a New Zealand data centre before - until now. Security footage captures the "Waipawa Prowler" on resident's property. Video / Supplied Skydive Tauranga owner Gui Calmelet says most of his cruise ship customers are crew members. Video / Harriet Laughton Associate Education Minister David Seymour says 78 groups have applied to open new charter schools or convert existing state schools.  Video / Dean Purcell Two boys, with estimated ages of 6 and 10, broke into Rotorua Autohaus on Lake Rd on a Sunday afternoon and stole two dirt bikes valued at $4000. MetService Weather: 15th of August - 19th of August. Video / Metservice