At least 40 regions offer an avenue for "workationing" abroad Ward Williams is an Editor focused on student loans and other financial products and services. He has five years of professional editing, proofreading, and writing experience. Ward regularly contributes to stories about government policy and company profiles. He received his B.A. in English from North Carolina State University and his M.S. in publishing from New York University. LukaTDB / GettyImages  A digital nomad visa is a document or program that gives someone the legal right to work remotely while residing away from their country of permanent residence. A digital nomad is someone who lives a nomadic lifestyle and uses technology to work remotely from outside their home country.
  Although only some countries have visas targeted at digital nomads, many offer visas that are liberal enough to allow nomads to work remotely without becoming a resident. Forty regions offer remote working visas, including Anguilla, The Bahamas, Croatia, Spain, Norway, and Colombia, among others.
  A digital nomad visa is a type of visa that allows digital nomads to live and work in a foreign country for longer than a normal tourist visa. They may also offer favorable tax schemes for nomads that stay long enough to need to declare a new country as their tax residence.
  Although many digital nomads take advantage of lenient temporary residence visas, only a few countries have debuted visas specifically for digital nomads or remote workers. Other countries simply offer visas that work with the frequent moves that many remote workers prefer. And still other countries have visas that cater to freelancers or entrepreneurs but aren't open to remote workers employed by a foreign company in a full time capacity.
  Both workers and students can use digital nomad visas, although the costs and requirements may differ. For example, the Work From Bermuda Certificate requires scholars to provide proof of enrollment in an undergraduate, graduate, doctoral, or research program with their application. Remote workers or self-employed applicants aren't required to be enrolled in school.
  Some countries allow employers to apply for a digital nomad visa for their company. Dominica’s program charges $800 (USD) plus an additional $500 (USD) for each employee for a business of four or more people.
 The information provided in this article focuses on digital nomad visas solely in the context of remote workers—not those who want to study abroad or people who are seeking a lengthy corporate retreat.  As of 2024, 40 regions offer programs for temporary remote workers. Besides the regions highlighted below, the following countries also accommodate the digital nomad: Abu Dhabi, Albania, Argentina, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Romania, Spain, Belize, El Salvador, Panama, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Uruguay, Dubai, Bali, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea, Grenada, Namibia, and Andorra.
  Other countries offer flexible visas that may attract digital nomads, but they're not strictly remote work visas. Some are temporary residence visas, while others offer lenient tourist visas that many use as a remote work visa. Countries that offer remote or freelance friendly visas include Croatia, Armenia, Finland, Georgia, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Canada, Mexico, Thailand, Serbia, Aruba, Montenegro.
  North Macedonia, South Africa, Goa, Peru, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and the Philippines have each either discussed or announced digital nomad visas, but they aren't available at the time of writing.
  Nomad Digital Residence is a long-stay program offered by both islands for remote workers. The visa is good for two years and costs $1,500 (USD) per individual, while couples and families of three or more must pay $2,000 (USD) and $3,000 (USD), respectively.
  Applicants must fill out the application and submit up to 11 documents, including proof of expected income of at least $50,000 (USD) for each year of the program.
  The Bahamas Extended Access Travel Stay allows digital nomads to work remotely for one year from any of 16 islands. An application requires a $25 (USD) fee, a valid passport data page, a medical insurance card, and proof of employment.
  The application typically takes just five days to process. Approved applicants must pay $1,000 (USD) to receive their Work Remotely permit. You must add $500 (USD) for each dependent if they plan to join you.
 The nomad visas in this list are available to American remote workers. If you hold a passport from another country, especially one in the European Union, you may not need a special visa, as EU citizenship provides the right to work in any EU country. Outside of the EU, European passport holders may also need to obtain a visa to work and live for more than the standard tourist visa.  The Barbados Welcome Stamp established a visa that allows visitors to work remotely for up to one year. The application fee is $2,000 (USD) for individuals and $3,000 (USD) for families.
  The application must be accompanied by two identical 50 x 50 mm photographs (that meet the specific visa photo requirements of the Barbadian government), the biodata page of a passport, and proof of relationship of dependents (if applicable).
  Applicants must also prove that they will earn $50,000 (USD) during their 12-month stay.
  The Work From Bermuda Certificate permits digital nomads to work remotely for 12 months. The $263 (USD) application fee must be accompanied by health insurance and proof of employment. Applicants cannot have a criminal record.
  Although there isn't a minimum requirement, applicants must have enough income to support themselves for the full year. Family members will also need to pay a fee and apply separately, but all applications must be submitted on the same day. The turnaround time is approximately five business days.
  The Cabo Verde Remote Working Program is available to remote workers originating from Europe, North America, the Community of Portuguese Speaking Countries, and the Economic Community of West African States.
  Applicants must:
  Processing time can take roughly two weeks. The visa is valid for six months and can be renewed for another 12 months.
  This Central American country’s digital nomad visa, also known as Stay (Estancia) for Remote Workers and Service Provider, offers a one-year remote work opportunity.
  Prospective visitors are required to have a monthly income of $3,000 (USD). That amount increases to $5,000 (USD) if there are dependents involved.
  Other requirements include, but are not limited to, the payment of a $100 (USD) application fee, bank statements proving income, proof of medical insurance, and a valid passport. The permit can be renewed as long as all requirements are still being met.
  This Dutch Caribbean island offers the @HOME in Curaçao program. Available to remote workers for six months, residency can be extended for an additional six-month period. American or Dutch citizens don't need a visa—they're already permitted to stay in Curaçao for up to six months as a tourist.
  Outside of a $294 total for fees, the application also requires a copy of a passport photo, proof of solvency, and proof of health insurance. Processing time is approximately two weeks.
  All applicants must file individually. Families may also apply for the program, but they must do so under the main applicant.
  The Czech Republic’s freelancer visa, Zivno, is a bit trickier to acquire than most on this list. This program requires a variable fee, in addition to proof of minimum income equal to 1.5 the gross average annual salary listed by the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs. (This amount changes annually.) You must also have documents like a passport, proof of accommodation, criminal record, etc.
  The Zivno is only open to residents of a few countries: Australia, Japan, Canada, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the United States, Singapore, and Israel. The visa lasts for one year but holders may apply for an extension before the initial visa expires.
  Dominica, also known as the Nature Island of the Caribbean, provides an 18-month Work In Nature Extended Stay Visa for digital nomads. Applicants must present proof of expected income of $50,000 for the next 12 months. There is also a $100 application fee and either $800 single or $1,200 family visa fee—all in USD.
  Several other documents, including the biodata page of a passport, a bank reference letter, and proof of health insurance, must also be submitted alongside the application. Approval letters are often sent within 14–28 days.
  On Aug. 1, 2020, Estonia launched an official Digital Nomad Visa for remote workers to remain in the country for up to one year. Applicants need proof of a minimum of €4,500 in gross income and pay a state fee of €80 or €100 for a Type C (short stay) or Type D (long stay) visa, respectively.
  Additional requirements include having a valid travel document and health insurance. They must also pass a background check. Applications must be submitted in person at the nearest Estonian Embassy or Consulate, and the processing time can take up to 30 days.
  The long-term visa for remote workers program is available to digital nomads from any country that doesn’t require a visa to travel to Iceland and isn't available to any that are part of the EU, the European Economic Area, and/or the European Free Trade Association.
  The visa can be issued for up to 180 days, so long as applicants apply and are accepted before coming. If you apply after arrival, the visa is only valid for 90 days. You must prove a monthly income equivalent to 1 million króna (ISK) for singles or 1.3 million ISK for couples. Each applicant must submit a separate application and pay a 12,200 ISK processing fee separately for each one.
  Applications will also require a passport photo (no older than six months), copies of a passport, proof of health insurance, proof of purpose of stay in Iceland, and potentially a criminal record check.
  All applications must be submitted in person or via mail to the Directorate of Immigration at Dalvegur 18, 201 Kópavogur.
  The Nomad Residence Permit allows digital nomads to work remotely within the archipelago for one year. It can be renewed up to three times, for a maximum stay of four years, but it's available only to residents of countries outside of the EU.
  Applicants must meet a gross monthly income threshold of €3,500, hold a valid travel document, have health insurance, acquire a valid property rental or purchase agreement, and pass a background check.
  Once the application and all required documents have been submitted via email, instructions will be sent to pay a €300 administrative fee for each applicant, including any family members included on the application.
  The Premium Travel Visa offers one year of remote working abroad with the potential for renewal. The best part? The Premium Travel Visa is 100% free—no fees of any kind.
  Prospective travelers must submit multiple documents with their online application, such as a valid passport, proof of travel and health insurance, and a copy of their marriage certificate (if applicable).
  Applications are processed within 48 hours after they're submitted.
  The Montserrat Remote Work Stamp is valid for one year of remote working. It requires proof of an annual income of $70,000 (USD), and there’s a $500 (USD) fee for single travelers or a $750 (USD) fee for families of up to three dependents (plus a $250 (USD) fee for any additional dependents).
  Proof of valid health insurance, a copy of passport biographical data, a passport-size photo, a police record, and proof of employment or a business incorporation certificate are also required.
  Processing takes seven working days after the application is submitted.
  Portugal offers a D8 digital nomad visa passive income visa that is valid for two years. It can be renewed for up to five years. The national visa costs €90, while the residency visa may come with additional charges.
  In addition to the application form, prospective residents must provide a valid passport, two passport-size photos, valid travel insurance, proof of residence (if applicable), proof of sufficient income, proof of owning a business entity (or a contract for providing services), and a criminal record.
  Income requirements for the D8 are, as of 2024, €3,280 per month. If you're moving with dependents, the number is higher at €4,096.
  The Seychelles Workcation program enables digital nomads to work remotely from any of the 115 islands that comprise the archipelago for as little as one month or as much as one year.
  There is a €45 fee, and prospective travelers must also provide a valid passport, proof of being an employee/business owner, proof of income (exact amount unspecified), and a valid medical and travel insurance policy with their application.
  Family members can also join an applicant as ordinary visitors, so long as they meet all requirements and submit birth and/or marriage certificates, whichever is appropriate.
  It’s crucial for anyone considering working abroad to review and follow whatever is requested by their temporary residence of choice. While there are certain benefits to working on a digital nomad visa, there are also some downsides to keep in mind.
  The obvious benefit of these programs is that you can enjoy a long vacation while maintaining a stable source of income without putting your career on hold. Most regions that offer digital nomad visas already have the infrastructure necessary to support remote workers, such as strong wifi as a selling feature.
  Being a digital nomad requires a job that’s remote and flexible. This is especially important when it comes to logging in hours when there's a time difference. Although these kinds of jobs have become more common in the wake of the pandemic, this may be a guaranteed deal-breaker for some companies and workers.
  Visas can be costly, and if the application for your next destination is rejected, you could be left scrambling to find a new place to live before you’re forced to leave when your current visa expires. Moving around can also make it harder to form long-lasting relationships, while the constant distance can also put a strain on existing ones.
  Unless a country offers you permanent residency when your temporary visa expires, there’s little point in putting down roots where you won’t be living after a year or so. Although this lack of ties can be seen as a plus to those who value their independence, anyone thinking about a lengthy period abroad should carefully consider how isolating it might be.
  Another consideration is your tax residency. Most countries will consider you a tax resident if you stay more than 183 days. Consider how that may impact your U.S. taxes and eat into your income. Unless you qualify for a specialized digital nomad tax scheme, you may find yourself paying higher taxes than you would back home.
 Long vacation with a stable source of income Available infrastructure and resources Job must be remote and may require flexibility Stress associated with constant moving Expensive Harder to plant roots and form long-lasting relationships Potential for higher tax rates  Although the term remote worker has become increasingly common, it isn’t perfectly synonymous with being a digital nomad. All digital nomads are, by necessity, remote workers. Yet the latter term can also apply to those who simply operate from their permanent residence instead of from an office. Laws differ, but entering a country as a tourist generally doesn’t permit the traveler to work while living there.
  Working remotely (in your home country) wasn't as popular in decades past as it is today. That's because many employers felt that their employees wouldn't be productive if they worked away from the office. Those who needed to work from home were given special permission for certain reasons, such as family or a lack of workplace accommodations.
  Telecommuting has since become very commonplace, boosted by the pandemic. Many companies now believe that working from home can increase productivity. Some research indicates that people who work from home end up working 1.4 days more than in-office workers.
 A digital nomad is someone who works entirely remotely using digital technologies. A digital nomad may work out of cafes, beaches, or hotel rooms, and from anywhere in the world, as they're not tied down to any one location. A digital nomad visa legally allows visitors to work remotely for a foreign country and receive foreign income for an extended period of time. Several countries today offer such long-term stay arrangements to work digitally abroad. While we profile just a few countries with digital nomad visas, 60 countries or regions either have a digital nomad visa, an equivalent that would allow digital nomads to work, or have one in the pipeline as of 2024.  The number of areas of the world that offer digital nomad visas is growing. Such travel programs can provide cultural and extended stay benefits to travelers who long to live and work in a country they've perhaps only dreamed about or visited briefly. Each country has specific requirements for its digital nomad visa, so be sure to do all the necessary research before you begin the application process.
 Government of Bermuda. “Work From Bermuda Certificate: Frequently Asked Questions.” Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica. “Visa Details: Fees.” Abu Dhabi Residents Office. "Remote Work Visa." Republic of Albania. "e-Visa." Consulate General in Toronto. "Visa for Digital Nomads." Work From Greece. "Become a Digital Nomad in Greece." Hungary Visa. "How to Apply for the Hungary Digital Nomad Visa." Farnesina. "Visa for Italy." Republic of Latvia. "Obtaining a Long-Stay Visa for Remote Work." Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "Visas." Ministerio de Asuntos Exteriores, Unión Europea y Cooperación. "Digital Nomad Visa." Belize. "Work Where You Vacation." ESCIP. "Digital Nomad Visa." Panama Tax Lawyers. "VISA for Remote Workers (Digital Nomads) in Panama 2024." Ministério das Relações Exteriores. "Digital Nomad Visa (VITEM XIV)." Gobierno of Colombia. "Visa en Línea." Ecuador Travel. "Nomad Visa." Live in Uruguay. "Come, Test, and Stay!" Business in Dubai. "Work Remotely From Dubai." Bali.com. "Remote Worker Visa for Bali, Indonesia (E33G)." Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan. "Visa." MDEC. "Discover #WorkFromMalaysia Opportunities With DE Rantau." Visit Korea. "All About Korea’s Digital Nomad Visa." Grenada House of Parliament. "Remote Employment Bill, 2021." NIPDB. "Nambia Digital Nomad Visa." MCA Assessors. "Digital Nomad Visa for Andorra." Ministry of the Interior, Republic of Croatia. “Temporary Stay of Digital Nomads.” Vardanyan & Partners Law Firm. "Residency for Digital Nomads in Armenia 2024." Enter Finland. "Residence Permit for an Entrepreneur." Georgia Travel. "Why Is Georgia Attractive to Digital Nomads?" Germany Visa. "German Freelance “Freiberufler” Visa." RPS Legal. "Netherlands Digital Nomad Visa." Visit Norway. "Workstations in Norway." Government of Canada. "Find Out if You Need a Visa to Travel to Canada." Relaciones Exteriores. "Temporary Resident Visa." Thailand's SMART Visa. "Our SMART Visa." LawyersSerbia.com. "Serbian Digital Nomad Visa." Aruba. "One Happy Workation." Montenegro. "Digital Nomads in Montenegro: Requirements and Visa Information." Medium. "North Macedonia to Introduce a Digital Nomad Visa." Fragomen. "South Africa: Digital Nomad Visa Implemented, Further Details Forthcoming." India eVisa. "Goa to offer Digital Nomad Visa." Fragomen. "Peru: New Law Introduces Digital Nomad Visa, Shorter Validity of Local Identification Cards, Among Other Changes." Sri Lanka eVisa. "Digital Nomad Visa for Sri Lanka." HR Asia. "Working Remotely in Taiwan With Digital Nomad Visa." e-Visa. "Philippines Digital Nomad Visa." Antigua and Barbuda Department of Immigration. "Antigua and Barbuda Nomad Digital Residence Visa: Criteria." The Islands of The Bahamas. “BEATS: How It Works.” Visit Barbados. “Planning to Work Remotely in Barbados?” My Biometric Photos. "Barbados Visa Photo Requirements." The Islands of Cabo Verde. “Remote Working Program." CaboWork. "Remote Working Cape Verde." Visit Costa Rica. "Live, Work and Explore in Costa Rica." Government of Curaçao. “Frequently Asked Questions." Ministry of Industry and Trade, Czech Republic. "Financial Means." Ministry of Industry and Trade, Czech Republic. "Entrepreneurship." Ministry of Industry and Trade, Czech Republic. "Free Access to the Czech Labour Market for Citizens of Nine Selected Countries, Including United States." Ministry of Industry and Trade, Czech Republic. "The Digital Nomad Program." Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica. “Connected to Nature, Connected to the World.” Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica. “Visa Details: Eligibility.” Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica. “Visa Details: Application Process.” Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica. “Visa Details: Processing Times.” Embassy of Estonia. "Digital Nomad Visa." Republic of Estonia. "FAQs About Estonia’s Digital Nomad Visa." Republic of Estonia. “eResidency vs Digital Nomad Visa.” Icelandic Directorate of Immigration. “Long-Term Visa for Remote Work.” Icelandic Directorate of Immigration. “Handling Fee.” Icelandic Directorate of Immigration. "Long-term Visa for Remote Workers and Their Family Members." Residency Malta Agency. “Nomad Residence Permit.” Residency Malta Agency. “Nomad Residence Permit: Eligibility.” Residency Malta Agency. “Nomad Residence Permit: Application Process.” Economic Development Board Mauritius. “Mauritius Premium Visa.” Economic Development Board Mauritius. “Mauritius Premium Visa: What Do You Need to Complete the Form?" Montserrat Remote Worker. “The Stamp.” Portugal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "Fees." Portugal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "Residency." Portugal Pathways. "Everything You Need to Know About the D8 Digital Nomad Visa in Portugal." Workcation Retreat. “Experience Seychelles: Workcation Brochure,” Page 4. Workcation Retreat. “Experience Seychelles: Workcation Brochure,” Page 6. Workcation Retreat. “Experience Seychelles: Workcation Brochure,” Page 10. Airtasker. "The Benefits of Working From Home."