We test and rate scores of digital cameras and lenses each year, from pocket-friendly models to high-end medium format systems. Here's everything you need to know to pick the best camera for you. Images, and the devices that capture them, are my focus. I've covered cameras at PCMag for the past 13 years, which has given me a front row seat for the DSLR to mirrorless transition, the smartphone camera revolution, and the mainstream adoption of drones for aerial imaging. I have extensive experience with every major mirrorless and SLR system. As a Part 107 Certified drone pilot, I’m licensed to fly unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) for commercial and editorial purposes, and am knowledgeable about federal rules and regulations regarding drones. You can find me on Instagram @jamespfisher. 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 
Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 Are you shopping for a digital camera but don't know where to start? We're here to help. PCMag has been covering digital cameras for over 20 years, and our experts have extensive hands-on experience with every system. We test cameras both inside of our photo studio and out in the real world to determine which ones perform the best. Our reviews are independent and free of outside influence from camera makers—you won't see any sponsored opinions here, just straight talk from our photo experts. Cameras come in all shapes and sizes, and this list covers the gamut. Whether you're shopping for a small action camera, something for vlogging, or a full-frame mirrorless model, you can find the right one to suit your needs. If you want the best of the best, look no further than the stunning Fujifilm X100VI fixed-lens compact. It earns a very rare five-star rating, so you can be sure it's exceptional all around. But there are plenty of other Editors' Choice winners on the list that might appeal more depending on your interests. Make sure to click through to our in-depth reviews of each model and read to the end for some helpful buying advice. We're always reviewing the latest and greatest cameras, so check back often to see if there's a new one that suits your fancy. 
*Deals are selected by our commerce team
 The X100VI is one of the few fixed-lens cameras that's as good as swappable-lens options in terms of picture quality and handling. Though not quite pocket-sized, the camera is still quite small and light. Its bright prime lens includes an integrated ND filter to support creative exposures, while a stabilized 40MP APS-C image sensor provides a useful digital crop so you can shoot at a standard or short telephoto angle. The X100VI also looks and feels like an old film camera; serious photographers will love its hybrid optical-electronic viewfinder and discrete shutter, aperture, and exposure controls. Simply put, you can't find a better fixed-lens camera today. Photographers who don't always want to carry a big mirrorless camera are the X100VI's main demographic. But there's also plenty of appeal for former smartphone creators who want to avoid fiddling with changeable lenses or simply appreciate a camera that oozes style. The only problem is finding one in stock; demand for the X100VI exceeds the current supply, so be prepared to wait on a backorder list if you're champing at the bit to get one. The Canon EOS R6 Mark II is our favorite full-frame camera for most people. It snaps attractive 24MP photos and has a class-leading autofocus system that smartly recognizes people, animals, and vehicles. With 12fps (mechanical) and 40fps (electronic shutter) bursts available, it's especially suitable for action shots, while stabilized 4K60 video should please filmmakers and vloggers. If you want a full-frame camera, the R6 Mark II should be near the top of your list. The big sensor means you can get soft, defocused backgrounds, while the best-in-class autofocus system ensures wildlife and sports specialists won't miss their shots. It's also an easy sell if you already own Canon SLR or RF lenses. Creators with Sony glass can look to the a7 IV as an alternative because it offers competitive performance for the same price. The Nikon Z 8 matches a high-resolution 45MP Stacked CMOS sensor with an autofocus engine that can track subjects at 20fps, a combination that's ideal for everything from wedding and fashion events to sports and wildlife capture. A midsize, weather-sealed body, brilliant EVF, and support for both Raw and ProRes video round out the feature set. The Z 8 is for professionals who use a camera to make a living, as well as knowledgeable enthusiasts. Its high-pixel sensor offers the broad dynamic range and resolution that landscape and architectural photography requires, while in-body stabilization, fast focus, and excellent low-light performance are ideal for events and action. Nikon has a full series of Z mirrorless lenses that work with the camera, too. The Fujifilm X-S20 is a near-ideal camera for content creators and photo enthusiasts alike. It puts Fuji's X-Trans color science into a magnesium body with familiar controls, long battery life, and a swing-out LCD for vlogging. A stabilized sensor and an extensive lens library make it a favorite for travel and anyone who wants options when it comes to glass. The only real knock against it for travel is the lack of weather protection. We like the X-S20 for photo hobbyists who can take advantage of Fuji's large library of dedicated APS-C lenses, as well as content creators who want to make YouTube videos or short films. Event photogs should look to a higher-tier model with dual card slots, however, such as the Canon EOS R7 or Fuji X-T5. The GoPro Hero12 Black is the camera to beat for video-first creators who want to document outdoor adventures, dives, and extreme sports, as well as just make vlogs. It supports 5.3K60 and 4K120 capture, records incredibly stable footage without the need for a gimbal, and is small enough to mount pretty much anywhere. The 8:7 format sensor offers flexibility to pull out 16:9 and 9:16 video from the same clip. Optional accessories like the Media Mod cage and microphone, as well as the ultra-wide Max Lens 2.0 mod, make it a bit more versatile than budget action cams. We also like that it's waterproof to 33 feet. GoPro started as a brand for surfers, so if Point Break is your favorite movie, consider yourself in the target market. Video-first adventure seekers should find the Hero12 ideal for slow-motion action shots, while vloggers should appreciate the front-facing color monitor and moving time-lapse mode. The Lumix G9 II is the best Micro Four Thirds camera we've tested. Its sensor goes toe-to-toe with larger-format competitors in picture quality, while its huge lens library gives creators plenty of flexibility. A stabilized sensor, 10-bit 5.7K60 video capture, and a sturdy all-weather build make it a good choice for video, location, and outdoor use. We also like the revamped autofocus system that integrates phase detection pixels for high-speed capture with subject tracking. The Micro Four Thirds system makes sense for photographers who prefer to carry a lighter overall kit. Yes, the G9 II is built around a full-frame chassis, but it's still light at 1.4 pounds and balances well with a lot of compact lenses from Panasonic, OM System, and others. It's also great for hybrid creators thanks to its excellent video toolkit. The Sony ZV-E1 is the best full-frame camera you can get for vlogging. Its big sensor records video with blurred-out backgrounds, as well as includes stabilization to support steady handheld recording. The 12MP pixel count is somewhat meager but supports pixel-for-pixel readout for the best 4K video from a small camera. A quality in-camera mic sets it apart from mainstream photo cameras like the a7 IV. There are loads of lenses available too, with plenty of both affordable and high-end options. Third-party lens makers, including Sigma and Tamron, bolster Sony's FE lens line. If you've got a YouTube channel or aspire to have one, the ZV-E1 should be on your short list. It's especially suitable if you plan to serve both as the on-screen talent and the camera operator. The ZV-E1 includes some tracking and zoom-in options to add Ken Burns-style motion to shots, meaning you can let the camera handle movements and concentrate on the content of your video. Its small size and weather-sealed body are equally useful for location shots and those in the studio. The compact, vlog-friendly DJI Osmo Pocket 3 puts a wide-angle 20mm lens and a 4K video camera on a three-axis gimbal that enables rock-steady handheld footage. It also supports 4K60 recording with sound and 120fps slow-motion in widescreen mode, as well as manages a quality 3K picture in a vertical aspect ratio. The Pocket's Type 1 sensor works well in dim light and supports 2x lossless digital zoom for scenes in which the prime lens is a little too wide. The Osmo Pocket 3 is first and foremost a video camera. It snaps stills, sure, but its gimbal-stabilized video is the main appeal. You should get it for self-recorded videos, travel logs, and documentary-style footage. We recommend spending more on the Creator Combo ($669) if you're after a turnkey vlogging solution as it adds an extended life battery and a wireless lapel mic for longer shoots with crystal clear sound. Just remember that the Pocket is not rugged or waterproof, so it won't replace your action cam. The Sony a6700 is the best APS-C camera that works with Sony's huge E-mount lens library. Its top-notch autofocus system supports snappy 11fps subject tracking and works well for 4K60 video. A stabilized image sensor, weather sealing, and corner EVF body make it suitable for travel, too. If you want access to the E-mount platform for your photography or mixed-media creations, this is your best crop-sensor option. If you can stretch your budget though, the full-frame a7C II is similarly excellent. The EOS R10 is the most affordable entry-point to the EOS R system, but it offers much better than basic performance. We love its versatility as an easy-to-use automatic camera for beginners and a fully manual one for long-time enthusiasts. Creators of all skill levels can benefit from autofocus that can identify and track people, pets, birds and wildlife, and motorsports vehicles at a 15fps pace. If you're stepping up from a Canon Rebel SLR, you can use the EF-EOS R adapter to bring your current lenses along for the ride. Creators looking to jump into the EOS R system who put more preference on fast focus over the slower-but-full-frame EOS RP can look to the R10 as an affordable entry point. It's the mirrorless body that makes the most sense for EOS Rebel owners mulling an upgrade. We also prefer its autofocus to the X-T30 II, so you should opt for the R10 if you're into wildlife or sports photography. It's no secret that smartphones have seriously hurt the demand for entry-level point-and-shoot cameras. The latest from Apple, the iPhone 15 Pro Max, is a better camera than any low-cost compact, and Android fans can get excellent snapshots with handsets like the Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra or the Google Pixel 8 Pro. High-end phones are expensive, but if you're already buying a fancy handset, there's no reason to buy a low-end camera, too. If you've embraced smartphone photography, peruse our camera phone picks and check out our tips for taking the best smartphone photos. If you aren't a smartphone user or have opted for a basic model without a high-end camera, you can buy any number of sub-$200 no-name cameras at online retailers. Just don't expect much from them. You may be better off navigating the used market and finding an older, but quality, compact if you're not a fan of smartphone photography. In either case, it's best to stick with Canon, OM System, Panasonic, Ricoh, or Sony if you care about picture quality. It's also tricky to find a new model in stock since the name brands have largely abandoned the compact market in favor of interchangeable lens cameras. The remaining options thus cost more than you might expect. Pocketable options fall into four buckets: big zoom, big sensor, made for vlogging, and waterproof; we cover the latter in the next section. Plan to budget a minimum of $500 for a pocket camera with big zoom power. The Sony HX99 ($473) has a 30x lens, but picture quality proved disappointing in our review. We haven't reviewed the Canon SX740 HS, but it's an option for $499. The Panasonic Lumix ZS200 ($700) is worth a long look if you're after this type of camera since it has a long lens and a large Type 1 image sensor, while the Sony RX100 VII ($1,200) is the sky's-the-limit option. We consider a Type 1 sensor large for a pocket camera. The aforementioned ZS200 and RX100 VII use this type and prioritize zoom power. Others use shorter lenses with larger apertures (f-stops), so they are better performers in dim light. Good picks here include the Sony RX100 VA ($1,000) if you put a priority on photos, or the ZV-1M2 if you care more about video. Other options with prime lenses and APS-C (SLR-sized) image sensors are better for experts, but beginners can still use a Ricoh GR III ($970) or Fujifilm X100VI ($1,600) in full auto mode. Sony's other Type 1 cameras are ideal for videos and vlogs. The entry-level ZV-1F ($500), midrange ZV-1 ($750), and aforementioned ZV-1 Mark II ($900) make up the series. Canon also has a basic camera for vlogging, the PowerShot V10 ($430). We see the Sony options as hybrids for photo and video, but the Canon V10, along with our favorite small vlog camera, the DJI Osmo Pocket 3 ($519), are strictly video cameras. It's telling that we're able to sum up the current market options in a few short paragraphs. The low-cost, compact camera segment is not the thriving space it once was. Smartphones now handle the family snapshots we used to take with pocket cameras, so photographers who strictly prefer the ergonomics of a camera must spend far more than before just to keep up with an iPhone. A rugged, waterproof camera is a good option if you're an outdoor adventurer, snorkeler, beachgoer, or just a bit of a klutz. For around $550, the OM System TG-7 is the best you can get, even though you pay more for its tough frame and sacrifice picture quality versus a smartphone. If you don't want to spend that much, you can get a Ricoh WG-80 for under $300. We break down our favorite waterproof cameras in a separate story. You can also go the action cam route. You get far better video and quality still images from the GoPro Hero12 Black or DJI Osmo Action 4, but you give up zoom power in the process. It's a trade-off you might want to make, especially if you're interested in slow-motion video. For more, click through to see our favorite action cams. You might scratch your head when you see pocket cameras with fixed lenses selling for more than $1,000. After all, you can get an interchangeable lens model for the same price. But these slim, premium shooters target a very specific market—photographers who already own a mirrorless camera or SLR and a bunch of lenses, but want something small as an alternative. If you're after something really small, a pocketable camera with a Type 1 sensor is worth a look. The best quality options still on sale are the Canon G7 X Mark III ($750), which has a bright zoom that opens up to F1.8 on the wide end, or the Sony RX100 VII ($1,300), which puts a 24-200mm equivalent into your pocket. Photo enthusiasts are more likely to want a small camera with an imaging engine that's on level with swappable lens models. The fixed-lens Fujifilm X100VI ($1,600) is a top choice there. If you want to spend less and don't mind a camera without an eye-level viewfinder, the Ricoh GR III and GR IIIx are both excellent choices, also with APS-C format sensors. Ricoh sells these as standard editions with an integrated ND filter in the lens, or in HDF variations that swap out the ND for an optical soft focus filter. You can get a fixed camera with a full-frame sensor too, though prices skyrocket. The Leica Q3 ($5,995) uses a 28mm F1.7 prime and 60MP sensor, for instance. Leica also has the Q2 Monochrom, a black-and-white only option with the same lens and 40MP of resolution, for the same price. These aren't big-tent cameras, but it can be rewarding to stray from the beaten path. You can opt for a fixed-lens camera that's similar in size and shape to an SLR—a bridge camera. These models tend to have really long lenses—for example, the Nikon P1000 has the most optical zoom power (125x) we've seen in any camera. Long lenses require some extra care to use, so these cameras usually include an eye-level EVF, a hot shoe to mount accessories, and an articulating display.  Bridge models might look like interchangeable-lens cameras but typically don't do well in dim light. Our favorite consumer model, the 65x zoom Canon PowerShot SX70 HS, gets tight views for backyard birding and trips to the zoo but its lens works best outdoors in sunlight. The Nikon P950 is a good option if you want an even longer (83x) zoom but a bit bulky for everyday use. You can spend more on a big-sensor bridge camera. The midrange Panasonic FZ1000 II and premium Sony RX10 IV feature larger Type 1 image sensors and have optics that gather more light—both advantages for use in dim conditions. If you're shopping for a starter camera with swappable lenses, you must make a choice: Embrace the latest tech and get a mirrorless camera with an electronic viewfinder (EVF) or live with lesser autofocus acumen and opt for an SLR with an optical viewfinder (OVF). The market may help make the decision for you, as there are only a few entry SLRs still on sale. Both types of cameras use changeable lenses and have image sensors that dwarf those of most pocket and bridge cameras. SLRs rely on an optical viewfinder and mirror to direct light to your eye as well as a discrete phase detection sensor to set autofocus. Mirrorless cameras drop the optical finder in favor of an EVF. The image sensor handles the autofocus operations here, which results in better subject recognition and tracking than entry SLRs. For more details, read our buying guide covering the best mirrorless cameras and SLRs for beginners. SLRs aren't the wonders they once were, but you can usually get started with one for less than a mirrorless camera. Nikon doesn't have any entry-level models in production, though you can still get good results from the midrange Canon EOS Rebel SL3. Avoid Canon's basic Rebel T7. Cameras from Fujifilm and Sony, and Micro Four Thirds models from the OM System (the new name for Olympus) and Panasonic, are among the leading mirrorless brands. There are many good options under $1,000 suitable for general photography. These affordable mirrorless cameras are quicker to focus than SLRs, support high-speed burst modes, and offer 4K video. You should make sure that whatever system you choose offers the lenses you want, though most cover the basics. Micro Four Thirds, Fujifilm, and Sony cameras have the biggest selection of lenses. Canon EOS R and Nikon Z have fully-formed libraries for full-frame lenses but don't provide tons of options for APS-C models like the Canon EOS R10 or Nikon Z 30. When you spend more than $1,000 for a camera, you don't necessarily see a big jump in image quality versus entry-level models. Camera makers like to streamline sensors across multiple models, as it allows them to develop technology that they can use broadly. Your extra money typically gets you better build quality, smarter autofocus, faster memory card slots for longer burst shooting, and higher capture rates. All of these are important for enthusiasts interested in capturing fast action and outdoor photographers who want some level of weather protection. Shutterbugs and enthusiasts have a few good choices in the space, including our favorite APS-C models, the EOS R7 and the Fujifilm X-S20. Although the X-S20 skips weather sealing, Fuji has more purpose-built lenses available at this time. We also like the Sony a6700 and Panasonic Lumix G9 II; the latter is the best we've seen with a Micro Four Thirds sensor. We tend to recommend EVF cameras more highly—on-sensor autofocus leads to more in-focus shots, and models with stabilized sensors do a good job reducing the number of blurry, shaky photos you take. Mirrorless cameras dominate the list of our favorite interchangeable-lens cameras. If you prefer an optical viewfinder, we recommend the Canon EOS 90D or Pentax K-3 Mark III. The 90D has the fullest set of lenses behind it and the better video toolkit. The Pentax K-3 Mark III is a bit better built and has some specialized lenses, including a fan-favorite line of compact primes, DA Limited. You can even get a black-and-white sensor version of the Pentax, the K-3 III Monochrome. Full-frame cameras—those with image sensors that match the size of 35mm film—are accessible options for enthusiasts because of falling prices. Basic models start at around $1,000 and capable midrange options are available for around $2,000. You can spend more for a specialty model that costs anywhere from $3,000 all the way up to $6,500. The Canon EOS RP is a good starter model. Its feature set covers the basics and Canon has done a fine job adding affordable lens options since its release. If you can afford it, consider the EOS R8 as an upgrade pick; it has a much better autofocus system in a similar body. Both are missing a stabilized image sensor, something you get with competitors, including the Nikon Z 5 and Sony a7C II. One midrange option is the Panasonic Lumix DC-S5, an L-mount mirrorless with a stabilized sensor, 10-bit 4K, and a $1,500 starting price. We also tested its successor, the Panasonic Lumix DC-S5 II, but weren't as impressed with its performance against fresher competitors. If you can spend more, the Canon EOS R6 Mark II and Sony a7 IV are Editors' Choice winners because of their next-level autofocus systems, among other reasons. For more specialized recommendations and models, as well as an overview of what each full-frame camera system offers, be sure to read our full-frame camera buying guide. Medium format digital cameras used to be the tools for the most successful (or well-funded) photographers. You can still drop $50,000 on a Phase One IQ4 150MP if you want, but, for most of us, the prospect is rather silly. Medium format doesn't have to cost that much. Fujifilm's GFX line has dropped the price of entry to medium format to its lowest point: $4,000 for a 50MP GFX 50S II or $6,000 for the 100MP GFX100S. That's still quite a bit of money, but loads less than in years past, especially when you consider both of these cameras have a stabilized image sensor. Fujifilm isn't the only game in town. Hasselblad offers a mirrorless medium format system, one that includes the analog throwback 907X and modern X2D 100C. Smartphones and basic point-and-shoots are designed for automatic operation. If you want to take up photography as a hobby, or aspire to be a photojournalist or wedding pro, get a camera that gives you room to grow and learn the craft. I recommend getting a good mirrorless camera to start. Our favorites include the Canon EOS R10, Fujifilm X-T30 II, and Sony a6700. All offer manual exposure for advanced users, but also include fully automatic modes. If you're getting started, they give you room to grow as a creator. If you're thinking about starting with a full-frame model—the type of camera most pros use—the Canon EOS RP, EOS R8, or Nikon Z 5 are good choices. When you are shopping for a starter camera, ask yourself some questions about what you want. Take a look at the size, as a camera isn't any good if you're not going to carry and use it. But also think about connectivity—you probably want to copy images to your smartphone easily—and price. Ease of use isn't a huge hurdle these days—everything has an auto mode—but models with guided interfaces let you take some measure of control over how your photos turn out, without having to know too much technical jargon. You don't have to go digital. Film is still an option and instant cameras are extremely popular. Instant formats take away the hassle of getting film developed and make it easy to share physical images with friends and family immediately. You can get an entry-level model for around $65 and film packs generally cost around $7.50. The Fujifilm Instax Mini 12 is our favorite basic model and we love the Mini 99's upgraded features. The Fuji SQ1 is there if you prefer square prints, or you could go for the pricey Polaroid I-2 if you want to recapture the look of Polaroid 600 cameras from the 80s and 90s. You can also buy a new 35mm or medium format camera. You don't have as many options for getting film developed as in the past—if you're in a major city it's easy to find a lab, but you otherwise may have to resort to mail order. You can find old film SLRs and compacts in thrift shops and at tag sales, though be aware that there's always a chance you'll need to get an old camera serviced. To get one that works, check the used departments at your local camera store (if you have one), the marketplace of your favorite online camera forum, or a big online shop (such as Adorama, B&H Photo, and KEH) with a good return policy for used gear. If you want to buy something new, we like the Kodak Ektar H35 or H35N for their ease of use and economical half-frame format—they get 72 shots per roll, not 36. And for something really different check out offerings from Lomography, its catalog includes the wide-angle Lomo'Apparat, medium format LC-A 120, and panoramic Sprocket Rocket, to name just a few. Not surprisingly, we find bridge models to be just about perfect for globetrotters. They pack a wide zoom range, so you don't have to fumble with lens changes. And if you opt for a premium Type 1 sensor model you can shoot in varying types of light. But you might want a different kind of camera to take with you on your journeys. If you want something more pocket-friendly, a point-and-shoot can do the trick. But be prepared to get a little spendy for a camera worthy of your exotic destinations. For the rough-and-tumble crowd, I recommend the OM TG-7 due to its bright lens, super-close macro focus, and tough build. Its video features are lacking, though, so get the GoPro Hero12 Black for moving pictures. For more leisurely vacations, reach for a premium compact like the Sony RX100 VII model for a comfortable design and image quality that's a tad better than your smartphone. They're an especially good choice if you're trying to minimize phone screen time during a trip. The Fuji X100VI or Leica Q3 are there if you want the best pictures from a small camera, and have a healthy budget to feed your photography habit. If you don't mind carrying something larger, a good mirrorless camera and a couple of lenses easily fit into a small bag, plus net images and videos worthy of sharing with friends and family back home. The Sony ZV-E10 is a good affordable option; alternatives like the Nikon Z fc are a bit more stylish. Advertisement Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! Images, and the devices that capture them, are my focus. I've covered cameras at PCMag for the past 13 years, which has given me a front row seat for the DSLR to mirrorless transition, the smartphone camera revolution, and the mainstream adoption of drones for aerial imaging. I have extensive experience with every major mirrorless and SLR system. As a Part 107 Certified drone pilot, I’m licensed to fly unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) for commercial and editorial purposes, and am knowledgeable about federal rules and regulations regarding drones. You can find me on Instagram @jamespfisher. Read Jim's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.