Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? The Google Pixel 7a is Google’s latest addition to its midrange A-series smartphones. It’s likely to be one of the best options for anyone who wants a strong handset with pure Android, solid performance, and an exceptional camera. But we can’t touch on the hardware without addressing one of the most common questions about any new smartphone. Namely, does the phone have a headphone jack? Smartphone manufacturers have been on a crusade against the venerable port in recent years, and the headphone jack has been excised from the vast majority of the phones you can buy today. So, does the Google Pixel 7a include a headphone jack, or will you need other ways to listen to music, audiobooks, and podcasts? Bad news, we’re afraid: the Google Pixel 7a does not have a headphone jack. Google ditched the headphone jack on the Pixel 6a last year and hasn’t seen fit to return it for this year’s model. This echoes what we saw in the flagship Pixel range, which has been without a headphone jack all the way from the Pixel 2. Google was one of the first Android brands to follow Apple in ditching the port, and although it took a few years, Google finally achieved the complete removal of the headphone jack from its available phones last year. If you’re looking for a Google smartphone with a headphone jack, you’re plum out of luck. At least, if you’re buying new. If you can find it, the Pixel 5a is the last Google phone to support a headphone jack — but keep in mind that inventory for the phone is likely low. Plus, there are a number of markets where Google didn’t release the Pixel 5a at all. The easiest way to listen to audio on a Pixel 7a is through wireless headphones. While not as affordable as wired headphones, the best wireless headphones and wireless earbuds offer the sort of freedom you can’t expect while tethered to wires. They’re also much easier to use while running, cycling, or just wandering around the house. If you’re ride-or-die for wired headphones, you still have options. You can grab a 3.5mm-to-USB-C dongle adapter to use your old headphones with your new phone. Otherwise, you can also find USB-C headphones, which will connect directly to your Pixel 7a’s charging port. The issue with both options is that you can’t charge your phone while using your headphones, so keep that in mind if your battery looks a little low. The next generation of Google Pixel is here with the Google Pixel 9. Not only did Google give us a fantastic Barbie pink color for the Pixel 9 (along with green, black, and white), but it also gave us more power with the Tensor G4, 12GB RAM, and a dual camera system with a 50MP main lens and a 48MP ultrawide camera. It even has a new design with flat edges and a revamped camera bar that looks much more modern. But as with any new electronic device, you’re going to want to make sure to keep it protected from everyday wear and tear. Here are some of the best cases for your Google Pixel 9 right now. Google has had a rocky start with smartwatches so far. The first Pixel Watch, while interesting, left much to be desired. The Pixel Watch 2 was a much better showing, though it wasn't perfect. Now, hoping to crack the smartwatch code once and for all, Google has announced the Pixel Watch 3. The Pixel Watch 3 finally comes in two body sizes, including a 41mm and a 45mm frame. This is great news for anyone who found the previous Pixel Watches too small for their wrists and helps to fix a common bugbear with the range. The Google Pixel 8 has been among the best phones for some time, and with the upcoming release of the Google Pixel 9 there may be no better time to get yourself a Pixel 8 than right now. There’s some big sales on the phone out there, making it one of the best phone deals we’re currently seeing. Stocks seem to be running out at some retailers and carriers, while others are still making the Pixel 8 available for free with the right contract or trade-in. With so many details to keep track of we thought we’d round up all of the best Google Pixel 8 deals for your shopping convenience. You’ll find them all below, and some similar phones to check out for some savings can be found among today’s Samsung Galaxy S24 deals, Samsung Galaxy S23 deals, iPhone 15 deals, and iPhone 14 deals.
Today's best Google Pixel 8 deals
There are some great Google Pixel 8 deals around including direct discounts when you buy the phone unlocked and trade-in deals for anyone who wants to commit to a specific cell phone provider. With such versatility, there should be something for everyone here. Take a look below to find the best Google Pixel 8 deal for your situation.  	Best Buy: , down from its regular price of $499.
 	Google:  when joining Google Fi Unlimited.
 	Amazon: , which is $129 less than a new model.
 	AT&T:  when purchasing on an installment plan and upgrading to an eligible unlimited plan.
 	T-Mobile:  with new line on Go5G Plus or Go5G Next (or other sign-up options). Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.