Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? Last year, the Scream franchise was awakened from its 11-year slumber with Scream, a reboot/sequel hybrid that saw the original three stars, — Neve Campbell, David Arquette, and Courtney Cox — return to help a new generation of teens from being sliced and diced by a new Ghostface. The movie was a surprise hit (Scream 4 had been a dud) and since franchises never die, a sequel was quickly commissioned with most of the reboot cast returning (Campbell declined due to an insulting monetary offer, while Arquette isn’t returning due to his character, Dewey, meeting an unfortunate end in the last one). Released at the beginning of March, Scream 6 quickly proved to be a hit with critics and audiences alike, becoming the most successful Scream movie since the original all the way back in 1996. Now wrapping up its successful theatrical run, the sequel is set to hit streaming very soon. Where is it streaming? And when? Digital Trends has all the answers for you. Scream 6 can now be accessed in your living rooms through the streaming service, Paramount+. Paramount+ is the home to what many call the movie of 2022, Top Gun: Maverick. Trust us when we say that Maverick is worth your time. On the television front, Taylor Sheridan (Yellowstone) is a kingmaker for the service, with hit shows like 1923, Tulsa King, 1883, and Mayor of Kingstown available to stream for your viewing pleasure. Check Digital Trends’ Paramount+ Guide for the new movies and shows coming to the platform each month. Scream 6 is now streaming for subscribers. There are two subscription plans for Paramount+. The Essential subscription costs $5 per month. Programs will be presented with limited commercial interruptions. Subscribers can save 16% off the monthly price with a yearly plan of $50. If you do not want ads, purchase the Premium subscription, which costs $10 per month or $100 per year. For both plans, Paramount+ offers a trial period of seven days. The first week is free, and subscribers can cancel anytime during that week. You can also bundle the Paramount+ subscription with a Showtime subscription for $12 a month or $120 a year. For more info on all Paramount+ subscription plans, check out our guide. Yes! Like the not-so-great Friday the 13th Part VIII: Jason Takes Manhattan, Scream VI takes place in New York City. The trailer showcases franchise fave Kirby (once again played by Hayden Panettiere) and good use of Big Apple staples (Ghostface stalks the subways!) as the movie does something different from previous installments. The returning cast, headed by Wednesday star Jenna Ortega and featuring Courtney Cox, Hayden Panettiere, Jasmin Savoy Brown, Mason Gooding, Jack Champion, Josh Segarra, and Dermot Mulroney, make this sequel special, and the scares are truly unique and unlike anything else in the franchise. Scream 6 is directed by Matt Bettinelli-Olpin and Tyler Gillett. On Rotten Tomatoes, Scream 6 has a 77% on the Tomatometer and a 91% audience score. Anyone who knows Amazon Prime knows that the subscription service is not primarily designed for movies. Prime Video is one of the great benefits of a subscription, though, and it features an array of great movies, some of which are decades old. If you're looking through the service for something to watch and find that you're overwhelmed by the number of options, we've got you covered with three underrated movies available on the service that are all worth checking out.
The Birdcage (1996) It must be action week on Netflix, because multiple action films are now among the most popular movies on Netflix. Topping the list this week is Jack Reacher: Never Go Back, with the other Jack Reacher film placing highly as well. Another older action flick, Red, is also back on Netflix and heating up the top 10 as well. The most surprising thing about Netflix's movies list at the moment is that Ghostbusters: Frozen Empire has fallen out of the top 10 after less than two weeks. That lack of staying power on the top streaming service, combined with its lackluster box office, may dim the prospects for more Ghostbusters flicks. Amazon Prime Video isn't letting the summer run out without a few more original movies. This week, the racing drama One Fast Move is heading to the top of Prime Video's movie charts. It's far from a masterpiece, and if it came out at the box office this weekend, One Fast Move would probably wind up out of the top five. But for Prime Video subscribers, it's a free movie to watch at home. Also this week, we're throwing the spotlight on The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring and the rest of the LOTR trilogy. Those are some fantastic films, and easily one of the highlights of Prime Video's August selections. But if you need more options, keep reading for the best movies on Amazon Prime Video right now. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.