
					Updated: Jul 23, 2024, 3:16pm 
				 The Reserve Bank of India is set to launch the pilot of its central bank digital currency (CBDC), which it categorizes as legal tender in a digital form. Commonly known as the digital rupee, it will be exchangeable at par with existing currencies and will be considered acceptable for payments and a safe store of value.  Also being called the e₹ or the digital rupee, CBDC issued by the RBI is aimed at creating an additional option to use money and isn’t very different from the currently-issued banknotes; only the digital rupee is expected to be transacted digitally and facilitate ease of use.  The digital rupee is the RBI’s accepted version of cryptocurrencies, which the central bank has dismissed repeatedly and called a serious challenge to the stability of the financial system of the country.  Featured Partner Offer 1 Upstox App Account opening and AMC charges INR 0 Brokerage INR 20 for equity, F&O, commodity and currency trades Benefits Zero Commission on Mutual Funds and IPOs On Upstox's secure website 2 Angle One Account opening charges INR 0 for first year Brokerage INR 0 on equity delivery Benefits Zero Commission on Mutual Fund Investments, 24/7 Order Placement On Angleone's secure website 3 m.Stock Fees INR 999 one-time fee Brokerage INR 0 brokerage for life Benefits No order limit, Paperless onboarding On Mirae Asset's secure website 4 BlackBull Markets Multiple Award-Winning Broker Listed On Deloitte Fast 50 index, 2022 Best Global FX Broker - ForexExpo Dubai October 2022 & more Best-In-Class for Offering of Investments Trade 26,000+ assets with no minimum deposit Customer Support 24/7 dedicated support & easy to sign up On BlackBull Market's secure website A digital currency is any currency that is available entirely in electronic form. Currencies’ electronic types already predominate a large number of nations’ financial systems. Digital currency, however, is exclusively exchanged through virtual means and does not leave a computer network.  The three major varieties of digital currency are cryptocurrency, central bank digital currency (CBDCs) and stablecoins. The foundation of cryptocurrency is provided by blockchain technology which is the most usual form of distributed ledger used by digital currencies. According to CoinMarketCap, the availability of cryptocurrencies is more than 21,000.  Here are some of the advantages of digital currency: Digital currency can make your payments much faster than current means like automated clearing houses or wire transfers that take days for financial institutions to confirm a transaction. At times global transactions can get very expensive. Individuals are charged high fees to move funds from one nation to another, especially when it includes currency conversions. Digital assets could interrupt this market by making the transaction cost-effective and quick.  Digital currency transactions work at the same speed i.e. 24 hours a day and seven days a week. On the other hand, existing money transfers frequently take more time during weekends and outside normal working hours because banks are shut and cannot confirm transactions. Physical currencies have many requirements such as the establishment of physical manufacturing facilities. Whereas, in digital currencies, no such expense is involved. Also, digital currencies are immune to soiling or physical defects that are present in physical currency.  If the government developed a central bank of digital currency, it could send payments like child benefits and food stamps, and tax refunds to people instantly, rather than trying to figure out prepaid debit cards or mail them a check. Here’s a list of some drawbacks of digital rupee: The crypto popularity is a downside. According to the head of Sidley’s FinTech and Blockchain group Lilya Tessler, across different blockchains, there are several digital currencies being created with their own limitations.  It will take a certain amount of time to decide which digital currencies in certain cases might be appropriate to use.It also includes whether a few are designed to scale for mass adoption.  Crypto uses blockchain technology where computers must resolve complex equations to validate and record transactions. This in turn takes a significant amount of electricity, the more the transaction the more the expense.  However, this would probably not exist for the central bank of digital currencies as complex consensus processes are not required and CBDC would likely oversee it. On the part of the user, digital currencies require work to learn fundamental tasks like how to open a digital wallet and securely store digital assets. For the wide adoption of digital currencies, the system needs to be simplified.   The digital currency has made people constantly worry about cybersecurity and facing many threats due to less secure methods to store this money.  Cyberattacks are probably increasing and can also threaten digital currency users with virtual theft. According to the RBI, “a CBDC is a legal tender issued by a central bank in a digital form. It is the same as a fiat currency and is exchangeable one-to-one with the fiat currency. Only its form is different.” But a CBDC can’t be exactly compared to cryptocurrencies.  “Unlike cryptocurrencies, a CBDC isn’t a commodity or claims on commodities or digital assets. Cryptocurrencies have no issuer. They are not money (certainly not currency) as the word has come to be understood historically,” as said in the announcement made by RBI.  The CBDC is the digital avatar of paper currency issued by central banks like RBI and should be exchangeable with cash. The commonly-known digital rupee is a currency that the RBI issues and the digital rupee will have the same function, but it won’t be a decentralised asset like cryptocurrencies. Digital rupee will be a currency issued by central banks responsible for governing and managing the asset.  The digital rupee will be a legal tender, which means you can use it to buy what you want. For example, digital wallets, NEFT and IMPS are examples of digital rupees. So, when the RBI starts circulating the digital rupee, all citizens of India can use it.  Featured Partner Offer 1 Upstox App Account opening and AMC charges INR 0 Brokerage INR 20 for equity, F&O, commodity and currency trades Benefits Zero Commission on Mutual Funds and IPOs On Upstox's secure website 2 Angle One Account opening charges INR 0 for first year Brokerage INR 0 on equity delivery Benefits Zero Commission on Mutual Fund Investments, 24/7 Order Placement On Angleone's secure website 3 m.Stock Fees INR 999 one-time fee Brokerage INR 0 brokerage for life Benefits No order limit, Paperless onboarding On Mirae Asset's secure website 4 BlackBull Markets Multiple Award-Winning Broker Listed On Deloitte Fast 50 index, 2022 Best Global FX Broker - ForexExpo Dubai October 2022 & more Best-In-Class for Offering of Investments Trade 26,000+ assets with no minimum deposit Customer Support 24/7 dedicated support & easy to sign up On BlackBull Market's secure website With the recent popularity of a cashless or digital financial framework, world governments and central banks are exploring (some of them have also implemented) the possibilities of digital currency.  The Bahamas, Nigeria, Dominica, Montserrat, Antigua and Barbuda, Saint Lucia, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Vincent and the Grenadines have already launched their digital currency.  Russia – the Digital Ruble has completed the initial trials–full cycle of transactions as announced by the central bank of Russia.  China – plans to launch the eCNY or digital Yuan by 2022.  The most important reason for launching a digital rupee by the RBI is to push India forward in the virtual currency race. And, of course, due to the growing importance of cryptocurrency.  But with a behemoth payment system like UPI around, can CBDCs up the game?  According to a survey by the RBI, cash remains the preferred mode of payment for receiving money for regular expenses. Cash is used predominantly for small value transactions (amounts up to INR 500). All cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin etc., won’t be exempt from taxation.  Only RBI’s digital rupee will be free from tax regulations.  Read our guide on How Cryptocurrencies Are Taxed In India. By introducing the digital rupee, the RBI expects to address problems associated with existing physical currencies and cross-border transactions.  Cross-border money transfer and converting the money into foreign currency is tedious and expensive. With the launch of the digital rupee, the instant cross-border money transfer is set to make bank cash management and operations more seamless.  In India, cash placement and tracking the same is a challenge. CBDC can address anonymity and resolve it in a non-intimidatory way and reduce the demand for cash. The government will save operational, printing, distributing and storing costs–empowering the government’s vision toward a cashless economy. A central bank digital currency (CBDC) is a digital currency that is issued and supervised by a nation’s central bank. Hundred plus countries are exploring CBDCs at one point or another according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). But as of the year 2022, only a few countries have CBDC or have solid plans to issue them.  Digital currency is a form of currency that just exists in the digital form but on the other hand, cryptocurrency is also a digital currency but in the form of decentralized digital currency. It requires cryptography and no central authority to manage its balances and ledgers. Today, the most used form of ledger system in crypto is to use blockchain technology.  There are mainly three types of digital currencies: stablecoins, central bank digital currency (CBDCs) and cryptocurrency.  The only way to invest in a central bank digital currency is to hold the currency in your account. In simple terms, holding the nation’s hard cash in your hand today. Users need to have a verified username and a bank account to hold a CBDC from any country today.  This means citizens of different nations can’t have an overseas nation’s CBDC distributed to them. But it is believed that this scenario will change once more CBDCs are implemented globally.  Digital currency systems are open to hacks. There’s always a possibility that hackers can bring down important financial frameworks and break the economic foundations of a nation. Centralized digital currency systems, like those for CBDCs, can allow the tracing and tracking of users’ information that compromises their privacy. This can affect the users.  
						Kunal is the co-founder of Freo. He is a serial entrepreneur and has founded two other companies prior to which, he spent seven years in the field of technology, research and development and engineering in and outside of India. Kunal has a bachelor’s in technology from IIT Roorkee and holds an MBA in marketing and strategy from ISB, Hyderabad.
					 
						Aashika is the India Editor for Forbes Advisor. Her 15-year business and finance journalism stint has led her to report, write, edit and lead teams covering public investing, private investing and personal investing both in India and overseas. She has previously worked at CNBC-TV18, Thomson Reuters, The Economic Times and Entrepreneur.
					