Explore the dynamic world of Customer Experience (CX) at CMSWire. Stay updated with the latest news, expert advice and in-depth analysis on customer-first marketing, commerce and digital experience design. Typeface, the generative AI application for enterprise content creation, is emerging from stealth to empower businesses to securely create exceptional, brand-personalized content faster and easier than ever before. The company launched with an oversubscribed $65 million round from Lightspeed Venture Partners, GV (Google Ventures), M12 (Microsoft’s Venture Fund), and Menlo Ventures. Typeface is led by former CTO of Adobe, Abhay Parasnis, and a highly experienced team of AI, SaaS and media technologists. Generative AI platforms represent a major technological breakthrough that promises to create content at tremendous speed and scale. To successfully leverage its potential, enterprises must combine generative AI’s speed with a brand’s unique voice, audiences, and workflows to completely transform content creation while maintaining brand control. “By adding brand affinity to generative AI, Typeface allows enterprises to harness their collective creative power for unique expression of their stories and imagination,” says Typeface CEO and Founder, Abhay Parasnis. “Now, any company can transform content into a value multiplier, connecting every department and empowering employees to achieve their creative and storytelling goals.” “Typeface is at the forefront of a monumental shift in how businesses will create and collaborate,” said Ravi Mhatre, Partner at Lightspeed. “With a world-class team and category-defining vision, Typeface is the first company to address the significant need for a comprehensive platform that radically personalizes generative AI for the enterprise. By democratizing access to this technology, companies can supercharge iterative creation and meaningfully engage with customers unlike ever before.” Typeface’s new product provides complete lifecycle content development with self-serve solutions to create with ease, speed, and brand authenticity across all departments, including marketing, advertising, customer support, sales, HR, and more. Typeface is currently partnering with leading enterprises and digital-native brands to rapidly create and adapt content to their enterprise workflows. “We are already leveraging Typeface in our brand content development and are inspired by the endless creative possibilities it presents,” said Michele Floriani, CMO at Sequoia Benefits Group. “From ideation to refinement to stress-testing headlines to creating beautiful imagery, Typeface is a powerful solution that will scale our content standards across our organization.” Typeface is excited to partner with enterprises and is now available for select customers. To join the waitlist, please sign up here. Editor’s note: This press release was co-written with Typeface. Typeface was responsible for generating entire sentences and paragraphs of text, augmenting the human capability to create a more enjoyable, elevated collaboration process. Get to Know Typeface Now [Video] Introducing Typeface: Anything Imagined [Website] Learn more about Typeface [Product] Join Typeface’s Waitlist For over two decades CMSWire, produced by Simpler Media Group, has been the world's leading community of digital customer experience professionals. Today the CMSWire community consists of over 5 million influential customer experience, customer service and digital experience leaders, the majority of whom are based in North America and employed by medium to large organizations.  Our sister community, Reworked, gathers the world's leading employee experience and digital workplace professionals. And our newest community, VKTR, is home for AI practitioners and forward thinking leaders focused on the business of enterprise AI. Not yet a CMSWire member? We serve over 5 million of the world's top customer experience practitioners. Join us today — unlock member benefits and accelerate your career, all for free. For over two decades CMSWire, produced by Simpler Media Group, has been the world's leading community of digital customer experience professionals. Today the CMSWire community consists of over 5 million influential customer experience, customer service and digital experience leaders, the majority of whom are based in North America and employed by medium to large organizations.  Our sister community, Reworked, gathers the world's leading employee experience and digital workplace professionals. And our newest community, VKTR, is home for AI practitioners and forward thinking leaders focused on the business of enterprise AI.