Econsultancy EMEA/USA: +44 (0)20 7970 4322 | email: subs.support@econsultancy.com


 EMEA/USA: +44 (0)20 7970 4322 | email: subs.support@econsultancy.com 
 Econsultancy’s Digital Transformation Monthly report highlights the most important transformation stories across industries: from investments in infrastructure to pivots towards digital only channels. The series distils the important information down into a digestible compendium of what business leaders need to know about digital transformation. This report provides marketers with practical guidance and advice on how best to manage change in the context of rapidly shifting technology, consumer behaviour and market dynamics. A report drawing on the Effective Leadership in the Digital Age research, which set out to answer one key question: what does it mean to be a ‘digital leader’ in the context of digital transformation? A report exploring how organisations can adapt to changing circumstances by applying key agile principles to marketing, ecommerce and innovation practice, with best practice recommendations, case studies and useful frameworks for identifying the key building blocks of achieving greater agility, enhanced innovation and organisational change. A report aimed at helping marketers better understand data within the wider scope of digital transformation and how data underpins businesses. It sets out why digital transformation is needed, the role of data, the DaaS model, data strategy frameworks and why transformation can fail. B2B businesses embarking on digital transformation programmes must factor in a growing demand for ecommerce and a shift in approach towards customer-centricity. This report provides best practice on the opportunities and challenges involved. A survey by Dotdigital highlights the potential skills gap developing in the realm of AI marketing tools, as martech companies warn training should be an ongoing concern. When Eurostar Group underwent a wide-ranging digital transformation following Eurostar’s merger with Thalys, the goal was to improve the customer experience – but bringing station staff ‘on board’ with the change was also critical. Pets at Home now fulfils 40% of ecommerce orders through click and collect (and 24% via the one-hour option). Joe Whitaker, Head of Digital Operations, discusses the brand’s omnichannel transformation in the Covid-19 pandemic, including change management and “winning the hearts and minds” of store staff. Tips to help with the research, the communication and the task of finding out what people want. In essence, how to have good ideas by asking the right questions. From skills assessment to cultural fit, there’s a lot to get right when choosing an L&D partner. Amidst rapid change in marketing and ecommerce, this checklist of recommendations offers a practical approach to digital skills development. Getting an entire organisation on board with digital transformation isn’t something that can be achieved overnight. The NHS official app has been widely downloaded by patients, but a new digital transformation report from the Health and Social Care Committee asserts that more needs to be done to convince users of its value. Digital needs to be “understood as a thread that runs throughout healthcare, not as a specialist skill set that is only relevant to some staff and occupations,” according to the report from The Health and Social Care Committee. The agency MD talks digital projects, legacy tech and web performance, saying that getting the engineering right helps meet objectives across UX, SEO and conversion. At a recent event, interim CEO of TGI Fridays Julie McEwan spoke about the brand’s work to innovate on its legacy and invest in digital platforms. At Retail Week Live, Greggs’ IT and Digital Director Tony Taylor explored the highs and lows of the company’s digital transformation. Econsultancy founder Ashley Friedlein and a panel of senior brand marketers discuss what multichannel strategy will look like post-pandemic. Digital Shift for Q1 covers the creator economy, livestreaming, the integration of commerce in many content formats, Ratatouille: The TikTok Musical, Singles’ Day 2020 and Netflix’s content-led forays on social media and virtual influencers. Econsultancy’s quarterly Digital Shift report delivers actionable insight on trends that will be significant in the short- to mid-term, and can be used to generate new ideas, improve business performance and stay ahead of the competition.  ‌ The Internet Statistics Database contains over 2500 charts and statistics related to digital transformation, for you to browse, save and export. Xeim Limited, Registered in England and Wales with number 05243851
Registered office at Econsultancy, Floor 14, 10 York Road, London, SE1 7ND