Culture | Gaming The Evening Standard's journalism is supported by our readers. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. PlayStation and Xbox both had a great year thanks to a solid lineup of new releases and loaded game subscription services. With so many bountiful ways to play, gamers will have racked up the hours on their favourite console over the past 12 months. Fortunately, you can currently grab and share a snapshot of your year-long gaming activity that reveals the games you played the most. Here’s how to access the 2022 PlayStation and Xbox wrap-ups. PlayStation’s 2022 Wrap-Up lets you view a range of PS4 and PS5 gaming statistics that will continue to be updated until the end of the year. You can also download and share a gaming card that features a rundown of your annual highlights. This includes your top game, hours played, games played, trophies earned and PS Plus games played, among other information. PlayStation is also rewarding gamers who check all their stats with an avatar for use on their PSN profile. These avatars are shareable, meaning you can swap your voucher codes with others to grab the entire set. To access your Wrap-Up, PlayStation says that you will need to have played games on a PS4 or PS5 console for at least 10 hours between January and the end of the year. To grab your PlayStation Wrap-Up, visit the 2022 Wrap-up website and log in (if you haven’t already) to view your dashboard. Here, you’ll be able to check multiple stats across different categories by clicking on their corresponding icons. Once you have viewed each section, you’ll unlock an avatar that you can claim through the PlayStation Store using your voucher code. There are several avatars available, the codes for which people have already shared on Twitter, allowing you to download them all. You can grab your 2022 Wrap-up highlights card at any time by clicking the “share” button at the top right of the page. Here, you will be able to download an image file or copy the URL, or share a link directly on Twitter or Facebook. While Xbox hasn’t released an official wrap-up yet, eager gamers can grab an unofficial version that compiles your highlights for you to save or share online. This version comes courtesy of TrueAchievements, a website that tracks players’ gaming achievements and scores. You can grab it here by creating a TrueAchievements account by logging in with your Xbox Live details. Shop the PS5 Slim console in the Amazon Spring Deal Days with almost £100 off Helldivers 2 gets 24 new items in Cutting Edge Warbond As Sea of Thieves sets sail for PS5: Here's what all the hype is about Buying a new car? Here's why Omoda needs to be on your radar However, its unofficial status inevitably means it has some caveats. As noted, this is just an infographic rather than a deep-dive into your gaming stats. Known as “#MyYearOnXbox,” the gamer card includes the achievements earned, total Gamerscore, games played, hours played and your top game of 2022. In that sense, it actually looks a lot like PlayStation’s downloadable Wrap-Up highlights infographic. Another issue is that it shows stats for only the Xbox games you started playing this year. So if your top game was a title you began in 2021, it won’t be reflected on the list. The good thing is that you can refresh the stats until the end of the year by selecting the “click to rebuild” option below your infographic. You can also download your card or share it directly to Twitter, Reddit or on TrueAchievements itself. Xbox previously released a gaming highlights reel for players known, with the last Xbox Year in Review appearing in 2018. The company has not said if it will bring it back this year, though time is running out if it plans to revive the feature. More recently, it launched a metaverse museum to celebrate 20 years of Xbox. Visitors to the site could guide their digital avatars around exhibits charting the progress of Microsoft’s console, including videos on the original Xbox, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and the latest Xbox Series X/S consoles. There was even a personal collection that let Xbox owners look back at their own history. This included the first game they played on certain consoles and when they first signed into Xbox Live. Create a FREE account to continue reading Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism. Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app. Your email address Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number You must be at least 18 years old to create an account * Required fields Already have an account? SIGN IN By clicking Create Account you confirm that your data has been entered correctly and you have read and agree to our Terms of use , Cookie policy and Privacy policy .  This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Thank you for registering Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in MORE ABOUT Have your say... 1 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 2 Football Transfer news LIVE! Chelsea double deal; Arsenal agree personal terms, Toney update; Man Utd in Berge blow 3 Music Katy Perry's 143 album launch failures: The full timeline as Lifetimes single is panned 4 Football Chelsea to accelerate fire sale with 14 players facing exits before transfer window closes 5 Football Man City injury update: Rodri, Savinho, Oscar Bobb latest news and return dates