New Delhi, Sep 11 (IANS): Elon Musk and billionaire-philanthropist Bill Gates got into a verbal spat after the Tesla CEO confronted the Microsoft founder over shorting the electric-car company's shares last year, Musk’s upcoming biography by American author-journalist Walter Isaacson has revealed. In excerpts from the book named "Elon Musk" by CNBC, Isaacson wrote that in early 2022, Gates spoke to Musk and said he wanted to "come see (him) and talk about philanthropy and climate" at a meeting. The meeting happened at Musk's Texas plant where the SpaceX owner confronted Gates over the decision to short Tesla stock. Musk said in April 2022 that Gates had taken a half-billion dollar short position against Tesla. Gates apologised for the move but Musk was still upset and became "super mean" to the Microsoft founder. "He was super mean to me, but he's super mean to so many people, so you can't take it too personally," Gates told Isaacson. Grimes, Musk's ex-girlfriend and the mother of three of his children, called the incident "a little bit of a d**k-measuring contest". Gates apparently told Isaacson his decision was a business move, as he anticipated the supply of electric vehicles would soon outpace demand, leading to a price drop. The two billionaires have been in a feud since Gates shorted Tesla stock last year. Musk publicly mocked Gates on Twitter (now X) a couple of times for shorting Tesla stock "while claiming to support climate change action". He tweeted a picture of Gates, accusing him of shorting Tesla's stock. Gates had replied, saying Musk's tweeting "doesn't bother me".   Disclaimer: Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.  Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request. Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible. 
                            Daijiworld Residency,
                            Airport Road, Bondel Post,
                            Mangalore - 575 008
                            Karnataka India
                            Telephone : +91-824-2982023.
                            General Enquiry: office@daijiworld.com,
                            News & Info : news@daijiworld.com
                         
                            Kishoo Enterprises,
                            
                            3rd Floor, Mandavi Trade Centre,
                            Kadiyali, Udupi – 576 102
                            
                            Telephone : 0091-820-4295571
                            
                            E-mail : udupi@daijiworld.com
                         
                            Daijiworld Middle East FZE,
                            P.O.Box: 84772, Dubai, UAE
                            Tel: 971-50-6597629
                            Fax: 971-4-2639207
                            Email: dubai@daijiworld.com
                         
                        Copyright © 2001 - 2024. All Rights Reserved.
                        
                        Published by Daijiworld Media Pvt Ltd., Mangalore.
                      Powered by ATC Online LLP