
We don’t support this browser anymore.
              This means our website may not look and work as you would expect.
              Read more about browsers and how to update them here.
             We're making changes to our website. Find out more Unfortunately we cannot currently show costs and charges data for SKYX Platforms Corp. Please try again later or contact us for assistance. 
                The following charges are based on an investment of   within a 
                over  5 years assuming  
Change these assumptions 
 The costs, charges and returns shown are for illustrative purposes only based on the assumptions you have chosen. Please check the costs and charges of your investment and our service before investing. Returns are not guaranteed. Figures may not add up to the given total due to rounding.  Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. Our analysts have selected this fund for the Wealth Shortlist. The London Stock Exchange does not disclose whether a trade is a buy or a sell so this data is estimated based on the trade price received and the LSE-quoted mid-price at the point the trade is placed. It should only be considered an indication and not a recommendation. Trades priced above the mid-price at the time the trade is placed are labelled as a buy; those priced below the mid-price are sells; and those priced close to the mid-price or declared late are labelled 'N/A'. Our website offers information about investing and saving, but not personal advice. If you're not sure which investments are right for you, please request advice, for example from our financial advisers. If you decide to invest, read our important investment notes first and remember that investments can go up and down in value, so you could get back less than you put in. Important information Useful information Popular services Online access Other websites We're here to help - call our helpdesk or send us a message. Contact us © Copyright 2024 Hargreaves Lansdown. All rights reserved.Hargreaves Lansdown is a trading name of Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited, a company registered in England and Wales with company number 01896481 and authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Information about us can be found on the Financial Services Register (register number 115248).Registered Office: 1 College Square South, Anchor Road, Bristol, BS1 5HL.