Feb 2, 2023 YOUNGSTOWN — A forensic scientist for the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation testified Wednesday that a cigarette butt police found in front of a home on Dickson Street near the Shell gas station — where Keimone L. Black, 29, was shot to death June 15 — had DNA from defendant Samuel L. Byrd Jr. Byrd, 69, is on trial in Mahoning County Common Pleas Court on aggravated murder in Black’s death. Prosecutors say surveillance video from a home shows a man getting out of the passenger seat of a Dodge Stratus on Dickson Street and walking toward the nearby gas station at about the time of the 3 a.m. killing.  The trial, before visiting Judge Thomas Pokorny, will resume today. BCI scientist Lindsey Deetz testified Wednesday she tested a number of items the Youngstown Police Department submitted, including the cigarette and bullet shell casings. The result of cigarette testing showed that DNA on the butt came back to one person “that is consistent with Samuel Byrd,” Deetz testified. Defense attorney Corey Grimm looked at the cigarette butt Tuesday while cross examining Youngstown police crime scene investigator Tony Vitullo. She asked him why he testified the cigarette looked “fresh” when it had a piece of the filter gone. Vitullo said it “didn’t look that way when he collected it” early June 15 near the gas station. Under cross examination by defense attorney Frank Cassese, Deetz testified she cannot say when the DNA got on the cigarette butt. OTHER TESTIMONY Also testifying Wednesday was Dr. David Dollinak, forensic pathologist in Cuyahoga County, who carried out the autopsy on Black’s body. He said Black suffered three gunshot wounds — one that entered his chest on his right side and exited his back. It hit his lung and heart, including a large vein. It led to the loss of almost two liters of blood. That wound alone would have caused death within “a number of minutes,” he said. Three other shots came from the same direction, hitting him a little lower. One hit his liver and remained in his body. Another entered near Black’s hip and went through his intestines seven times. A fourth shot hit him in his hip area, fracturing his pelvis, hitting a large artery. The cause and manner of Black’s death was gunshot wounds and homicide. Jurors also watched surveillance videos Wednesday taken from a home in Dickson Street, showing a car parked across the street from the home near the gas station. One video shows a person getting into the passenger side of a dark-colored car stationary on Dickson Street. The car then can be see backing down the street as it travels away from the gas station. Youngstown detective Michael Cox was on the witness stand while the videos were shown because he collected the videos from the home on Dickson. Under cross examination by Cassese, Cox said he collected three videos from cameras early June 15. He said he also viewed other videos and determined that they did not provide any evidence related to the investigation. “If the vehicle that transported the killer to the scene, that would be pertinent evidence would it not? You don’t know whether it was or was not” because it was not collected, Cassese asked. Cox said if the other cameras provided evidence, they would have been collected, adding: “We viewed all of the cameras. We took the cameras we knew there was evidence on that was pertinent to the case.” Today's breaking news and more in your inbox YOUNGSTOWN – Enough demolition work is finished at the former Realty Tower downtown that the nearby DoubleTree by ... YOUNGSTOWN — A boy, 14, has been arrested in the 8:45 p.m. Sunday shooting of a boy, 12, on Gibson Street near ...  

NILES — Starting this month, work will begin on a more than $2.5 million project to add a splash pad, gazebo, ...  

CANFIELD — Five people have been named to the Mahoning County Agriculture Hall of Fame and will be inducted ...  

WARREN — Area Rotary clubs came together Sunday at Packard Park to find ways to share ideas and collaborate ...  Copyright © The Vindicator | https://www.vindy.com | 240 Franklin Street SE, Warren, OH 44482 | 330-841-1600 | Terms of Service