After reviewing the top internet providers around, Xfinity is CNET’s pick for best internet service provider in Portland, Oregon. With availability to about 99% of Portland households, most of Xfinity's plans offer unlimited data and customers can opt-in for no-contract requirements. If Xfinity isn't available at your address, Quantum Fiber, Starlink and T-Mobile are solid picks for home internet. Xfinity and Ziply Fiber tie for the cheapest internet service in Portland, offering $20 monthly plans. While Ziply Fiber reaches download speeds of only 100Mbps, Xfinity Connect hits up to 150Mbps of download speeds. Ziply Fiber also wins for the fastest internet provider in Portland, offering 50-gig, 5-gig and 10-gig plans. If you want to bundle your internet with television service, cable providers like Xfinity and Astound Broadband also offer plans with more than a gigabit of speed.  Source: CNET analysis of provider data. In Portland, the average starting price for broadband service is approximately $44 a month. There are many options under and over that $50 mark, depending on how much internet speed you want. If cost is a major factor in choosing an internet provider, Xfinity, Ziply Fiber and Astound Broadband offer a $20 base plan for speeds up to 150Mbps and 100Mbps respectively.   Source: CNET analysis of provider data. The best internet deals and top promotions in Portland depend on the available discounts. Most deals are short-lived, but we look frequently for the latest offers.  Portland internet providers, such as Xfinity, Starlink and Astound Broadband, may offer lower introductory pricing or streaming add-ons for a limited time. Many, including CenturyLink, Quantum Fiber and Verizon, run the same standard pricing year-round.  For a more extensive list of promos, check out our guide to the best internet deals. Portland's ISPs have speeds that range from 20Mbps to 50,000Mbps, despite the city's ranking 81st for internet speeds among the 100 most populated cities in the US. A recent report published by Ookla shows that Xfinity has the fastest median data speed in Portland, coming in at around 226Mbps. Yet Ziply Fiber offers several of the fastest plans: 5 gigs for $90 per month, 10,000Mbps for $300 monthly and 50,000Mbps for $900 monthly.  Source: CNET analysis of provider data. See all results for internet providers in Oregon. Most internet connection plans can now handle basic productivity and communication tasks. If you're looking for an internet plan that can accommodate videoconferencing, streaming video or gaming, you'll have a better experience with a more robust connection. Here's an overview of the recommended minimum download speeds for various applications, according to the FCC. Note that these are only guidelines and that internet speed, service and performance vary by connection type, provider and address. For more information, refer to our guide on how much internet speed you really need. Internet service providers are numerous and regional. Unlike the latest smartphone, laptop, router or kitchen tool, it's impractical to personally test every internet service provider in a given city. What's our approach? For starters, we tap into a proprietary database of pricing, availability and speed information that draws from our own historical ISP data, partner data and mapping information from the Federal Communications Commission at FCC.gov.  It doesn't end there: We go to the FCC's website to check our data and ensure we consider every ISP that provides service in an area. We also input local addresses on provider websites to find specific options for residents. We look at sources, including the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power, to evaluate how happy customers are with an ISP's service. ISP plans and prices are subject to frequent changes; all information provided is accurate as of publication.  Once we have this localized information, we ask three main questions:  While the answer to those questions is often layered and complex, the providers who come closest to “yes” on all three are the ones we recommend. When selecting the cheapest internet service, we look for the plans with the lowest monthly fee, although we also factor in things like price increases, equipment fees and contracts. Choosing the fastest internet service is relatively straightforward. We look at advertised upload and download speeds and consider real-world speed data from sources like Ookla and FCC reports. To explore our process in more depth, visit our how we test ISPs page. When choosing an internet service provider, you're always better off choosing fiber internet over all other options if it's available. Ziply Fiber and CenturyLink offer the best fiber internet plans in Portland. If fiber is unavailable in your neighborhood, cable internet or 5G fixed wireless providers offer fast and reliable connections. Just steer clear of data caps or any binding long-term contracts. 
      What is the cheapest internet provider in Portland?
     Ziply Fiber's 100Mbps plan is $20 a month with no contract. Xfinity offers a base plan for the same cost and reaches up to 150Mbps. Those are the cheapest internet plans in the city, offering 20 cents and 13 cents per Mbps.  
      Is fiber internet service available in Portland?
     Yes. Most households in Portland will have access to fiber connectivity, the best internet connection you can get. Quantum Fiber, Ziply Fiber and (in some areas) Xfinity's fiber service are Portland's top ISPs offering fiber internet.  
      Which internet provider in Portland offers the fastest plan?
     Xfinity's top-tier fiber service, Gigabit Extra, was previously the fastest internet service in Portland at 1,200Mbps. Ziply Fiber's 50Gbps plan is now the top dog in the Portland area.