The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 Determining the best internet service providers and services for you is often a practice in balancing the local options, the price points and your needs. Someone who lives in a rural area with limited downloading and streaming needs will likely have a different internet service than someone who lives in an urban area and shares their network with multiple high-demand internet users. For most people, the starting point when considering what type of internet connection to use is learning about the options available in the area. Although there has been a great deal of expansion, there are still limitations—especially when it comes to services like cable or fiber internet that depend on the installation of cables. Once you know what internet connection choices are available in your area, the next step is to understand the pros and cons of the different types. Delivered by fiber optic cables, fiber internet broadband (also known as fiber broadband) can deliver significantly faster internet speeds than traditional cable or DSL. It’s also more reliable than other types of internet connections: Unlike copper wire cables, fiber optic cables won’t get distorted when transmitting data over long distances. Fiber internet is often reasonably priced, as well. So, why doesn’t everyone use fiber broadband? Geographic location is still a major constraint. According to a 2022 report from Fiber Broadband Association, 60.5 million American homes can access fiber internet—which translates to 43%. Although that number is steadily growing, that leaves the majority of people searching for another type of internet connection. Pros Cons A popular type of broadband internet, a cable connection offers high-speed internet using cable television infrastructures—which makes it available to anyone who has (or could have) cable TV. Due to its widespread availability and speed, cable internet is one of the most popular connection types. Cable internet plans often offer download speeds in excess of 100 Mbps, which is more than sufficient for most needs. Although cable internet is highly reliable, even during extreme weather events, the network may slow down when it becomes congested. This is more likely to be an issue during times of the day when more people are accessing the internet, such as in the evening when your neighbors sit down to stream shows or movies. Pros Cons Fifth Generation or “5G” is a form of wireless internet that uses a receiver to get an internet signal at your home. Unlike 5G mobile plans, this has a fixed location—meaning you can’t use the internet when out of the house. Current 5G providers offer a range of speeds at good prices. However, there is one significant constraint that limits 5G’s popularity: It is only available in select regions, which mostly includes major cities at this point. There are also limited providers and wireless internet is less reliable than internet that uses cable. Although, to be fair, 5G is still quite reliable. Pros Cons Similar to cable, Digital Subscriber Line or “DSL” internet is a type of broadband that works through phone lines. This makes it an attractive option for people in more rural areas where there is a good network of phone lines. And, unlike dial-up services, you can use a landline and the internet simultaneously. The downside to DSL is that it is comparatively slower than other types of connections. Also, if you don’t already have a phone line at your home, it probably isn’t worthwhile to install one just for the sake of DSL. Pros Cons A type of wireless internet that uses a dish to receive a satellite signal, satellite internet has virtually nationwide availability. Although it cannot compete with connection types like fiber when it comes to speed and reliability, satellite remains a great option for anyone who lives in a rural area or place otherwise disconnected from physical cable lines. In most cases, you can expect to pay more for satellite to receive the same internet speed as a comparable cable, DSL, 5G or fiber plan. Need more than 100 Mbps? Satellite probably isn’t for you. Pros Cons If you define “the best” as the type of internet connection that offers the most speed with great reliability, then fiber is the way to go. However, because fiber remains limited, the next-best choice that is more widely available is cable internet. Once the gold standard for residential internet connections, dial-up service is all but extinct these days due to the widespread availability of faster, more reliable options. With speeds that can easily top 1,000 Mbps, fiber internet is the fastest type available. In contrast, most other types of internet top out around 100 Mbps, which makes fiber 10 times faster. If you aren’t sure which type of internet connection you have, take a look at the hardware in your home, such as the modem and router. Depending on the type of cables and/or the satellite the hardware is connected to, you should be able to determine whether you have fiber, cable, DSL, 5G or satellite internet. If you are still in doubt, you can contact your provider to clear up any questions. 
				Since graduating with a journalism degree in 2012, Emily has worked on staff and in freelance roles for a variety of publications, including Realtor.com, as well as local real estate companies. As a long-time member of the Forbes Home team, Emily has shared dozens of informative articles about topics ranging from pest control to solar incentives and much more.
			 
				Lowe is a lead editor, covering all things related to home improvement and good design. She previously worked in the decor and lifestyle spaces for digital publishers such as Hunker, First Media and Ranker and has multiple years of experience creating design and DIY content.
			