Opelika is often lumped in with nearby Auburn, a city famous for Auburn University and its mighty Tigers, but Opelika has a history and feel all its own. The city has plenty to draw you out, thanks to an active downtown, historic sites, Tiger Town and a burgeoning craft brewing scene. Those perks attract people to Opelika, and residents want fast, reliable internet to keep them connected for work and play.     AT&T Fiber is CNET's choice for the best internet provider in Opelika due to its 5,000Mbps speed tier, which is available in some parts of the city. Fiber provider Point Broadband makes a strong case for consideration as well. Spectrum cable internet, T-Mobile Home Internet and Verizon 5G Home Internet offer affordable alternatives where fiber isn't available. Let's get the ISP train rolling and look at the best internet options for Opelika.    Regarding fast internet plans, Opelika is a good place to shop. Much of the city is hooked up for fiber internet, the Cadillac of residential internet services. Both AT&T Fiber and Point Broadband operate in the city, so your choice may come down to availability and price. If you're in a spot with no fiber coverage, check into Spectrum for cable internet, T-Mobile Home Internet or Verizon 5G Home Internet for 5G fixed wireless.   Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Opelika is a pretty typical market for ISP shoppers. There are several fiber options with AT&T and Point Broadband, a cable option from Spectrum, and fixed wireless from T-Mobile and Verizon. AT&T's slower DSL service also reaches many homes, and satellite internet is a potential alternative for more rural locations in the area.     In keeping with Opelika's railroad heritage, let's compare the internet to trains. AT&T's DSL is like an overloaded freight working its way up a steep pass. It'll get there eventually, but it won't go fast. Fixed wireless is like Amtrak. Maybe it'll be timely; maybe it'll be running a little slow. Spectrum's cable offering is like regional passenger rail. Solid, capable and decently fast. Lower-gig tiers of fiber from AT&T and Point Broadband are like express commuter trains: plenty fast enough for most people. Fiber at its speediest (as in AT&T's 5-gig plan) is like a bullet train. Zoom. Which one will you board? The average starting price for internet in Opelika is just a hair under $50 per month. Point Broadband's $40-per-month introductory deal for 200Mbps service is the cheapest intro to fiber, but keep an eye on future price hikes. All Opelika ISPs have at least one plan at around the $50 level. AT&T Fiber and Spectrum are on the faster side of that with 300Mbps offerings. If cost is your top concern, it's hard to beat Verizon's $25 or T-Mobile's $30 special price when you bundle with an eligible phone plan. You can pull down faster speeds from Point, Spectrum and AT&T Fiber for starting prices between $40 and $55. Point has some tempting deals, but watch for price changes.   Source: CNET analysis of provider data. According to Ookla, of Speedtest.net fame, Opelika's median download speed for fixed internet is about 243Mbps. AT&T has some of the slowest and fastest internet speeds in Opelika. It's all about technology. AT&T Internet's DSL will likely be too slow, while AT&T Fiber and its max speeds up to 5,000Mbps will keep your online experience peppy. Point Broadband and Spectrum cable both make a case with speeds in the 1,000Mbps range.    There's one clear champ in the race to provide the fastest internet service to Opelika, and that's AT&T Fiber's 5,000Mbps plan at the $180-per-month price. That may be overkill for many internet users, but big-time gamers and households with multiple heavy internet users can take advantage of that offering. Just watch out for limited availability in Opelika. Most people who enjoy streaming, browsing, and gaming will do just fine at the 1,000Mbps (1 gigabit) level from AT&T Fiber, Point Broadband or Spectrum.      Source: CNET analysis of provider data. When it comes to the internet in Opelika, it's all about location. Does AT&T Fiber or Point Broadband service your address? Those are good places to start for fast, reliable fiber connections. If fiber isn't available or you don't have that need for speed, chances are good Spectrum has you covered with cable. Finally, don't sleep on T-Mobile Home Internet or Verizon 5G Home Internet. They can be extremely affordable and fast enough for many households in good locations for fixed wireless.    Internet service providers are numerous and regional. Unlike the latest smartphone, laptop, router or kitchen tool, it’s impractical to personally test every ISP in a given city. So what’s our approach? We start by researching the pricing, availability and speed information drawing on our own historical ISP data, the provider sites and mapping information from the Federal Communications Commission at FCC.gov. But it doesn’t end there. We go to the FCC’s website to check our data and ensure we’re considering every ISP that provides service in an area. We also input local addresses on provider websites to find specific options for residents. To evaluate how happy customers are with an ISP's service, we look at sources including the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power. ISP plans and prices are subject to frequent changes; all information provided is accurate as of the time of publication.  Once we have this localized information, we ask three main questions:  While the answer to those questions is often layered and complex, the providers who come closest to “yes” on all three are the ones we recommend.  To explore our process in more depth, visit our How We Test ISPs page. 
      Is fiber internet available in Opelika?
     Yes. AT&T Fiber and Point Broadband duke it out for fiber supremacy in Opelika. AT&T offers a top speed of 5,000Mbps in some parts of town, while Point maxes out at 1,000Mbps. The two ISPs are very competitive at the 1,000Mbps level and below. Point's pricing structure isn't the most transparent, however. 
      Who is the cheapest internet provider in Opelika?
     It's tough to beat the bundle bargains from fixed wireless ISPs Verizon and T-Mobile. Put home internet together with an eligible phone plan, and you can get online for as low as $25 per month with Verizon and $30 per month with T-Mobile. On the fiber side, Point Broadband offers strong introductory deals as low as $59 per month, while AT&T's 300Mbps tier comes in at $55. That's not bad for fiber. 
      Which internet provider in Opelika offers the fastest plan?
     When you need internet that runs like an Italian sports car on a track, fiber is the way. The fastest residential plan in Opelika comes from AT&T Fiber, with speeds up to 5,000Mbps for $250 per month. Availability is limited, but residents can also look to gigabit plans from AT&T and Point Broadband. Here's what you need to know about multigigabit internet.  
      Is AT&T Fiber or Point Broadband better in Opelika?
     AT&T Fiber just edged Point Broadband for our choice of the best internet provider in Opelika, but your decision will come down to several factors. If it's 5-gigabit speeds you're looking for, AT&T is the only game in town. Point, however, has wide coverage across Opelika for its gigabit tier. Where Point struggles a bit is with its convoluted pricing. Look carefully to find the best balance of speed and price and check the fine print for future price hikes. 