The Senior List is supported by commissions from providers listed on our site. Read our Editorial Guidelines. Get an annual AARP membership for only $12. Limited time offer. Overall Rating: Overall Rating: Overall Rating: As of 2024, roughly 88 percent of U.S. adults ages 65 and older use the internet. No matter how you slice it, internet access is important for older adults, be it for social connection, healthcare access, entertainment, or safety. However, seniors face some unique challenges when it comes to internet access. From unaffordable prices to confusing technology to internet scams, it’s important to be careful online; this starts with your ISP (or internet service provider). In this article, we’re taking you through the best internet providers for seniors — all based on your individual needs, priorities, and limitations. Pro Tip: If you’re looking for a phone with internet, check out our rundown of the best senior cell phone plans. When ranking the best internet for older adults, we used the following criteria: *Speeds listed represent the speed for the provider’s most affordable internet package. Starting Cost: $25 per month With prices starting as low as $25 a month, Xfinity offers speeds of up to 1,200 Mbps, plus other perks like Peacock Premium, discounts, and giveaways. Plus, all of its Gateways (the company’s proprietary modems) included antivirus software that protected us from online scammers. With Xfinity, we paid for speeds of 800 Mbps, although the limit was 1,200. This is significantly faster than other providers on this list — AT&T and Spectrum, for example — which offer max speeds of only 1,000 Mbps. We installed our Xfinity Gateway ourselves, and it only took a few minutes. It was as easy as plugging it in, downloading the Xfinity app, and following the step-by-step instructions; this meant that we didn’t have to pay a dime for installation. However, we did have to pay $15 per month to rent the Gateway, while many other companies like Cox, Spectrum, and T-Mobile offer their modems for free. On a more positive note, the Gateway comes equipped with software that blocks risky sites and network threats. If cybersecurity is a concern of yours, you’ll appreciate the features built into the Gateway. >> Read more: The Best Identity Theft Protection Services for Seniors One huge advantage of Xfinity is that it has the lowest starting costs of any company on this list at $25 a month. If you choose a plan with 400 or more Mbps like we did, the Gateway is free. Otherwise, it’ll cost up to $15 a month if you don’t use your existing modem. Contracts are either one or two years, but prices lock for three years if you get 1,000 Mbps or faster. Plus, if you also power your mobile phone through Xfinity, you’ll get $10-$30 off your monthly bill. When it comes to customer service, Xfinity is lacking. When our internet stopped working one day, we had to go through the online live chat, chatting with a robot, before we could access support over the phone. Every other provider on this list allowed us to call them directly. So it was no surprise to us that Xfinity scored the lowest on this list for customer satisfaction with only 713 points out of 1,000, below the national average of 748 according to the 2023 J.D. Power survey. Although Xfinity may be lacking when it comes to customer service, it offers fast speeds, affordable prices, cybersecurity features, and, with faster plans, free equipment and installation. To learn more about this provider, read our guide to Xfinity internet for seniors. Starting Cost: $50 per month We’ve all experienced the bad feeling that accompanies signing up for a product or service, then being inundated with hidden fees. Some of the providers on this list, like AT&T and CenturyLink, charge extra for installation or even the Wi-Fi equipment on its own. But with Spectrum, the monthly fee is the only thing you’ll pay for (plus taxes, but those are unavoidable). Spectrum makes getting the internet simple and affordable. We got our router from a local Spectrum store, but you can also have it shipped. Then, we installed our system ourselves by connecting our router to our Ethernet port and power. The router updated for about 10 minutes; then we scanned a QR code on the side of the router and named our Wi-Fi network (after a Taylor Swift song, but that’s neither here nor there). Once we created a password for our router, so our neighbors couldn’t slow down our bandwidth, we visited Spectrum’s website and activated our service. The best part? It didn’t cost us a thing to install or get the equipment. While Spectrum’s pricing may seem a bit high, starting at around $50, you have to take into account that these are the only costs you’ll pay. For example, Xfinity starts at half the price, but if you don’t already have a modem, you’ll have to pay $15 per month to rent equipment, bringing your costs to a similar level. Another advantage of Spectrum over a monthly provider like AT&T, CenturyLink, or Cox is that you sign up for one or two years, meaning the prices will remain the same for that time period. It pays to commit! Another perk? If you buy online like we did, you’ll get a $100 Visa Rewards card. Literally, Spectrum will pay you to become a customer. Aside from the one-time Visa gift card and antivirus software, Spectrum is free of perks like discounts or streaming, similar to AT&T. If you want more of the bells and whistles like streaming services and discounts, check out Xfinity or T-Mobile. If you want to keep things simple when it comes to buying internet, Spectrum is perfect for you. All you’ll pay each month is your monthly internet charge, and while Spectrum does require long-term contracts, these contracts ensure that your internet price won’t unexpectedly rise. To learn more about this provider, read our guide to Spectrum internet for seniors. Starting Cost: $35 per month We’ve all experienced trying to contact our internet companies, being put on hold for two hours, then being hung up on during a transfer. But out of the companies on this list, AT&T has the best customer service, rated 737 out of 1,000 on J.D. Power’s customer satisfaction survey. When it comes to customer service, there are many ways to contact AT&T, including a robust online help center, live chat, and a call center open nearly 24/7. Setting up AT&T requires professional installation, which is free if you choose the faster 940 Mbps, like we did. Our serviceman set up our gateway in just over four hours, typical for fiber internet as it includes fiber optics cables. When we were having some internet connection issues, we simply went to AT&T’s website, found a relevant article, and followed the numerical steps. However, if we couldn’t figure it out from the support article, there was also a community forum, live chat, and a phone line, available weekdays 9 a.m. through 9 p.m. CT and weekends 4 a.m. through 1 a.m. CT. That’s nearly 24 hours of service, and we loved that AT&T didn’t make it hard to find the phone number, unlike Xfinity. >> Read more: AT&T Senior Phone Plans There are three plans for the internet from AT&T ranging from $35 to $60. These are some of the more affordable prices on the market, as the average price is about $60. These plans are super straightforward and do not include any streaming services or discounts on restaurants like T-Mobile’s plans. However, AT&T plans do include what the company calls “ActiveArmor,” which blocks against internet threats like malware. Additionally, all of the fiber internet plans below can get you a $150 reward card if you purchase online. Note that the below prices include a $5 per month discount for enrolling in automatic payments. The equipment is free with all of the plans, although installation can cost up to $99. There is an option to self-install for free, but it won’t be as simple as plugging in a Gateway like Xfinity. All plans are monthly, which means that the monthly prices are subject to change. Additionally, AT&T offers a special internet plan for low-income individuals. This plan, costing $30 per month, offers speeds up to 100 Mbps. Although AT&T provides fast internet for reasonable prices, it doesn’t have the “perks” we’ve received from other providers — from T-Mobile Tuesday and Xfinity Rewards to Peacock, Apple TV+, and Netflix. If you want an internet package that does more than just internet, we’d recommend checking out T-Mobile or Xfinity. If customer service is important to you, you’ll appreciate that AT&T makes it easy to get help nearly 24/7. Plus, their overall prices are highly affordable, considering how fast the speeds you get. To learn more about our experience with this provider, read our full guide to AT&T internet for seniors. Starting Cost: $40 per month T-Mobile is known for its 5G networks, and that applies to its home internet as well as its phones. You can either save money by bundling your home phone and internet, or you can buy internet only for $60 a month. However, if you want the best streaming benefits on the market, i.e. Apple TV+ and Netflix, we recommend going with one of their bundled options. T-Mobile’s internet plans, whether internet-only or internet/mobile, have the best perks of any company on this list. To name a few: However, if you have any of the following plans, you’ll get Apple TV+ for six months: It pays to bundle your mobile and internet with T-Mobile. Selling Sunset, anyone? T-Mobile offers a discount if you bundle home internet and mobile phone service. However, internet on its own costs $60 a month, a bit on the higher side considering Xfinity starts at $25 per month. Note that for T-Mobile, the prices we paid included a discount for enrolling in automatic payments. If you wanted to manually pay each month, then internet service would cost $70 per month. The good news? T-Mobile has monthly contracts, so you won’t be locked into any long-term commitments. Of course, the downside of that is there’s no guarantee that the price will remain the same for more than a month. While the Wi-Fi equipment was free with all plans, we had to pay a $35 device-connection fee when we bought the internet package — even though we installed the equipment for free. We prefer companies like Spectrum with truly free installation. T-Mobile is most worth it if you already want to bundle home internet, mobile phone, and some great streaming services. Its best deal is $40 a month, which is not a lot considering how much it gets you. The biggest drawback of T-Mobile applies to people who want to buy internet only. Maybe you already have a mobile phone provider and are not looking to switch. Or maybe you simply don’t have a cell phone. Whatever the reason, T-Mobile only has one internet-only plan, and for $60 a month, it doesn’t include any of the streaming perks found from other providers on this list. T-Mobile is only worth it if you want to bundle your internet and phone, like we did. >>Read more: T-Mobile Senior Phone Plans If you want streaming, home internet, and a mobile phone rolled into one, T-Mobile is a great place to get it all under one roof. Between Netflix and Apple TV+, you’ll never want to leave your house! To learn more about this provider, read our guide to T-Mobile internet for seniors. Starting Cost: $55 per month Even though long-term contracts have the pro of locking in prices, not everyone is open to commitments. Probably many of us have been burned by internet contracts we couldn’t get out of (not to mention romantic relationships). But with CenturyLink, all of the plans are month-to-month, leaving you free to come or go as you please. CenturyLink’s internet offerings are pretty straightforward. We had the options of 100 or 940 Mbps; all contracts were monthly, so when we got the lower speeds initially, we could easily upgrade. Now, with that lower-tier option, we had to lease our router for $15 a month, unlike Spectrum with its lack of equipment fees. We also could have bought it for up to $200, and we had to pay a $149 installation fee. However, the installation fee would have been free with the 940 Mbps plan. CenturyLink lacks the antivirus software of other companies like AT&T, Spectrum, and Xfinity, but it does have something unique: a referral program. With the referral program, every time we turned a friend into a customer, we both got $100, plus $10 to donate to a charity we could select from a list. If you’re good at convincing people to do things, CenturyLink could actually make you money — up to $500 per year! When it comes to pricing, CenturyLink is one of the more expensive options, starting at $55 for only 100 Mbps. AT&T offers speeds three times as fast for $15 less, while Xfinity offers speeds twice as fast for only $25. That’s not to mention that you’ll have to either lease or buy your router and pay for installation, which isn’t the case with providers like Spectrum. However, if you want free installation and equipment, go with the 940 Mbps plan for $75 a month. If you really don’t want to get locked into a contract, CenturyLink’s monthly plans will appeal to you. It doesn’t offer any other discounts, streaming services, or antivirus software, though. Even with the free installation and equipment of the 940 Mbps plan, $75 per month is still not cheap. AT&T, for example, charges $60 a month for 1,000 Mbps, T-Mobile charges $60 for 5G, and even Xfinity is only $70 a month for 1,000 Mbps. No matter how you slice it, CenturyLink is pricey, especially when you consider the lack of extras. CenturyLink may be pricey, but the prices don’t look as terrible with the higher-speed plan and the referral program. If you know how to win friends and influence people, it’s possible you could leave richer than you started. To learn more about this provider, read our guide to CenturyLink internet for seniors. Starting Cost: $50 per month Maybe you’re a streamer, a gamer, or a member of a household with a ton of connected devices. If that’s the case, you may want an internet company that offers 1,000 Mbps or more. Cox is the only provider on this list to offer 2,000 Mbps in select locations. For everyone else, there’s 1 gig, which should be fast enough for most people. We’ve tried out a ton of internet companies, and Cox is the fastest — offering 2 gigs of download speeds. Typically, companies top out at about 1 gig (1,000 Mbps), or, in Xfinity’s case, 1,200 Mbps. If you’ve got a house full of grandkids or you simply love playing online video games, these fast speeds will be more, well, your speed. Unfortunately, because the 2-gig program is so new, Cox doesn’t list pricing on it, or really any details. To find out if you can get it (and the price), you’ll need to enter your address on the website — it’s not available as widely as the company’s other plans. But for 1-gig and under, all plans are monthly, although you’ll pay the same price for 24 months. All plans include the Wi-Fi equipment, and installation is not included, unfortunately, although again, Cox is not super transparent about the fees. Similarly to Spectrum and CenturyLink, there are no streaming services or discounts with this company. So how does the pricing compare? Cox is on the more expensive side, starting at $50 a month for 100 Mbps. At the risk of repeating ourselves, Xfinity is twice as fast for half the money, Spectrum is three times as fast for the same price, and AT&T is three times as fast for only $35 per month. Even on the higher end at 1-gig, Cox is priced higher than many other providers. Even though Cox is the only internet company on this list to offer 2-gig speeds, we wish it were available in more locations. We checked at least three of our addresses across three different states before finding a location in Rhode Island (and then finding that it was “coming soon”). As of February 2024, Cox is only available in the following states: If it’s available to you and speed is the thing you want the most, Cox is the fastest internet provider around. Of course, you have to be willing to pay for it! Sadly, none of the internet providers on this list offer senior discounts. Fortunately, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) provides the Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP). This program offers eligible households a discount on broadband internet for up to $30 per month, or up to $75 a month for households on qualifying Tribal lands. Wondering if you’re eligible? Keep reading below for more information. The ACP offers discounts of up to $30 for eligible households that meet certain income guidelines. To qualify, you must have a household income that is at or under 200 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines, which are, as of 2024: However, being at or below 200 percent of these guidelines is only one road to eligibility. You may also be eligible if you or any household member meets at least one of the below criteria: There are two ways to enroll: Many providers make it easy to access these discounts through them directly. With certain providers like AT&T, Cox, and Xfinity, the $30 discount makes internet service completely free, although speeds will be much slower at 50 to 100 Mbps. For faster speeds, you can pay anywhere from $10 to $25 a month with the ACP from providers like CenturyLink, Spectrum, and T-Mobile. Below are just a few reasons older adults need to know about internet providers. Another stereotype facing seniors is that they’re more privy to falling for online scams. But adults ages 60 and above are actually less likely than the 59-and-under crowd to fall for online shopping, investment, government, romance, fake check, job, and employment scams in terms of reported losses, according to the Federal Trade Commission. Still, seniors are more susceptible to business imposters, tech support scams, prizes, sweepstakes, and lottery scams, along with family and friend imposters. How can you use the internet while staying safe online? Here are a few tips from the National Council on Aging. One simple way to make sure you can avoid malware is to install antivirus software on your computer and phone. Many devices have antivirus software built-in, but some internet companies like Spectrum provide antivirus software with all of their internet plans. In the year 2000, only 14 percent of U.S. adults ages 65 and older used the internet. By 2023, that number was 88 percent. As this number has grown every year in the past two decades, we expect to see even higher percentages in the future. Of course, even though nearly nine out of 10 seniors use the internet, that’s still the lowest percentage for any age group of U.S. adults; the average in 2023 was 95 percent. When it comes to the internet, seniors face challenges that other age groups don’t, as they’ve lived the least amount of their lives with the internet, making it less familiar and intuitive. It’s important to consider your individual needs and priorities while selecting an internet provider. Is price your bottom line, or is speed? Make sure to explore available resources and seek help when you need it. Whoever you are, the internet can improve your life and well-being, letting you access endless information from across the globe. For more information, keep reading our frequently asked questions below. Most internet companies, like AT&T, CenturyLink, Cox, Spectrum, T-Mobile, and Xfinity, do not offer senior discounts. Whether or not it is less expensive to bundle the internet with TV depends on the provider. With Cox, bundles are available from $55 a month, saving you $56 a month. However, Xfinity and Spectrum do not offer discounted bundles for internet and TV. To figure out which internet companies offer service in your area, you’ll need to go on the company’s website and enter your address. You can also call the company directly. Not all internet companies require long-term contracts. Some companies that offer month-to-month contracting include: Ryan has years of experience researching and testing products that help people successfully age in place. After years of working for various publications such as Boston Magazine and The Believer, he has found his home at The Senior List, writing about all things related to caregiving and senior healthcare.   Name


  Email


  Phone


  What would you like to share with us?


 
 Δ Copyright © 2024 TSL, LLC. A Centerfield Media Company. All rights reserved. The Senior List should be used for information and entertainment purposes only. The Senior List and their writers, business partners and associates do not provide financial, legal or health related advice as a substitute for professional consultation. By using The Senior List.com you agree to the Cookie Policy, Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites. Members get updates like best products for seniors and senior discounts delivered right to their inbox for free. *Limited time offer; subject to change; valid to qualified residential customers who have not subscribed to any services within the previous 30 days and who have no outstanding obligation to Charter. Spectrum Internet ® promotion price is $49.99/mo; standard rates apply after yr. 1. Taxes, fees and surcharges extra and subject to change during and after the promotional period; installation/network activation, equipment and additional services are extra. General Terms: INTERNET: Speed based on wired connection and may vary by address. Wireless speeds may vary. Services subject to all applicable service terms and conditions, subject to change. Services not available in all areas. Restrictions apply. Enter your address to determine availability.  ©2021 Charter Communications.