
 Tech hardware company Razer announced that it launched a series of custom skins you can apply to various computers and consoles. In a June 22 tweet. Razer said you can "add personal flair to your personal gear" with the new skins, which are now available for sale. Unlike hard computer cases or the custom plates you can attach to the PS5, Razer's products are adhesive vinyl coverings made in conjunction with industrial company 3M, which produces everything from Scotch tape to Post-It notes. Razer notes that the new skins use special adhesive technology and are made to precisely fit devices including the Xbox Series X|S, PS5, Steam Deck, and Apple MacBook, as well as first-party Razer products like the Kishi V2, Edge, and Blade line of laptops. Each device has a series of design options to choose from. Razer highlights that you can either "go loud and proud or fly below the radar" with designs that stand out or are more subtle. Designs include geometric quartz, geometric mercury, black camo, green hex camo, dark hive, and pearlescent steel. Razer boasts that the skins are all scratch and water resistant, ultra thin and light, easy to apply, and made in the U.S., the only country in which they are currently available. Prices for the new skins vary, depending on the design and which product they're built for. Skins for the Steam Deck range from $34.99 to $39.99, while those for the Xbox Series X|S and PS5 go for $34.99 to $69.99. Skins for laptops like the MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, and Razer Blade can be found in a similar price range. 
 Razer, Inc. is an American-Singaporean company that has been around since 2005, and has developed numerous tech products, including consumer electronics and gaming hardware. The brand is known for its sleek, modern aesthetic, especially in the gaming sector. This includes webcams, headsets, charging stands for game controllers, gaming mice, and even gaming chairs. Razer also has its own line of gaming laptops, as well as innovative devices to enhance the gaming experience, like the Kishi V2, a controller that attaches to an iPhone to transform it into a mobile gaming console. Some items sold by Razer are a little more out-of-the-box, like environmentally-conscious, reusable straws. In 2021, amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the company launched the Razer Zephyr, a $100 air-purifying face mask that worked with N95 filters and included a pair of two-speed fans. Razer's custom skins for devices like MacBooks and Steam Decks are a more conventional product in line with its brand, and it's a little surprising the company took so long to launch something like this. More patterns and possibly skins for other devices can probably be expected from Razer in the future.