Purdue President Mung Chiang receives his flu shot from pharmacy student Chase Deetz. On-campus flu shot events and walk-in flu shots at CHL will be offered in October. Seasonal flu shots are provided annually at no charge to all benefits-eligible Purdue faculty and staff, as well as spouses and dependents covered on a Purdue health plan. Seasonal flu shots, which support the physical health pillar of the Healthy Boiler Program, are provided annually at no charge to all benefits-eligible Purdue faculty and staff, as well as spouses and dependents covered on a Purdue health plan, through a variety of means. On-campus flu shots for the West Lafayette campus are planned as follows:  Beginning Oct. 2, the Center for Healthy Living also will offer flu vaccines at the center, on a walk-in basis, to benefits-eligible employees and dependents covered on a Purdue health plan. Patients can simply stop by to receive their flu shots; appointments are not required. Pediatric patients 6 months and older can receive their flu shots at the Center for Healthy Living beginning Oct. 1. The West Lafayette Center for Healthy Living will be administering:  Purdue University Pharmacy, or PUP, located at 575 Stadium Mall Drive on Purdue’s West Lafayette campus, is offering flu shots to all faculty, staff and students as well as dependents (ages 11 and up) by appointment only. Schedule a vaccine here. PUP is administering the Flucelvax quadrivalent pre-filled syringe, a preservative-free, egg-free, latex-free product. Additionally, flu shots will be available at the regional campuses as outlined below. The Center for Healthy Living on Purdue Northwest’s Hammond campus will be administering: Flu shots will be offered:  Beginning Oct. 4, flu vaccines also will be available at the Center for Healthy Living at Purdue Northwest. Appointments are encouraged, but walk-ins will be accepted as able.  Purdue Fort Wayne will offer the Flubok quadrivalent vaccine, which is designed to protect against four different flu viruses; two influenza A viruses and two influenza B viruses. It is approved for use in ages 18 years and older. It is preservative- and egg-free. Flu shots will take place Oct. 3 from 8 a.m. to noon ET at the clinic, located in the Walb Student Union, Room 234. Regardless of location, individuals coming for a flu shot should bring their Purdue University ID (PUID). Alternatively, employees can schedule their flu vaccines with their health care providers or at a local pharmacy.   As a reminder, flu shots are included in the 2023 Healthy Boiler incentive as one of the optional well-being screenings in step 2 for those 18 years and older. Therefore, those who get their flu shot in 2023 and log completion into the Healthy Boiler portal are eligible for additional incentive dollars. More information on how to earn incentives via the Healthy Boiler Program is available here.  Learn more at the 2023 Flu Shot Information website.    Questions about flu shots should be directed to Human Resources at 765-494-2222 or via email at hr@purdue.edu. Contact: Human Resources at 765-494-2222 or via email at hr@purdue.edu Purdue’s rankings, media visibility, engagement metrics reach new heights nationally, globally 
August 19, 2024
 Chiang: Further and significant reduction of admissions rate expected 
August 16, 2024
 Purdue’s campus extension in Indianapolis covers entirety of the Circle City 
August 16, 2024
 Action Council on Student Housing and Well-Being to solicit input from students, parents on housing allocation process for returning students 
August 15, 2024
 
Purdue University610 Purdue MallWest Lafayette, IN 47906  
765-494-4600 