Matt Morris is Global Managing Director for 1898 & Co., the leading pure-play services and solutions firm for cyber-physical security.   As AI and machine learning become increasingly accessible and valuable, their utilization across various business functions is rapidly on the rise. This enables humans to focus on more crucial tasks rather than mundane ones, embodying the concept of "working smarter, not harder." This transformative shift is reshaping how we work and how businesses operate. With the mainstream adoption of AI, however, comes the need for more regulation and the need to optimize cyber-physical environments. Cyber-physical environments and utilities are particularly sensitive to automation, and those leveraging AI need to be sure that their networks are secure before AI goes off the rails. When properly integrated into a robust cybersecurity plan, AI can prove beneficial due to its inherent ability to analyze vast amounts of data. This enables the detection of patterns or anomalies that may indicate a cyberattack. Similarly, by programming AI appropriately, it can identify system or operational failures, malware, suspicious network traffic and vulnerable systems. In cases of confirmed malicious activity, AI can automatically respond by isolating infected systems or quarantining suspicious files. Automation can also prioritize and monitor employee workloads, allowing businesses to scale operations and put more time back into the hands of the defender. However, it is crucial not to perceive AI as a replacement for critical functions but rather to enhance our daily operations. As organizations begin to invest in AI and explore the vast potential it has to increase productivity and operations, executives also need to be wary of the increased potential for cyberattacks. Business leaders should leverage AI for appropriate processes, establish a solid foundation and framework and not leave it unattended. It is important to acknowledge that AI possesses decision-making capabilities, and AI systems become more susceptible to infiltration as they become more independent and complex. Therefore, teaching AI to make informed choices, closely monitoring its functionality and prioritizing its security are paramount. Cyber-physical systems (CPS) refer to systems in which a cyber/control component and a physical system are closely integrated, enabling real-time monitoring and control. These systems are particularly difficult to protect from AI because of the large scale of operations and dynamic operating conditions. In IT environments, AI can go into the network traffic and switch off a certain aspect of the system. In an OT environment, however, the same process cannot be used. AI cannot go in and shut down a portion of the system without it impacting the entire system. In cyber-physical environments, all the network traffic is there to support the overall process, so the rest may follow suit when you shut down one small piece. This requires a new approach to digital attacks, one that protects the critical function of physical environments via physical means. For example, processes such as cyber-informed engineering (CIE) and consequence-driven cyber-informed engineering (CCE) can be used to help cybersecurity companies protect against adversaries who are leveraging AI against them without shutting down entire systems. When AI becomes a vital component in critical functions, it becomes an attractive target for attackers. Even a minor breach can create opportunities for more severe attacks in the future. In other words, as AI systems are developed to bolster cybersecurity, they must be equipped with stringent parameters. While the chances of a complete hijacking of the AI system and altering its course of action are slim, a malicious actor gaining access to even a small entry point in the decision-making process can lead to subtle yet highly impactful changes in the system's operations. It is crucial to construct these systems with a robust security and privacy framework that minimizes the potential for penetration. However, this doesn't negate the need for strict protocols in case of a breach. Human intervention cannot and should not be entirely eliminated. AI accepts what you tell it, meaning the information humans give generative systems has the power to present false information as fact. AI is only as good as the information it has been trained on, and while AI has become increasingly advanced in recent years, it still needs guidance from humans. Overreliance on AI without a human in the loop to monitor threats can cause more advanced attacks, phishing, data manipulation and impersonation and can throw AI off a positive, anti-threatening trajectory. As AI continues to innovate and emerge, so do the risks. As more companies begin to rely on it to supplement business functions, they need to be aware of where AI stops being helpful and becomes hurtful. As more AI tools enter the cybersecurity sphere, not only will there be opportunities for more AI use cases to protect against threat actors, but also more opportunities for those threat actors to leverage it to create undetectable threats. When companies optimize OT systems with AI in mind, they will be better prepared to handle ongoing threats and use this technology in a way that will benefit them the most. Whether businesses are thinking about implementing AI or already have, it is crucial to deploy additional systems to combat the threats of AI and ensure it is doing its job. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs and technology executives. Do I qualify? 