March, 30, 2023 Samsung, Sri Lanka’s No.1 smartphone brand, was recently awarded the SLIM Kantar People’s Youth Choice Brand of the Year 2023 This recognition is a testament to the electronic leader's capacity to steer the sector. Since it is the only brand that has a greater understanding of customer demands than this one, its recent launch of Infinity Display to the local market has elevated the brand to an aspirational level. Samsung's focus this year was on cutting-edge mobile digital communication, with items that catered to and satisfied the needs of Sri Lankan youth. For young people who are constantly looking for better camera quality and cutting-edge options when it comes to taking portrait and selfie photos to highlight their lifestyle and multitasking, Samsung mobile devices provide a variety of capabilities. The managing director of Samsung Sri Lanka, Mr.SangHwa Song, commented on the brand's success at the SLIM Kantar People's Awards, "We are fortunate to be selected as the People's Youth Choice brand of the year at the prestigious SLIM Kantar People's Awards, reaffirming Samsung's position as the first choice in the local market in addition to being the world's top smartphone. We were able to earn this award because to Samsung's commitment to improving consumers' lives by continuously producing cutting-edge technology and new goods, such as power-saving devices and smartphones to suit various lifestyles. "We have big ambitions to further grow the brand in Sri Lanka since we believe there is a huge market there for our products. This unique victory at the SLIM Kantar People's Awards further strengthens our desire to provide customers with Samsung's cutting-edge technologies, including the just-released S23 and S23 Ultra. Led by the Galaxy S23 Ultra with its new 200MP Adaptive Pixel sensor and iconic embedded S Pen, the Galaxy S23 series — also featuring the Galaxy S23 — represents a new era of Samsung’s ultimate premium phone experience. With its new, cutting-edge design, the Galaxy S23 series demonstrates that innovation brings both high-performance and sustainability for the ultimate premium experience. The Galaxy S23 series raises the bar for both quality and aesthetics with less environmental impact than previous generations. To achieve this, we incorporated recycled materials in more device components than in any other previous Galaxy smartphone and designed the packaging box using 100% recycled paper. Samsung is also the Global No.1 TV manufacturer for 16 consecutive years maintaining the Samsung legacy of superior picture quality and design, with its most iconic and premium TV being the Neo QLED 8K that comes with Quantum Matrix Pro technology, Neo Quantum Processor Lite 8K for optimized viewing, SolarCell Remote, environmental friendly packaging and much more first-in market features making it the ultimate entertainment hub. Samsung appliances use AI-centered features to help users create sustainable homes by offering energy savings that exceed the highest industry rating. In Sri Lanka, Samsung has been recognized as the ‘Most Loved Electronics Brand’ for three consecutive years by Brand Finance Lanka’s review of the country’s most valuable brands. As Sri Lanka’s No.1 smartphone brand, Samsung’s customer base in the country spans across all age groups, particularly the Gen Z and Millennial segments.  Video Story