 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Make spot-cleaning a cinch with these portable cleaning devices.  Cindy is a freelance writer and editor whose career began in cookbook publishing. An expert in bakeware, cookbooks, and kitchen organization for Food & Wine, she has reviewed over 25 vacuums, 23 steak knives, and dozens of baking tools, such as cookie sheets, silicone utensils, and proofing baskets. In This Article Food and Wine / Dera Burreson  Once you find the perfect full-size vacuum, your next purchase should be a quality handheld model. Whenever you need to quickly remove small messes that pop up every now and then (or a lot if you have kids or pets) or clean a difficult-to-reach spot (think: corners of the couch or between car seats), your handheld vacuum will be there to tackle the job with ease. Some are even integrated into stick vacuums if you can't decide.
  To determine the best handheld vacuums worth your time and money, we put 10 top-rated handheld vacuums to the test. We used each cordless handheld vacuum on various surfaces — from rugs to car seats — to clean up different kinds of debris like cereal, crackers, and hair, rating them based on their performance, maneuverability, noise level, and overall value. Keep reading to decide which one is most suitable for your lifestyle.
 You get powerful suction, a large dustbin capacity, and a highly effective crevice tool with this attractive vacuum. The operating noise is a tad loud.  Shark vacuum cleaners are well-known and reputable, and this handheld model nearly took our top overall spot. It effectively cleaned most messes we tried, with powerful suction and helpful attachments for small spaces. In particular, the appliance shined when cleaning up the carpet, even getting the hairs buried in the fabric. Additionally, the vacuum’s handle is comfortable to use and helps make the vacuum painless to maneuver overall.
  Another major advantage of this model is how large the dustbin is, and we were happy to see we could go multiple tests without having to clean it out. This vacuum was a bit loud, but not so much that you can’t have a conversation while it's running. 
  Weight: 2.06 pounds | Battery Life: 12 minutes | Bin Volume: 0.4 liters| Attachments: Crevice tool and scrubbing brush
 Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson It’s more affordable without cutting down on quality or performance, and a long crevice tool is incorporated into the design. It’s noisy, and it can be trickier to use in extra-tight spots.  Coming in under the median price of vacuums we tested, this handheld vacuum proved its value with its performance. No debris stood a chance against this vacuum in our tests. Unlike some other handheld vacuums, this one has a built-in crevice tool and no other attachments included. For example, that crevice tool is extra long, extending about 7 inches, so you don’t have to stretch as much when cleaning your window blinds. Ultimately, we found that the vacuum needed no extra attachments to succeed. The only challenge we faced was when we used the vacuum in tight, deep crevices, like in the cracks and corners of a child car seat, as it was harder to direct the nozzle.
  As many positives as it has, this vacuum is louder than a few others we tried. Whether it was on high or low power, it was still loud enough to drown out the noise from the TV. Overall we feel it's a quality, durable product, priced right for its effectiveness and features.
  Weight: 2.4 pounds | Battery Life: 12 minutes | Bin Volume: 0.7 liters| Attachments: None
 Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson This high-performing, easy-to-empty vacuum has a built-in crevice tool that extends. It’s louder and larger than other options.   With a perfect score for performance, this splurge-worthy handheld vacuum picked up debris efficiently, removing hair from the carpet quickly and easily, even on the low setting.
  Despite being the heaviest option on our list, we still found it light enough to use with one hand. It offers plenty of maneuverability to get into small nooks and crannies, especially with the vacuum’s extendable, long-reaching crevice tool that’s easy to pull out. Another design plus? How simple it is to empty the dustbin: All you have to do is press a button. This model is a bit louder than average, but nothing unexpected due to its large size. Though it's higher than the average price, we feel confident it will be well worth it.
  Weight: 2.4 pounds | Battery Life: 15 minutes | Bin Volume: 0.08 liters | Attachments: Brush tool
 Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson Food & Wine / Dera Burreson  We named the Shark UltraCyclone Pro Cordless Handheld Vacuum our best overall for its powerful suction and large dustbin. It was the best at effectively cleaning any mess we threw at it. It also has powerful suction and helpful attachments for every crevice.
  To determine the best handheld vacuums, we first timed how long it took to get the appliance ready to use out of the box and how simple assembly was. In the next set of tests, we used a luggage scale to weigh each vacuum, a decibel reader to measure the vacuum's noise output, and a stopwatch to clock the vacuum’s runtime while on high power. Then, we tested how effective each handheld vacuum was by cleaning different sorts of debris like food and wig hair off a medium-pile rug, children’s high chair, children’s car seat, and upholstered chair. For wet models, we also vacuumed water off the floor. We noted how often we had to empty the dustbin, paying attention to how easy or not this was.
 Food & Wine / Dera Burreson  Handheld vacuums are designed to be portable, with their advantages being that you can bring them out quickly and use them in tighter spots compared to standard-size models. You don’t want something too heavy that you can’t hold it with one hand or that feels cumbersome to use as you’re bending down or reaching up, otherwise, it defeats the convenience of having one. There is a balance to be struck, though. Keep in mind that the smaller the handheld vacuum you get, the lighter it will probably be but it will also likely have a smaller dustbin that you have to empty out more often.
  Don’t expect your average handheld vacuum to last as long as larger, cordless vacuums. Their smaller size equals a shorter runtime, but a good handheld vacuum will still offer a powerful enough battery to get your target cleaning done. Handheld vacuums’ battery life averages between 10 and 20 minutes, and on the lower end if you’re running the high power setting. You should also compare a vacuum’s runtime to how long it takes to charge the battery since a shorter runtime and a very long charge time can quickly become frustrating.
  When assessing the dustbin of handheld vacuums, you’ll find their capacity measured in milliliters, liters, ounces, or gallons. In general, a handheld vacuum’s dustbin capacity ranges from about 0.1 liters to just under 1 liter. The larger a dustbin is, the more debris it can hold at once, saving you on trips back and forth from the trash bin. If you’re not doing a lot of spot cleaning, you may find that you don’t actually need that big of a dustbin to be satisfied.
  It’s easy to find upright, canister, and cordless vacuums with long lists of attachments for different types of flooring and various cleaning situations. Handheld vacuums, however, typically only come with one or two, likely a crevice and/or brush tool. Some handheld vacuums integrate the crevice tool into their design and thus may not come with any additional attachments. Whether built-in or not, a crevice tool that’s skinny and angled is crucial for cleaning super-tight spaces.
  The vacuum’s suction power determines how well the appliance can pick up debris. You don’t want to go over the same spot multiple times just to get a thorough clean, so you’ll want to buy a handheld vacuum that gets the job done in one or two passes. Something important to remember is that a vacuum’s wattage doesn’t equal its suction power — it just tells you how much power it uses. The vacuum’s airflow, motor efficiency, nozzle design, and more determine the true suction power.
 Food & Wine / Dera Burreson You may wonder why you’d need a handheld vacuum if you already have a large vacuum you use for regular cleaning. Designed to be compact, light, and portable, handheld vacuums are the best device to quickly and efficiently tackle small, targeted messes, such as food spilled on the ground or the kibble your cat or dog left near their bowl. Handheld vacuums are also useful when you need to clean hard-to-reach areas in and outside the home where you can’t really maneuver your standard, upright vacuum — like your car floors or under your couch cushions. If you want to easily clean every nook and cranny of your living space, a handheld vacuum is a worthwhile investment. To make your life easier, it’s best to go for a cordless handheld vacuum since you don’t want to have to worry about positioning your car close enough to an outlet in order to be able to clean its inside. Aside from that, what you choose may depend on how big your car is and what kind of messes you’re used to cleaning up in there. If you have a large-size SUV or truck, then go for a handheld vacuum with a longer runtime so you can get the job done in one go. If you’re normally tracking mud and dirt back into the car, then something with stronger suction may be your priority. Many handheld vacuums cost within the $50 to $100 range. That being said, it’s not hard to find some as cheap as $30 and as expensive as $200. Remember that a higher price doesn’t always mean higher quality. Some vacuums that are half the cost as others can still deliver the same level of performance, if not better.  Nicebay Handheld Vacuum Cordless, 15KPA ($60 at Amazon)
  This vacuum earned top marks for maneuverability, portability, and value but fell short when it came to emptying. Its small dustbin means it needs to be emptied much more frequently, and hair can get tangled up in the dustbin, requiring us to take it all apart. 
  IonVac Lightweight Handheld Cordless Vacuum Cleaner 7551 ($23 at Walmart)
  We appreciate that this handheld vacuum is quieter than others and offers great value at such a low price. The main issue is how difficult it is to work with, given its small grip and how hot the handle gets while running.
  Shark WANDVAC Cordless Hand Vac WV201 ($90 at Amazon)
  While this Shark model received good scores in many categories, we found it to be much too expensive, especially considering some cordless vacuums out there at a lower price that can function just as well when modified to be handheld. 
  Black + Decker Dustbuster AdvancedClean Cordless Wet/Dry Handheld Vacuum ($59 at Amazon)
  This vacuum is light and has a long runtime, but we found it too loud and wish it offered different power settings to handle all kinds of messes. We feel there are more powerful options on the market for the same price point. 
  Other handheld vacuums we tested that didn’t make the list fell short mainly because of their ineffectiveness. While some vacuums might have scored well on setup and noise level, we couldn’t overlook how little debris they picked up, sometimes even leaving a mess behind them by spitting debris back out or spreading it while cleaning. Given the high performance of other Black + Decker handheld models we tested, we were surprised that the Reviva Cordless Hand Vacuum, in particular, didn’t do a better job. We had to be very careful with positioning the vacuum because the powerful exit fans would blow any debris not picked up yet all over the place, lengthening cleanup time. 
  Cindy Brzostowski is a freelance writer and avid home cook who has previous experience in cookbook publishing (and has to clean up more than her fair share of messes on the kitchen floor while cooking). Her writing has been featured in Allrecipes, Blue Apron, The Kitchn, and EatingWell among other publications. For this article, she used our in-depth, in-house testing insights to review the best handheld vacuums on the market.
