After teasing it in March, Lenovo will soon launch its first 14-inch Legion gaming laptop – the appropriately named Legion Slim 5. As the old saying goes, big things come in small packages because, even though the Legion Slim 5 weighs 4.19lbs (1.9 kg), there's a lot of muscle behind it. The full specs sheet isn’t out yet, but looking at what we have, customers will be able to equip their machine with an AMD Ryzen 9 7940HS CPU and an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4060 GPU. The hardware will be supported by Lenovo’s AI Engine Plus which, in turn, is powered by the laptop’s LA1 AI chip. Using both together, the Legion Slim 5 is said to be able to learn a user’s gaming habits by tracking “key components and processes to maximize [both] performance and battery life”. Judging by the wording in the announcement, there will be other hardware options on release for those looking for something more affordable. In addition to being the first 14-inch Legion model, it’s also the first of its series to have a “16:10 WQXGA Plus [resolution] OLED display” covering all of the DCI-P3 color gamut. WQXGA Plus, in case you're curious, is 2880 x 1800 pixels on screen. Similar to the graphics card, the monitor’s quality is boosted with its own set of features from the “AI-powered DLSS 3” tech to full ray tracing for realistic in-game lighting. Add a 120Hz variable refresh rate as the cherry on top and you have an environment where the RTX 4060 can “truly shine.” Sure, it’s not the best graphics card in its family, but it’s still plenty powerful.  Other notable features include up to 64GB of memory, up to a terabyte of storage, as well as a “73.6Whr battery with Super Rapid Charge Pro technology” for fast charging. Lenovo states the 14-inch Legion Slim 5 “with AMD Ryzen processor” will launch September 2023 in Storm Grey. Prices start at $1,439.99 USD. The company claims in its announcement the Legion Slim 5 will ship out in August; however looking at the official storefront, we didn’t see it. All we saw was the Legion Slim 5i Gen 8. We reached out to Lenovo for launch clarification and when people can expect an international release. The Legion Slim 5 comes at a very interesting time for the industry as companies shift more towards 14-inch displays on their gaming laptops. There is a niche to be filled here as people seek out lightweight options. Luckily for Lenovo, very few devices have the qualities of the Legion Slim 5 – a slim gaming laptop with an OLED screen and an RTX 40 series GPU at a decent price. The closest competitor it has at the time of this writing is the Razer Blade 14, but it costs nearly $2,500. There is the Alienware x14 R2 which has a similar price point although it lacks the OLED display. It’ll be interesting to see where the Legion Slim 5 goes from here. Will it become a titan in the industry or come up short? OLED burn-in could be a concern, potentially hampering its appeal. While we have you, check out TechRadar’s list of the best gaming laptops for 2023. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.