Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 6sense Gartner Magic Quadrant (Graphic: Business Wire) SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dec 12, 2022-- 6sense, the leading platform for B2B organizations generating predictable revenue, announced today that it has been named a Leader in the December 2022 Gartner Ⓡ Magic Quadrant™ for ABM Platforms report for the second consecutive time. 1 6sense is positioned highest for Ability to Execute and furthest for Completeness of Vision in the Leaders’ Quadrant. This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221212005266/en/ 6sense Gartner Magic Quadrant (Graphic: Business Wire) 6sense has the highest score for all three Use Cases evaluated by Gartner in the December 2022 Critical Capabilities for Account-Based Marketing Platforms report: New Account Acquisition (3.89/5), Account Retention (3.9/5), and Account Expansion (3.9/5). “The relentless innovation within our Revenue AI platform is fundamentally changing the way B2B companies deliver on predictable revenue growth,” said Viral Bajaria, CTO and Co-Founder of 6sense. “As sales cycles grow longer with buyers scrutinizing every purchase, our customers are improving their sales efficiencies from our platform and we believe this recognition from Gartner serves as a barometer for the market value we deliver to their success.” The company has recently incorporated a number of additional capabilities to further differentiate 6sense Revenue AI™ – and build on the company’s record of four straight years of triple-digit percentage revenue growth. New innovations include the launch of 6sense Conversational Email, which automates email conversations with prospects and customers using 6sense AI, and multiple enhancements for 6sense Pipeline Intelligence, which leverages AI to predict pipeline performance in real time. In addition to being named a Leader in this Magic Quadrant, 6sense also currently maintains the highest number of reviews (105 overall reviews) – along with the highest overall rating (4.7 out of 5) and most 5-star reviews (81 based on 105 overall reviews) – on Gartner Peer Insights™ as of December 8, 2022. Customers that have shared their experience of using the 6sense platform in the past year include: Gartner states in the report that “Leaders demonstrate broad support for all ABM critical capabilities and consistently meet customer needs across the three core ABM use cases (acquisition, renewal and expansion). They have high market visibility, high market penetration, strong market momentum, and a clear, long-term strategic vision and roadmap for growing their ABM platform business. Their customers report high levels of satisfaction and success with their implementations. Leaders also have initiated plans for geographic and industry expansion.” Learn more: Gartner Disclaimer: 1 The Magic Quadrant for Account-Based Marketing Platforms published both in January and December 2022. Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Account-Based Marketing Platforms, Ray Pun, Christy Ferguson, Julian Poulter, Jenifer Silverstein, 6 December 2022.  Gartner, Critical Capabilities for Account-Based Marketing Platforms, Ray Pun, Christy Ferguson, Julian Poulter, Jenifer Silverstein, 6 December 2022. GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark, MAGIC QUADRANT is a registered trademark, and PEER INSIGHTS is a registered trademark and service mark, of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and are used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner Peer Insights content consists of the opinions of individual end users based on their own experiences with the vendors listed on the platform, should not be construed as statements of fact, nor do they represent the views of Gartner or its affiliates. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in this content nor makes any warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this content, about its accuracy or completeness, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in our research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. About 6sense 6sense reinvents the way organizations create, manage, and convert pipeline to revenue. 6sense Revenue AI™ captures anonymous buying signals, targets the right accounts at the ideal time, and recommends the channels and messages to boost revenue performance. Removing guesswork, friction, and wasted sales effort, 6sense empowers sales, marketing, and customer success teams to significantly improve pipeline quality, accelerate sales velocity, increase conversion rates, and grow revenue predictably. 6sense has been recognized for its market-defining technology by Forbes Cloud 100, Gartner, and Forrester, and for its strong culture by Glassdoor, Inc. Magazine, and Comparably. For more information, visit 6sense or follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter. View source version on businesswire.com:https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221212005266/en/  CONTACT: Gina Rau Head of PR and Communications, 6sense  [email protected] INDUSTRY KEYWORD: SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS  SOURCE: 6sense  Copyright Business Wire 2022.  http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20221212005266/en Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.