Another "Beetlejuice" is shake, shake, shaking its way to the big screen. On Tuesday, Warner Bros. officially announced that "Beetlejuice 2" will arrive in theaters in 2024. The wacky horror comedy is a long-awaited sequel to the 1988 Tim Burton movie, which starred Michael Keaton as a mischievous poltergeist. Burton and Keaton are returning for the new film, which started production Wednesday in London, according to a source familiar with the situation but not authorized to speak publicly. Winona Ryder, who played misanthropic goth Lydia Deetz in the original movie, is also reprising her role in the project, the source told USA TODAY. 'We bought him lunch'Michael Keaton's Batman returns in 'The Flash' to help reset DC universe Here’s everything we know so far about the new “Beetlejuice”: Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Warner Bros. says "Beetlejuice 2" will be released Sept. 6, 2024. In the 1988 film, Alec Baldwin and Geena Davis co-star as a recently deceased husband and wife who call on Beetlejuice to drive the new occupants (Catherine O’Hara and Jeffrey Jones) out of their old house. Ryder stars as the latter couple’s teenage daughter, who befriends the home’s ghostly inhabitants. The movie was a critical and commercial success, even winning an Oscar for best makeup. The film went on to inspire an animated TV series, as well as a Tony Award-nominated Broadway musical. According to Variety, The Hollywood Reporter and Entertainment Weekly, Ortega will join Keaton and Ryder in the sequel as Lydia’s daughter. Justin Theroux is also expected to join the cast in an undisclosed role. Plot details are being kept under wraps for the new film, which was officially confirmed at CinemaCon, the convention of movie theater owners, in Las Vegas last month. Ortega, 20, is quickly shooting to the top of Hollywood’s A-list, thanks to her leading role in the rebooted “Scream” movie franchise, as well as her delightful turn playing Wednesday Addams in Tim Burton’s Netflix series “Wednesday.” The latter earned her best actress nominations from both the Golden Globes and Screen Actors Guild Awards. The actress also hosted "Saturday Night Live" in March and walked the red carpet at the annual Met Gala earlier this month. Contributing: Bryan Alexander Jenna Ortega:Why she's 'drawn to the darker things' with Wednesday Addams, 'Scream' roles