
					By Max Goldbart  International TV Co-Editor 
Animals producer Sarah Brocklehurst’s Brock Media has optioned the rights to award-winning author Caleb Azumah Nelson’s Small Worlds.  
	Brock Media, which has a partnership deal with BBC Studios, will develop the novel into a TV show having fought off “multiple bidders”, according to BBC Studios. 
	Set in London and Ghana, the novel, which is due for release in May and is Nelson’s second following Costa Award-winning Open Water, follows protagonist Stephen over three summers and is about fathers, sons, faith and friendship. 
	Brock Media will work closely with Nelson, who will write the script.

	








 
	“Small Worlds is a contemporary masterpiece: thrilling, urgent and full of heart,” said Brocklehurst. “I had such a strong emotional response to the book so it’s an honour to have been entrusted with bringing it to the screen.” 
	Brock Media was set up a year ago with a development, production and distribution deal with BBC Studios. The company is also making The Outrun, Nora Fingscheidt’s adaptation of Amy Liptrot’s memoir starring Saoirse Ronan, along with a TV adaptation of Animals writer Emma Jane Unsworth’s memoir After the Storm. 
 Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Signup for Breaking News Alerts & Newsletters 
			By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.		 Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Sign up for our breaking news alerts 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	 Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. 
		By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.	