  Mon 19 Aug 2024   @ Contact us Your newsletters Stephen loves to dance. While the world around him endeavours to confuse and alienate him, the dancefloor is where he can lose himself. He’s just finished school, and so exists in that liminal state between adolescence and adulthood proper, where so much is expected of him that it feels like a physical weight. And so while negotiating the demands of family, friends, and friends who might become lovers, he dances: in church with his parents, in basement clubs with his crew. But as he discovers over the course of three slow summers in both his native Peckham and his parents’ Ghana, at some point the music must stop, and Life, with its capital L, must be faced. Caleb Azumah Nelson is a young British black novelist whose first novel, 2020’s Open Water, promptly thrust the then-26 year old to the top of the bestseller lists. Open Water was a slim book, 176 pages, and formulaic in its plot: boy meets girl, and not everything runs smooth. But its joy lay in the telling, for Nelson is the kind of writer who crafts sentences that hang like overripe fruit on the vine, to soften in the sun. He doubles down on this approach now with Small Worlds, which ostensibly covers much the same ground: a young man cowed by the demands of masculinity, a slow blossoming love, and the requirements to step up. It’s a longer book, though not by much – 250 pages – and is filled with languid yearning. About the woman he covets, he writes: “Having known her so long, I know the way the light holds her neck, know her rhythm even when she’s still. I go towards her, allowing a smile to emerge from the depths of my being.” Stephen’s struggles are myriad. He falters at university, and so promptly returns home. But while his mother is welcoming, his taciturn father proves less so. He leaves home to sofa surf with friends, struggling to find work, to be worthy of love, to fit in. Stephen is delicate, very delicate, and at times Small Worlds feels like the most sensitive book ever written, because no matter how serious its themes – race riots, a parent’s depression – Azumah Nelson deals with it with profound tenderness.  A scene involving male violence, for instance, is described like this: “Auntie understood that anger was a necessary emotion but often it was misdirected; and much of this misdirection emerged from not having space.” Stephen’s aunt gathers the fighting young men into her convenience store until they calm down, and then, “sends them home with shea butter for their hair, meat pies for their hunger.” Given that even the most rudimentary of Peckham sunsets is described here as if it were a sonata deserving of trumpets (“the night sings its whisper, and I’m going towards its song”), it’s all emphatically overwritten – and riven, too, with tears, most of them Stephen’s: “I cry so much that not even two hands can dry them” – but the overall effect is mesmerising, at times even overwhelming, and succeeds in making the reader similarly alert to the everyday beauty that exists within even the most hostile of environments. “In the wake of violence,” he writes, “we ask how we might care for each other, how we might build a small world where we might feel beautiful, might feel free.” Nelson stares into the abyss, and manages to find jewels. Small Worlds by Caleb Azumah Nelson is published May 11 (Viking, £14.99) All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.