Own a piece of your favorite cities through diversified real estate investments in the country's top markets Looking for additional offers? Sign up to get offers directly to your inbox! *Terms and conditions apply. Visit Nada's website for more details.  This guide offers an in-depth look at what not to store in a storage unit by examining which items should not be kept in a storage unit and which items are okay to be kept in a storage unit. OAKBROOK TERRACE, Ill., April 20, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- SMARTBOX Moving and Storage has announced the release of its latest resource "What Not to Store in a Storage Unit." This resource provides an extensive look at what not to store in a storage unit by covering items that will be damaged or cause damage to a storage unit. When using a storage unit, it is important to check the regulations and policies for the storage facility and the local area. Items that should never be kept in a storage unit include living things, perishable food, money, and irreplaceable items. Items that could cause damage to the storage unit or other stored items include hazardous materials, items affected by humidity or flame, guns or ammunition, items with a strong odor, and wet items. Storage units can be searched so it is best to avoid keeping unregistered vehicles or anything illegal in a unit. "When a storage unit is rented, you need to ensure that you know what items can and cannot be stored and that you are remaining in compliance with the storage unit's rules and your rental agreement," according to SMARTBOX Moving and Storage. If an item is questionable on whether it is safe to be kept in a storage unit, it is smart to contact the storage facility for clarification. To learn more about what not to store in a storage unit, please visit SMARTBOX Moving and Storage here. About SMARTBOX Moving and Storage: Since 2002, SMARTBOX Moving and Storage has been solving an old problem in a new way. Whether you need a storage or moving container for relocating the contents of your home or your business, SMARTBOX has developed a system that gives you more flexibility, greater convenience, better customer service, and less stress than existing moving companies and storage alternatives. Not only that, but SMARTBOX prices are fair and competitive because you only pay for the storage containers you need. Media Contact Dusty Rhodes, SMARTBOX Moving and Storage, 877-627-8269, dusty.rhodes@smartboxusa.com   SOURCE  SMARTBOX Moving and Storage © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.