   Please log in, or sign up for a new account and purchase a subscription to continue reading.
 Please purchase a subscription to continue reading.
 Your current subscription does not provide access to this content.
      A mix of clouds and sun. High 79F. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph..
                                 Mostly clear. Low 56F. Winds NNE at 5 to 10 mph.  Updated: August 19, 2024 @ 8:15 am  A call for projects for READI 2.0 was issued at Friday’s meeting of the Our Southern Indiana Regional Development Authority. With the Indiana General Assembly approving a second round of $500 million for the Regional Economic Acceleration and Development Initiative (READI), the process is now beginning as regions throughout the state compete for funding for projects to promote economic growth in Indiana. Cory Cochran, executive director of River Hills Economic Development District Regional Planning Commission, hired by the OurSIRDA to oversee the process in that region, said regions will be able to receive as much as $75 million, a $25 million increase over the initial round of READI that awarded up to $50 million in 2021. He said OurSIRDA plans to open its formal call for projects next week, and the applications will be due Sept. 27. The call for projects will help the OurSIRDA develop a regional plan with a set of proposed projects. This plan will be submitted to the IEDC, which will determine the regional allocations. Cochran said the Indiana Economic Development Corporation (IEDC) is expected to announce the amounts to be awarded to each region by April of next year. However, he noted that the IEDC has not formally confirmed the timeline for READI 2.0, so the dates might change. After the IEDC announces the READI allocations for each region, OurSIRDA will move forward with requests for projects (RFP) to be in three categories — quality of life, quality of place and quality of opportunity. Communities, non-profits and universities are eligible to submit for any of the three categories. Those RFPs would likely be due in June or July of 2024, and Cochran hopes for funding to be available by October of 2024. He said READI 2.0 funds must be used for capital projects and “cannot be used for anything other than construction costs.” Although not official, he said there is documentation supporting that design services and architectural costs are eligible for funding. “Pre-construction costs seem to be eligible at this point,” he said. “Those entities that are available are units of government, nonprofits, colleges, universities, housing developers, technology parks, commerce centers (and) those types of things,” Cochran said.     
Log In
 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
 Sorry, there are no recent results for popular videos. Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: