Partnership to develop energy-efficient doorglass with Miru smart windows VANCOUVER, British Columbia, May 3, 2023 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Miru Smart Technologies ("Miru"), a developer of next-generation smart windows, and ODL, Inc., a leading building products supplier of doorglass, entry treatments, and exterior doors, have signed a two-year collaboration agreement to develop electrochromic doorglass and patio doors exclusively made with Miru's innovative and patented smart window technology. ODL and Miru are working together to introduce tintable, electrochromic glass as an energy-efficient, comfort-enhancing, and affordable addition to smart doors. This modern aesthetic will provide a solution that customers have been unable to find in the existing window coverings market. "This collaboration with Miru supports ODL's commitment to long-term growth and innovation and its brand promise of Building Value into Building Products," said Ivan Samalot, Executive VP of Product Development, ODL. "For nearly 80 years, ODL has created products that make life better for our customers. We're excited to continue that tradition by developing tintable doorglass with Miru's smart window technology that is high-performing, energy-efficient and beautiful." "Homeowners want more access to light, views, and nature and are increasingly incorporating doorglass and glass patio doors in their home to maintain their connections to the outside," said Curtis Berlinguette, CEO, Miru Smart Technologies. "Miru and ODL's smart doorglass will be a perfect fit for efficient and net-zero homes, providing a beautiful and functional solution for modern homeowners." Estimated consumer value of the entry door and sliding glass patio doors market for North America in 2022 was $10 billion and expected to grow to $12 billion over the next five years as builders and homeowners look for ways to connect their indoor and outdoor living spaces. ODL and Miru's collaboration seeks to pioneer the next exclusive light and privacy control solution on the market. ### About Miru Smart Technologies Miru Smart Technologies is developing next-generation electrochromic window solutions for the residential, commercial and automotive markets. Miru is disrupting how smart windows are produced and distributed, with a patented process that lowers costs, improves performance and significantly reduces carbon emissions—enhancing the well-being of people and our planet. Miru imagines a world where windows expand your view and keep you connected to your community and the world around you. Miru's growth has been significantly aided by the support of the BC Innovative Clean Energy (BC ICE) Fund and the Canadian Sustainable Development Technology Fund (SDTC). Collaborative efforts such as these are important steps towards the sustainable and eco-friendly construction practices envisioned by these programs. These initiatives demonstrate the potential of innovative technologies to drive positive change in the clean energy sector. Learn more at mirucorp.com About ODL, Inc. ODL, Inc. was founded in 1945 and corporate headquarters are located in Zeeland, Michigan. Nearly 80 years later, the company offers products designed to build value into the home under the following brands: ODL, Blink Blinds + Glass, Western Reflections, Kenyon's Glass, Verre Select, Robover, and Tru Tech Doors. ODL product offerings include decorative and clear doorglass; enclosed blinds; custom decorative glass for windows, doors, transom glass; doorglass frames; fiberglass and steel entry doors; and door accessories. Products are manufactured or distributed in Zeeland, MI; Dallas, TX; Valdosta, GA; Reno, NV; Hagerstown, MD; Gallatin, TN; Grove City, OH; Matamoros, Mexico; Toronto, Montreal, Vaughan, and Calgary, Canada; Suzhou, China; and Liverpool, United Kingdom. ODL products are sold through building material dealers and home center retailers. Miru Smart Technologies Media Contact: Megan Verchere m.verchere@mirucorp.com 604-761-3946 ODL Media Contact: Rachel DenHartigh rachel.denhartigh@odl.com 616.953.5022 Media Contact Megan Verchere, Miru Smart Technologies, 1 604-761-3946, m.verchere@mirucorp.com Rachel DenHartigh, ODL, Inc., 616-953-5022, rachel.denhartigh@odl.com   SOURCE  Miru Smart Technologies © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.