If you have to use more than one keyboard layout on Windows 10, in this guide, I'll show you how. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 On Windows 10, in the initial setup, you usually get prompted to configure additional keyboard layouts. However, you can always add or remove layouts if you don't choose the correct setting or must type in another language. Typically, changing the input settings is uncommon, but there are many situations when you might need to. For instance, sometimes you may need to switch to the Spanish layout to write words that include special characters like "Ñ," or prefer a different layout, such as the United States-Dvorak. Whatever the reason it might be, Windows 10 ships with easy settings to add, remove, and change layouts for hardware and touch keyboards. In this how-to guide, I will walk you through the steps to manage keyboard layouts on Windows 10. To add a new keyboard layout on Windows 10, use these steps:   Once you complete the steps, the new keyboard layout will be added to the device, and you can switch between them using the instructions below. While changing layouts is straightforward, it'll reconfigure some of the keyboard keys, which means some of the keys may print a different character depending on the layout. All the latest news, reviews, and guides for Windows and Xbox diehards. To switch between keyboard layouts on Windows 10, use these steps:  After you complete the steps, you can start typing with the new keyboard layout. Enable Input Indicator If the Input Indicator is not present in the Taskbar, you can enable it through the Settings app. To enable the Input Indicator on Windows 10, use these steps:   Once you complete the steps, the icon will appear in the Taskbar's notification area to access the layouts and switch between them. You can also use the "Windows key + Spacebar" keyboard shortcut to cycle between the available keyboard layouts quickly. To remove a keyboard layout on Windows 10, use these steps:   Once you complete the steps, the keyboard layout will be removed from the device. For more helpful articles, coverage, and answers to common questions about Windows 10 and Windows 11, visit the following resources: Mauro Huculak has been a Windows How-To Expert contributor for WindowsCentral.com for nearly a decade and has over 15 years of experience writing comprehensive guides. He also has an IT background and has achieved different professional certifications from Microsoft, Cisco, VMware, and CompTIA. He has been recognized as a Microsoft MVP for many years. Windows Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 