Sign up for our daily newsletter Windows 10 and Windows 11 have had their share of problems. According to the Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC), the operating system experienced nearly 1280 security vulnerabilities in 2023. Microsoft quickly moves in to fix many of these security holes in the system, so it’s essential to stay up to date. Yet, Windows updates can bring their own problems. This guide shows what to do when an update does more harm than good. Note: if a problem here is marked as “FIXED,” it means Microsoft has rolled out an update that fixes the problem, and the solution is simply to make sure your system is fully updated. If a problem is not yet “FIXED,” then either read that entry for workarounds to that specific problem or scroll down the page for advice on how to roll back updates. Problems: Internet and Bluetooth not working | Update fails to install | Taskbar height and icon issues The Windows 11 KB5040527 cumulative update is full of troubleshooting solutions. It addresses backup and upgrade failures in previous versions, problems with Firefox and NVIDIA drivers, a memory leak with Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) memory leak, and issues with a Print support application. The latest version is more resistant to kernel-level malware threats and thus, addresses device vulnerabilities. Overall, it’s a very good update to have, and your system will thank you for going ahead with this. However, some users have reported that their Wi-Fi adapters or Bluetooth was not working after following the instructions. For any Wi-Fi related issues in Windows, we have some tried and tested troubleshooting solutions, especially resetting the network settings must do the trick. If your Bluetooth is facing problems, there are other solutions.  Additionally, some users have reported that the latest update messes up their taskbar size. Whether it disappears or the icons are missing, follow the detailed instructions. In any case, if you’re dealing with an unresponsive taskbar, follow this detailed guide. If your main concern with the update is that it fails to install, then you might want to pause it for a few weeks until next month when the issues have been cleared up. Meanwhile, opting for a cloud-based device reset (while keeping your files) is the best way to deal with any installation errors, but it consumes a lot of time. If you’re going to install an update with possible system freezes and a stuck installation, it’s a good idea to run the Windows 11 Update Troubleshooter first. Find it by navigating to System -> Troubleshoot -> Other troubleshooters. The troubleshooter will fix any issues that were preventing installation, but mostly security settings, missing or corrupt files, or problems with Service Registration. Other issues could be connected to Windows Network Diagnostics, IsPostback_RC_PendingUpdates, WaaSMedicService, and BITS service. Note: if you’ve missed many updates, we recommend reinstalling Windows 11 from the cloud via Windows installation assistant, ISO, media creation or another tool. Also, if you can’t install an update on your PC on your normal schedule, it’s always easier to do it from the Microsoft Update Catalog. Problems: Windows enterprise devices with Azure backend systems facing BSoD errors In mid-July this year, enterprise users woke up to a major Windows error on Azure systems thanks to a faulty update by CrowdStrike. This has affected the whole world, including airlines, medical records, banks, and much more. While Microsoft has done timely patches to fix most of these backend systems that are getting back on their feet, you may experience airline delays this month as an end user.  The whole CrowdStrike issue raises the frequent concern how vulnerable our systems really are to a single point of failure. This also raises questions on the SaaS model, and it is believed the CrowdStrike disaster may allow on-premises software delivery to make a comeback for enterprise systems.  Problems: PCs forcing into BitLocker recovery | Update fails to install | Taskbar problems  July’s Patch Tuesday update, KB5040442, takes care of many issues including login errors while booting with an error code. It is a safe update for most cases except for the update failing to install and taskbar issues which have been covered in above section.  However, the biggest challenge with this update is that it has forced some users to a BitLocker recovery environment. If that happens to you, boot into the system using the boot keys and roll back to the previous update, or use system restore. You can even access system restore when things go wrong.  Problems: Login error with Error code 0xd0000225 | OS upgrade failure | High system usage due to WFP drivers The Windows 11 cumulative update, KB5039302, came with a total of 9 fixes compared to the previous updates. These fixes address issues with the Snipping Tool, which caused distortions in video recording. Additionally, there was a USB ejection problem. Notably, the File Explorer now supports compression using 7-Zip and Tape Archive (TAR) directly from the context menu. While this update should pass incident-free for most users, some have reported login errors with code 0xd0000225. It prevents you from using a PIN to sign into the devices. Fortunately, the issue has been addressed in subsequent Windows 11 updates.  Other users have reported OS upgrade failure while migrating from Windows Pro to Windows Enterprise. This problem has also been addressed now.  Finally, some users have experienced high CPU usage due to Windows Filtering Platform (WFP,) a system in Task Manager. Fortunately, we have some really good solutions for high CPU usage.  Bad news: earlier, Microsoft has again mandated all Windows 11 Pro and Home users to compulsorily migrate to version 23H2 by Oct 6, 2024. Earlier the date was June 24, 2025. So if you’re still stuck in version 22H2, it’s time to migrate quickly.  Problems: Update fails to install | System crashes and freezes KB5039212, the Patch Tuesday update for the month of June, fixes some of the issues of last month. These include the administrator not being able to change the user profile picture, and past issues with Firefox and NVIDIA drivers. It also addresses the problem of taskbar disappearing suddenly.  However, there have been reports of installation failures, and system crashes and freezes. To deal with them, try disabling antivirus other than Windows Defender, and solve any critical process errors, as that is often the cause of system slowdowns. We have a list of hardware and software solutions to deal with PC freezes and crashes.  Problems: Taskbar failure | Explorer.exe issues The last cumulative update in the month of May was expected to give us a sneak peek into version 24H2, but that didn’t happen. However, the update still added some minor yet interesting features.  The most prominent of these was Linked Devices, accessible via Settings –> Accounts, to locate all your connected Microsoft devices. It’s also linked to Find My Device. Another interesting feature now lets you create QR codes directly from Windows Share Options on Microsoft Edge browser.  The biggest problem with KB5037853 is that the taskbar would suddenly disappear and appear again. Fortunately, this issue has been properly resolved in the June Patch Tuesday update, which you can check above. Other users have encountered the explorer.exe system error. It mostly happens due to a path specified error, which you can solve using one of our methods.  Also read: curious about the 24H2 update for Windows 11? It may include support for Wi-Fi 7, the ability to create 7-Zip and TAR archives directly in File Explorer, and enhanced connectivity for Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) audio devices. Sometimes, inadequate or underutilized RAM is what causes PC issues. You might need to test your current RAM performance to fix this. Tip: If you’re facing the infinite reboot loop, follow our detailed troubleshooting. Boot into Windows in safe mode, and perform a repair option. Also, follow our detailed guide to identify and resolve the most common Windows errors. FYI: If you’ve run into an annoying BSOD crash during a restart, use one of our methods to resolve the issue. To prevent an automatic restart, use one of these methods. Extra Tips: if you’re facing unexpected shutdowns, try removing schedules for the shutdowns. Learn how to reset all audio settings for any audio-related issues.  Problem: Update fails to install This is one of the more common errors that may occur when you try to update Windows. Essentially, the above error code means your update has failed, but there are several options to troubleshoot this problem: Problems: WDAC memory leak As Windows 10 is being phased out, despite its widespread use, Microsoft has stopped bringing important features to its updates. However, this time they finally released a major non-security update for Windows 10 with quality updates across the board. This touches many areas including TCP, Print Support app, Windows Backup, Windows kernel, and more.  However, the update may cause endpoint security issues with WDAC memory leaks causing the system memory exhaustion when provisioning a new device. Check this guide on how to deal with high memory issues. Problems: user account profile picture cannot be changed | BitLocker recovery screen error.  KB5040427 is a minor security update in Windows 10 that is aimed at ensuring the system remains penetration-proof from cybercriminals. Unfortunately, the stringent measures have led to problems with a useful feature, wherein the user can no longer change their user account profile picture.  This happens due to security conflicts with your user account which affect your ability to change your picture or get admin access to your account. If your information is lying with one user account, transfer your data to another account seamlessly. Tip: if you want to deal with the black screen issues, change the advanced power settings, and make slight adjustments in the GPU. If the problem you’ve encountered with a new Windows update is that the install stops at a certain percentage, or more generally, that it’s failing to install altogether, try installing the update from PowerShell. Open PowerShell as administrator by typing it into the Start menu search. In PowerShell, use this command: It may ask you to install and import the NuGet provider. Press Y for Yes, and let it install the package. You may get a warning that you are installing the modules from an untrusted repository. Type A to allow all the changes. Check for the latest Windows updates by typing the following into PowerShell: Once you’ve confirmed that there are updates to install, type the following command. You may further be asked if you want to perform this action, to which you must type A to finalize. Wait for the broken Windows updates to heal themselves. They will automatically execute in the PowerShell window.  Tip: how does PowerShell differ from Command Prompt? Read on to find out. If you access the Windows update screen by going to Settings -> Windows Update -> Advanced Options -> Additional Options, you will find the Optional Updates menu.  These updates are designed specifically to address feature, quality, and driver issues for recent Windows updates. They become “proper” updates a few weeks later, once they’ve been thoroughly tested. These updates are still pretty stable, though, and may be worth a shot if a recent update has broken something in Windows. You can uninstall smaller Windows updates (to roll back builds, see the next section) if needed. In Windows 10, go to Control Panel -> Programs -> Programs and Features -> Installed updates. Scroll down in the main pane to the Microsoft Windows heading, and you’ll see all of the KB and security updates for Windows 10, along with the install dates. Right-click the one you want to uninstall, and reboot your PC. Windows 11 also has the option to uninstall recent updates. Visit Settings -> Windows Update -> Update History -> Uninstall updates, and click the Uninstall button next to the update you want to eliminate. In this example, we are uninstalling an update for the month of May 2024. After every major update, Windows gives you a 10-day window to roll back to a previous version. It’s a useful feature and should give you enough time to judge whether you have a problematic update on your hands. Of course, this won’t recover your files if Windows deletes them, but at least you’ll be on a more stable version of the OS. Go to Settings -> Update & security -> Recovery in Windows 10 or Settings -> System -> Recovery in Windows 11. Below Reset this PC, is the option to Go back to the previous version of Windows. Click Get started, then follow the steps to roll back Windows. Again, this option is only available for 10 days after a Windows build update. Before looking into rolling back and fixing broken Windows updates, check the build of Windows you’re currently using to confirm which issues are affecting you.  Go to Settings -> Windows Update -> Update history (in Windows 11) or Settings -> Update & Security -> Windows Update -> View Update history (in Windows 10). In the new window, click the arrow next to Feature Updates to see the version of Windows you’re currently using, and click Quality Updates to see all of the smaller KB updates you have installed.  You will also find Definition Updates, which are security intelligence updates related to Microsoft Defender.  At the bottom of the list, you may find Other Updates, concerning programs such as the Windows Malicious Software Removal tool, Intelligence updates, and security patches.  To avoid getting the above update problems and more, take over control when Windows updates. This way, you can hold off getting updates the moment Microsoft rolls them out, monitor the news for a bit to see if any significant errors crop up, then manually do the update yourself. If you’re running Windows 11, go to Settings -> Windows Update -> More options -> Pause updates, and choose the number of weeks you wish to defer updates in the future (from the default of one week to up to five weeks). In Windows 10 Home, Pro, Enterprise, Education, or S, postpone updates by checking the same option under Settings -> Update & Security -> Windows Update. On some Windows 10 versions, it may be referred to as Defer instead of Pause and under a different heading. Tip: did you know that Windows comes with a Super Administrator account? Learn how to activate it. If you want to completely block Windows updates indefinitely, disable the main Windows Update service through the Registry Editor.  Click Start, type regedit, open the Registry Editor, and navigate to the following path: Right-click on Start to modify it, then change its Value data to 4. Reboot your PC, then go to the Services window by using the Search function in Windows. Disable the Windows Update service in the same window by setting its startup type as Disabled. Few things on PC are more frustrating than an update – ostensibly to improve performance – borking your system. Unfortunately, Microsoft still has work to do in this respect. Other issues with Windows include the Microsoft Store not working and a malfunctioning microphone. We can help with these, too! Image credit: Pixabay. All screenshots by Sayak Boral. Our latest tutorials delivered straight to your inbox Sayak Boral is a technology writer with over eleven years of experience working in different industries including semiconductors, IoT, enterprise IT, telecommunications OSS/BSS, and network security.  He has been writing for MakeTechEasier on a wide range of technical topics including Windows, Android, Internet, Hardware Guides, Browsers, Software Tools, and Product Reviews. Setting Up a New Windows 11 PC? Here Are 9 Essential Steps for an Optimal Experience 6 Windows Emulators for Your Browser How to Fix Desktop Window Manager High Memory Usage How to Fix Windows Update Error 0x80070643 Windows 11 Local Account vs. Microsoft Account: What You Need to Know Affiliate Disclosure: Make Tech Easier may earn commission on products purchased through our links, which supports the work we do for our readers. © 2024 Uqnic Network Pte Ltd.All rights reserved.