HOUSTON, May  04, 2023  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Nauticus Robotics, Inc. ("Nauticus" or the "Company") KITT, a developer of autonomous robots using artificial intelligence for data collection and intervention services for the ocean industries, today announced that founder and CEO Nicolaus Radford has been chosen to deliver a keynote address at the Robotics Summit & Expo 2023 in Boston. Radford will give the event's closing keynote presentation, "Developing Robots for Final Frontiers," on May 11, 2023, at 4:00 p.m. ET. This presentation will chart Radford's journey from developing humanoid robotics for space as a chief engineer and principal investigator for NASA and then leveraging that experience to form Nauticus and its revolutionary ocean robotics portfolio. The talk will discuss Nauticus' advancements in developing a premier software platform, toolKITT, to enable artificial intelligence to power autonomous, surface, and untethered subsea robotics platforms. Nauticus is on a mission to create a future where more autonomous and intelligent robots – like its flagship robot Aquanaut – are used to reduce environmental impact and human exposure to hazards significantly. "Much like space, our oceans are vast and full of unrealized potential. I'm honored to join this year's speaker lineup to share some of the lessons we've learned at Nauticus while developing robotic technologies that revolutionize the way in which services are performed in the ocean industries," said Radford. "We're at the forefront of major transformation as the ocean community progresses through a technology renaissance. I can't wait to trade insights about our work and the other exciting advancements in the world of robotics with this year's impressive roster of speakers." The Robotics Summit & Expo is a multifaceted educational forum and expo dedicated to addressing the issues involved with the design, development, manufacture and delivery of commercial robotics and intelligent systems products and services. Additional keynote speakers this year include: About NauticusNauticus Robotics, Inc. is a developer of autonomous robots using artificial intelligence for data collection and intervention services for the ocean industries. Nauticus' robotic systems and services are delivered to commercial and government-facing customers through a Robotics-as-a-Service (RaaS) business model and direct product sales for both hardware platforms and software licenses. Besides a standalone service offering and products, Nauticus' approach to ocean robotics has also resulted in the development of a range of technology products for retrofitting/upgrading legacy systems and other third-party vehicle platforms. Nauticus provides customers with the necessary data collection, analytics, and subsea manipulation capabilities to support and maintain assets while reducing their operational footprint, operating cost, and greenhouse gas emissions to improve offshore health, safety, and environmental exposure. Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act") and are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act as well as protections afforded by other federal securities laws. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the expected timing of product commercialization or new product releases; customer interest in Nauticus' products; estimated 2023 operating results and use of cash; and Nauticus' use of and needs for capital. Generally, statements that are not historical facts, including statements concerning possible or assumed future actions, business strategies, events, or results of operations, are forward-looking statements. These statements may be preceded by, followed by or include the words "believes," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "forecasts," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "plans," "scheduled," "anticipates," "intends" or "continue" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. These forward-looking statements are based on Nauticus' management's current expectations and beliefs, as well as a number of assumptions concerning future events. There can be no assurance that the events, results, or trends identified in these forward-looking statements will occur or be achieved. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and Nauticus is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any obligation, to update, alter or otherwise revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should carefully review the statements set forth in the reports which Nauticus has filed or will file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties facing the Company and that could cause the forward-looking statements no to occur, in particular the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in documents filed from time to time with the SEC, including Nauticus' Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 28, 2023. Should one or more of these risks, uncertainties or other factors materialize, or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking information or statements prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as intended, planned, anticipated, believed, estimated or expected. The documents filed by Nauticus with the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Investor Relations Contact:Ralf EsperGateway Group, Inc. (949) 574-3860KITT@GatewayIR.com Media Contact:Zach KadletzGateway Group, Inc. (949) 574-3860KITT@GatewayIR.com   © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.