AZTA, DE, and IOT are top for value, growth, and momentum, respectively   While robots in the past were used mostly in industrial applications, robotics are now being employed for security, health care, aerospace, food and beverage uses, and education. More industries are starting to rely on automation to dramatically improve their efficiencies. Amid these advances, market research analysts have forecast the robotics market will expand to $214.7 billion by 2030, growing at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of almost 23%.
  With such an increasing investment opportunity, robot and automation stocks, as represented by the ROBO Global Robotics and Automation Index ETF (ROBO), an exchange-traded fund (ETF), have outperformed the broader market. The ETF has delivered a total return of 5% over the past 12 months, higher than the relatively flat performance of the S&P 500 Index, up 0.3% in the same period.
  Here are the top three robotics stocks in each category: best value, the fastest growth, and the most momentum. The market performance numbers above and all company stock price data in the tables below are as of April 24, 2023.
  These are the robotics stocks with the lowest 12-month trailing price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. Because profits can be returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks, a low P/E ratio shows that you're paying less for each dollar of profit generated.
  But such stocks also could turn out to be a classic case of a value trap—a stock that attracts investors looking for a bargain because it seems inexpensive, relative to historical valuation multiples of the stock or versus industry peers, but that may continue to languish or drop further after an investor buys shares in the company.
  Source: YCharts
  These are the top robotics stocks as ranked by a growth model that scores companies based on a 50/50 weighting of their most recent quarterly year-over-year percentage revenue growth and most recent quarterly year-over-year (EPS) growth.
  Both sales and earnings are critical factors in the success of a company. Therefore, ranking companies by only one growth metric makes a ranking susceptible to the accounting anomalies of that quarter (such as changes in tax law or restructuring costs) that may make one figure or the other unrepresentative of the business in general. Companies with quarterly EPS or revenue growth of more than 2,500% were excluded as outliers.
  Source: YCharts
  These are the robotics stocks that had the highest total return over the past 12 months.
  Source: YCharts
  With wage pressures squeezing corporate margins, companies across an array of sectors are increasing their bets on automation such as robotics to drive future profit. A survey from global consulting firm McKinsey & Co. shows that logistics and fulfillment players, as a percentage of their total capital outlays, are going to be the biggest spenders on automation in the next five years, followed by companies in the automotive, life sciences, and health care sectors, along with food and beverage. This expansion is likely to lead to increased stock investment opportunities as more companies launch or begin supplying robotic equipment.
  The processes most likely to be automated are those used in logistics and warehousing such as palletization and packaging, material handling, goods receiving, and sorting. Jobs that require high levels of human input, such as welding and soldering, are the least likely to be automated. Regardless, the future appears to be machine-driven, and most companies are anticipating the adoption of robotics to improve safety, quality, and speed of production. Companies that can provide such systems stand to benefit.
  There are at least two risks to consider before investing in robotics stocks: competition and company valuations. Market sectors like this one that are poised for growth offer investment potential but tend to experience higher rates of competition. And competition can be deadly—especially for new startups that lack the capital and resources of better-established companies.
  The other major risk factor associated with robotics stocks is high company valuations. The robotics industry is on an upward trajectory, and the market has responded to that. Like many other technology stocks, robotics stocks can get expensive, a result of the higher valuations associated with the companies.
 GlobeNewswire. “RoboticsMarket Size to Cross USD 214.68 Billion by 2030, Growing at a CAGR of 22.8% - Report by Market Research Future (MRFR).” YCharts. "ROBO Global Robotics and Automation Index ETF." (Subscription required.) YCharts. "S&P 500." (Subscription required.) Azenta Life Sciences. "About Azenta Life Sciences." Azenta Inc. “AZENTA REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER RESULTS FOR FISCAL 2023, ENDED DEC. 31, 2022.” Qualcomm Inc. "Our Company." Qualcomm Inc. “Qualcomm Announces First-Quarter Fiscal 2023 Results.” Deere & Co. "John Deere Investor Relations Fact Book FY22 Data," Page 10. Deere & Co. "Deere Reports Net Income of $2.246 Billion for Fourth Quarter, $7.131 Billion for Fiscal Year." Deere & Co. “1Q 2023 Earnings Call,” Pages 3 and 13. ServiceNow Inc. "Say Yes to Knowledge 2023." ServiceNow Inc. “ServiceNow Reports First Quarter 2023 Financial Results.” Aptiv PLC. "About Aptiv." Aptiv PLC. “Aptiv Reports Fourth Quarter 2022 Financial Results.” Samara Inc. "About Us." Samsara Inc. “Samsara Reports Fourth Quarter And Full Fiscal Year 2023 Financial Results.” National Instruments Corp. "NI Connect 2023." Reuters. "Emerson Electric To Buy National Instruments for $8.2 Bln To Deepen Automation Push." National Instruments Corp. “NI Achieves Record Revenue for a First Quarter, up 13% YOY.” Cadence Design Systems Inc. "About Us." Cadence Design Systems Inc. "Cadence Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2022 Financial Results." Cadence Design Systems Inc. “Cadence Reports First-Quarter 2023 Financial Results.” McKinsey & Co. "Unlocking the Industrial Potential of Robotics and Automation." McKinsey & Co. "Hi, Robot."