
UPDATE: Jul. 27, 2023, 5:00 a.m. EDT This guide has been updated to include information from Mashable's latest hands-on tests and sex toy reviews.
 Let's debunk the sanitized Instagram version of self-care that's limited to bubble baths, face masks, and daily affirmations (although those can be great, too!). True self-care also involves embracing and owning your pleasure. And for a lot of us, that means keeping a discrete collection of sex toys for women at the ready. Sexual health is a crucial aspect of self-care that's often overlooked. While stores like Sephora and Target now proudly display sex toys (farewell to the days of sneaking into seedy sex shops in search of your future orgasm), the shame and stigma surrounding pleasure, particularly for women, continue to persist. So let's get real: Pleasure is an essential and completely natural part of our lives. And if you're looking for a way to explore your sexuality and take pleasure into your own hands (literally), sex toys are a great place to start. That said, not all sex toys deserve a spot in your nightstand, and finding the best sex toys for women can quickly go from exciting to overwhelming. That's because new sex toys are being released all the time, and there are so many categories to consider, from oral sex toys to traditional vibrators. That's why we're here — to guide you through the exciting world of women's sex toys, offering expert insights, reviews, and personal recommendations to help you discover new ways to stimulate your body and mind. "If possible, I recommend finding an approachable, feminist sex shop in your area so that you can actually explore your options in person," says AASECT-certified sex therapist Rachel Zar, LMFT, CST. "What does the toy feel like in your hand? How intense are the vibrations — try it on the inside of your forearm or the tip of your nose in the store since these areas are extra sensitive." If you can't make it to a physical store, don't panic. There are plenty of ways to shop for sex toys online. Just be sure to research and choose a retailer that prioritizes safety and sells body-safe products (all items on this list fit those criteria). "When buying a sex toy, you should first make sure the toy is designed from quality materials such as 100% medical-grade silicone and stainless steel," advises Rebecca Alvarez Story, sexologist and co-founder of BLOOMI. "It’s always good to check whether the brand has industry standards or certificates that prove safety." It's also worth considering whether or not you're shopping for solo use or partnered play. The answer to this question will determine the shape, size, and functionality of the toys you choose. "Think about the sensations you tend to like during sex with a partner or masturbation," suggests Zar. "If you like focused stimulation to your clitoris, a smaller bullet or a wand will do the trick. If you enjoy both vulva stimulation and penetration, a rabbit toy or a vibrating cock ring with a penis or a dildo might be a good way to start." via GIFER There are no right or wrong answers when buying a sex toy (as long as it's made from safe materials and used consensually and properly). It's all about finding what feels good for you and getting to know your body on a deeper level. Whether you're a sex toy novice or an experienced pro, we've rounded up some of the best sex toys for women on the market to help you own your pleasure. And to make sure we're only recommending the very best toys, we've included reviews along with our product picks. Because unlike most sex toy guides, a majority of the products featured here have been hands-on tested by someone on Mashable's team. (It's hard work, but someone has to do it.)  Note: This article recommends toys intended for people assigned female at birth (AFAB). This means the toys are recommended for anyone with a vagina, regardless of gender identity. If you're looking into buying your first sex toy, you've likely realized you have a lot of options. While sex toys ultimately come down to personal preference, you'd be hard-pressed to find a better all-around sex toy than the maude drop, especially at this price point. In particular, we believe this is the best sex toy for beginners who have never used a vibrator before. With maude's egg-shaped vibrator, you get choices but won't be overwhelmed by them, with three vibration intensities. You also have the option to use the drop's sides for dispersed sensation, while the tip offers a more powerful, pinpointed pleasure. All you need to do to change the intensity is click the same button you use to turn the toy on and off (this is especially important when things are getting hot n' heavy).  It's stylish, great for single women and couples, and even has a travel mode, so you won't have to worry about any suspicious buzzing. Let's just say there's a reason it's a favorite vibrator of former Mashable culture reporter Jess Joho.  Check out our full review of the maude drop. Finding a sex toy with a budget price tag that doesn't skimp on quality can feel risky, but the Unbound Pep promises quality, value, and functionality (plus, it's cute as hell). In other words, you can feel good knowing that you didn't break the bank and that this vibrator is completely safe to use on, in, and around your genitals (and wherever else you like to use it) on the regs.  This wallet-friendly vibrator still has the features of a pricier option — it's waterproof and has five vibration intensities and three vibration patterns. If you're a newbie, Pep's manual does a great job of breaking down those different patterns and intensities, but if you're a pro, this vibe's three-button interface makes finding that just-right setting fairly intuitive. The soft egg shape of this vibe also allows you to experiment with pinpointed and targeted vibrations.  Also, unlike other cheap vibrators, turning it on won't give every soul in a five-mile radius an audio cue that you're about to have some much-deserved you-time.  In her review, Mashable Culture Reporter Anna lovine wrote: "While there's no technical breakdown of Pep's speeds, the toy revs up as much as bigger vibrators in my arsenal do. Intensities two and three (medium-low intensity and medium intensity, respectively) were enough to get me over the edge, but there are numerous intensities and patterns to cycle through when using Pep; there's lots of room to explore. Pep's body is pretty 'squishy,' so it feels good on even the most sensitive areas." Read our full review on the Unbound Pep. There are a lot of ways to use a vibrator, but there's a reason that good old-fashioned clitoral stimulation is one of the most popular. For a classic vibrator that gets that and will get you off, look no further than the Crave Vesper.  The design is both fairly standard and completely unique. It's standard in that it's a pretty traditional bullet vibrator, but unique in that its elegant simplicity allows you to wear it as a necklace without garnering any odd looks (there's also a gold and rose gold version if you prefer not to rock silver). Just be warned that this product is popular enough that someone may just recognize this hardware around your neck.  The aesthetic simplicity carries over to this vibrator's functionality — just one button is needed to turn it on, switch through the three vibration intensities and two patterns, and turn it back off. The slim design also makes it great for targeted stimulation and for taking on the go, although you might want to bring your charger along just in case — the battery only lasts about 40 minutes. The discreet cherry to top it all off is that this vibe is whisper quiet. More from Former Culture Reporter Jess Joho: "Break the sex toy taboo with a gorgeous necklace that's also a pinpoint clitoral stimulator designed to get you off wherever and whenever you want. Wearing the Vesper turns your shame into an unapologetic pride. While not the most powerful, it's perfect for those nervous about introducing toys into partnered sex since unscrewing it from your necklace is sexier than fumbling for one in your bedside table." This just in: there are sex toys other than vibrators and dildos that are worth your time during a solo sesh, and the Womanizer Premium is one of them. This clitoral stimulator uses air pulsation (or suction) to get you where you need to go. It may be tricky to line up at first, but once you do, you definitely go. The autopilot mode on this toy makes the going even better, as it switches between the 12 intensities automatically while you sit back and relax. Our reviewer doesn't really vibe with suction toys, and she was still willing to sing this one's praises (seriously, check out the excerpt below). Will it cost you a pretty penny? Yes. But this is a powerful, quiet, and frankly, artistic-looking toy that'll deliver on what it promises — a very, very good time.  More from Culture Reporter Anna Iovine: "Yes, the Womanizer is a suction toy, meaning it's not this writer's favorite. Regardless, I found that the Womanizer Premium is user-friendly and powerful, especially on the higher notches. Its shape is easy to handle, and it's not bad to look at either. With 12 intensity levels, there's something for everyone, and I didn't get near the top intensity in order to climax." No matter how excited you may feel to dive right in, one of the cardinal rules of anal play is to ease in at your own pace, beginner or not. You know, slow but steady wins the race and all that. That's why we love the b-Vibe Snug Plug, which comes in seven different size and weight options (with slightly varying prices). As one of the best anal sex toys and butt plugs for sale, it more than earns its spot here. This plug is made with soft, body-safe silicone (you should always use a water-based lube with silicone toys) and a shape that's easy to maneuver by yourself or a partner. Though it doesn't vibrate, this toy is weighted, with the smallest size at 55 grams and the largest at 515 grams. That weight provides pressure and fullness, some of the most sought-after feelings when using butt plugs. Whether used alone or with other toys, this plug is a great way to experience unique sensations. And as an added bonus, you'll also receive an educational guide for anal training, with information that'll likely be useful to most users. More from former Culture Reporter Jess Joho: "What stands out most about b-Vibe is how beginner-friendly its overall approach is. Aside from having escalating sizes that accommodate all experience levels and are ideal for anal training (which they offer in an awesome bundle), their educational guides include detailed instructions and common questions and advice for a great anal experience. The weighted Snug Plug, while more expensive, brings a feeling of fullness that adds pressure stimulation."  Hump it, grind on it, curl it up, wear it in a harness, or put it between two bodies. No, we're not pitching a sexy adult Bop-It. We're just listing some ways you can use Wild Flower's Enby 2. Immediately from its appearance, you can tell this sex toy was built differently. This mermaid fin-shaped toy can be twisted, curled, or laid flat, so you can use it in all the wonderful ways you can think of. It works well for solo use, partner play, in the shower, in your bed, on some pillows, standing up — literally, wherever and however you like it. As for the vibrations, let's say you'll definitely feel it.  If you're curious about the name, it comes from the term "NB," meaning nonbinary, which aptly suits this toy that can be used on every body, regardless of gender, making it a very appealing choice for straight and queer women alike. More from Culture Reporter Anna Iovine: "For such a versatile toy, the price is on point. [Y]ou're almost getting multiple toys in one. I'll be real, I love my wand vibrators, but they don't have anywhere close to the variety of the Enby 2 — and they're pricier and bulkier to boot." Read our full review of Enby 2. LELO is known for making some of the best sex toys for women and men alike. Unfortunately, the popular sexual wellness brand isn't known for making affordable sex toys. Even so, LELO is no doubt one of the chicest sex toy brands out there. From the packaging to the product design, LELO has made itself known as the luxe and sophisticated option for intimate pleasure.  The LELO Smart Wand 2 has an ergonomic, curved handle that makes it easy to maneuver, even for longer sessions. However, during testing, we noted that it isn't really designed for prolonged use. This wand is powerful, and the vibrations can be intense and sometimes a bit jumpy, but that's one of many reasons to love it. If you need a quick, intense orgasm, this toy is the way to do it.  The Smart Wand 2 also has a reliable battery life, is easy to clean, and is 100% waterproof. Even if you're a wand aficionado with a collection of gazillion wands and only one go-to, the VIM is definitely worth checking out. Its revolutionary design and functionality are impressive, and it might just earn a spot in your top five favorites (everyone has at least five sex toys, right?). Unlike other wands, the VIM is lightweight and the vibrations don't reach the handle, making it easier to use. It shouldn't hurt your wrist after extended use like other wands do. The buttons are easy to see and use, and switching between the three vibration patterns is straightforward. The VIM has a flexible neck, so you can adjust the angle and pressure to hit the perfect spot every time. The most unique feature of this wand is the type of orgasm it provides, which cannot be replicated with other toys. The VIM offers deep, rumbly vibrations that are intense but not in an OMG I'm going to come right now kind of way. They're more of a slow-building pleasure that culminates in a mind-blowing release. The rumbly nature of this wand allows you to prolong your playtime instead of having a one-and-done experience. Plus, the VIM is super multi-functional. You can use it alone or during partnered sex, and it's great for all types of play, from foreplay to edging to blended orgasms (it's also great for grinding against). And it has a travel lock, so you can throw it in your luggage without worrying whether TSA will cart you off to a private room for questioning. The LELO Soraya Wave isn't anything like the rabbit vibrator Miranda introduced on Sex and the City, but it's definitely iconic in its own right. As an upgraded version of the Soraya 2, this luxe vibe can transform any ordinary solo session into an unparalleled experience. Unlike the original, it's equipped with WaveMotion technology that expertly stimulates both the clitoris and G-spot in perfect harmony, leading to unforgettable orgasms and heightened pleasure. And with two hours of playtime and a waterproof exterior, this feature-rich rabbit-style vibrator offers nothing but pleasurable possibilities. Plus, thanks to its one-year warranty, you can go hard — LELO will send a replacement if anything goes wrong (just be sure to save the receipt). Check out our full review of the Soraya Wave. If you were on the internet in 2019, there's a good chance you heard about Tracy's Dog OG Sucking Vibrator. It became an overnight sensation after one woman posted a now-viral Amazon review about how she "blacked out" from its intense pleasure. (If you haven't read this review, please do yourself a favor and look it up because it is a gem.) Not only is this one of the best sex toys for women, but it's also one of the best and most affordable sex toys on Amazon. That being said, many women avoid buying sex toys via Amazon altogether, and it's always safest to shop directly with the toymaker. (It's currently available at both Amazon and Tracy's Dog.) While everyone is different, and we're not promising you'll have the same experience, we can say that this toy deserves a spot in your collection. This women's sex toy is designed to simulate oral sex, but let us tell you — it's so much better. The only caveat, and we can't stress this enough, is that this toy is powerful, so it's super important to use lube internally and externally and start on the lowest setting and work your way up. Unless your goal is to orgasm in two seconds flat — and that can be fun too depending on what you're in the mood for — start slow. It's also a good idea to play around with it in your hands before placing it on your precious bits to get a feel for how it works and what buttons do what. Once it's on your clit, though, get ready for some mind-blowing pleasure. Pro tip: This vibrator will change your foreplay game forever — give your partner head while wearing it, or just let them watch you as you fall into ecstasy. Bonus points if you can make yourself squirt before they even touch you. It's a win-win game that's definitely worth playing, and your pussy and your partner will thank you. The best oral sex toys can provide powerful orgasms, but this unique toy can fulfill fantasies you didn't even know you had. JimmyJane's Apex vibrator combines innovative design (a pussy pump, tongue-shaped stimulator, G-spot massager, clitoral vibrator, and TWO attachments for nipple and vulva play) with powerful stimulation to bring your satisfy your innermost desires. With four motors, three suction patterns, seven tongue-motion patterns,10 vibration patterns, and a handle for G-spot stimulation (and maybe anal, if you're in the mood), the Apex is like having five toys in one. One tiny problem: The suction function doesn't play around... You need to test this thing out first. We strongly recommend trying all the settings in a non-sexual setting with your hands before turning it on and going to town. If you don't, you may end up hurting your vulva or clitoris with the intense suction. (Seriously, we don't want you to experience any pain or discomfort.) The suction function of the pump is also very loud. It's a pump, so like, that's expected, but just be forewarned. That said, once you've mastered this toy, it's unbeatable. The pussy pump alone is enough to send you over the edge. Plus, it's a great way to warm up before penetrative sex. And if your partner is a voyeur and loves watching you play, the Apex will mesmerize them. 
Topics
Sex Toys
 We hand-tested a range of top-notch pleasure products when selecting the best sex toys for women. Based on our rigorous (and extremely enjoyable!) testing process, we picked only the best sexual health products so that we could provide our readers with comprehensive insights and recommendations.  Our team dedicated time to thoroughly evaluating each of the following sex toys: maude drop, Unbound Pep, Womanizer Premium, Wild Flower Enby 2, LELO Smart Wand 2, LELO Soraya Wave, Tracy's Dog OG Sucking Vibrator, VIM by Fun Factory, and the JimmyJane Apex. We selected the Crave Vesper vibrator necklace based on its sterling reputation, which is a pun you'll appreciate after reading more about the product. We considered various factors during our evaluations, including performance, functionality, materials used, noise level, and overall user experience. We aimed to provide an unbiased assessment of these pleasure products, so our readers can make informed decisions that align with their desires and preferences. Most importantly, we wanted to make sure each of the products we chose successfully delivered satisfying orgasms. With all of this in mind, we selected the best sex toys that will suit a wide range of needs. Leah Stodart is a Philadelphia-based Senior Shopping Reporter at Mashable where she covers essential home tech like vacuums and TVs as well as sustainable swaps and travel. Her ever-growing experience in these categories comes in clutch when making recommendations on how to spend your money during shopping holidays like Black Friday, which Leah has been covering for Mashable since 2017. Leah graduated from Penn State University in 2016 with dual degrees in Sociology and Media Studies. When she's not writing about shopping (or shopping online for herself), she's almost definitely watching a horror movie, "RuPaul's Drag Race," or "The Office." You can follow her on X at @notleah or email her at [email protected]. Bethany Allard is a Los Angeles-based shopping reporter at Mashable covering beauty tech, dating, sex and relationships, and headphones. That basically means she puts her hair through a lot, scrolls through a lot of dating apps, and rotates through a lot of different headphones. In addition to testing out and rounding up the best products, she also covers deals for Mashable, paying an especially obsessive amount of attention to Apple deals and prices. That knowledge comes in handy when she's covering shopping holidays like Prime Day and Black Friday, which she's now done for three years at Mashable.  She graduated from New York University with a B.A. in Journalism and English Literature. You can follow her on X @betallard and reach her by email at [email protected]. In her free time, you'll find her playing her Switch, hanging with her cat Mila, or cooking something new in her kitchen. Tabitha Britt is a freelance writer, editor, SEO & content strategist. Aside from writing for Mashable, Tabitha is also the founding editor-in-chief of DO YOU ENDO — a digital magazine by individuals with endometriosis, for individuals with endometriosis. She has a Master's degree in Creative Publishing and Critical Journalism from The New School of Social Research and is a grad of Sextech School. You can find more of her work in various online pubs, including National Geographic, Insider, Kinkly, and others.