When she tried to pay with the change, she was told she needed to pay by card or with a note Get daily headlines and breaking news alerts for FREE by signing up to our newsletter We have more newsletters Get daily headlines and breaking news alerts for FREE by signing up to our newsletter We have more newsletters A mum in the UK was left feeling 'disgusted' after she was told her young son couldn't use his pocket money to buy a toy in Smyths. Emily White, 26, recalled the moment she tried to pay for a toy airplane from Smyths Toys Superstores on behalf of her two-year-old son with the money he had saved up. The pocket money the young boy had saved consisted of mainly pound coins and 50p coins. READ MORE:The popular toys that are flying off the shelves in Smyths this Christmas However, the mother was informed that she was not able to purchase the toy airplane and a tea set at the Portland Retail Park in Mansfield, Nottingham, on behalf of the tot. The 26-year-old says that she went to the store on November 24 and when she tried to pay with the change, she was told she needed to pay by card or with a note. She went on to say that staff at the store told her and her mother - who was also there - that there is a limit of £10 for people trying to use coins to buy items. Emily said she was told this was the store's policy. After the issue arose, the 26-year-old explained to staff that she had taken her son to spend money he had saved in a money tin, and wanted to treat him. She added that she had gone through the tiring job of separating the money out beforehand "so it wasn't just small change".  Emily told Nottinghamshire Live : "I took [my son] to Smyths to pick what he wanted. We were walking round, he was fishing what he wants, we get to the till.  "My mum pulled out the bag with the money in and the worker is like 'I can't take that'. We said 'what do you mean?' "She said it again and said she'd get someone over to explain it to us. So someone came over and said 'sorry, we can't take that but there's a cash machine at the Sainsbury's '." Emily was left completely stunned at this statement, as she said that the supermarket was a fair distance away from the toy shop. The mum said: "They [Smyths staff] said 'come back, pay for the toys, and then it's all sorted'. Well obviously at that point my mum was questioning what was happening. "We were told there was a £10 limit in how much you can spend in pound coins. So I just got my card out and paid for it on my card, as you would because I didn't want my child to go without. I just think it's a bit disgusting that my child is three in February and he needs to learn the value of money and that's how they dealt with it." The Irish Mirror contacted Smyths Toys Ireland who said they said they have no such policy and accept coins as payment in their stores. A spokesperson said: "Smyths Toys are more than happy to take any current legal tender in any of our stores." READ NEXT :   Gardai seize weapon as Dublin apartment is sealed off after body find in field   Taoiseach sends warning to social media firms after Leo Varadkar video   Will my road be gritted? All you need to know as cold snap creates treacherous conditions   Missy Keating rubbishes rumours she has found love Down Under   Jennifer Zamparelli's 'absolute nightmare' after being left stranded in airport   Get breaking news to your inbox by    signing up to our newsletter   