
  AN APPLICATION to introduce three signs at a toy superstore that is set to arrive in Barrow has been submitted to the borough council.
 
  A branch of Smyths Toys is due to open at a unit in Hollywood Park, Hindpool Road, before Christmas.
 
  A representative of Smyths Toys Ltd is seeking consent to display three advertisements at the site, which is currently occupied by Apollo Bingo. 
 
  All of the signs would read 'Smyths Toys Superstores' and be illuminated internally by LED lighting. 
 
Smyths Toys is to be located at Hollywood Park  (Image: Westmorland and Furness Council planning portal)
 
  Permission for the store was unanimously granted at a meeting of Barrow Borough Council's planning committee last month.
 
  The meeting was told Apollo Bingo had struggled with the competition brought by the opening of Opera Bingo in Holker Street.
 
   
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                            Last Updated: 
 Are you sure you want to delete this comment? 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.