Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account   All products are independently selected by our editors. If you buy something, we may earn an affiliate commission. When it comes to the best luxury sex toys, the common adage “you get what you pay for” certainly applies. That’s not to say you can't secure a great, O-inducing toy for under $50, but generally speaking, investing in higher-quality materials and features can help you level up the sensations, too. In the pursuit of the best sex toys for men, women, couples, and beyond, I've had the immense joy of testing a variety of gadgets at various price points. Not all of them live up to their steep price tags, certainly, but a great many do. And the ones that are worth the money offer a range of perks, from waterproof models that you can take for a dip in the tub to full-on sex machines that you can program to penetrate you with their robotic arms. Below, read up on all the best luxury sex toys for next-level orgasms, according to moi and a handful of horny sex experts. Doxy Lovehoney Material: Silicone (head), casted aluminum and titanium (body)Battery life: Electric If you want truly excellent vibrations, sometimes you have to level up your sex toy cache. This gorgeous wand has a body made of aluminum and titanium that looks sleek and offers deep, rumbly sensations. Sure, it's hefty and needs to be plugged in, but it's one of my favorite high-end vibes because its power and beauty are practically unparalleled. Pros: Very powerful vibrations; eight vibration speeds; double-weighted head for extra rumbliness; luxurious metal construction; LED-lighted buttons for easier use in the darkCons: Heavy; initially cold to the touch; requires an electrical outlet; some users report mechanical issues Dame Babeland Materials: SiliconeBattery Life: 90 minutes The deep curve of this vibrator makes it ideal for massaging the G-spot, though it can also be used on external pleasure points. The toy's smooth matte silicone gives it a luxurious feel, and the base is slightly squishy in your hand. I've found this to be a dependable workhorse of a vibe, though the handle is sometimes a bit tricky to thrust with. Pros: Can be used both internally and externally; five vibration modes with five vibration intensity levels each; squishy tip for comfort; curve for G-spot stimulation; waterproof; quietCons: Handle is not as easy to thrust with as some other toys Maude Maude Silicone-based lube is about as luxurious as lube gets. It's long-lasting, silky-smooth, and works well for both internal and external stimulation. This one has a convenient pump top, so you can lube up quickly in the heat of the moment. Silicone lubes shouldn't be used with silicone toys, but are compatible with all kinds of condoms. Pros: Long-lasting; smooth and slippery; compatible with all condoms; doesn’t wash away underwater or in the shower; pump-top bottleCons: Incompatible with silicone sex toys; may stain sheets/clothing We-Vibe WeVibe Materials: Silicone and ABS plasticBattery Life: 2 hours We-Vibe has created many iterations of its signature C-shaped couples' vibe over the years, and this one is about as close to perfect as it's gotten yet. Like its predecessors, this one has two “arms”. During penetrative heterosexual sex, one arm can be worn inside the vagina to hit the G-spot, while the other sits outside of the clit. It's meant to stimulate both partners at once, but I've also found that it works well solo. The Chorus's most unique feature, though, is its squeeze-control remote: the tighter you grip the remote, the stronger the vibration gets, which is much more intuitive in the heat of the moment than struggling to press buttons in the dark. Pros: Strong, rumbly vibrations; three vibration speeds and seven patterns; intuitive squeeze-control remote; Bluetooth-controllable; can be used long-distance; waterproofCons: Can’t be used with silicone-based lubes; ridged surface can be hard to clean Womanizer Lovehoney Materials: Silicone and ABS plasticBattery Life: 2 hours If you want to overload your clit and G-spot with pleasure, this toy is one of the best and fanciest ways to do it. The outer arm of the toy stimulates the clitoris head with air, creating a suction-like sensation that's incredibly pleasurable. On the other hand, ahem, the inner arm has an upward curve to reach the G-spot and give it rumbly vibrations. Sure, it's a little bulky, but in some ways, this is like having two toys in one. Pros: Offers both clitoral stimulation and G-spot vibration at once; each function can be controlled separately; strong, rumbly vibrations; 14 intensity levels and 10 vibration patterns; comes with two differently sized stimulator heads to fit a range of clitoris sizes; waterproofCons: Can be inconveniently large/bulky; can’t be used with silicone-based lubes Hot Octopus Babeland Materials: Silicone and ABS plasticBattery Life: 1 hour Vibration is a highly underrated way of stimulating penises, and with this wrappable sleeve, made to curve around the penis, sending rumbly vibrations all throughout your shaft and especially focusing on the super-sensitive frenulum. My partner likes this one and especially likes that it can be used at all stages of the arousal cycle, from flaccid to fully erect. Pros: Powerful, rumbly vibrations; six vibration settings; can be used with or without an erection; includes a remote with a watch strap for added convenience; waterproofCons: Can’t be used with silicone-based lubes; short battery life; may not work for very short or very thick penises; not as easily incorporated into partnered sex as some other penis vibes Lelo Babeland Materials: Silicone and ABS plasticBattery Life: 2 hours This elegant vibrator has two rumbly motors to stimulate your prostate and perineum at the same time, potentially amping up your orgasm a great deal. You can control it using the included remote or hand the remote to your partner so they can take over. Sounds like it's worth its high price tag! Pros: Powerful, rumbly vibrations; six vibration settings; two motors for stimulating the prostate and perineum; good curve for hitting the prostate; can be controlled via remote or via the buttons on the toy; waterproofCons: May be too large for some users; remote uses disposable batteries; can’t be used with silicone-based lubes Lelo Babeland Materials: Silicone and ABS plasticBattery Life: Up to 2 hours “This is an amazing luxury clitoris-sucking toy that really does get the job done every single time,” says Gigi Engle, a sex and relationships psychotherapist and resident intimacy expert at 3Fun. The air pulse technology used in this toy feels decidedly different from standard vibration—it's like a mix of rhythmic tapping and mild suction. The 12 speeds offer a lot of variety, from ultra-gentle stimulation to breathtaking intensity. Pros: Combines air pulses with traditional vibration; 12 settings; Cruise Control feature so the toy doesn’t lose power when pressure is applied; waterproofCons: Can be noisy Njoy Babeland Materials: Stainless steel One of the most exciting days in my entire career as a sex toy reviewer was the day I received this formidable dildo in the mail. It's eleven inches of stainless steel from tip to tail, and offers you two different sizes to choose from with its double-ended design. While I'm not always in the mood for its beefy girth, it's one of the only dildos that can consistently make me cry from how intense it feels. Not to mention, it's so beautiful that you could display it on your nightstand like an objet d'art. Pros: Double-ended design offers a variety of sensations; textured side is stimulating and also functions well as a grippable handle; gentle curve for G-spot stimulation; durable and long-lasting; comes with a nice leather bag for storage/travelCons: Heavy; may be too large for some people to use comfortably; technically not anal-safe because it lacks a flared base Fun Factory Luxe Vibes Materials: Silicone and ABS plasticBattery Life: 2 hours When you're paying a premium price for a sex toy, it's reasonable to expect premium functions. And Fun Factory's Stronic line of toys delivers, by using “pulsation” technology to thrust back and forth over your pleasure points. This one is designed to target the G-spot, and it does a wonderful job of that; it consistently makes me squirt hands-free, which is pretty damn impressive. If you have a vagina, pair it with a clitoral vibrator and it's basically heaven. Pros: Intense G-spot stimulation; automatic, hands-free thrusting; seven speeds and three patterns; can be used in combination with oral sex and other activities; waterproof; travel lock functionCons: May be too girthy for some users; may wiggle out of you if not anchored in place by a pillow (or similar) between your legs; can’t be used with silicone-based lubes Lelo Babeland Materials: Silicone, ABS plastic, and aluminum alloyBattery Life: 2 hours Not all sex toys have to be high-tech gadgets with state-of-the-art features, but that's exactly what this vibrating stroker aims to be. Its soft, pliable sleeve feels good whether you're stroking it up and down or holding it in place against one of your pleasure points, and its two motors stimulate your entire shaft with powerfully rumbly vibrations. For people who want some extra filthy data on their sex life, the device contains 10 sensors which can track stats like your thrusting speed and stamina, so it's a must-have for anyone who's nerdy about that kind of thing. My partner loves how good this toy feels, but only wishes the app were better-designed so it was easier to take advantage of the toy's stat-tracking capabilities. Pros: Two powerful motors for satisfying vibrations; stimulates the frenulum well; comfortably flexible internal sleeve; sensors to track your speed and stamina via Lelo’s app; quiet; waterproofCons: Can’t be used with silicone-based lubes; app is poorly designed/hard to use; may not fit all penis sizes Aslan Leather SheVibe Materials: Leather and nickel-plated steel Aslan Leather's handmade items are stunning, supple, and sexy as hell. This harness will last you a long time and will look good doing it, so it's a good pick for strap-on sex connoisseurs, as well as newbies who want the best of the best from the jump. I've had mine for several years and it still makes me feel powerful every time I step into it. This particular design has a corset-style back for extra sex appeal. Pros: Two size options to fit hips ranging from 28 to 56 inches around; gorgeous corset-back design; gives more control and precision than most fabric harnesses; multiple adjustable straps; can accommodate various different dildo sizes via its swappable O-ringCons: Not vegan (though the company does also make vegan-friendly faux-leather harnesses); leather is porous and hard to fully clean; nickel-plated hardware could cause issues for users with a nickel allergy Lelo Babeland Materials: Silicone and ABS plasticBattery Life: 4 hours Most wands can't be taken into the shower or bath—which is why this waterproof wand is such a marvel for fans of aquatic masturbation. “Lelo is known for its quality and elegance, and the Smart Wand 2 is no exception,” says BDSM educator Alesandra Madison. “It has a long-lasting battery, multiple vibration settings, and is super quiet, so it's versatile for anything you desire.” The curved handle also makes it more ergonomic than your standard wand—so you're really getting what you pay for with this toy. Pros: Strong, rumbly vibrations; 10 vibration settings; ergonomic handle; long battery life; waterproof; quietCons: Expensive; some users report mechanical issues (although Lelo offers a warranty) Crave Amazon Materials: 24K gold and siliconeBattery Life: 40 minutes This sex toy is so discreet that it actually doubles as a piece of jewelry. “It's designed to be worn as a necklace, which is not immediately obvious to the uninitiated, but once you know, you know!” exclaims Destin Gerek, sexologist, coach, and author of The Evolved Masculine. This version comes plated in 24K gold, in case you feel like having a King Midas moment. Its metal body also means you can experiment with temperature play by heating it up before sex in a bowl of warm water for a few minutes. Alternately, you could just sit back and enjoy its natural coldness. Pros: Can be discreetly worn as a necklace; quiet; easy-to-use one-button control; good for temperature play; waterproofCons: Buzzy/surface-level vibrations; limited settings (three speeds and one pattern); short battery life Womanizer Babeland Materials: SiliconeBattery Life: 4 hours Similar to the Sona 2 Cruise above, this toy uses pressure wave technology to create thrilling clitoral sensations, but it also boasts an extra-fancy feature called autopilot mode. When set to autopilot, the toy will control itself, taking you through peaks and valleys of pleasure the way an actual human would. The result is an experience that feels much more dynamic and exciting. Pros: 14 intensity levels; “autopilot mode” for a more realistic experience; comes with two different-sized stimulation heads for a better fit; waterproof; long battery lifeCons: Gets loud on higher settings; slightly awkward to hold Fun Factory Babeland Materials: Silicone and ABS plasticBattery Life: 60 minutes “Fun Factory’s Lady Bi [is] excellent for people who want to activate their vaginal sensation by cross-training their clitoral pleasure and adding in vaginal pleasure,” says Susan Bratton, an intimacy expert and the author of Sexual Soulmates. This vibe targets both the clit and the G-spot simultaneously, with the potential for inducing explosive blended orgasms. The ergonomic looped handle makes it easy to thrust the toy in and out if you want to, and the smaller arm is flexible enough that it should maintain clitoral contact as you thrust. Pros: Two motors target the vagina and clitoris simultaneously; powerful rumbling vibration; six vibration speeds and six patterns; comfortably flexible external arm; ergonomic looped handle for easier insertion and thrusting; quiet; waterproof; travel lock functionCons: May be too large for some users; short battery life Lelo Amazon Materials: Silicone and ABS plasticBattery Life: Up to 2 hours At their most basic, cock rings help you maintain a stronger erection for longer, by constricting blood flow at the base of your penis, but some high-end rings (like this one) also offer vibration to enhance your partner's pleasure (and your own). The soft silicone of this ring feels luxurious to the touch, and its variety of settings and speeds are fun to experiment with. Pros: Eight vibration modes and 12 vibration speeds; stretchy for a better fit; app-controllable via Bluetooth; waterproofCons: May not fit especially large penises Lelo Lelo Materials: Silicone and ABS plasticBattery Life: 2 hours “These beads are a true innovation,” Engle says. “They have a graduated design, so you can use them as a beginner or an advanced anal bead user.” The popping sensation as each bead slides in and out can enhance anything else you're doing at the same time, like receiving oral sex or masturbating, but it also works well on its own. This toy could also be useful if you're trying to work up to anal sex, as the varying sizes of the beads help you ease into bigger penetration little by little. Pros: Graduated beads; eight vibration settings; ergonomic looped handle; waterproof; travel lock functionCons: Automatically shuts off after 20 minutes to prevent overheating (though you can turn it back on immediately) The Cowgirl Babeland Material: Steel, aluminum, plastic, polyurethane, and siliconeBattery Life: Electric Rideable vibrators like the Cowgirl and Sybian are beloved by fans of ultra-powered vibration; they are truly some of the strongest vibrators available. This one is covered in black faux leather, giving it a surprisingly elegant aesthetic. I had an opportunity to test this toy and it wasn't for me—my hips and knees just aren't built for the cowgirl position, whether I'm riding a vibrator or a person!—but if you love wildly strong sensations and don't mind the position this toy necessitates, it might be worth the splurge. Pros: Very powerful vibrations; vibrates and rotates; both functions can be controlled independently; comfortably padded saddle seat; comes with two silicone attachments (and more are available to purchase) which are easy to remove and clean between uses; can be controlled via the Cowgirl app; slip-resistant silicone baseCons: Loud; heavy and hard to move around; requires a nearby electrical outlet; app connectivity is complicated to set up; may not be comfortable for users with hip/knee issues; has to be used on a stable, flat surface; requires some setup; can’t be used with silicone-based lubes Hismith Amazon Materials: Metal, with silicone dildo attachmentsBattery Life: Electric Sex educator Brian Oestmann already owns a few sex machines but this one's high up on the wish list, and it's easy to see why—it has nearly a thousand 5-star reviews on Amazon, far more than comparable machines. “The Hismith is more posable, sturdy, and has a strong enough motor to enable penetration of all orifices,” Oestmann explains. The Hismith uses a dildo attachment system called KlicLok which can accommodate many different types of toys (sometimes with the help of extra attachments), and the angle and speed are completely adjustable so you can orchestrate railed exactly the way you want to. Pros: Adjustable; hands-free (once it’s positioned and inserted); comes with a silicone dildo; strong, relatively quiet motor; long-distance controllable; twist-dial makes it easier to find your preferred speed; can be used with many different dildos (sold separately)Cons: Heavy; requires assembly; requires a nearby power outlet; can get loud on higher speeds; extra adaptors/connectors may need to be purchased in order to use certain dildos; hard to store Liberator SheVibe Materials: Polyester For squirters, people who like to use a lot of lube, or anyone else who digs messy sex, the Liberator Throw is here to save your bed sheets. It's velvety-soft on the outside, for comfort, but has a moisture-resistant barrier on the inside that prevents moisture from seeping through to your bed/floor/etc. As a squirter myself, I certainly appreciate mine. One thing to note is that the Throw doesn't really absorb moisture, it just catches it and keeps it from soaking into whatever's under it, so be careful not to, say, spill a puddle of squirt on the floor when you're removing the Throw from your bed after sex. Not that I speak from experience or anything. Pros: Soft “micro-velvet” fabric; inner moisture barrier to prevent soaking your bed; machine-washable; available in multiple sizes; discreet appearanceCons: Moisture can pool and move around because the Throw doesn’t absorb it Liberator SheVibe Materials: Microfiber (cover), nylon (liner), and polyurethane foam (inner core) This set consists of two bestselling positioning aids from Liberator, which can help you get into sex positions that might be precarious or uncomfortable otherwise, and allow for different angles of penetration during sex. Sure, you could just pile up some pillows instead, but these high-density foam shapes are much more stable. They're specially built for sex, with a moisture-proof liner, and a soft microfiber cover that can be zipped off and machine-laundered when you're done. Pros: Soft, machine-washable microfiber cover; moisture-resistant lining; provides support for various positionsCons: May be hard to store between uses because of how large it is Before shelling out big bucks on a sex toy, it's worth considering the specific hole in your sex life that you’re looking to fill (pun intended, sorry) and whether you really need the most lavish option out there. Hell, some toys don’t do much that a couple fingers can’t accomplish. What makes a pricey toy worth the expense is thinking about how much you value a specific sensation that a toy provides, Oestmann says. “In terms of something like a [sex] machine, it's practically impossible to execute some [types of play] without it.” Materials: A surprising number of sex toys are made of materials that are known to be unsafe, such as those containing phthalates, a toxic type of plasticizer, or those that are porous, meaning they can never be fully cleaned after their first use and could give you recurring infections. Porous and/or phthalate-ridden materials like jelly, rubber, and thermoplastic elastomers, are not usually found in high-end toys, but they do show up occasionally. Instead, you’ll want to look for non-porous materials, such as silicone, ABS plastic, metal, glass, acrylic, and sealed wood. Cost per use: Consider your preferences when deciding on a big sex toy purchase. If you’re only in the mood for anal stimulation once in a blue moon, for example, then you’d probably get more mileage out of an external toy like a stroker or wand vibrator than you would out of a butt plug or prostate massager. That doesn’t mean you should only spend big bucks on toys you’d use frequently (especially since, for instance, owning a fancy vibrating butt plug might make anal play something you want all the time) but your current sex life (solo, partnered, or otherwise) can give you some helpful hints about which toys would be the smartest investments for you. Reviews: If a toy has a fatal flaw, like an uncomfortable shape or unreliable wiring, that will often become evident in reviews. Prioritize reading reviews from laypeople, like those you’ll see in the user review sections of sites that sell a wide array of sex toys, as well as those written by independent sex toy reviewers, who are demonstrably more committed to honesty than to making a quick buck. Warranty: Many high-end sex toy companies offer a warranty on their toys, which usually means that they’ll repair it, replace it, or offer you a discount on another toy purchase if yours breaks or malfunctions within a certain period of time after buying it. For a splurgier purchase, it's always helpful to do some research on whether your bulky machine or luxe vibe comes with a warranty that will insure it in case it suddenly malfunctions down the line. As a writer on the sex toy beat, I get sent dozens of new toys each year, and put ‘em to the test both solo and with a partner. In more than a decade of writing about sex toys, I’ve tested and reviewed over 400 of them. Many toys quickly reveal themselves to be disappointing in some way—a weak motor, a jarring shape, and confusing controls are some common reasons I’ll dismiss a toy as subpar. The best ones, on the other hand, stand out over multiple sessions, consistently performing well on metrics like ease of use, versatility, and (of course) pleasure. For this article, I picked the cream of the crop in the $150-plus range, and also asked some experts about their fave high-end toys to round out the story. The Best Sex Toys for Men Bring Maximum Pleasure The Best Sex Toys for Couples Will Make Sex Even More Awesome The Best Sex Lube for Every Level of Freakiness The Best Fleshlight and More Stroking Sex Toys for Men  The Best Sex Blanket Is a Blanket Literally Made for Sex The Best Cock Rings for Harder Hard-Ons More From GQ Connect © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. GQ may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices