For premium support please call: For premium support please call: "Hearst Magazines and Yahoo may earn commission or revenue on some items through these links." It doesn’t matter if you’re carrying a small crossbody bag or an oversize tote—you always want to have one of the best designer wallets stowed inside your everyday bag. “You do need a place for all of your credit cards and IDs—so you might as well buy something you know you’ll have forever,” Bazaar senior fashion editor Tara Gonzalez says. The best designer wallets take the craftsmanship of a designer tote or shoulder bag and shrink it down to fit just the essentials, with practical details like zip pouches and plentiful card slots. Versions worth investing in are equal parts functional and chic, a balance that most designers have down to a science. If you’re a minimalist, go for a streamlined zip style crafted from neutral leather. If you’re a more adventurous dresser, embrace the patterns, textures, and colors you love in your ready-to-wear. Don’t be afraid to try an unexpected shade or a zany pattern: “People get hung up on having a very simple classic wallet, but it’s something you’re carrying in your bag,” Gonzalez notes. “It’s the perfect place to have some fun and maybe go more bold or colorful than you usually would.” From Chanel’s latest chain wallets to minimalist leather options by Cuyana or Bottega Veneta, the 12 best designer wallets for women are ahead for you to shop now. You'll catch yourself picking up every tab at dinner if only to show off Loewe's latest wallet, coated in its debossed anagram logo. It's just as functional as it is compliment-worthy, thanks to its bi-fold design with eight card slots and a receipt pocket. Dimensions: D 1.2in x H 3.5in x W 4.3in Colorway: Cream Shop Now Repeat Debossed Wallet netaporter.com $650.00 Chanel's wallets are an eternal favorite among Bazaar editors. The wallet on chain design has the same thoughtful functionality of a designer crossbody bag with dedicated slots for storing cards, cash, and even a few beauty minis. The quilted leather and gold embellishments are absolutely timeless—and this version from the Cruise 2024 collection has even more fun with rollerskate, star, and double-C charms along the strap. Dimensions: 4.9 × 7.4 × 1.8 in Color: Blush pink Shop Now Wallet on Chain chanel.com $4350.00 The heritage GG canvas and leather trim make this an instant, unforgettable hit. If you're a student of Gucci's rich history, this case wallet has all the archival details you could dream of in one small package—cheerily reinvented with a pretty salmon leather and the option to emboss it with your initials. Dimensions: 4.3" W x 3.3" H x 1.2" D Colors: Pink, black, gold, silver, and more Shop Now GG Marmont Card Case Wallet gucci.com $400.00 Whether it's in the houses's signature jacquard fabric or a creamy leather, Dior's best wallet features the brand's iconic asymmetrical flap and logo hardware charm. It also boasts four card slots, two patch pockets, a bill holder, and a zipped pocket for maximized practicality. If you've always wanted a Dior Saddle Bag, this wallet is basically a tiny, compact version. Dimensions: 4 x 3.5 x 1 inches Colors: Pale yellow, black, cloud blue, royal blue, and sand Shop Now Saddle Lotus Wallet Gray Dior Oblique Jacquard dior.com $1947.00 When all you need is one small accessory to carry your phone and credit cards, Tory Burch's spazzolato leather crossbody will fit the bills—literally—and more. Credit cards and IDs will be kept safe in the two interior card pockets. Dimensions: H 6.9" x L 4.1" x D 1.8" Colors: Dark sienna, black, shea butter Shop Now Robinson Spazzolato Phone Crossbody toryburch.com $228.00 Tiny design, major addition to your accessories lineup. Polene's dainty bi-fold wallet opens to reveal several card slots, a zippered pouch, and a dedicated cash pocket. The cool brass hardware complements a matching Polene bag or a set of the label's new jewelry (or both). If you love it so much that you want to take it on your 2024 travels, a removable strap allows you to carry this wallet as a small crossbody bag. Dimensions:  12 X 12 X 1.5 cm Colorways: Chalk, black, burgundy, and more Shop Now Numéro Sept Crossbody Wallet polene-paris.com $210.00 Never lose track of your most precious essentials again. Cuyana's wallet comes with eight card slots, two bill slots, and a detachable zippered pouch, so all cards, cash, and keys have a rightful place. Colors: Olive, black, cappuccino Dimensions: H 5 in x W 8.6 in. x D 0.7 in Shop Now Duo Zip Wallet cuyana.com $228.00 Some of the best wallets come in chic, compact package. Clare V.'s mini wallet unzips to reveal six card slots and a full-size bill pocket. It's just big enough for your daily commuting necessities, but not so vast that you'll be weighed down by half-used punch cards and expired gift certificates. Dimensions: 4 3/8 W x 3 3/4 H Colors: Black stripe, checkerboard, tan stripe, and more Shop Now Petit Zip Wallet clarev.com $195.00 This Strathberry wallet fits everything and then some. The signature music bar clasp opens to reveal eight card slots, two flat pockets, and a zippered pouch. Whether you stow it in a larger travel bag or carry it as a clutch, it will keep all your cards, documents, and notes in place. Dimensions: D 0.6in x W 7.5in. x H 4.1in Colorways: Gray, black, tan, chestnut, olive, bottle green Shop Now Large Melville Street Wallet strathberry.com $243.75 No more rummaging through your bag for your passport. This pick is perfect for the person who's constantly racking up frequent flier miles. In addition to three slots for your most-used credit cards, there are also three document pockets for your passport and other travel essentials. That sleek Prada logo embellishment brings the whole piece together. Dimensions: W 9.5cm, H 14cm Colorways: Black, yellow Shop Now Saffiano and Leather Passport Holder prada.com $695.00 If you're the sort of Miu Miu girl whose bag is spilling over with stuff (just like on the spring 2024 runway), make your wallet one that's meant to be seen. Inside, there are two pockets for change and cards; outside, there's a quilted texture and deep green hue designed for standing out even when you're in a hurry. Color: Green Shop Now Logo Lettering Zip-around Wallet italist.com $436.80 This style from Bottega Veneta features the house's signature intrecciato weave—and it's the perfect cross between a cardholder and a zipper wallet for anyone who can't make up their mind. Dimensions: 4.3 x 3.9 x 1.2 inches Colorways: Beige, black, green, and white Shop Now Intrecciato Leather Wallet net-a-porter.com $790.00 For more than 150 years, Harper’s Bazaar has been the preeminent fashion, beauty, and lifestyle resource for women at every age. We cover what’s new and what’s next in fashion by working with the world’s leading authorities in ready-to-wear, footwear, accessories, and more. Every story we publish has been thoroughly researched and vetted by our team of editors and industry experts. You Might Also Like 4 Investment-Worthy Skincare Finds From Sephora The 17 Best Retinol Creams Worth Adding to Your Skin Care Routine Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement