If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 
Published on Jan. 14, 2023
 
By: Emma Newbery
 KEY POINTS Get two for the price of one on fruits and vegetables with your food benefits. If you're a Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipient, you'll know that it isn't easy to feed a family on food benefits. It's true that the total benefit amount has increased in recent years. However, the skyrocketing price of food combined with the end of the COVID-19 pandemic emergency provisions mean that some families will actually receive less money in 2023. One of the ways you can stretch your SNAP dollars is a program called Double Up Food Bucks. It only applies to fruit and vegetables, and means you can get double the value for every dollar you spend in participating farmers markets and stores. It's like a two-for-one offer on all your produce, and makes it more affordable to buy healthy food for your family. This can make a huge difference to your bottom line and, ultimately, mean more money in your bank account. In participating states, Double Up Food Bucks teams up with certain stores and farmers markets to give SNAP recipients access to lower cost produce. Every dollar you spend is worth two -- or, as the New York Double Up website puts it, you can, "Turn an apple a day into two apples a day."


 You can't use the program at any old farmers market, you'll need to check on your state's website for participating locations. You'll find the project is more established in some states than others. For example, in Michigan (where it was founded), there are over 250 participating locations, whereas Nebraska only has 12. There's also a limit on how much you can buy each day, usually around $20 worth. The Double Up program has spread quickly through the U.S. since its creation in 2009. It doesn't operate in every state, though other states do have similar projects. Here are the Double Up Food Bucks states, as well as the daily spending limit: Even if the Double Up program isn't available in your state, it's worth checking to see if there's anything else available locally. For example, Washington has something called SNAP Market Match, which works in a similar way. Louisiana has a similar Market Match program. It doesn't really matter who operates the program. What's important is whether it helps you buy low-cost fruit and vegetables. If you can't find any type of produce discounts, you could contact Double Up Food Bucks directly and find out how to get something started in your area. It may take time, but kicking things off could help your household as well as benefiting your community. These price match programs aren't the only way to make your food budget go further. Another is to use cash back apps to get money back on all your grocery spending and to shop around to find the best discounts on expensive items. Coupon apps can help here, as can sites like the Krazy Coupon Lady that pull together the best deals each week. If you're really struggling to put food on the table, you may need more immediate assistance. Contact United Way on 2-1-1 to find out about food pantries and soup kitchens in your area. It's a toll-free number and you'll speak to someone with access to all kinds of information, including assistance programs you might be able to qualify for. 
Emma owns the English-language newspaper The Bogota Post. She began her editorial career at a financial website in the U.K. over 20 years ago and has been contributing to The Ascent since 2019.
 Share this page 

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 Related Articles 
By: Cole Tretheway |
Published on June 7, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Christy Bieber |
Published on June 5, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 
By: Lyle Daly |
Published on June 4, 2024
 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.