BOB Snapdeal RuPay CC - 2.5% cashback upto Rs500 per month is eligible for all merchants including wallet load, utility bill payment, gift card purchase from Amazon or any online shopping on Amazon/Flipkart etc. One more thing, you will get 2.5% cashback till transaction upto Rs33,333 per month. After 2.5% limit over, you will get flat unlimited 1% cashback. BOB Snapdeal RuPay CC - charge Rs249+GST. Here some trick -  Payzapp wallet balance support for BOB CC bill payment, you can liad money through snapdeal card on payzapp wallet and repay your BOB CC bill and get 2.5% cashback. you can also remove your card from payzapp and re-add again to repay your old BOB CC bill, multiple times. Note - BOB currently blocking wallet spend for Snapdeal card and BOB Eterna card. Do multiple small transactions or higher amount of transaction and then try next transaction after few days, if your transaction declined. UPI spend - 1% cashback. Yes, Snapdeal card working on all BOB offers on Amazon/Flipkart. You can also apply for additional snapdeal card with your premier card. How 2.5% till 33,333 bro? Max 500 cashback for 2.5% na.. which equals to 20,000 na?  They are not giving co branded cards as LTF. Just keep this and get snapdeal as additional card. Even one month payzapp wallet load and credit card payment will give more than joining fee. Thanks, any idea if there will be any hard enquiry on cibil and limit will be same as existing card?  If I apply additional snapdeal card with premier, limit will be same? And will there be any hard enquiry on cibil? @abhishek012  Bob snapdeal is one of the best if not the best card offered by bob  is there any referral benefit in bob cards, I am planning to get it. Please mention UPI Capping upto rupees only (12,500/-) , Personally verified As our privileged customer, we are offering you a pre-approved HPCL BoB Energie Credit Card as your 2nd #BankofBarodaCreditCard. This card will share the credit limit of your BoB credit card ending xxxxx and requires no documentation to apply 🤩🤩🤩! HPCL BoB Energie Credit Card is our Fuel Card with a host of exciting features & benefits* 💥 Up to 5% Savings on HPCL Fuel & LPG 💥 4 Complimentary Airport Lounge access per year 💥 2000 Bonus Reward Points on Card Activation 💥 Up to Rs. 200 Off per month on Paytm Movies Tickets All this at a nominal joining & annual fee of ₹ 499 plus taxes only!  Application is simple and completely digital: Login to your Card Account from www.bobfinanci...om Open ‘Requests’ tab & click ‘Get additional Card’ Confirm Delivery Address Verify with OTP & submit & that’s all; On successful application, you will be notified on your registered email id & mobile no. Hurry! Don’t miss out on huge additional fuel savings & benefits with this of  About us and Legal Stuff Partnerships  Disclosure Follow Us On Disclaimer: DesiDime helps you find the best deals and is community supported. Links on our site are monetised, it means we can keep our platform free to use, without compromising on impartiality. The popularity of every offer, deal and coupon is determined by the community. Read More... © 2010 - 2024. Parity Cube Pvt Ltd