Snapdeal is set to launch first sale of the festive season called the Toofani Sale - Festive Dhamaka. The sale is scheduled to begin from 8 October-15 October. Currently, another Snapdeal's Toofani sale is going on which is set to end tomorrow i.e. on 1 October.  Speaking about the festive sale, the e-commerce company in a press release said discounts will range from 50-90 percent on products across various categories.  As per the press statement, the fashion and beauty will take center stage with up to 60 percent off plus extra 20 percent off on 50000+ styles and top brands. It said that brands including Campus will have up to 60 percent Off while Asian (up to 70%), Liberty (up to 80%), Rangita (up to 80%), Bewakoof (minimum 50% Off), Hometales (up to 80% Off), Joy (up to 40% Off), Denver (up to 50% Off). Announcing the sale, Spokesperson of Snapdeal said, “For this festive season, we bring a special selection to cater to the varied needs of our users. The festive season is about indulgence - buying for yourself, family and friends. Our festive assortment is focused on meeting our customers’ expectations - high-quality products at great prices.” "The sleek design of our app enhances the user interface and overall shopping experience, making it a visual delight for all. Our offers and range, mirroring the latest trends, ensure that our customers stay at the forefront of style," the spokesperson added. Apart from Snapdeal, Amazon, Flipkart, Meesho too are also set to begin their festive season sale soon.  "Exciting news! Mint is now on WhatsApp Channels 🚀 Subscribe today by clicking the link and stay updated with the latest financial insights!" Click here! Earlier on Friday, Softbank backed e-commerce firm Meesho that it will begin its festive season sale on October 6, a day before Flipkart and Amazon festive sale goes live. 'Meesho Mega Blockbuster Sale' is the company's first festive sale where over 400 brands will sell their products either directly or through their authorised partner on the platform's digital store 'Meesho Mall'. "The Meesho Mega Blockbuster Sale, beginning on October 6, aims to fulfil the festive shopping aspirations of billions of Indians," Meesho, Chief Experience Officer, Growth, Megha Agwarwal, said in a statement. Catch all the Business News , Breaking News Events and Latest News  Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App  to get Daily Market Updates. Download the Mint app and read premium stories Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.