Schedule a TourApply Now The public health programs at Western Kentucky University prepare students to face
                        the challenges of existing and emerging health concerns, locally and globally, and
                        enable students to apply critical thinking skills to address and resolve these complex
                        health issues. Public health is a field that offers a wide array of job opportunities to suit a variety of interests and skills. Whether you are interested in managing
                        data and crunching numbers, conducting research or working with people, there is a
                        place for you in this field. Public health is ideal for individuals who gain satisfaction
                        knowing that they are working to improve the lives of others. At WKU, students learn from expert faculty. All public health faculty hold top academic
                        credentials and professional qualifications in public health and related disciplines.
                        We also recognize there is much we can learn from those who are health practitioners.
                        By combining industry knowledge with academic credentials, students learn firsthand
                        from practicing public health experts, attorneys, environmental health specialists,
                        emergency managers, and healthcare administrators with many years of experience in
                        public health, environmental health, and the healthcare industry. INDUSTRY Public Health AVG. SALARY $68,240 TOP SKILLS Leadership, Public Speaking, Event Management TOP EMPLOYERS Centene Corporation, Med Center Health, Norton Healthcare, Wellpath         
















PreviousNext We offer undergraduate and graduate programs to meet the needs of today's job market:
                        Bachelor of Science degrees, Master of Science degrees, undergraduate minors, and
                        certificates at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Our academic offerings focus
                        on the following areas: The program is built upon a sound foundation of providing students with a background
                                                            in assessing environmental resources, including water, air, and land resources, in
                                                            relation to environmental and human health. Learn More Program Requirements The major in health information management is designed to prepare the graduate HIM
                                                            professional with skills and competencies in health data management, data analytics
                                                            and informatics, information governance, privacy and security, compliance, clinical
                                                            documentation improvement, revenue cycle management, medical coding, health information
                                                            technology management and administrative and clinical work flow. Learn More Program Requirements The Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences is designed for students who are interested
                                                            in pursuing a health and human services related career. Learn More Program Requirements Public health is the science of protecting and improving the health of families and
                                                            communities through promotion of healthy lifestyles, research for disease and injury
                                                            prevention, and detection and control of infectious diseases. Learn More Program Requirements The undergraduate degree program in health care administration prepares the student
                                                         for administrative positions in various types of health care facilities and agencies,
                                                         such as acute care, long term care, group medical practices, managed care organizations,
                                                         health insurance agencies, public health agencies, clinics, and health related organizations
                                                         such as manufacturing, marketing and consulting.  Learn More Program Requirements   The minor in health care administration requires a minimum of 23 semester hours. This
                                                         minor is compatible with various majors such as business, social and behavioral sciences,
                                                         allied health, nursing, communication, journalism, public health, and etc. Program Requirements The minor in health education requires a minimum of 23 semester hours. This minor
                                                         provides a basic foundation for students desiring preparation in health promotion
                                                         and disease prevention. The minor in health education may be used in combination with
                                                         many majors to enhance student’s career opportunities and as preparation for graduate
                                                         study in a variety of health disciplines. Completion of the minor along with a teaching
                                                         certifiable major leads to certification in health education.  Program Requirements   This is a 21 credit hour program that equips students with public health protection
                                                         skills for program design implementation and the evaluation of policies and practices
                                                         to assist in preventing or deducting environmental hazards on individuals and communities Program Requirements This 21 credit hour certificate program is designe to improve students' skills in
                                                            program design, implementation and evaluation in diverse settings. Program Requirements The certificate in Health Informatics is multidisciplinary and is designed to prepare
                                                            health profession students with the introductory skills and knowledge needed for electronic
                                                            health records usability, interoperability and data exchange, meeting meaningful use
                                                            initiatives, improving clinical workflow, and analyzing data to improve overall health
                                                            care delivery and outcomes through the use of health information technology. Courses
                                                            for the certificate may also meet the requirements for other degree programs. This
                                                            certificate may be completed with 19-22 credit hours Program Requirements This certificate program is expected to address three areas of need in Long Term Care
                                                         (LTC) administration and WKU mission, namely market demand and industry expectations,
                                                         program restructuring, and growth in the global market. When combined with the Bachelor of Science in Health Care Administration undergraduate
                                                         degree and NAB Accredited HCA with LTCA Internship Guidelines, students graduate from
                                                         a NAB Academic Accreditation Program, one of less than 15 in the United States!   Program Requirements The online Certificate in Occupational Safety and Health is ideal for individuals
                                                         who are looking to enter the field and would like to further their education or advance
                                                         their career. This certificate will prepare you for this growing area of employment
                                                         in as little as nine months. Program Requirements This 18 credit hour certificate program is designed to provide core public health
                                                         concepts and skills to students and professionals in the public health field and other
                                                         health-related areas. This program will also increase students’ knowledge and skills
                                                         in public health competencies. Program Requirements The certificate program in Worksite Health Promotion requires 18 semester hours and
                                                            is designed to provide training for students and professionals who have an interest
                                                            in developing worksite health promotion programs in the private sector. This certificate
                                                            program will provide a comprehensive skill base for assessment, planning, implementation
                                                            and evaluation of health promotion programs in a worksite environment.  Program Requirements   This graduate program is designed to provide graduate education for careers focused on the protection of
                                                            human health and prevention of health hazards in occupational and natural environments. Learn More Program Requirements This program prepares graduates for administrative and managerial positions in different
                                                            types of health care facilities and agencies including: acute care, long-term care,
                                                            group medical practices, managed care organizations, public health agencies, clinics,
                                                            and health related organizations such as pharmaceutical firms, medical equipment firms,
                                                            and consulting firms. Learn More Program Requirements This degree prepares students for a wide range of health professions. The 42 credit-hour program, accredited
                                                            by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH), is offered on WKU’s campus and
                                                            in a fully online format. Beyond the required core courses, MPH students work in partnership
                                                            with their advisor to select electives and tailor a program that meets their professional
                                                            and academic goals related to public health. The MPH program is competency-based and
                                                            focuses on applied and integrative learning.  Students are required to successfully
                                                            complete and defend a capstone project, which could include a thesis, prior to graduation. Learn More Program Requirements   The certificate program in Environmental Health and Safety is designed to provide
                                                            advanced professional training for careers focused on the protection of human and
                                                            ecosystem health from hazards in the built and natural environments. Program Requirements This certificacte programs studies the disstribution and determinants of health-related
                                                         states or events in specified populations, and the application of this study to the
                                                         control of health problems.  Program Requirements This certificate program is designed to prepare students with knowledge in global
                                                         engagement in health administration, health policy, health systems, and service delivery.  Program Requirements This certificate program imparts the knowledge and skills necessary for health educators,
                                                         and is aligned with the seven areas of responsibility outlined by the National Commission
                                                         for Health Education Credentialing for Certified Health Education Specialists.  Program Requirements This certificate program will provide training for students and professionals who
                                                         have an interest in developing health promotion programs in the workplace.  Program Requirements   

”The Department of Public Health staff prepares their students intricately to make
                                 a difference in their communities. The partnerships that the Department of Public
                                 Health has built within our community have led me to where I am today. If it were
                                 not for Dr. Lartey and her advice, I would not have had the opportunity to secure
                                 a job at my internship site prior to graduation.”
Cori Covington, 2022 BSPH Graduate

 ”The Department of Public Health staff prepares their students intricately to make
                                 a difference in their communities. The partnerships that the Department of Public
                                 Health has built within our community have led me to where I am today. If it were
                                 not for Dr. Lartey and her advice, I would not have had the opportunity to secure
                                 a job at my internship site prior to graduation.” Scholarships & Financial AidStudent Resources   Public Health News Current Research    Example of twitter  Some of the links on this page may require additional software to view.