Apples contain key nutrients, including fiber and antioxidants. They may offer health benefits, including lowering blood sugar levels and benefitting heart health. Apples are among the world’s most popular fruits. They grow on the apple tree (Malus domestica), originally from Central Asia. Apples are high in fiber, vitamin C, and various antioxidants. They are also very filling, considering their low calorie count. Studies show that eating apples can have multiple benefits for your health. Usually eaten raw, apples can also be used in various recipes, juices, and drinks. Various types abound, with a variety of colors and sizes. This article tells you everything you need to know about apples. Here are the nutrition facts for one raw, unpeeled, medium-sized apple (182 grams): Apples are mainly composed of carbs and water. They’re rich in simple sugars, such as fructose, sucrose, and glucose. Despite their high carb and sugar contents, their glycemic index (GI) is low, ranging 29–44. The GI is a measure of how food affects the rise in blood sugar levels after eating. Low values are associated with various health benefits. Due to their high fiber and polyphenol counts, fruits often have a low GI score. Apples are very rich in fiber. A single medium-sized apple (182 grams) contains 4.37 grams of this nutrient, which is approximately 16% of the Daily Value (DV). A portion of their fiber comes from insoluble and soluble fibers called pectin. Soluble fiber is associated with numerous health benefits, partly because it feeds the friendly bacteria in your gut. Fiber may also help improve fullness and cause weight loss while lowering blood sugar levels and boosting digestive function. Apples are mainly made up of carbs and water. They also contain fiber, which moderates blood sugar levels and promotes gut health. Apples boast many vitamins and minerals, though not in high amounts. However, apples are usually a good source of vitamin C. Apples are not particularly rich in vitamins and minerals. However, they contain decent amounts of both vitamin C and potassium. Apples are high in various antioxidant plant compounds, which are responsible for many of their health benefits. These include: Apples are a good source of several antioxidants, including quercetin, catechin, and chlorogenic acid. These plant compounds are responsible for many of apples’ benefits. Two properties of apples — their high fiber and low calorie contents — make them a weight-loss-friendly food. In one 12-week study, women who were instructed to eat 1.5 large apples (300 grams) per day lost 2.9 pounds (1.3 kg) over the course of the study. For this reason, this fruit might be a beneficial dessert or addition to a meal to add sweetness. Apples may compliment a healthy weight loss diet largely due to their high fiber and low calorie counts. Given the immense popularity of apples, it unsurprising that they’ve been studied quite thoroughly. Some evidence suggests that eating apples can help lower blood sugar levels and protect against diabetes. Some of the antioxidants in apples may also slow down your digestion and absorption of sugars. In one study in 38,018 women, eating 1 or more apples per day was linked to a 28% lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Studies have examined apples’ effects on risk factors for heart disease. A 2020 study of volunteers with high cholesterol found that apples can reduce total cholesterol levels and improve overall blood flow. However, the study saw no discernible effect on blood pressure. Many test-tube and animal studies suggest that apple phytonutrients can protect against cancers of the lungs and colon. Potential evidence exists from studies in people as well. One 2005 study indicated that those who consumed 1 or more apples per day were at a lower risk of cancer, including a 20% and 18% lower risk of colorectal and breast cancers, respectively. Some studies indicate that apples may help protect against diabetes, heart disease, and cancer. Apples are generally well tolerated. However, they may cause problems for people with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) because they contain FODMAPs, a wide category of fibers that cause digestive symptoms, including gas and abdominal pain, in some people. Their fructose content may also be problematic for people with fructose intolerance. Apples are generally considered healthy but may cause digestive problems in some people. Apples are healthy, tasty, and among the most popular fruits in the world. Although they are not particularly rich in vitamins and minerals, they’re a good source of fibers and antioxidants. Apples may have several benefits, including improved heart health and a lower risk of cancer and diabetes. They may also aid weight loss. If you want to eat healthy, apples are an excellent choice. Share this article This is a detailed article about bananas. What they are, what they look like, along with in-depth information on nutrition and health benefits. This is a detailed review of lychees. Nutrition facts, health benefits, adverse effects and an in-depth look at the science behind lychees. Blueberries are an antioxidant-rich fruit that may provide several health benefits. Here is detailed health and nutrition information about… People have been making applesauce for hundreds of years. This article is a guide to applesauce nutrition and the health benefits it may offer. Apples are a popular fruit grown and enjoyed around the world. This article explores the top ten apple benefits, backed by science. Apples contain compounds that may help neutralize stomach acid. Learn how they may help acid reflux. Apples are a popular and healthy fruit, and a big part of American culture and history. Apples are easy to cultivate and tailor to certain tastes… A recent study presents evidence of a connection between the artificial sweetener erythritol and an increased risk of blood clots. After consuming… A new study compared the effects of a keto diet and a diet low in added sugars and found the keto diet was associated with raised "bad" cholesterol… OUR BRANDS