Imy Brighty-Potts, PA reporter, has gathered some expert tips for flyers for those jetting abroad this summer - and it's all about how travelling can affect your health and what to do about it. Don't miss any of Glasgow Live's biggest stories - sign up to our daily email newsletter We have more newsletters Don't miss any of Glasgow Live's biggest stories - sign up to our daily email newsletter We have more newsletters The summer weather is upon us, and soon, the summer holidays will be too whether you're heading to a hot country or opting for a winter break. But before you jet off, it's worth baring in mind that travelling can take its toll on your body and mind, particularly when flying long distances. Dr Chun Tang, the Medical Director and GP at Pall Mall Medical has given passengers an insight into their health and how it related to travel - as well as what you can do to help stating that increased pressure and temperature, as well as fluctuating oxygen levels aboard a plane can sometimes upset a person's normal bodily functions.  READ MORE: Alison Hammond 'still loves' Phillip Schofield as she breaks down in tears on TV  So what do the experts want you to know? Read on to find out. “Airplanes can dehydrate you because half of the air circulating in the cabin comes from the outside, and when you’re at a higher altitude there is hardly any moisture in the air,” says Tang.  If you want to help mitigate the impact of dehydration while flying, consider what you eat and drink both before and during.  “Eat something light, like a salad and fruit. Avoid salty fast food, especially before flying, as this can cause bloating and dehydration,” suggests Tang. “Many people like to have an alcoholic drink in the departure lounge prior to flying, but you are just dehydrating yourself further. Avoid coffee too and stick to fresh juices and water. After you’ve flown, tempting as it is to go and get an alcoholic beverage, keep drinking water to restore hydration.”  Tang explains: “When you fly, you’re exposed to more germs because you’re near others – that’s why it’s common to catch a cold or sniffle following a flight. Your tray table, seatbelt and other surfaces that are frequently touched will also be covered with germs." He suggests carrying a small bottle of hand sanitiser and cleaning wipes with you as well as washing your hands frequently during travel. Jet-lag is a pain and can easily ruin the start and end of a trip. So, how can you mitigate its impacts and keep your sleep cycle solid?  “Exposure to light is incredibly important for regulating your body clock. When it’s dark outside, you’re more likely to fall asleep,” says Tang.  “If you’re travelling west to the USA or South America, for example, you should seek light in the evening time. If you’re headed east, then you want to restrict light exposure if you’re arriving at night-time and seek it out in the morning.  “Studies show that blue light from your smartphone or tablet can keep you awake, so avoid these when you’re trying to get some sleep,” he adds.  Tang says another possible “side-effect of flying can be stress on your ears due to pressure changes in the cabin”. This is why it’s often advised that people avoid flying if they have an ear infection, for example.  “When the outside pressure changes quickly during take-off and landing, you may feel your ears pop. Sometimes this imbalance can cause motion sickness because your brain is receiving conflicting messages,” says Tang. He recommends swallowing or yawning to open the eustachian tubes [which connect the middle ear and throat] during take-off and landing. Get all the latest Glasgow news and headlines sent straight to your inbox twice a day by signing up to our free newsletter. From breaking news to the latest on the coronavirus crisis in Scotland, we''ll have you covered. The morning newsletter arrives every day before 9am and the evening newsletter, manually curated by the team, is sent between 4pm and 5pm, giving you a round up of the most important stories we've covered that day. To sign up, visit this link. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a very real concern for many people when flying. These blood clots, which usually affect thelegs, can be extremely serious.  “One of the most common causes of DVT is prolonged periods of inactivity when travelling long distances,” says Professor Mark Whiteley, leading venous surgeon and founder of The Whiteley Clinic. “When people significantly reduce the activity in their legs, the blood flow becomes very sluggish in the deep veins – therefore putting people at a higher risk of a clot forming. “It is important to keep as active as possible when flying by regularly stretching and going for a walk up and down the cabin aisle, at least once per hour if it is a long flight,” he adds. “I would also advise wearing properly fitted flight stockings. This speeds up the flow of blood in the veins and therefore reduces the risks of the blood clotting.”  Anyone can potentially get DVT, but if you have a history of blood clots or may be at increased risk, always speak with your doctor before travelling.  “If you have pre-existing health conditions, then it’s best to check with your GP on any specific aspects of flying that may impact you,” says Tang. “You’ll also need to ensure that you have purchased adequate travel insurance that will cover you should you require any medical attention while abroad.”  Another important consideration is to make sure any medication you will need is stored in your hand luggage/carry-on bag, and not in the hold (in case it goes missing). Some countries may also have restrictions on certain medications – ensure you speak with your doctor well in advance of travelling. READ MORE:  Glasgow cheap eats under £10 you need to add to your 'must visit' list   Glasgow's best doughnut spots to pick up a sweet treat   M&S shoppers drool over Percy Pig and Colin the Caterpillar 'slushees'   TRNSMT travel options from city centre to Glasgow Green   Boots shoppers hail 'best' £8 suncare product as temperatures soar  