The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Medically Reviewed
									 Have a question for Lauren Silva or our other editors?  Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story. Send a note to
                                                    Lauren Silva,
                                                    Gerry McNally, Ph.D.
                                            and our other editors. We read every email. Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions. Cannabis continues its rise in popularity as more and more states legalize its use either as a medical or recreational drug. Cannabis remains illegal at the federal level, but a number of medical experts and researchers appear to disagree with this decision maintained by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). While more peer-reviewed clinical research is needed, myriad studies support cannabis as a legitimate and safe therapeutic substance when used properly under expert supervision. Learn more about the various medical conditions cannabis can help treat, as well as what industry experts have to say about cannabis use. Cannabis sativa, or cannabis, is a complex plant that belongs to the Cannabaceae family. It contains about 540 chemical compounds, including more than 100 cannabinoids, the most well known of which are tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD). The term “marijuana” typically refers to components of the cannabis plant that contain significant amounts of THC. Meanwhile, hemp describes components of cannabis plants that contain less than 0.3% THC by dry weight, according to the federal U.S. government. THC is the compound that gives cannabis its reputation as an intoxicatingly psychoactive drug because of the feelings of euphoria, decreased anxiety, and increased relaxation it elicits. THC and other cannabinoids found in cannabis plants can have psychoactive effects on the human body due to how they interact with the endocannabinoid system, which regulates pain, appetite and the response to stress, says Daniele Piomelli, Ph.D., director of the Center for the Study of Cannabis at the University of California, Irvine. New research supports a number of potential health benefits of cannabis containing THC (as opposed to containing CBD exclusively). The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved several prescription drugs featuring synthetic substances similar to THC to help people navigate the uncomfortable side effects often experienced with cancer chemotherapy. Marinol and Syndros both contain dronabinol (synthetic THC), which is used to treat nausea and vomiting. Meanwhile, Cesamet contains nabilone, another synthetic substance similar to THC, and is also used to address nausea and vomiting, as well as loss of appetite and weight in patients with HIV/AIDS. Sativex, an oral spray medication available by prescription, contains both THC and CBD and is used in 25 countries to help treat muscle stiffness and spasms caused by multiple sclerosis. In Canada specifically, Sativex is used as an adjunctive treatment (alongside a primary treatment) in adult patients who haven’t responded well enough to other therapies and show meaningful improvement during an initial trial with the drug. In the U.S., Sativex is still being tested as a treatment for adults with multiple sclerosis spasticity. Evidence suggests medications that combine THC and CBD can be effective treatments for chronic pain, particularly neuropathic pain (pain caused by nerve damage), nociceptive pain (pain caused by ongoing inflammation and related damage) and nociplastic pain (pain arising from the altered function of pain-related sensory pathways), according to a 2022 review of clinical research in Inflammopharmacology. The researchers add that this combination of cannabinoids tends to be more easily tolerated, safer and less addictive than opioid-based analgesics[1]Henson JD, Vitetta L, Hall S. Tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol medicines for chronic pain and mental health conditions. Inflammopharmacology. 2022;30(4):1167-1178. . A 2018 study in Sleep found participants with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) who took dronabinol (synthetic THC) before bed experienced a reduction in the number of times their breathing was interrupted during sleep. The 10-milligram dose performed better than the 2.5-milligram dose and placebo. Participants also experienced stronger sensations of sleepiness[2]Carley DW, Prasad B, Reid KJ, et al. Pharmacotherapy of Apnea by Cannabimimetic Enhancement, the PACE Clinical Trial: Effects of Dronabinol in Obstructive Sleep Apnea. Sleep. 2018;41(1):zsx184. . Another 2014 study in the Journal of Clinical Sleep Medicine also observed an association between dronabinol use and improved sleep metrics in patients with OSA[3]Farabi SS, Prasad B, Quinn L, Carley DW. Impact of dronabinol on quantitative electroencephalogram (qEEG) measures of sleep in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. J Clin Sleep Med. 2014;10(1):49-56. . Krissy Bernazani, registered pharmacist and clinical director at medical cannabis dispensary Zen Leaf Maryland, says the most common health and wellness needs she and her team address with cannabis include: Bernazani adds that many medical cannabis patients turn to cannabis after failing to find relief with other more traditional pharmaceuticals. Health care providers and cannabis experts stress that the general safety profile of cannabis is unlike most other drugs, including many legal pharmaceuticals. Still, cannabis use can cause short-term and long-term effects in different populations depending on the type and amount of cannabis used. Consuming excessive amounts of THC may lead to side effects including: Adverse side effects are more common in women, according to Dr. Piomelli. A small number of inexperienced users may experience vomiting, he adds, which can be treated easily with a hot shower or putting hot chili pepper ointment on the skin. Smoking cannabis (or any other substance, for that matter) poses a risk for people with pulmonary disease, adds Bernazani. When mixing cannabis and tobacco together, a person also assumes the risks associated with tobacco use, such as lung, head and neck cancer, warns Brooke Worster, M.D., chief medical consultant at Ethos Cannabis and assistant professor at Thomas Jefferson University. For growing adolescents, it’s unclear how regular cannabis use may alter their bodies and brains—perhaps forever, says Dr. Piomelli. Similarly, little clinical data exists to address how general cannabis use could affect a pregnant person and their fetus(es), he adds. Smoking cannabis is linked to smaller fetus size, although it’s unclear whether the act of smoking or cannabis itself is responsible for this observation. Regardless, Dr. Piomelli cautions against regular cannabis use in both of these populations. THC may also exacerbate symptoms of schizophrenia and other forms of psychosis in people already predisposed to such psychological conditions. Cannabis may produce adverse effects when interacting with other drugs a person may already take, such as warfarin (a commonly prescribed blood thinner), certain chemotherapy agents, anti-seizure medications, anti-rejection medications used after a transplant surgery or other medications with a “narrow therapeutic index,”  warns Bernazani. Drugs where small differences in dose or blood concentration can lead to serious therapeutic failures and/or adverse, life-threatening reactions have a narrow therapeutic index, according to the FDA. It’s crucial to pay attention to the source from which you buy your cannabis to ensure that you’re consuming safe, well-tested products. “Getting cannabis from regulated state dispensaries certainly adds reliability to the composition and quality of the products,” says Dr. Worster. “They must be tested and labeled so you know what’s in them.” Buying products online, from retail food stores or otherwise doesn’t provide that same level of quality control. In doing so, a person risks purchasing a product containing potentially harmful undisclosed ingredients or substances, such as butane, propane and brodifacoum. National cannabis provider Verano is an example of the level of quality and transparency a person should look for when purchasing any cannabis product. “Our seed-to-sale operations are specifically structured to maintain clarity, consistency and quality across the 13 states we currently operate in,” says George Archos, founder and chief executive officer of Verano. During a visit to Verano’s New Jersey facility, Forbes Health learned that Verano clones its existing cannabis plants rather than growing them from new seeds each time to maintain consistency across products made from the plants. All products are then chemically tested by a third-party, state-accredited laboratory to confirm levels of THC, CBD and other cannabinoids in the products, as well as disclose the presence of any heavy metals, pesticides and molds. Verano publicly shares full reports of these results on each of its products in documents called certificates of analysis (COAs). Cannabis farming and product manufacturing lack federal guidelines and fixed medical and recreational use regulations from state to state, leading to varying levels of quality and questions of safety. For the best experience, visit a licensed dispensary and speak directly with a budtender, a cannabis expert who works at the dispensary, recommends Mack Hueber, president of New York-based cannabis beverage company Ayrloom and chief financial officer of its parent company Beak & Skiff. “Everyone has a different reason to consume cannabis,” he says. “[Budtenders] know the brand, and they know all the products they’re carrying. They [can] work with the customer to understand what they’re looking for.” Forbes Health covers CBD and cannabis products in accordance with FTC guidelines. Learn more about Forbes Health’s practices and policies regarding how we cover CBD and cannabis as a publisher.  Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional. Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers. 
				Lauren Silva, a freelance writer in New York City, believes in feeling good in your body and making that experience accessible to everyone across generations. The proof is in her ever-piling browser tabs and newsletters, which help her stay on top of the latest wellness trends. When she’s not researching sustainable alternatives to her everyday products, Lauren is likely attempting to make a dent in her “TBR” book pile.
			 
				Gerry McNally is the vice president of research and development at NextEvo Naturals and a seasoned consumer health care R&D executive with a track record of leading the conception, development and commercialization of new products in dynamic market-driven environments. He has more than 25 years of experience as an R&D leader in the consumer health care industry, working previously for McNeil Consumer Healthcare and Johnson & Johnson. McNally’s creative talent, over-the-counter industry knowledge and consumer understanding are key to his success in bringing new products and technologies to the consumer health care market. His background in the regulated pharmaceutical industry combined with his experience in consumer health care and patient-centric drug development provides a unique perspective. 


			