Jeremy Renner‘s progress following his near fatal snowplow accident on January 1 continues to impress. The Oscar-nominated actor and Marvel movie star attended an autograph signing Friday at Phoenix Fan Fusion convention in Arizona. Even after posing for hundreds of pictures with fans, he was still going strong, according to attendee and costumer Tony Contreras. Wearing his Avengers: Endgame-era Iron Man suit, he had a photo snapped with the smiling star. Contreras tells ABC Audio that Renner looked “phenomenal,” adding, “I wasn’t expecting to see him [looking] like his usual awesome self.” Calling Renner an “inspiration,” the fan noted, “If you didn’t know what he’d gone through, his appearance would never have given it away.” The actor also received a standing ovation at a Q&A panel at the convention, where he addressed the accident that left him fighting for his life, with more than 30 broken bones and other serious injuries. “Under the snowplow, it’s a different view,” he said, according to AZ Central. “But you know, no harm no foul, essentially. I’m coming back stronger.” Renner was closer to home last week, touring the campus of University of Nevada, Reno, with his fellow Rennervations star and executive producer Rory Millikin. “I was inspired by the stories of these lovely students who just made my day !” the Hawkeye star said on Instagram, vowing, “I’m coming back!” Copyright © 2023, ABC Audio. All rights reserved. Stay connected with the most up-to-date coverage of the stories that matter. Tune in to WBAL NewsRadio for real-time updates and in-depth analysis. Listen at 1090AM, FM 101.5, wbal.com, or through the WBAL NewsRadio app. Stay informed, stay ahead. WBAL NewsRadio 1090, FM 101.5 and the WBAL mobile app. All day, every day: News, weather and traffic. Also, insight and analysis, and the flagship stations for the Baltimore Ravens, the Baltimore Orioles and Navy Football. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on purchases made through our links to retailer sites.©2023, Hearst Television Inc. on behalf of WBAL NewsRadio 1090 and FM 101.5