The inflation crisis is over,
and you can thank the poorest among us for delivering what (so far at least) is
a soft landing. That isn’t the mainstream view yet, but eventually I think it
will be. The latest consumer price index report
released Wednesday showed that inflation fell to 5 percent in March 2023
compared to March 2022. That’s the smallest increase in nearly two years.
Inflation has been falling steadily since June, and “core” inflation (i.e.,
inflation minus volatile food and energy prices) has mostly fallen too. So has
the Personal Consumption Expenditures, or PCE, index, the Fed’s favorite inflation metric. In February it
was 5 percent, down 0.3 percentage points from the January figure; we’ll get the March
number on April 28. When a trend sustains itself
over a period of 10 months, I’m inclined to judge it significant. When it’s a
bad trend, everybody feels comfortable saying we’re in a crisis. When it’s a
good trend, nobody wants to acknowledge it. Why is this so? Partly
because economic news has a natural bias toward the negative. Economic contraction
is bad for obvious reasons, but economic growth is bad too, because it stokes
fears of inflation, which in turn stoke fears of higher interest rates to
combat inflation. Economic forecasters are a bit like my late grandmother, who
possessed many fine qualities but never beheld a half-full cup in her life.
When the Berlin Wall fell, she told me, “Sooner or later, somebody’s going to
get knocked off.” A more charitable explanation
is that at any moment there are about a gazillion things that can go wrong in
the economy, and it’s the experts’ job to keep track of what these are. Thus while
the trend in “core” inflation is favorable, the trend in “supercore” inflation
has been rising since January, according to
Harvard’s Jason Furman, after falling sharply in the fall. Supercore inflation
is inflation minus food, energy, used cars (which, like food and energy, is a
volatile indicator), and shelter (removed because rent and home prices are
lagging indicators). I’ve sometimes wondered whether there ought to be an
indicator called “existential” inflation, which is inflation minus price
changes in all goods and services. Existential inflation is unchanged since May
2020, and I’m sure there’s some expert somewhere willing to call that cause for
concern. We’ve not yet reached the
Fed’s target inflation rate of 2 percent, which at any rate is probably too low. As a consequence, even the end of the inflation crisis won’t bring
about an end to the Fed increasing interest rates. But it’s already brought an
end to the Fed accelerating the pace of its interest rate hikes, which is also
a hopeful sign.  What does this have to do
with low-income people? Well, it was low-income people who took it on the chin during
the Covid recession (February–April 2020). Between January 2020 and March 2021, employment fell 13.1
percent for people earning more than $60,000, 23.3 percent for people earning
$27,000 to $60,000, and 37.5 percent for people earning less than $27,000. Eleven
months later employment was fully recovered for the first group and almost
fully recovered for the second but still down by nearly a third for the third.
This last group consisted disproportionately of fast-food, hotel, and
health care employees working at a time when people were still reluctant to travel
or eat out and all nonemergency medical procedures were being canceled. Because it suffered the most,
this group benefited the most from the various emergency spending programs
enacted at the start of the pandemic: rental assistance, an expanded child tax credit,
expanded Medicaid eligibility, enhanced unemployment benefits, expanded food
stamp benefits, and, of course, those stimulus checks, which alone dropped the
supplemental poverty rate (which, unlike the official poverty rate, includes
government benefits) from 11.8 percent to 9.1 percent in 2020. It’s axiomatic, according to
conservative doctrine, that when the government gives low-income people money,
they’ll stop working. But that didn’t happen. When the restaurants and hotels
opened back up and nonemergency medical treatment resumed, low-income people
went back to work.  But to lure them back
employers had to increase wages, even after Covid benefits had expired. Why was
this so? Writing in The American Prospect in January,
Josh Bivens of the nonprofit Economic Policy Institute suggested that a major
driver was something he called “severed monopsony.” Monopsony is the tendency
of monopoly (in practice, oligopolies) to drive down prices by reducing
competition for workers. Severed monopsony is a temporary circumstance
in which workers suddenly have time they don’t usually enjoy to cast their net
wider for employment opportunities, thereby enhancing their leverage. By this
analysis, which I find persuasive, the worker shortage so decried by employers,
which is mostly over, should be blamed not on socialism (enhanced government
benefits) but on capitalism (enhanced market power for workers). As a result of their enhanced
leverage, low-wage workers (defined as the bottom 10 percent) saw the fastest
wage growth during the Covid recovery of any group all the way up to the ninetieth percentile. Real wages for these workers grew 9 percent on average between 2019
and 2022, according to
EPI, more than twice the growth for middle-class workers (i.e., the twentieth to eightieth percentiles), with increases tapering off as you rose from
lower to higher percentiles. That tapering reversed itself at the ninetieth percentile, where the wage increase on average was 4.9 percent. But that was
still well below the 9 percent increase at the bottom. It was almost as if we’d
entered an alternative universe in which income inequality had been reversed. I
say “almost” because income growth was still fastest for the fabled one percent
(at 16 percent) and 0.1 percent (29.2 percent). The rich got richer, but the poor
didn’t get poorer. Another economic axiom is
that rising wages at lower incomes is more inflationary than rising wages at
higher incomes, because the rich spend a smaller proportion of their income on
goods and services and anyway there are fewer of them. So, yes, the
low-wage-driven recovery from the Covid recession was inflationary. But it
wasn’t very inflationary, because the wage growth was concentrated at
the very bottom, and even when poor folks have more to spend, it still isn’t a hell
of a lot. The workers’ paradise of
severed monopsony isn’t going to last. Like a lot of economic phenomena during
the past three years, it was the freak result of the Covid epidemic. Hourly
wage growth is already falling
in the leisure and hospitality sector, where a lot of these low-wage jobs
reside, and union membership continues to fall. What the
economic recovery has taught us is that even a rapid rise in income for
America’s poorest citizens is pretty much all upside for the broader economy. That’s
a good argument for raising the hourly minimum wage at the national level (it’s
still a paltry $7.25) and making it easier for all workers, but especially
low-wage workers, to join unions by passing the Protecting the Right to Organize
Act. It’s also an argument for the Fed not to get too overzealous next month
when it decides what the next interest-rate hike should be.  Timothy Noah is a New Republic staff writer and author of The Great Divergence: America’s Growing Inequality Crisis and What We Can Do About It.