Broadway + NYC Broadway Off-Broadway Off-Off Broadway Cabaret Dance Opera Classical Music United States  Eastern  Central  Western St. Louis St. Louis Maine Chicago Maine Washington, DC West End  WEST END UK Regional International Canada Australia / New Zealand Europe Asia Latin America Africa / Middle East Entertainment TV/Movies Music Performances run April 25 - May 13. POPULAR  A story of love, loss and hoying yourself down a hill on a matchbox with wheels, Soapbox Racer is the brash coming-of-age comedy coming to Alphabetti this spring. When Kay gets dumped by her high school sweetheart for her best (and only) friend, she does what any heartbroken teen would do - enter a Soapbox Derby in a Grand Gesture to win back his love. A long-fraught relationship between her and her father is put to the test when the only place to craft this declaration of love is in his garage. Along with the help of her dad and a couple of Boost bars, Kay learns there's more to love and friendship than the affection of her teenage crush. Soapbox Racer is written by Ben Schwarz who comments, I'm very excited about bringing this play to Newcastle. It's a homecoming, really, for a play that's in some senses, about figuring out your relationship with home. The team here are incredible - I think they're building something really special. Rosie Bowden, directing this North East debut, comments Soapbox Racer is the show I wish I could have seen as a teenager. Ben Schwarz' writing feels like a warm hug for anyone who's fallen out of love with themselves. It raises you up, holds you close and refuses to let you go. I am thrilled to be directing it at Alphabetti and can't wait to fill the space with pure joy. Thanks to funding from Arts Council England, every performance will be captioned, as well as offering the usual audio described performance on Wednesday May 10th and relaxed showings on Saturdays 1pm. Alphabetti Theatre will also be hosting a 'Build & Race a Soapbox Car' workshop where families are encouraged to come in their teams to build and race model Soapbox carts every Saturday around the run of the play. Middle-Weight Theatre has announced that What's Next? will return to Bristol as part of the autumn leg of its UK Tour.  A co-production from Theatre Centre and Sheffield Theatres, DIZZY is written by Olivier-nominated Mohamed-Zain Dada (Blue Mist, Royal Court) and directed by Artistic Director of Theatre Centre Rob Watt (Wish You Weren't Here, Sheffield Theatres). Produced by a Welsh-led creative team, the premiere of Tachwedd (November/The Slaughter) will come to the London stage this October in co-production with Phoebe Stringer Productions and Theatre503.  Comedian, author and historian Al Murray is coming to Chester next month with his compelling new book about an infamous Second World War battle. Videos 
UK Regional SHOWS Recommended For You Sign up for announcements, and exclusive discounts on tickets to your favorite shows!  © 2024 - Copyright Wisdom Digital Media, all rights reserved. Privacy Policy 