Time to get up on ye olde soapbox. It's obviously fine that some won't agree, but this fan believes Randy Orton is one of the greatest all-rounders in pro wrestling history. Promos have been a weak point in the past, but he's worked on that and actually produces some damn fine speeches these days. Is it all over though? Recent reports paint a bleak picture for RKO fans everywhere. Randy's back injury has some behind the scenes worried that his career is all-but-done; if that's the case, then it's a sad end for one of WWE's longest-tenured star names. It'd also feel like there's some serious unfinished business for the guy. Everyone will just have to wait and see on this one, but those reports do seem to be a 'no smoke without fire' situation. It'd absolutely suck if Orton wasn't able to retire on his own terms, and was forced from the ring like Edge back in 2011. 
							Lifelong wrestling, video game, music and sports obsessive who has been writing about his passions since childhood. 					 10 Horrible WWE Matches We Can't Believe Exist 


					10 WWE Wrestlers In Danger Of Missing Out On WrestleMania 40					
											


 


					Another Top WWE Star Dealing With An Injury					
											


 


					10 Wrestlers You Didn't Know Were HUGELY Influential					
											


 


					6 Ups & 5 Downs From WWE Raw (Results & Review - January 29)					
											


 


					Backstage News On WWE's New Announce Teams					
											


 


					Major Update On Mercedes Moné's Wrestling Future					
											


 


					Nikki & Brie Garcia Respond To Stepfather John Laurinaitis' Sex Trafficking Lawsuit					
											


 


					WWE Royal Rumble Surprise Returns Assigned To New Brands					
											


 


					Huge Injury Update On CM Punk -- WWE WrestleMania Is "Not In The Cards"					
											


 


					WWE Considering "Just About Everything" For WrestleMania XL					
											


 WhatCulture is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab). ©Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury, Bath BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 