For the latest Weatherfield news and spoilers - sign up here We have more newsletters For the latest Weatherfield news and spoilers - sign up here We have more newsletters Coronation Street star Sally Carman-Duttine has broken her lengthy social media silence and was quick to address her previous 'sad' announcement. Back in February the actress, who is best known to fans for playing Abi Webster in the ITV soap, confirmed she would be taking a break from social media for weeks, leaving fans concerned as they sent their well wishes to Sally. "Taking a bit of a break from social media for the next few weeks," she wrote in a post, sharing a picture with those words written on it, coupled with a heart emoji as the caption. And fans were quick to inundate the soap star with words of support.  @debbielawley64 said: "Hope your ok." @susan_siddle commented: "I hope all is well." @franceliafarrellanderson wrote: "Do what's right for you my lovely." @belletoes posted: "You will be missed but it’s good for the soul to take a break." @tinaob83.fanpage added: "We will miss you hope your okay and staying safe." READ MORE: ITV Coronation Street star Catherine Tyldesley thanked by fans as she sends message after husband finds lump and undergoes biopsy But after weeks away, Sally made her Instagram comeback, posting an article in which it was suggested she had made a 'sad' announcement. "Not sad at all, just gave up social media for Lent," the soap star explained before adding: "Anyway, I’m back now and have already watched a toilet roll sprout fungi - Instagram, I’ve missed you." And it was her Corrie co-star Georgia Taylor, who is known for playing Toyah Habeeb in the Iong-running soap, who was quick to respond to her return and left a cheeky comment. "I can cancel my Sally Carman socials bereavement group meetings now," she penned.  "Shame. The cakes were pretty banging," Georgia added before Sally replied: "I can disappear again if cake is involved!" alongside a string of crying laughing emojis. Meanwhile, Steve McDonald actor Simon Gregson quipped in response to Sally's message: "That was my toilet roll." Fans, meanwhile, were simply happy to have Sally back with an update after they were worried she was leaving the soap. @delilah_after_dark commented: "Oh thank goodness for that - I thought for one awful moment that Abi was leaving Coronation Street! We love Abi." @xifrecklefaceix replied: "I thought the same thing I was about to boycott Corrie." @janefinlayson4944 wrote: "Yay welcome back - hope you Joe and Figgy are well." @nathan.molyneaux posted: "Yay. Welcome back @sally_carman__ . I’ve missed you too." @jeneldridge17 shared: "Blimey I thought you were leaving Corrie for a minute there! Phew." @katiep_1 typed: "Yay!! Lovely to see you back Sally! Though a bit of respite from social is always good." @christophergrieves added: "Great to have you back Sally." READ NEXT: 