The
banners stretched across the steps of the Montana state Capitol on April 24 read
“Democracy Dies Here.” Inside, Representative
Zooey Zephyr, a Democrat representing Missoula, tried to speak against an
anti-trans bill up for debate. The Republican speaker refused to recognize her,
continuing a pattern of silencing the only trans woman
elected to the state’s legislature. Democrats objected, as they had in prior
weeks, demanding a vote on the speaker’s decision. This time, one protester
broke the silence as Republicans voted to back the speaker’s decision.
“Bullshit!” the protester called down at the legislators, according to the Montana Free Press. The gallery
packed with one hundred people filled with similar chants—“Let her speak!”—and
law enforcement, some in riot gear, swarmed in to make arrests. The
far-right Republican Freedom Caucus declared that Zephyr had “encouraged
Capitol violence.” They called it an “insurrection.” The
silencing of Representative Zephyr was by then a national news story, part of a
pattern of young Democratic legislators—some Black, some trans and
nonbinary—who have been disciplined by their Republican colleagues for their
participation in or mere proximity to protest against those Republicans’
agenda. As in Tennessee weeks before, when Representatives Justin Jones and
Justin Pearson were expelled from the legislature over participation in a
peaceful protest, the Montana House of Representatives voted to censure Zephyr merely
for standing in silent support of her protesting constituents. The Freedom
Caucus Twitter account has since shared reports of what its director deemed a
“Montana Transurrection.” It’s
not subtle, what this far-right caucus is doing, with the support of its fellow Republicans: trying to conflate opposition to their anti-trans bills
with political violence. “Folks want to characterize trans advocates as being
motivated by some violent desire to overthrow the United States government,” said Paul Kim, one of Zephyr’s constituents
who was arrested that day. “But the facts don’t exactly line up like that.” That
night, Representative Zephyr and Representative Jones appeared together on
MSNBC. They knew, Jones said, that if the Tennessee legislature
could do it, “this attempt to silence dissent with the most extreme measures,
it would set a precedent.” But, he said, “that means we are going to stand
together in solidarity, as a multiracial, multigenerational movement, to say
that we will not allow fascism to happen without a challenge, that we care more
about democracy than decorum.” Zephyr said she has already seen that solidarity
in action: It was Indigenous groups, she said, who were the first standing with
the trans community, “pointing out that our state has a long history of
targeting marginalized communities, with policies that lead to separation and
death.” When
far-right voices in the Republican Party (increasingly synonymous with the
entire party) call this and other acts of protest an
“insurrection,” it obviously reeks of hypocrisy. But it also reveals how easily
intimidated they really are by the slightest act of resistance. However
unwittingly, in defining what threatens them in such outrageous terms, they
have also highlighted what it will take to defeat them: this rising
constituency, drawing power from all those who are under attack in this moment,
and using that power to confront those who seek to silence them all. “We
know,” Zephyr said the day she was censured, “if we
are going to succeed, one community is not enough to shift the tides of history
here.” The
bill that kicked this all off—Senate Bill 99, which bans gender-affirming care
for minors—previously failed. Montana state Senator John Fuller first introduced a
version of this bill while serving in the state’s House of Representatives in
2021, in the days after the violence at the U.S. Capitol on January 6. That
earlier version of the bill, House Bill 113, was defeated, as were many similar bills in
2020 and 2021.* Its success last week is the result of several years in which
the right came to deploy anti-trans hatred and anti-democratic measures as
mutually reinforcing tactics to consolidate Republican political power. As
Republicans largely failed to pass these bills, it appeared to some political analyists that
transphobia was a losing proposition: Some polling suggested that the majority
of Republican voters didn’t perceive existing societal acceptance of trans
people as threatening: 57 percent of Republicans said acceptance of trans people had
gone “too far” in 2017, and only 30 percent said that in 2020. In this context,
perhaps Fuller’s 2021 gender-affirming care bill was merely premature. It
failed when five Republicans broke ranks to oppose his proposed ban. Legislators who
made such decisions, Fuller said, lacked “moral courage to hold the
line.” Some
Republicans in power, perhaps in response to how unpopular these bills were, began
to turn to distinctly anti-democratic practices. When the Texas state
legislature refused to redefine “child abuse” to include gender-affirming care,
Governor Greg Abbott ordered Child Protective Services to
investigate the parents of trans kids as potential abusers if they affirmed
their children. They stacked administrative committees with political
appointees who would make sweeping changes for them, as Governor Ron DeSantis did in
Florida, when the Florida Board of Medicine barred providers from offering gender-affirming
care to minors.  Meanwhile,
Fuller and other future Freedom Caucus members were talking up the need for
so-called “election integrity.” He signed onto an unsuccessful effort demanding the legislature form a special
committee to investigate “election security,” in a letter that claimed there
was a “continuing and widespread belief, among a significant majority of
Montana voters, that sufficient irregularities in election security create
serious doubt as to the integrity of elections in our state.” Some of the other
signatories—though not Fuller—had been traveling throughout Montana to spread
conspiracy theories about “fraud” and the 2020 election. Speaking in support of
a 2021 bill to end same-day voter registration, though, Fuller echoed the letter, stating that such
legislation was necessary because the “country was almost divided and torn
apart by the idea that elections might be or were being stolen … regardless of
whether that is the case.” He failed to state the truth—that there was no
stolen election. Perhaps
the apex of this now-commonplace mythmaking was when Fuller marked the first
anniversary of January 6, the insurrection that failed to steal an election
but entrenched the Republican embrace of conspiracy theorists. On his podcast, Fuller
dismissed those who called January 6 an
insurrection: “Those of us that study history and know history know that no
such thing actually happened,” he said. “It was a relatively minor disturbance,
with one or two exceptions, all those people that the worst crime they
committed was trespassing.” For Fuller, January 6 was about protesters being
unfairly smeared as insurrectionists. He cited “two Montana brothers,” Jerod
and Joshua Hughes, who “were maybe guilty of trespassing.” According
to a January 2021 court
filing, these
two were among the very first to enter the Capitol, through a window broken
open with a police riot shield, stolen by one of the Proud Boys recently convicted
on multiple charges. Once inside, Jerod Hughes kicked open a door, allowing
others to enter. The brothers were in the small group led by a rioter
in a QAnon T-shirt, chasing Capitol Police Officer
Eugene Goodman, who had been attempting to divert them so that members of
Congress could escape. (The brothers were later sentenced to nearly four
years and just over three
years in prison, respectively.) There was ample video and social
media evidence to support the government’s claims about Jerod and Joshua Hughes.
Fuller mischaracterized it as “facial recognition” leading to their arrest—when
in truth, the brothers turned themselves in, reportedly
after seeing themselves on the news. “January 6, 2022, is an anniversary
of momentous importance,” Fuller concluded, because it represented a government
willing to do “anything” to its people. “And I don’t know about you, but I
would rather be afraid of my fellow citizens than be afraid of my government.”  Such
increasingly anti-democratic rhetoric from lawmakers came alongside escalating anti-queer
and anti-trans harassment and violence. In 2022, far-right groups threatened Pride and drag events across the country, sometimes
while armed, menacing people who attended. Social media accounts aggregating videos of these confrontations
made the leap to cable news. The “groomer” slur took off across the right, from DeSantis’s own staff to members of Congress, resurrecting old tropes about queer people as
sexual predators. They aimed the slur at trans people and anyone who appeared
to support them, from librarians and educators to health care providers and
elected officials. Conspiracy theories reminiscent of Pizzagate propagated in any town where a far-right
group could find a queer or trans event to accuse of “grooming” children. Open neo-Nazi and Christofascist groups took up the same cause, chose the
same enemies, as Republican legislators had. The
Montana Freedom Caucus launched officially this year on the anniversary of January 6, just over one year
after Fuller’s podcast. “The radical left is trying to destroy our families,
they’re trying to keep us from practicing our faith, and they’re trying to
brainwash our children,” said U.S. Representative Matt Rosendale
at the launch in Helena. “And it is really those three things that can
encapsulate what we are all fighting.” Fuller,
now serving in the state Senate, reintroduced his ban on gender-affirming care
for minors, this time as S.B. 99. When the bill was debated in the House Judiciary Committee and
its supporters likened gender-affirming care to “slicing up children”
and “mutilation,” Zephyr was there to object
to their rhetoric. “There are members on this committee who have had procedures
that are being described here,” she countered. This was a rare moment—when these bills come
up in almost every other state legislature, no trans legislator is there to
contest their claims. Still, the rhetoric demonizing gender-affirming care was
permitted by the Republican committee chair (who is also the House speaker’s mother).
Claims of “mutilation” were acceptable because it was, she said, “some people’s
opinion as to what’s happening.” When Zephyr
later said to the supporters of Fuller’s bill, “I hope the next time there’s an
invocation, when you bow your heads in prayer, you see the blood on your hands,”
the Freedom Caucus tellingly called this not just “hateful rhetoric” but “unmistakable evidence of a desire
for some to engage in violence over political beliefs.” On April 28, two days
after Zephyr was censured, Governor Gianforte signed S.B. 99 into law.  Had
the rise in anti-trans rhetoric and harassment, part of an ongoing post-2020
radicalization of the Republican Party, really transformed state legislatures
so much, in two years? In 2021, 154 anti-LGBTQ bills were proposed across state
legislatures; by May 2023, the number would climb to 417. Republicans’ appetite for
criminalizing trans people was increasing too—from 55 percent opposing and
38 percent supporting bans on gender-affirming care for minors in April 2021 to 35 percent opposing and 63 percent supporting such bans in 2023. Republicans
saying they thought acceptance of trans people had gone “too far” rose to 56 percent in 2022, according
to an NBC poll. This April, when NBC polled Republicans again, 79 percent said
acceptance of trans people had gone “too far.” This is out of step with the
general public, who other polls showed oppose this legislation and largely
support anti-discrimination laws to
protect trans people. Montana
now joins more than a dozen states that have passed gender-affirming
care bans in 2023. Its passage was less an indication of Fuller having won over
his party than a sign that he, along with other Montana Republicans, is benefiting
from national efforts to demonize trans people—and, specifically, efforts that
portray trans acceptance as a sign of democracy’s failure and America’s decline.
You can see expression of that in Rosendale’s remarks at the launch of the Montana Freedom
Caucus about the “radical left” who want to “destroy our families” and
“brainwash our children.” It’s there too in Fuller’s lambasting a local LGBTQ support and rights
group for “attributing my efforts to protect children from being spayed,
neutered, and mutilated as hatred of the LGBTQ community,” painting such groups
as collaborators in the abuse of children. “The Sovereign People now recognize
that their children are being indoctrinated with values such as the sexualizing
of young people, that marriage between one man and one woman is obsolete, that
America was founded by racists and that the U.S. Constitution was a pro-slavery
document,” Fuller has argued, in an essay parroting all the
now-entrenched conservative anti-queer, anti-trans, and anti-Black code words.
It’s no coincidence that the essay also included lines like: “Democracy is a
methodology of government that has failed as miserably as socialism.”  But
the right’s habit of creating repetitive litanies of its many enemies—Black
people, queer people, trans people, and more—also points to an opportunity:
namely, a constituency that could actually be as broad as these reactionaries
imagine and fearmonger over. The rapid escalation of Republican political and
right-wing media attacks has coincided with the right’s broader battle against
“wokeism.” The prime architect of such trends, Christopher Rufo, acknowledged that what gave life to his
anti–critical race theory and anti-“grooming” propaganda was the “riots” of 2020, after the
murder of George Floyd, when, as he put it, “left-liberal” media were
allegedly “endorsing self-destructive ideas and causes such as ‘defund the
police’ and ‘sex changes for kids.’” That is to say, to the extent that trans
people could be associated with multiracial, multigenerational protest
movements, the Republican Party would find more favor for their anti-trans
attacks. The right reawakened their base by stoking fear of young, Black
people, many of whom were also queer and trans. They rode that fear through
school board meetings and library board elections, and now, here we are. In
this sense, the right not just targeting but attempting to exclude Representative
Zephyr in Montana and Representatives Jones and Pearson in Tennessee from their
democratically elected offices is the predictable extension of this fight. So
too are attacks on Oklahoma state Representative Mauree Turner, the state’s only
nonbinary representative, “censured by their own state legislature after
allowing someone into their office who had protested the state’s ban on
gender-affirming care,” as Teen Vogue reported, several weeks before Jones and
Pearson were expelled.   Turner
easily sees the connections: “What we’re seeing right now is the same thing
that we saw with the progression of Donald Trump through his campaign into his
presidency: It was one community, and then the next, and then the next, and
then the next,” they told Teen Vogue in a recent interview.
“If we don’t stand together now, we are going to be woefully unprepared for
whatever comes next.” Consider
what connects those under attack in Montana. “What we’ve been seeing over this
session is that there is such disdain, such animus, such disgust with queer
people, Indigenous people, people that don’t fit in within their vision of what
Montana is,” ACLU Montana’s Keegan Medrano told The Intercept after Zephyr’s
censure—all people who declare their “body sovereignty and autonomy,” as Medrano
added. “The Montana Republicans, the Freedom Caucus, they’re all afraid of
these people, and so they legislate to extinguish their existence and/or to
make their existences not palatable and not a part of what Montana is.”  What
are they scared of, exactly, when they call an elected representative who directly
challenges them, or even protesters’ solely verbal support for this
representative when she is silenced, “insurrection”? Fuller
has already told us what he thinks an insurrection isn’t—white, middle-class
people seeking to overturn an election. By claiming to fear the people who support
Zephyr, Montana Republicans are trying to convey that their fear is legitimate
and hers is not; that their power to retaliate against her is legitimate and
that trans resistance is illegitimate. What the right calls an insurrection
is this moment of solidarity, among those people they have targeted. It’s not
enough for them to use the force of the law to exclude anyone who offends their
social order from American life; they must also silence the offenders when they
show up for each other. But in doing this, the right has drawn together the same
constituency it claims to fear. Maybe the fears repeated by these
anti-trans lawmakers are not such wild overstatements. Maybe they are correctly
forecasting their own defeat. * This article has been updated to reflect the correct numbering of the 2021 bill. Melissa Gira Grant is a staff writer at The New Republic and the author of Playing the Whore: The Work of Sex Work.