Alf-Inge Haaland was escorted out of his VIP box after goading Real Madrid supporters on Tuesday night during a 1-1 draw against Manchester City. Kevin de Bruyne’s brilliant second-half strike cancelled out Vinicius Junior’s 36th-minute opener in the first leg of their Champions League semi-final. The Belgian’s goal means the tie is now perfectly poised heading into the second leg at the Etihad Stadium in a week. Haaland, who has scored 51 goals in all competitions for Man City this season, failed to have a big impact on the match and was criticised by the Spanish newspapers. Marca, in particular, was savage with the Spanish publication giving him a three out of ten rating after the Norway international only managed 21 touches, the fewest of any player who started the match, while he had two early efforts on goal. Rudiger, who was tasked with keeping Haaland quiet (by being weird), was given a ten out of ten match rating with the Germany international claiming after the match that Man City “were not dangerous”. And a video showed Haaland’s dad, Alf-Inge, getting escorted out of a VIP box at the Bernabeu during the match after goading a set of Real Madrid fans directly in front of him. Haaland’s father cupped his ears and appeared to make an obscene gesture at one point, while reports in Spain insist that he also threw peanuts at Real Madrid fans at the start of the second half. Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola explained why Haaland struggled against Real Madrid on Tuesday night, he said: “The pockets and distances between the central defenders and full-backs was occupied for attacking midfielders. “For [Luka] Modric, Toni Kroos and [Federico] Valverde. Twin central defender close to Erling, it was not easy for him. He moved well and had his chances.” And Real Madrid goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois has revealed how the Spanish giants managed to keep Haaland quiet for most of the game. Courtois said: “If you want to defend against Haaland, you don’t give him the space to run. We tried to avoid that. “We played well. As a consequence they shot more from distance. It pushed us deeper. “A good draw and everything to play for next week. It will be like a final. We’re quite good at winning finals. Hopefully we can mentalise it like that. “Man City are a team who play with possession. With Haaland they play more direct. Sometimes in the Premier League Ederson kicks really deep. We dropped down to not give them that space. “Sometimes we didn’t control our game. They pressed well and you don’t want to take too many risks at the back.” READ MORE: Man City and Real Madrid serve up a Champions League classic topped off by a pair of thunderb*stards    You would think that Erling Haaland would be happy after scoring for Man City but he was busy ‘raging’ and being ‘brutal’ to Chelsea.
 Erling Haaland was the top goalscorer of 2023, clear from Harry Kane and Kylian Mbappe. Can he do it again? Viktor Gyokeres is the man in form.
 Erling Haaland felt he had unfinished business against Chelsea goalkeeper Robert Sanchez and learned from his prior misjudgement
 After talks with Rodrygo, Manchester City are reportedly aware that a move to the club ‘would appeal’ to him when he is to leave Real Madrid, and the exit of ... Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola revealed a concerning Erling Haaland fitness update after his side’s friendly against FC Barcelona on Tuesday.
 Real Madrid dominate this list of the 20 most valuable footballers in the world, while Arsenal and Man City have the only Premier League representatives.
 © Planet Sport Limited 2024 • All Rights Reserved