News News | Jul 28, 2023


 The Moffat County Fair is here again, and with it come memories of those 50 or more years ago when I was a 4-H member exhibiting at the same fair. The fair was held later then, probably the middle or end of August. School started right after — maybe even the following Monday. I can remember leaving the fair, when I wasn’t showing an animal, to go to the high school, register and pick up books. The nights were cooling off by then, too, and sometimes there was frost on everything when we left for the fairgrounds early in the mornings. I continue to be amazed at how our brains work. Why do we remember some things more than others? For example, when my brother Duane (Osborn) and I were taking about past Moffat County Fairs the other day, my brain remembered the rain that usually fell at least one time during the event, most often on the night of the Junior Livestock Sale. As the downpour of rain hit the barn roof, it was so loud that it sounded more like a roar. People hurried to close the barn doors, and we could smell the rain through the windows that opened up from the outside wall of the livestock pens. Another memory comes from being in competition. Sometimes we showed animals outdoors those days, and while I was standing there with my heifer or steer, the animal’s feet placed just right, the animal often chewed on my exhibitor number card. Perhaps he or she was doing this out of nervousness— whatever it was, I can almost feel it now. It’s funny what we remember. These two memories aren’t the only ones. During my 4-H years at the Moffat County Fair I remember … • the flurry of activity as exhibitors groomed their cattle, sheep and swine and tried to keep them from lying down and getting “messed up” again before entering the ring. • the wet wash rack where buckets of soapy water was poured on cattle, rubbed around and then rinsed off. Kids as well as cattle were wet. • a steer or heifer getting loose on the wash rack, and the kid hanging onto the animal’s neck — not so easy when the neck is soapy. • a cow glaring at sheep tied near the wash rack, probably thinking, “If I could just get loose…” • kids in water fights in and around the barn and fair officials growling at them. • tired calves lying down in the show ring during a cow/calf competition. • show boxes lined up in front of cattle/sheep pens. • pens of rabbits, chickens and ducks under the grandstand. • getting slapped in the face with a soapy tail. • Dads trying to console their children after they got stepped on by a steer or sheep. • trying to keep an eye on the judge while also trying to get a steer to stand still. • those feelings of excitement about spending time with friends and the feelings of anticipation about the competition to come. It’s been over 50 years since I was an exhibitor at the Moffat County Fair, but the memories have lasted. 
Aug 15, 2024
  
Aug 14, 2024
 
Aug 7, 2024
 
Aug 1, 2024
 
Jul 31, 2024
 
Aug 12, 2024
  
Aug 15, 2024
 
Aug 14, 2024
 
Aug 16, 2024
 
Aug 11, 2024
 Readers around Craig and Moffat County make the Craig Press’ work possible. Your financial contribution supports our efforts to deliver quality, locally relevant journalism. Now more than ever, your support is critical to help us keep our community informed about the evolving coronavirus pandemic and the impact it is having locally. Every contribution, however large or small, will make a difference. Each donation will be used exclusively for the development and creation of increased news coverage. 
Steamboat Pilot & Today AND Craig Press are hiring for a Multimedia Account Manager   Are you great at customer…
 
JOIN OUR TEAM! At Northwest Colorado Health we believe everyone deserves the chance to achieve their best health. Clinical and…
 
Public Safety Reporter needed in Steamboat Springs The Steamboat Pilot & Today seeks a reporter who can dig into the…
   Sign up for daily and breaking news headlines. Manage Subscriptions 



How would you direct Craig's next steps?
 Focus on entrepreneurship. We'll control our future.
 Do everything possible to attract some big employers.
 It'll work out — no need to be overly intentional.
 Can't see it working out, honestly.
View Results


 Loading ...
   How would you direct Craig's next steps?  View Results 
Classifieds
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Rentals
 
Autos
 
Pets
 
Recreation
 
Merchandise
 
Legals
 
Place Legal Ad
 
Search Legal Ads
 
Contact Us
 
Submissions
 
Advertise
 
Submit an Obituary
 
Magazines and Special Sections
 
Archives
 
About Us
 
Newsletters
 
Commercial Print Sales
 
RSS
 
Cookie List
 
Do not sell my personal information
 
Steamboat-Routt County
 
Aspen-Snowmass
 
Glenwood Springs-Rifle
 
Park City-Utah
 
Summit County
 
Vail-Eagle Valley
 
Winter Park-Granby-Grand County
 
Printing Press Jobs
 ©2005 - 2024 Swift Communications, Inc.