The microplastics that choke ocean life will soon be tracked from space as part of a Nasa-funded research programme. Researchers at the University of Michigan discovered satellites can spot the soapy or oily residue to which microplastics attach themselves with ease. Microplastics are tiny flecks that can ride ocean currents hundreds or thousands of miles from their point of entry and can harm sea life and marine ecosystems. They’re extremely difficult to track and clean up, but a 2021 discovery raised the hope that satellites could offer day-by-day updates on where microplastics enter the water, how they move, and where they collect. The team noticed that data recorded by the Cyclone Global Navigation Satellite System (CYGNSS), showed fewer and smaller waves in areas of the ocean that contain microplastics. They used the technique to spot suspected microplastic releases at the mouth of China’s Yangtze River and to identify seasonal variations in the Great Pacific Garbage patch, a convergence zone in the North Pacific Ocean where microplastics collect in massive quantities. It emerged that the wave activity is not caused by the plastics themselves, but by surfactants — soapy or oily compounds that are often released along with microplastics and that travel and collect in similar ways once they’re in the water. Professor Chris Ruf, said that a satellite-based tracking tool was a major improvement on current tracking methods, which rely mainly on reports from plankton trawlers that net microplastics along with their catch. He said: "NOAA, the Plymouth Marine Lab in the UK and other organisations are very aware of what we’re doing, but we need to be cautious and fully understand the system’s limitations before putting it into widespread use. “These new findings are an important step in that process." Corresponding author Yulin Pan said: "We can see the relationship between surface roughness and the presence of microplastics and surfactants," Pan said. "The goal now is to understand the precise relationship between the three variables." New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. A tech revival helped lift stocks, as investors digest the Federal Reserve's decision to hold interest rates steady.