If you’re like me, you use your blender for everything from mixing your morning smoothie to blitzing tomato sauce. And (also like me), you probably think you do a decent job cleaning it. But did you know that, despite your best efforts, the inside of that blender is probably still one of the dirtiest places in your kitchen? A veritable home for all kinds of bacteria, including salmonella? Here’s what you need to know about the germs that could be hiding in your blender, and how to clean it properly so you can trust your smoothies again. A recent study from the National Sanitary Foundation (NFS) found that blenders were actually the “third germiest item” in the surveyed “test homes,” containing substantial amounts of bacteria. The primary hotspot? The blender gasket: that thin rubber ring that sits between the blender's blade and the container floor. That tiny piece of rubber is often home to a legion of bacteria, including “salmonella, E. coli, yeast and mold," according to the study. And that’s not all. According to Rosemary Trout, program director of culinary arts and food science at Drexel University, there are tons of other, commonly overlooked places that deserve our attention. “Sometimes the blades don’t get cleaned well because people are concerned about avoiding cuts,” she says. “The cord can also be neglected.” The cord? I have to admit I was skeptical. After all, the cord doesn’t typically even touch food, so why would we need to clean it? Trout has an answer for that too: “Bacteria are everywhere. Cords, while not in direct contact with consumable food, can accumulate dirt and grime... [which] can act as nuclei or growth points for bacterial pathogens and mold.” So, just to be clear, any area of your blender, from the top of the lid to the underside of the base, can become a breeding ground for bacteria that could then transfer to whatever food you’re blending in that blender. Yikes! Lots of us swear by the trick of filling the blender container with a squirt of dish soap and a little warm water and then whizzing it up. This cleaning hack quickly distributes soapy water throughout the nooks and crannies of the blender container, effectively “cleaning” it. Taking it one step further, Guy Crosby, food science editor and adjunct associate professor at Harvard, recommends using a mixture of “one part vinegar with 2 parts water,” before thoroughly rinsing, which “avoids the problem of foaming.” Both of these methods are effective in a pinch, but neither targets the external areas of the blender, and they definitely don’t promise to thoroughly clean that notorious bastion of bacteria, the gasket. Unfortunately there’s no quick and easy shortcut that targets these trouble spots: to ensure a thorough cleaning, you’ll need to take the blender apart. Fortunately, Trout has recommendations for that too. “Disassemble your blender as much as possible and soak and wash these parts carefully in hot, soapy water,” she advises. To ensure complete sanitization, the “water temperature should be 171°F” and “the parts submerged for 30 seconds.” While you definitely shouldn't submerge the blender base (which contains the motor!) in water, she does recommend wiping all parts of it—including the unplugged cord—thoroughly with a washcloth soaked in “hot soapy water.” Once every part of your blender has been scrubbed clean, there’s one last thing. “Be sure to completely air dry prior to reassembly and storage,” Trout says. If you put your blender back together before it’s totally dry, you’re creating the perfect dark, damp habitat for mold to thrive. After all your efforts toward a cleaner blender, you don’t want to pull it out the next day to discover it’s growing green fuzz. You Might Also Like Insanely Easy Weeknight Dinners To Try This Week 29 Insanely Delicious Vodka Cocktails New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.