May is a great month in Florida as the mornings are still cooler, the days are warm, and we are often still a bit away from the real heat of the summer. Take this opportunity to enjoy your garden, wrap up on spring landscape chores, and prepare for the coming months. Once the flowers are gone, it is time to prune your azaleas for the year. Make cuts to improve the structure and size of the shrubs and like most species, frequent hedging will leave you with a less dense plant with very few blooms. Azaleas bloom on older growth so do not prune after July 4th so you get a good display in the fall or spring. Also, don’t forget that aside from our common azaleas we do have native varieties in our area. Look for ‘Pinxter’ and ‘Florida Flame’, these are unique because they actually bloom before the leaves emerge. As temperatures increase, so does insect activity. Take time at least once a week to walk around your garden and look closely for insect pests and damage on your plants. Some key pests to look for on plants are: Turfgrass: If you have dying spots in your St. Augustine grass, look closely at the base of the turf for chinch bugs. These are very small and easy to miss. One way to check is to take a round container open on both ends, press down into your turf part of the way, and fill with soapy water. The chinch bugs will usually float to the top. This can also be accomplished by drenching an area of the turf with some soapy water and look for them before the water drains down. If present and damaging, check out your control options online at https://edis.ifas.ufl.edu/lh036 or contact your local UF/IFAS Extension office for advice. Oleanders: This is the time for oleander caterpillars to emerge and do their damage. Look for the chewing on the leaves of your plants and the many larvae that are usually present. Consider using a product containing Bt labeled for ornamental plants for control. Bt-containing products use a bacteria, Bacillus thuiengiensis, to control larval pests and should not affect other insect groups. As with any pesticide, be sure to read the product label and follow all directions and precautions. All ornamental plants: Thrips, scales, and mites are usually growing in numbers so keep an eye out for their damage. Also, you may be seeing a lot of lubber grasshoppers around. These large pests should be crushed on site. June is the start of the Atlantic hurricane season, making May a great time to get ready. Have dead or other hazard trees removed, do some pruning, and clean up any garden debris or materials that could become airborne during a storm. For big pruning jobs, proper cuts and tree management are key, so look into hiring an ISA-certified arborist. A comprehensive listing of these individuals working in our area can be found at www.treesaregood.org/findanarborist. If doing the pruning yourself, be sure to not do the common “hurricane cut” on palms. This can increase the chance of damage, pests and disease. With palms, never prune green fronds and, if healthy, they should not pose a threat during storms. Vegetables: Southern Peas, Swiss Chard, Okra, Ginger, Roselle, Amaranth, Boniato, Calabaza, Long Squashes, Luffa, Pigeon Pea, Seminole Pumpkin, and Sweet Potatoes. Annuals: Calliopsis, Celosia, Coleus, Crossandra, Exacum, Gaillardia, Gazania, Hollyhock, Impatiens, Kalanchoe, Marigold, Nicotiana, Ornamental Pepper, Pentas, Periwinkle, Portulaca, Salvia, Thunbergia, Torenia, Verbena, and Zinnia. Bulbs, Tubers or Rhizomes: Alstroemeria, Aztec lily, Begonia, Blood lily, Caladium, Kaffir lily, Walking Iris, African lily, Spider lily, and Tiger Flower. Wayne Hobbs is an extension agent in environmental horticulture for Clay County. This article originally appeared on Florida Times-Union: May gardening tips: Prune azaleas, things to plant in your garden New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.