Employment  and Social Development Canada (ESDC) works to improve the standard of living  and quality of life for all Canadians. We do this by promoting a labour force  that is highly skilled. We also promote an efficient and inclusive labour  market.  If you have used BGRS or SIRVA Canada relocation services, your personal information may have been compromised. Learn about what precautionary measures are available to you. Benefits, Canada EI Commission, Wage Earners Protection Program, and economic regions. Payment dates for recurring Government of Canada benefit payments. Job opportunities, work permits, Social Insurance Number, criminal record checks and security clearances. Canada Pension Plan, Old Age Security pension and related benefits, the Canadian retirement income calculator and retirement planning. Maternity and parental leave, Employment Insurance, Canada Child Benefit, and survivor's pension. Pensions, child benefits, savings plans, education funding, and gas tax refund program. Hiring streams and positions, employer compliance and obligations. Explore careers by education program, apprenticeship, and training programs. GST/HST housing rebate, buying a home, and financial assistance to fix your home. Grants and contributions that support jobs, training, and social development. Labour laws, workplace standards, health and safety standards and labour relations. Student financial assistance for college and university; apprenticeship, continuing education, co-op, and internships. Our mandate, portfolio, partners, access to information and transparency. Benefits for Indigenous Peoples, active Forces members, veterans, people with a disability, retirees, and victims. Evaluations, audits, annual reports, and other departmental and program reports. Promotional campaigns and initiatives led by ESDC. Expands services within communities to increase awareness of and access to Service Canada's programs and services.  Minister of Employment, Workforce Development and Official Languages Minister of Families, Children and Social Development Minister of Labour and Seniors  Minister of Diversity, Inclusion and Persons with Disabilities Minister of Citizens' Services Minister for Women and Gender Equality and Youth Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Employment, Workforce Development and Official Languages Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Families, Children and Social Development  Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Labour and Seniors  Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Diversity, Inclusion and Persons with Disabilities Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Citizens’ Services Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Women and Gender Equality and Youth Programs and services for First Nations, Inuit and Métis Services for current and former military, RCMP and their families Programs and services for teenagers and young adults Programs and services for Black communities and Black-led organizations More: Employment and Social Development Canada news Learn about the Canadian Dental Care Plan. Access data on workplace representation and pay gaps for the 4 designated groups in federally regulated private-sector workplaces