The United States Surgeon General recently said the popular apps are impacting their health The United States Surgeon General recently said the popular apps are impacting their health The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. The United States Surgeon General recently said the popular apps are impacting their health A safety alert for parents when it comes to children and social media. The United States Surgeon General says the popular apps are impacting their health. "Screen time increased all over the board because we've been through a pandemic," Clinical social worker Sarah Kaiser said. Kaiser is a licensed social worker for University Health. She says parents need to start conversing with kids about social media at a young age. “Conversation starts with how do we connect with your friends off of social media?” Kaiser said.  Kaiser says the one constant for young teens is their desire for community. For many teens, much of that community is found online. The surgeon general said in the past week that the country is in the middle of a mental health crisis and social media is contributing to the harm the kids are experiencing. The warning says social media is making kids feel worse about themselves, worse about their friendships and addicted to the experience. “When what you were constantly looking at is a photoshopped liked image, you think that's normal," Kaiser said.  The social worker says online conversations like Zoom and FaceTime can sometimes fill that social media need while being healthier alternatives to apps. Kaiser says kids need to find balance. “There is no best way. It's knowing your kid, what their interests are, what they thrive on," Kaiser said. She recommends having phones and iPads charged in a parent’s bedroom. That way, there's no temptation for children when they go to bed. “Do it trial and error, maybe. We try two hours this week? What works for the kid? What didn't? Did you notice any unhealthy behavior develop as a result of it?" she said.  Another tip from Kaiser, keep them off social media by taking them to the library. There are a lot of free activities for them to enjoy.  Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.