Expand your knowledge through cutting-edge research & enrich your community through creative enterprise. Through effective classroom engagement, research opportunities working with our distinguished faculty and a range of other experiential learning opportunities, students emerge from our degree programs equipped with the skills, insights and perspective needed to achieve success in their careers & improve their communities. Our graduate degree & certificate programs give students the skills and knowledge to assume leadership roles in business, research, education, government and community organizations. Through our accelerated “bachelor's to master's” programs, students may earn dual credits that can be applied to both undergraduate & graduate degrees. Our faculty includes nationally and internationally recognized researchers, scholars and creative artists engaged in developing new knowledge and contributing to the cultural fabric of our world. Our college’s research and cultural centers serve as hubs for scholarship and creative activity, and provide ample opportunities for student engagement. David Levenson’s Mock Trial team experience led to a real legal internship. Jake Abramowitz won a statewide pitch contest for his short film. A class in cognitive psychology inspired Melissa DiPano to do research with two professors and aim for a Ph.D. Karina Cruz appreciates the flexibility, small classes and in-depth administrative skills she’s learning, from how to change public policy to managing a diverse workforce. Jared Socolow turned his own struggles into a research project that he will present at the annual conference of the Association for Psychological Science. Lowell, MA 01854

978-934-4000  Map & DirectionsContact Us Undergraduate Admissions
University Crossing

220 Pawtucket St., Suite 420

Lowell, MA 01854-2874
admissions@uml.edu UMass System Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Accessibility Statement For an optimum web experience we recommend the latest version of Firefox, Chrome, Edge, or Safari. Please use one of the links below to install a supported browser.