
                
                    
                        Let Marketing Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              The 135-year-old Asian sauce brand is promoting its Sriracha Chili and Mayo products with a Spotify playlist, 24/7 Twitch livestream and more. The lifestyle mogul and frequent ad star will serve as a brand ambassador and consult with three users of the freelance services marketplace. A look at how areas of growing investment, including retail media networks and the creator economy, could be impacted by the death of the cookie and generative AI. “Indulge in Hydration” was developed with SixTwentySix and includes augmented reality activations, Netflix ad testing, a Spotify takeover and more.  While X leadership views the not-for-profit group’s shuttering as a victory, it’s not clear if the move will help it win back jumpy advertisers. Those who find the secret party spot using clues doled out on social will be offered a glow-in-the-dark 5 Gum x Zedd pack as their ticket. “NFL 4 The Fans Live” blends football hype with gaming and creator content and will launch with a multi-city series timed to the NFL calendar. The power of Gen Z and Gen Alpha to influence their parents to consider a brand could be the key to success amid another turbulent season. Findings from CreatorIQ and TikTok detail how creators have helped brands like the NBA, Sephora and Fortnite find success on the platform. Store windows nationwide currently feature QR codes inviting consumers to shop the retailer’s curated fall collection on Pinterest. For now, the technology is helping improve advertising performance and efficiency, as the company saw revenue rise 22% in Q2. Photo by cottonbro from Pexels The tech’s emergence underscores the importance of proper attribution and collaboration, according to Growth Stack Media’s Jordan Mitchell.  Inspired by the popularity of mukbangs, the fast-casual chain teamed with Wonderskin for “Lipotle,” a lip stain timed to National Avocado Day. To boost its position as an entertainment brand, the cosmetics company parodied sports broadcasts in a video featuring Olympian Gabby Douglas. In an effort by WPP’s Open X, a local angle stands in contrast to the Coca-Cola-owned brand’s last major campaign, which focused on Lil Nas X. CMO Craig Brommers explains how efforts like a social-focused tie-up with Life on Film to capture disposable camera footage are meant to reach Gen Z. As total ad sales for the games surpass $1.2 billion, six major marketers will sponsor a commercial-free hour during the opening ceremony. NBCUniversal’s Olympics coverage will leverage Google’s products, including Search, Maps and Gemini, while the tech giant elevates athletes’ stories.  The e-commerce giant tapped actress Michelle Buteau for a 30-second spot encouraging shoppers to “spend less on your little freeloaders.”  The color of the superheroes’ outfits inspired a campaign that includes fourth-wall-breaking ads and collectibles for decorating condiment bottles.  A new report underpins a broad shift toward performance marketing, though two-thirds of video buyers still encounter measurement challenges. In its latest big creative swing, the brand hopes to engage Gen Z consumers with a humorous take on the format’s well-worn melodrama. The retailer’s “Shift Happens” campaign brings influencer-created Pinterest boards to life at a two-day activation in New York. As marketers emerged from two strenuous years, innovative media strategies and bets on buzzy technology like generative AI stood apart from the pack. The Kraft Heinz brand prepares for the Fourth of July with a radio-ready jingle, “Land of the Cream Cheese,” by rising country star Travis Yee. Founded by Kendall Jenner, the brand reaches Gen Z through cultural hooks and understanding the cohort’s priorities, said CMO Kathleen Braine. Subscribe to Marketing Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines