The internet provider is the first major company to sign up for the improved service, which allows the DWP to automatically prove a person’s benefit entitlement when they apply for a discounted social tariff. Previously, the individual had to provide paperwork to show they are eligible. The internet provider will always ask the customer’s permission before contacting the DWP to confirm their situation. Sky and its subsidiary NOW are among several providers who have signed up for the streamlined initiative. Sky currently offers people on Universal Credit or Pension Credit a discounted tariff of £20 a month, for either NOW Broadband Basics or Sky Broadband Basics. Information on the Government website states social tariffs could save a household up to £180 a year compared to average tariffs. READ MORE: British Gas pledges new support including £250 credit for certain struggling customers   Stephen van Rooyen, executive vice president and chief executive officer of Sky, UK & Europe, said: “We know how important connectivity is to our customers, which is why we are focussed on ways we can support them to stay online. “As well as support with bills, we also provide existing, eligible customers with a broadband and mobile social tariff, helping them stay connected for a significantly reduced cost. “The Department for Work and Pensions eligibility tool is a useful step forward, enabling us to more easily confirm eligibility.” Many major internet providers have social tariffs available, for people on various DWP benefits.  These benefits may entitle a person to a discounted rate: READ MORE: Martin Lewis warns millions of ISA savers are being underpaid as interest rates 'rocket' We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy  These are the current major providers offering social tariffs, as listed on the Ofgem website: Any individual who has a contract with a broadband provider can reach out to them directly to ask if they can get a reduction on their bill. Those whose provider does not offer social tariffs also have the option to switch to a new provider who does offer the discounted rates. Broadband and mobile bills are set to increase by 18 percent this April, according to figures from Uswitch.com. This could mean broadband costs going up by £55 a year while mobile bills will go up by around £86 a year. SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?