Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.  Mount & Blade 2: Bannerlord allows players to rise through the ranks, from little more than a peasant with a pitchfork to the crowned sovereign of a new Calradic Empire. Along that journey, the player will expand their lands by taking control of fiefs – the most powerful of which are towns.
      Related: Mount & Blade 2: Best Improvements Over Warband
                     Whether holding a town as a vassal to one of Calradia’s many factions or using it to forge an independent kingdom of their own, the player should make sure to choose their base of operations wisely. Here are some of the best towns to control in Mount & Blade 2: Bannerlord.
      Updated May 14, 2023, by Nathan Dawber: Calradia is a vast continent, filled with different cultures, peoples, and kingdoms. With a total of 53 towns to choose from, there’s no shortage of locations where the player might want to start their kingdom. A strong economy is essential to success, as a large army will need to be recruited and maintained if the player hopes to stay in power.
                         At the same time, a defensible position will help fight off the endless attacking armies over those early days. Food is also important – in the event of a siege, soldiers and citizens need to be fed. All of these considerations need to be taken into account when deciding on which fief to control. 
                     Situated on the border between Aserai, the Khuzaits, and the Southern Empire, Husn Fulq will change hands often during the course of a campaign. Owing to its terrible location, the town will struggle to develop a solid economy due to frequent and damaging sieges. 
                         However, war brings opportunity, and newly captured towns will usually have a weak garrison, making it a prime target to take over. Players are best attempting this while two or more of its neighboring factions are warring with each other – if not, they may find themselves losing the city as quickly as they gained it. 
                         While not the most prosperous of towns, Seonon has one unique feature that makes it stand out from all the others – it's a source of cheap hardwood, with several of the surrounding villages supplying the key resource.
                         This is handy for smithing, as hardwood is needed to make charcoal, which in turn is used to smelt down weapons and learn new smithing parts, as well as refine crude and wrought iron. Players interested in boosting their smithing skill might find Seonon convenient due to the large supply of cheap hardwood.
                         Ostican is a rather isolated town right in the corner of Vlandian territory. Its main asset is a highly defensible location, with only one approach that potential attackers can take to besiege the settlement.
      Related: Mount & Blade 2: Best Armor
                     The terrain is highly mountainous, and getting there requires enemies to bypass or conquer other Vlandian settlements. This is an ideal place to launch ambushes or trap enemy armies, making Ostican one of the most defensible towns in the game, if the player knows what they are doing.
                         Another border town, Amprela is located on the very edge of the Northern Empire, close to Sturgian and Khuzait territory. It is well supplied, with 6 bound villages, plenty of food, and some iron and hardwood for smithing. 
                         While Amprela isn’t the safest town, most approaches require enemy armies to traverse bridges or narrow stretches of land that can be easily defended. A couple of castles also act as a buffer area, sometimes allowing Amprela to escape becoming the first target once war breaks out. 
                         With a decent starting prosperity of 4000, Dunglanys is located right in the heart of Battanian lands. As a result, it is fairly vulnerable to an attack, but also benefits from a total of six bound villages, including two grain and two grape-producing settlements that can keep the town well supplied. 
                         Food should not be a problem for Dunglanys - and coupled with a narrow approach on either side, it makes sieges a pain to pull off. Overall, a decent city to own and invest in. 
                         Placed right in the middle of the southern desert, Askar is about as far away from any frontline that the player can get. That means it’s one of the safest settlements on the entire map, as enemy armies will rarely attack the city due to the sheer distance that needs to be covered to get there.
      Related: Mount & Blade 2 Bannerlord: Steps To Become A Mercenary
                     Askar also has a total of six villages bound to it, with half of them producing food, meaning the town is well-supplied and won’t easily run out in the event of a siege. The only downside is that it can be difficult for a start-up kingdom to expand due to the lack of nearby settlements.
                         Another town in a great location, Revyl is perhaps the most defensible settlement in the game. It only has one way to approach it, a winding mountainous path that is even tighter than the area around Ostican.
                         Revyl also has a castle nearby, which is an ideal target for early expansion as the surrounding terrain will protect both settlements from attack. Only the Vlandians or perhaps the Battanians will target this area, and players can use the narrow valleys nearby to tie up enemy forces or snipe any incoming reinforcements.
                         Over on the southwestern portion of the map, Galend is a relatively isolated town that is well insulated from most wars. While the city itself only starts with a prosperity of 1900, and is often plagued by bandit hideouts and looters, Galend is situated in a prime position to take over the rest of Vlandia’s land. 
                         Nearby cities like Jaculan and Sargot are easy expansion opportunities, and the mountains on either side are ideal for funneling enemies into choke points. After the area has been fully secured, players can then invade the fertile and extensive lands of Pravend nearby. 
                         This settlement has one of the worst starting prosperities in the game, at only 1800, and due to being close to the border with Sturgia, Baltakhand can come under attack relatively easily.
      Related: Mount & Blade 2: Best Workshops To Buy
                     However, its potential comes from the fact that the town has a whopping nine villages bound to it, meaning its prosperity can skyrocket due to the sheer number of goods being brought in. Sturgia also tends to be one of the weaker factions and the Khuzaits one of the stronger, meaning Baltakhand may not be as vulnerable as it first appears.
                         Standing on the border between Aserai and the Southern Empire, Danustica guards access to the fertile imperial lands contained within. It is placed in a rather strategic position, forcing enemy armies to skirt right past it or take another, narrow land bridge to enter imperial territory. 
                         Starting with a below-average prosperity of 2800, Danustica is nothing special economically. Despite this, it starts the game with multiple buildings fully constructed, which will allow the town to quickly prosper if defended adequately. 
                         One of the few settlements starting with a prosperity of 5000 or above, Marunath is the main economic hub of Battania. It has five bound villages, with a strong mix of food-producing hubs and settlements making other goods.
                         It’s in a central location, with Vlandia and the Western Empire both having easy access. That means it often comes under attack from one or both kingdoms, but if defended adequately, can remain a strong and wealthy town to add to the player’s holdings.
                         A well-placed and highly affluent settlement, Vostrum has a starting prosperity of 5100 and is defended by other Southern Empire settlements in the north, east, and west, and covered by a massive lake to the south.
      Related: Mount & Blade 2: How To Make Money Fast
                     Vostrum doesn’t usually see too much action because of this and can be considered quite a safe settlement to own. Its villages produce grain and fish, meaning food shouldn’t be a big issue. It isn’t exceptional by any means but is nonetheless a solid choice for any aspiring monarch.
                         Another high prosperity town, starting at 5100, Epicrotrea is a trade hub that resides in a central location, positioned in-between Battania, Sturgia, and the Western and Northern Empires.
                         Combine the strong location with the fact that it has seven bound villages, and Epicrotea proves to be a highly valuable and profitable settlement for the player to own. It will likely come under attack a great deal, due to its location, but the surrounding castles make good targets for quick and easy expansion.
                         While not top-tier in terms of starting prosperity, Sanala has a lot of potential to become the best town in the game. Out of 6 bound villages, 5 produce food, meaning the city is never lacking sustenance and can quickly grow, pushing prosperity higher and higher.
                         It’s also located in a central trading position along the Aserai desert but is far enough away from the borders to avoid frequent sieges and raids. If left to develop, Sanala’s economic power can quickly spiral out of control, making it a strong choice for a kingdom’s capital.
                         With the highest starting prosperity of all settlements in the game at 5600, Ortysia is one of the busiest trading towns in all of Calradia. It gets a lot of caravan traffic from the Aserai and marks the border between the Western Empire and Vlandia, making it a key stop for traders passing through.
                         Players can earn a lot of decent income from this town, and it allows for some control over the narrow path that connects Aserai to the rest of Calradia, making Ortysia less vulnerable than other towns as well. Astute players can all but sever trade between nations by operating out of this strategically placed settlement.
      Mount & Blade 2: Bannerlord is available on PS4, PS5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, and Windows.
      More: Games That Let You Role-Play As A Bandit
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. After months of speculation since Tekken 8's launch, it has been confirmed Heihachi Mishima is returning as a DLC fighter, raising some questions. Hollow Knight: Silksong is a game intended to be huge in scale, meaning that one aspect of its lore will likely benefit a lot from its size. Call of Duty fans have another way to gain early access to the upcoming Black Ops 6 beta before it officially begins on Friday, August 30. 2025 is poised to be an absolutely massive year for the entertainment industry, especially games, movies, and TV. Here is exactly when World of Warcraft fans can start playing The War Within, both for early access and the full expansion launch a few days later. A new game published by PQube reveals strong influences from classic JRPGs, especially from Sega's 2000 classic Skies of Arcadia. The MCU should adapt the acclaimed X-Men storyline The Messiah Complex to introduce the MCU mutants.