There are new features available.  View now. Search There are new features available.  View now. Search Off-grid solar energy provider Sun King, formerly known as Greenlight Planet, has raised US$130m-equivalent in Kenyan shillings by securitising future payments of its pay-as-you-go customers in a transaction it says will pave the way for similar financing activity in Africa. The first securitisation of African off-grid solar contracts was completed in late 2015 and there have been several innovative transactions in recent years.Citigroup was arranger, primary placement agent and sustainability structuring bank for Sun King's securitisation, which was the first transaction of its kind to be arranged by a bank – rather than bilaterally. It was also the first to see development finance institutions and commercial banks investing alongside each other and the first to have a sustainable financing framework and second-party opinion in place.The deal attracted the participation of commercial lenders as well as development finance institutions, including Absa Kenya, British International Investment, FMO, Norfund, Stanbic Bank Kenya, the Trade and Development Bank and Citigroup itself. The deal was originated by Citigroup's social finance division and delivered in conjunction with its financing and securitisations team. Standard Bank was co-placement agent.“The idea here is that you bring to the table private sector investors as well, not only DFIs but also commercial players that are seeking market returns as well as social and environmental impact," said Jorge Rubio, global head of social finance at Citigroup. "The public sector alone will not be able to fill this gap.”The transaction is backed by the payments from more than a million existing and future Sun King customers in Kenya who purchase solar systems, smartphones and electrical appliances in instalments, which can be as little as US$0.15 per day. Solar power is not only a more environmentally friendly alternative to kerosene and gas but also more affordable, though the up-front costs prevent many consumers from switching, according to Sun King.The securitisation comes with a sustainable financing framework, which Moody's rated as very good, its second-highest score. The framework is based on the green and social benefits of solar systems and appliances and the social benefits of smartphones.Sunny intervalsThe first securitisation of African off-grid solar assets was claimed by UK firm Bboxx in late 2015 with Bboxx Dears Kenya, a US$500,000-equivalent transaction with Dutch social investor Oikocredit International.More recently, in 2020, Credit Agricole and Societe Generale arranged a securitisation denominated in CFA francs to finance off-grid home solar kits in Ivory Coast for Zola EDF Cote d'Ivoire, a joint venture between EDF and Zola Electric, while Solar Frontier Capital, a subsidiary of African Frontier Capital, set up a vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 1 to purchase and securitise Kenyan off-grid solar receivables originated by d.light design with the US International Development Finance Corp as senior lender.As off-grid solar securitisation has evolved, transaction sizes have generally increased and new structures have been developed. In 2021, Solar Frontier brought Norfund into Brighter Life Kenya 1 as a senior investor alongside the DFC and doubled the maximum size of the transaction to US$127m. A year later, the same sponsor announced the establishment of a US$238m multi-currency vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 2 with senior funding from the DFC, Norfund, responsAbility and Oikocredit. The BLK 2 transaction has a two-year commitment period and fits the company's plans to expand into other countries.Innovation welcomedBboxx, on the other hand, has returned to on-balance-sheet loans for financing since its initial foray into securitisation in 2015. In November, the company announced an €11m loan from the Off Grid Energy Access Fund, which is managed by asset management firm Lion's Head Global Partners, to finance the distribution of home solar systems in Togo in partnership with EDF."There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. Citigroup was arranger, primary placement agent and sustainability structuring bank for Sun King's securitisation, which was the first transaction of its kind to be arranged by a bank – rather than bilaterally. It was also the first to see development finance institutions and commercial banks investing alongside each other and the first to have a sustainable financing framework and second-party opinion in place.The deal attracted the participation of commercial lenders as well as development finance institutions, including Absa Kenya, British International Investment, FMO, Norfund, Stanbic Bank Kenya, the Trade and Development Bank and Citigroup itself. The deal was originated by Citigroup's social finance division and delivered in conjunction with its financing and securitisations team. Standard Bank was co-placement agent.“The idea here is that you bring to the table private sector investors as well, not only DFIs but also commercial players that are seeking market returns as well as social and environmental impact," said Jorge Rubio, global head of social finance at Citigroup. "The public sector alone will not be able to fill this gap.”The transaction is backed by the payments from more than a million existing and future Sun King customers in Kenya who purchase solar systems, smartphones and electrical appliances in instalments, which can be as little as US$0.15 per day. Solar power is not only a more environmentally friendly alternative to kerosene and gas but also more affordable, though the up-front costs prevent many consumers from switching, according to Sun King.The securitisation comes with a sustainable financing framework, which Moody's rated as very good, its second-highest score. The framework is based on the green and social benefits of solar systems and appliances and the social benefits of smartphones.Sunny intervalsThe first securitisation of African off-grid solar assets was claimed by UK firm Bboxx in late 2015 with Bboxx Dears Kenya, a US$500,000-equivalent transaction with Dutch social investor Oikocredit International.More recently, in 2020, Credit Agricole and Societe Generale arranged a securitisation denominated in CFA francs to finance off-grid home solar kits in Ivory Coast for Zola EDF Cote d'Ivoire, a joint venture between EDF and Zola Electric, while Solar Frontier Capital, a subsidiary of African Frontier Capital, set up a vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 1 to purchase and securitise Kenyan off-grid solar receivables originated by d.light design with the US International Development Finance Corp as senior lender.As off-grid solar securitisation has evolved, transaction sizes have generally increased and new structures have been developed. In 2021, Solar Frontier brought Norfund into Brighter Life Kenya 1 as a senior investor alongside the DFC and doubled the maximum size of the transaction to US$127m. A year later, the same sponsor announced the establishment of a US$238m multi-currency vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 2 with senior funding from the DFC, Norfund, responsAbility and Oikocredit. The BLK 2 transaction has a two-year commitment period and fits the company's plans to expand into other countries.Innovation welcomedBboxx, on the other hand, has returned to on-balance-sheet loans for financing since its initial foray into securitisation in 2015. In November, the company announced an €11m loan from the Off Grid Energy Access Fund, which is managed by asset management firm Lion's Head Global Partners, to finance the distribution of home solar systems in Togo in partnership with EDF."There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. The deal attracted the participation of commercial lenders as well as development finance institutions, including Absa Kenya, British International Investment, FMO, Norfund, Stanbic Bank Kenya, the Trade and Development Bank and Citigroup itself. The deal was originated by Citigroup's social finance division and delivered in conjunction with its financing and securitisations team. Standard Bank was co-placement agent.“The idea here is that you bring to the table private sector investors as well, not only DFIs but also commercial players that are seeking market returns as well as social and environmental impact," said Jorge Rubio, global head of social finance at Citigroup. "The public sector alone will not be able to fill this gap.”The transaction is backed by the payments from more than a million existing and future Sun King customers in Kenya who purchase solar systems, smartphones and electrical appliances in instalments, which can be as little as US$0.15 per day. Solar power is not only a more environmentally friendly alternative to kerosene and gas but also more affordable, though the up-front costs prevent many consumers from switching, according to Sun King.The securitisation comes with a sustainable financing framework, which Moody's rated as very good, its second-highest score. The framework is based on the green and social benefits of solar systems and appliances and the social benefits of smartphones.Sunny intervalsThe first securitisation of African off-grid solar assets was claimed by UK firm Bboxx in late 2015 with Bboxx Dears Kenya, a US$500,000-equivalent transaction with Dutch social investor Oikocredit International.More recently, in 2020, Credit Agricole and Societe Generale arranged a securitisation denominated in CFA francs to finance off-grid home solar kits in Ivory Coast for Zola EDF Cote d'Ivoire, a joint venture between EDF and Zola Electric, while Solar Frontier Capital, a subsidiary of African Frontier Capital, set up a vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 1 to purchase and securitise Kenyan off-grid solar receivables originated by d.light design with the US International Development Finance Corp as senior lender.As off-grid solar securitisation has evolved, transaction sizes have generally increased and new structures have been developed. In 2021, Solar Frontier brought Norfund into Brighter Life Kenya 1 as a senior investor alongside the DFC and doubled the maximum size of the transaction to US$127m. A year later, the same sponsor announced the establishment of a US$238m multi-currency vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 2 with senior funding from the DFC, Norfund, responsAbility and Oikocredit. The BLK 2 transaction has a two-year commitment period and fits the company's plans to expand into other countries.Innovation welcomedBboxx, on the other hand, has returned to on-balance-sheet loans for financing since its initial foray into securitisation in 2015. In November, the company announced an €11m loan from the Off Grid Energy Access Fund, which is managed by asset management firm Lion's Head Global Partners, to finance the distribution of home solar systems in Togo in partnership with EDF."There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. “The idea here is that you bring to the table private sector investors as well, not only DFIs but also commercial players that are seeking market returns as well as social and environmental impact," said Jorge Rubio, global head of social finance at Citigroup. "The public sector alone will not be able to fill this gap.”The transaction is backed by the payments from more than a million existing and future Sun King customers in Kenya who purchase solar systems, smartphones and electrical appliances in instalments, which can be as little as US$0.15 per day. Solar power is not only a more environmentally friendly alternative to kerosene and gas but also more affordable, though the up-front costs prevent many consumers from switching, according to Sun King.The securitisation comes with a sustainable financing framework, which Moody's rated as very good, its second-highest score. The framework is based on the green and social benefits of solar systems and appliances and the social benefits of smartphones.Sunny intervalsThe first securitisation of African off-grid solar assets was claimed by UK firm Bboxx in late 2015 with Bboxx Dears Kenya, a US$500,000-equivalent transaction with Dutch social investor Oikocredit International.More recently, in 2020, Credit Agricole and Societe Generale arranged a securitisation denominated in CFA francs to finance off-grid home solar kits in Ivory Coast for Zola EDF Cote d'Ivoire, a joint venture between EDF and Zola Electric, while Solar Frontier Capital, a subsidiary of African Frontier Capital, set up a vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 1 to purchase and securitise Kenyan off-grid solar receivables originated by d.light design with the US International Development Finance Corp as senior lender.As off-grid solar securitisation has evolved, transaction sizes have generally increased and new structures have been developed. In 2021, Solar Frontier brought Norfund into Brighter Life Kenya 1 as a senior investor alongside the DFC and doubled the maximum size of the transaction to US$127m. A year later, the same sponsor announced the establishment of a US$238m multi-currency vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 2 with senior funding from the DFC, Norfund, responsAbility and Oikocredit. The BLK 2 transaction has a two-year commitment period and fits the company's plans to expand into other countries.Innovation welcomedBboxx, on the other hand, has returned to on-balance-sheet loans for financing since its initial foray into securitisation in 2015. In November, the company announced an €11m loan from the Off Grid Energy Access Fund, which is managed by asset management firm Lion's Head Global Partners, to finance the distribution of home solar systems in Togo in partnership with EDF."There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. The transaction is backed by the payments from more than a million existing and future Sun King customers in Kenya who purchase solar systems, smartphones and electrical appliances in instalments, which can be as little as US$0.15 per day. Solar power is not only a more environmentally friendly alternative to kerosene and gas but also more affordable, though the up-front costs prevent many consumers from switching, according to Sun King.The securitisation comes with a sustainable financing framework, which Moody's rated as very good, its second-highest score. The framework is based on the green and social benefits of solar systems and appliances and the social benefits of smartphones.Sunny intervalsThe first securitisation of African off-grid solar assets was claimed by UK firm Bboxx in late 2015 with Bboxx Dears Kenya, a US$500,000-equivalent transaction with Dutch social investor Oikocredit International.More recently, in 2020, Credit Agricole and Societe Generale arranged a securitisation denominated in CFA francs to finance off-grid home solar kits in Ivory Coast for Zola EDF Cote d'Ivoire, a joint venture between EDF and Zola Electric, while Solar Frontier Capital, a subsidiary of African Frontier Capital, set up a vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 1 to purchase and securitise Kenyan off-grid solar receivables originated by d.light design with the US International Development Finance Corp as senior lender.As off-grid solar securitisation has evolved, transaction sizes have generally increased and new structures have been developed. In 2021, Solar Frontier brought Norfund into Brighter Life Kenya 1 as a senior investor alongside the DFC and doubled the maximum size of the transaction to US$127m. A year later, the same sponsor announced the establishment of a US$238m multi-currency vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 2 with senior funding from the DFC, Norfund, responsAbility and Oikocredit. The BLK 2 transaction has a two-year commitment period and fits the company's plans to expand into other countries.Innovation welcomedBboxx, on the other hand, has returned to on-balance-sheet loans for financing since its initial foray into securitisation in 2015. In November, the company announced an €11m loan from the Off Grid Energy Access Fund, which is managed by asset management firm Lion's Head Global Partners, to finance the distribution of home solar systems in Togo in partnership with EDF."There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. The securitisation comes with a sustainable financing framework, which Moody's rated as very good, its second-highest score. The framework is based on the green and social benefits of solar systems and appliances and the social benefits of smartphones.Sunny intervalsThe first securitisation of African off-grid solar assets was claimed by UK firm Bboxx in late 2015 with Bboxx Dears Kenya, a US$500,000-equivalent transaction with Dutch social investor Oikocredit International.More recently, in 2020, Credit Agricole and Societe Generale arranged a securitisation denominated in CFA francs to finance off-grid home solar kits in Ivory Coast for Zola EDF Cote d'Ivoire, a joint venture between EDF and Zola Electric, while Solar Frontier Capital, a subsidiary of African Frontier Capital, set up a vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 1 to purchase and securitise Kenyan off-grid solar receivables originated by d.light design with the US International Development Finance Corp as senior lender.As off-grid solar securitisation has evolved, transaction sizes have generally increased and new structures have been developed. In 2021, Solar Frontier brought Norfund into Brighter Life Kenya 1 as a senior investor alongside the DFC and doubled the maximum size of the transaction to US$127m. A year later, the same sponsor announced the establishment of a US$238m multi-currency vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 2 with senior funding from the DFC, Norfund, responsAbility and Oikocredit. The BLK 2 transaction has a two-year commitment period and fits the company's plans to expand into other countries.Innovation welcomedBboxx, on the other hand, has returned to on-balance-sheet loans for financing since its initial foray into securitisation in 2015. In November, the company announced an €11m loan from the Off Grid Energy Access Fund, which is managed by asset management firm Lion's Head Global Partners, to finance the distribution of home solar systems in Togo in partnership with EDF."There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. The first securitisation of African off-grid solar assets was claimed by UK firm Bboxx in late 2015 with Bboxx Dears Kenya, a US$500,000-equivalent transaction with Dutch social investor Oikocredit International.More recently, in 2020, Credit Agricole and Societe Generale arranged a securitisation denominated in CFA francs to finance off-grid home solar kits in Ivory Coast for Zola EDF Cote d'Ivoire, a joint venture between EDF and Zola Electric, while Solar Frontier Capital, a subsidiary of African Frontier Capital, set up a vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 1 to purchase and securitise Kenyan off-grid solar receivables originated by d.light design with the US International Development Finance Corp as senior lender.As off-grid solar securitisation has evolved, transaction sizes have generally increased and new structures have been developed. In 2021, Solar Frontier brought Norfund into Brighter Life Kenya 1 as a senior investor alongside the DFC and doubled the maximum size of the transaction to US$127m. A year later, the same sponsor announced the establishment of a US$238m multi-currency vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 2 with senior funding from the DFC, Norfund, responsAbility and Oikocredit. The BLK 2 transaction has a two-year commitment period and fits the company's plans to expand into other countries.Innovation welcomedBboxx, on the other hand, has returned to on-balance-sheet loans for financing since its initial foray into securitisation in 2015. In November, the company announced an €11m loan from the Off Grid Energy Access Fund, which is managed by asset management firm Lion's Head Global Partners, to finance the distribution of home solar systems in Togo in partnership with EDF."There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. More recently, in 2020, Credit Agricole and Societe Generale arranged a securitisation denominated in CFA francs to finance off-grid home solar kits in Ivory Coast for Zola EDF Cote d'Ivoire, a joint venture between EDF and Zola Electric, while Solar Frontier Capital, a subsidiary of African Frontier Capital, set up a vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 1 to purchase and securitise Kenyan off-grid solar receivables originated by d.light design with the US International Development Finance Corp as senior lender.As off-grid solar securitisation has evolved, transaction sizes have generally increased and new structures have been developed. In 2021, Solar Frontier brought Norfund into Brighter Life Kenya 1 as a senior investor alongside the DFC and doubled the maximum size of the transaction to US$127m. A year later, the same sponsor announced the establishment of a US$238m multi-currency vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 2 with senior funding from the DFC, Norfund, responsAbility and Oikocredit. The BLK 2 transaction has a two-year commitment period and fits the company's plans to expand into other countries.Innovation welcomedBboxx, on the other hand, has returned to on-balance-sheet loans for financing since its initial foray into securitisation in 2015. In November, the company announced an €11m loan from the Off Grid Energy Access Fund, which is managed by asset management firm Lion's Head Global Partners, to finance the distribution of home solar systems in Togo in partnership with EDF."There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. As off-grid solar securitisation has evolved, transaction sizes have generally increased and new structures have been developed. In 2021, Solar Frontier brought Norfund into Brighter Life Kenya 1 as a senior investor alongside the DFC and doubled the maximum size of the transaction to US$127m. A year later, the same sponsor announced the establishment of a US$238m multi-currency vehicle called Brighter Life Kenya 2 with senior funding from the DFC, Norfund, responsAbility and Oikocredit. The BLK 2 transaction has a two-year commitment period and fits the company's plans to expand into other countries.Innovation welcomedBboxx, on the other hand, has returned to on-balance-sheet loans for financing since its initial foray into securitisation in 2015. In November, the company announced an €11m loan from the Off Grid Energy Access Fund, which is managed by asset management firm Lion's Head Global Partners, to finance the distribution of home solar systems in Togo in partnership with EDF."There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. Bboxx, on the other hand, has returned to on-balance-sheet loans for financing since its initial foray into securitisation in 2015. In November, the company announced an €11m loan from the Off Grid Energy Access Fund, which is managed by asset management firm Lion's Head Global Partners, to finance the distribution of home solar systems in Togo in partnership with EDF."There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. "There have been conversations within the sector to be able to create a more centralised solar bank that can help standardise the securitisation process from contract origination to actually selling the receivables off balance sheet," said Bboxx CEO and founder Mansoor Hamayun. "I think that a more centralised approach has a lot of merit. Until that point, Bboxx has been more focused on trying to lower the cost of capital as much as possible, and often we have seen that on-balance-sheet financing’s all-in cost of capital has been lower than off-balance-sheet financing, especially because of the transaction costs involved."But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. But he said that the Bboxx welcomed any financial innovation that could help mobilise the billions of dollars needed to bring sustainable energy to African households and meet the UN's Sustainable Development Goals."Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. "Bboxx continues to look at new and better and more efficient solutions to scale up access to solar financing for our customers across the 11 countries we operate in and beyond," he said.Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. Updated story: Adds quote in fourth paragraph. For a supermarket synonymous with value for money, Asda is having to pay an awful lot to bring home its latest bulk buy. Asda is writing a cheque to buy most of EG Group’s UK and Ireland business for an enterprise value of £2.3bn, with £770m of that coming through a six-year term loan from the credit arm of US private equity firm Apollo. The price Apollo is charging – Sonia plus 675bp at an OID of 96.5 – takes the yield on the loan into the mid-teens. But that is the cost for M&A-related sterling money at the moment, with private credit... Invesco became the third CLO manager to price two new issues in Europe this year when it locked in the margins for Invesco Euro CLO X on Thursday. The firm's first outing of the year was Invesco Euro CLO IX in February. A comparison of the two deals shows how spreads have widened across the capital stack in the past four months. The senior notes of February's deal were priced at 165bp over three-month Euribor, whereas the Class As of the new one came in at 188bp. It was a similar story for the mezzanine tranches, which were between 25bp and... French technical and inspection services provider Socotec has priced a €150m fungible term loan B add-on. The covenant-lite first-lien senior secured loan, which has a June 2 2028 maturity, the same as the existing loan, will be used for general corporate purposes and the repayment of revolving credit drawings. Pricing is 350bp over Euribor, the same as existing, with a 0% floor and a 96 OID. The new tranche size is €700m. Expected ratings are B/B2. Joint physical bookrunners are BNP Paribas and Morgan Stanley. JP Morgan is passive bookrunner... A group of direct lenders led by Blackstone Credit have committed to providing a £1.25bn term loan to support EQT’s £4.46bn acquisition of London-listed veterinary drug maker Dechra Pharmaceuticals. The lenders include Blackstone Credit, Goldman Sachs' performing senior credit vehicle Broad Street, Canadian pension funds CDPQ and PSP Investments, CVC Credit, US insurer Delaware Life, KKR and Permira Credit. The seven-year senior term loan will be split into a £625m-equivalent dollar-denominated facility and a £625m-equivalent euro-denominated... Repeating a 2022 trade, Hookipa Pharma raised US$50m late on Wednesday from a two-part overnight stock sale but also stumbled in the aftermarket. SVB Securities and RBC Capital Markets led the sale of Hookipa shares at US$1.31, a zero discount to the last sale. The offering comprised 22.9m common shares and convertible preferred securities representing another 15.3m shares. Hookipa's shares plunged 14.5% on Thursday to US$1.12. The biotech completed a similar trade in March 2022, raising US$75m at US$2.00 from a mix of common stock and... Chain restaurant operator Darden Restaurants has signed a US$600m delayed-draw term loan that will be used to partially finance its approximately US$715m acquisition of Ruth’s Chris Steak House. The three-year loan is available to be drawn for 90 days. Darden has also amended its US$1bn revolving credit facility to incorporate the SOFR reference rate in place of Libor. Originally signed in September 2021, the September 10 2026 maturity date is unchanged. The new DDTL features a 12.5bp ticking fee that is applicable 30 days after the effective... Garanti BBVA has signed a US$434m-equivalent ESG-linked loan, refinancing its US$595m-equivalent loan from May 2022 and including social sustainability criteria. The 367-day financing comprises a US$199m tranche and a €218.5m tranche paying all-in costs of 425bp over SOFR and 400bp over Euribor, respectively, in line with other recent Turkish bank financings. The social targets on loan cover the financing of female entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises in areas most affected by February’s earthquake. If the bank meets the targets, the benefit... Leonard Green & Partners sold 4m shares in aviation aftermarket parts and services business Aersale on Wednesday for US$60.6m. RBC Capital Markets wall-crossed investors on the secondary sale on Tuesday before broader marketing overnight. The bank offloaded its purchase of 4m AerSale shares the following morning at US$15.15, the bottom of the US$15.15-$15.35 range marketed and a 9.4% discount to the US$16.73 last sale price on Tuesday. AerSale closed Wednesday trading at US$15.02, below the reoffer price but above the US$15.00 price RBC paid,... Athens International Airport shareholders have given the go-ahead for the sale of a 30% stake in the country's biggest airport by privatisation agency HRADF, a senior official from the agency said on Thursday, Reuters reported. State-owned HRADF, the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund, has hired Bank of America, Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank to act as advisers on the sale of its stake. The other shareholders are Germany-based manager AviAlliance, which currently holds 40%, Greece's sovereign wealth fund HCAP with a 25% stake, and... US ECM syndicate desks expect a solid pace of dealmaking in the coming week and could even elect to bring a few IPOs as market risk appetites show steady improvement. A busy schedule of investor conferences and caution ahead of the next FOMC meeting could give some issuers reason for pause, though stocks (as measured by the S&P 500) are at their highest level since August last year, albeit led by a narrow group of companies exposed. One syndicate banker said activity near-term would be led by secondary sell-downs and convertible bonds, while... Holding company Lagfin returned to European equity-linked on Thursday with a €536.4m exchangeable bond into Italian drinks business Campari, rolling the underlying from an exchangeable issued in 2020 into new paper. Books opened on Thursday morning for an offering of five-year exchangeables with a 3%–3.75% coupon and a 30%–35% exchange premium over the full-day VWAP. The bonds can be called after just over three years, subject to a 130% hurdle. There is dividend protection above €0.07, versus the most recent dividend of €0.06. Proceeds were... The Irish state and NatWest have trimmed their stakes in Permanent TSB Group through a €110.5m accelerated bookbuild, the first by the state since the bank's IPO in 2015. The Irish government has been largely focused on reducing its AIB stake but a banker said investors had been asking about a potential sale, enabling them to approach the two shareholders with an allocable deal. A second banker said the shares are not a natural holding for NatWest and improved performance of Permanent TSB meant investor interest had picked up. Underlying profit... All websites use cookies to improve your online experience. They were placed on your computer when you launched this website. You can change your cookie settings through your browser.Privacy Statement Cookie Policy