Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us and terms apply to offers listed (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate products and services to help you make smart decisions with your money.  A Social Security number (SSN) allows the government and other entities to track personal information like employment history, tax contributions, and Social Security benefits. So it's no wonder why changing your SSN is discouraged under most circumstances. However, getting a new SSN isn't impossible. However, the process is only open to people in very specific situations. See if you qualify for a new Social Security number and how to apply for one.  Yes, the Social Security Administration may allow you to modify your number in certain instances. However, unlike your phone number, you can't change your Social Security number at the drop of a hat. You'll need to request a change from the SSA with a legitimate reason and proof to substantiate your request.   The SSA outlines legitimate reasons to request a new Social Security number.  If your reason for getting a new SSN lines up with one of the qualifying situations, you'll need to substantiate your reason with supporting documentation. "To apply for a new SSN, you must visit a Social Security office in person," says Nilsa Henriquez, a public affairs specialist at the Social Security Administration. "We'll help you complete a statement explaining why you need a new number and an application for a new SSN." The SSA requires you to provide specific documentation to prove your citizenship or immigration status and your reason for seeking a new SSN. "All documents must be either originals or copies certified by the issuing agency. We can't accept photocopies or notarized copies of documents," says Henriquez. You must fill out the Application for a Social Security Card form or Form SS-5 to apply for a new Social Security number. You can obtain the form on the SSA website or by visiting your local SSA office. You must provide your name, date of birth, citizenship status, and information about your parents or spouse.  ou will need to set up an appointment with your local Social Security Administration office, which you can find using the Social Security Office Locator.  A Social Security number change doesn't erase your financial history. For instance, a new SSN doesn't absolve you of any debts you have, rectify your credit history, or repair a bad credit score. Additionally, you may face several challenges after you change your SSN.  Changing your SSN may cause inaccuracies in your credit report as your information may not transfer completely to your new SSN. As a result, your credit report may reflect an incomplete credit history, which can result in a lower credit score. This may cause lenders to deny applications for new credit. You can dispute these credit reporting issues with the credit bureaus — Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion — and get these inaccuracies fixed.  "Applying for a new SSN is a big decision. Your ability to interact with federal and state agencies, employers, and others may be affected," says Henriquez. Also, you may need to revise your SSN with federal institutions after you change your SSN to access certain government benefits, taxes, or other financial records. This process can be time-consuming and complex.  If you don't want to commit to changing your SSN or do not qualify for a change, you can consider blocking your Social Security number, which will restrict all access to your SSN, even your own. You can do this by contacting the SSA at 1-800-772-1213 or their teletypewriter number at 1-800-325-0778. Getting a new Social Security number is challenging but possible. You must have a valid reason for the change and provide documentation to prove it.  It's also important to remember that you may face challenges after you change your Social Security number, like updating your records with government entities and other institutions and issues when dealing with your credit report.  Getting a new Social Security number is possible if your identity has been stolen and you're suffering continual issues with identity theft. However, changing your SSN is a last resort, and you should only take this action if you've tried to resolve the issue multiple times but are still experiencing problems.  You can replace your Social Security card up to three times per year and 10 times in your lifetime.  No, it's illegal to have multiple Social Security numbers. Knowingly maintaining two Social Security numbers can result in a Social Security fraud charge, which can result in a maximum of five years in prison. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards.Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available.**Enrollment required. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards. Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available. **Enrollment required. Reference Jump to