It stands for Posting Content Gamer. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 It is 2023 and absolutely none of us can stop posting, so why not turn it into a career? PC Gamer is looking for a social media editor to work the delicate instruments of Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, YouTube, and whatever Twitter is calling itself this week.  As social media editor, your job will be to create, distribute and fine-tune social media output for PC Gamer across all the platforms listed above and any new ones that take the world by storm in the future. Working alongside PCG's global team of over 20 writers and editors, you'll help craft the tone of our various social channels, driving audiences to our website and other projects while keeping abreast of trends and developments in social media and using them to inform our strategy. You'll also have to catch the typos I sometimes leave in social copy. Deliberately. As a test. There's one position available but you can apply to work out of either our Bath or London office here in the UK. You can find both those listings and some more details here: What kind of person are we looking for? While experience is always handy, you don't need to have worked on social media for a gaming site in the past to apply. If you're a smart, creative person with expertise in making and managing content across a range of platforms—and using the tools built on top of them—we probably want to hear from you. Proficiency with tech like Photoshop and Premiere and a knack for delivering pieces-to-camera would be an excellent advantage, too. Oh, and a deep well of knowledge about all things gaming wouldn't go amiss, either! We've got quite a few perks to tempt you here at PCG. For one thing, we offer unlimited time off, but there's more to it than that. Our publisher, Future, also offers a profit pool bonus to every member of staff at the end of the financial year, and there's all sorts of opportunities for training and education whether you want to branch out or sharpen your existing skills. Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team. One of Josh's first memories is of playing Quake 2 on the family computer when he was much too young to be doing that, and he's been irreparably game-brained ever since. His writing has been featured in Vice, Fanbyte, and the Financial Times. He'll play pretty much anything, and has written far too much on everything from visual novels to Assassin's Creed. His most profound loves are for CRPGs, immersive sims, and any game whose ambition outstrips its budget. He thinks you're all far too mean about Deus Ex: Invisible War. Arena Breakout: Infinite is a snack-sized Tarkov I can't stop playing, but has some awful monetisation Adorable and reality-bending action-puzzle game The Plucky Squire lets you make friends with a Magic: The Gathering card Today's Wordle answer for Sunday, August 18 PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 