Thank you and goodbye! That's all from me tonight, guys. Thank you for tuning in and following along. I'm going to go lie down in a dark room and think about that Vinicius pass to Benzema for the final goal. Make sure you head over to en.as.com for the rest of the football (and other sports) action. Joe Madrid's 40th Copa final But they have only won it twice in the last 30 years. An amazing stat, if I say so myself. Ronald Araújo post-match: I'm sad to not get to the final and give something to the fans. The second goal caused us to lower our level. This is football, it's time to get back on track.The dressing room is sad, of course.It hurts to lose against Madrid. We have to bounce back and win the league.He winds me up a bit because he's always talking and maybe he needs to stop that. I always try to respect the players but today he wound me up.  I'm sad to not get to the final and give something to the fans.  The second goal caused us to lower our level. This is football, it's time to get back on track. The dressing room is sad, of course. It hurts to lose against Madrid. We have to bounce back and win the league. He winds me up a bit because he's always talking and maybe he needs to stop that.  I always try to respect the players but today he wound me up.  Carvajal the first to take to Twitter: "Until the end" is the message from the right-back, who had a decent game overall. Carlo Ancelotti post-match: We played a good game, it was deserved. It was a good second half.We are happy, very happy, it was a tough game. We created a lot of danger in transition. The team did the job in all aspects, defensively and in attack, it was a perfect game.Vinicius did well, he scored the first goal and had a good game.It's obvious that Karim is important for us, he's back.  We played a good game, it was deserved. It was a good second half. We are happy, very happy, it was a tough game.  We created a lot of danger in transition.  The team did the job in all aspects, defensively and in attack, it was a perfect game. Vinicius did well, he scored the first goal and had a good game. It's obvious that Karim is important for us, he's back.  Xavi post-match comments: It's a tough night, we were good in the first half.I'm the number one person responsible for this, we need to react. It's a complicated night, we competed better than the result says.We were very, very good in the first half. We controlled things. But the 0-2 killed us. It's a tough night, we were good in the first half. I'm the number one person responsible for this, we need to react.  It's a complicated night, we competed better than the result says. We were very, very good in the first half. We controlled things. But the 0-2 killed us. It wasn't our night, we have to focus on what we have left.We competed well, in the first leg and the first half of today. I'm proud of what we did in the first half, but we had errors in transition.They were favourites for the tie, we were playing against the Champions League winners. It wasn't our night, we have to focus on what we have left. We competed well, in the first leg and the first half of today. I'm proud of what we did in the first half, but we had errors in transition. They were favourites for the tie, we were playing against the Champions League winners. Vini's Clásico numbers: Sofascore were quick to get this one out.  What a game from the winger, who is still only 22-years-old.  The two finalists say hello Copa del Rey 2023 final: Osasuna vs Real Madrid - I can't wait! There's a first time for everything! He scored his first first-half hat-trick last week against Valladolid, and now his first Clásico! Thibaut Courtois post-match It's the first time for me to get to the Copa final with Madrid so I'm happy. It's been tough but we're happy to play another final.Ancelotti just told us to keep going. It's the first time for me to get to the Copa final with Madrid so I'm happy. It's been tough but we're happy to play another final. Ancelotti just told us to keep going. It's always nice to win a Clásico and it's good to give that image of ourselves. It's always nice to win a Clásico and it's good to give that image of ourselves. Fede Valverde post-match comments: The important thing was to win, we knew it was complicated. We played well in the second half. The important thing was to win, we knew it was complicated. We played well in the second half. It's always hard to play against Barcelona but we did well tonight. It's always hard to play against Barcelona but we did well tonight. What a second half performance from Real Madrid, they demolished Barça in the second half and did not look back once they got going.  The Madrid fans won't be sleeping tonight! Real Madrid will face Osasuna in the Copa del Rey Final on 6 May at the Cartuja Stadium in Sevilla. Aggregate score: 1-4 What a show from Real Madrid. AND THAT'S ALL! REAL MADRID MAKE IT TO THE COPA DEL REY FINAL Asensio is brought down by Ansu Fati on the edge of the Barça box after the ex-Espanyol winger broke away. They'll take their time with this one... 3 added minutes. Courtois makes a hugely over-the-top save from a weak Lewandowski header.  We're into the final minute of normal time. Madrid lead 1-4 on aggregate. Benzema OFF Nacho ON Militão booked for charging into poor Ansu, who is, in the words of the Starfish from Finding Nemo, "just a boy". It was quite unnecessary.  Kroos hits a shot from long range that's saved comfortably by Ter Stegen. OK, I think we're back playing football. Vinicius and Modric OFF Tchouaméni and Ceballos ON Everyone is very angry... We've got a pause in play as Vini Jr is down after being pushed over, off the ball, by Araújo. Barça attack with Balde but Ansu's header is high in the air and Courtois saves easily. Who saw this coming? Camavinga played to Vinicius on the left and the winger made a bursting run down the wing. With Asensio on his left, Vini cut inside and flicked a frankly outrageous touch past two defenders and through to Karim, who chipped a delightful finish over Ter Stegen.  (1-4) WHAT A GOAL GOOOOOOAAAAAAAAALLLLLLLLL WHAT A GOAL FROM REAL MADRID  AMAZING!! ASENSIO GOES CLOSE! Vinicius broke down the left and turned inside before sending a delightful pass to Asensio on the right, whose shot to the far post with his left foot was saved. Benzema has a huge chance to score after Asensio's cross is misjudged by Koundé and lands straight at his feet. His volley is hit just wide.  It's given as offside by the linesman but the replay shows it would have been a legal goal... Vinicius is kicked after a succession of quick passes by the away side. Ferran is booked. Rodrygo OFF Asensio ON Here's the announcement... And we're off again. We've got a pause in play as the referee has asked the PA system to announce that objects should not be thrown onto the pitch.  The doctors are on the pitch after Militão takes a tumble. Alaba rushes over and slaps his centre-back partner on the head.  If Alaba was a doctor before tonight, he isn't anymore. Carvajal takes a 'necessary' booking after tripping up Balde as the left-back made another lung-busting run down the pitch.  Vinicius gets clattered in the chest by Araújo after the Brazilian took a huge touch past the defender. No foul. Twenty minutes to go... Barça have a free kick wide on the right that Madrid defend well and Courtois gets a goal kick. Without wanting to jinx things for any Madrid fans reading, they are cruising right now. Balde sees a wild shot deflected and Madrid survive after a massive scramble inside the box. Raphinha and Alonso OFF Ferran and Eric ON Raphinha receives 90,000 groans as he plays a wasted pass over everyone's head and into the stand. Real Madrid are keeping the ball well and making Xavi's side chase their shadows.  Asensio is warming up on the sideline. Kessie OFF Fati ON Real Madrid look relentless... Barcelona can't cope right now! Modric plays the ball across goal for Rodrygo but the Brazilian's legs aren't long enough and Barça avoid conceding four by the width of a mouse's toenail! IT'S ALMOST FOUR!!! (1-3 aggregate) Ter Stegen dived to his right and Benzema hit the ball in the other corner! GOL GOL GOL GOL GOL GOL GOL GOL GOL GOL GOOOOOOOOOOOLLLLLLLLL BENZEMA SCORES A chance to make it 1-3 on aggregate... Benzema steps up... Vinicius brought down by Kessie! PENALTY TO MADRID!!!! ARAUJO WHAT HAVE YOU DONE?! HANG ON, WAS THAT MESSI IN DISGUISE? What a huge chance for the right-back, who skipped past maybe 11 Madrid players inside the box before unleashing a dangerous shot that flew past the far post! Even if Barcelona don't win this, at least they'll still be the kings of throwing the ball away when they get a foul given against them.  RAPHINHA FIRES OVER! The Brazilian hit a shot from a tight angle past Alaba and over the bar! Ahhh, the game is broken. Kaput. Barça attack immediately in a space larger than a medium-sized galaxy and Raphinha wins a corner for the home side. Madrid attack again, this time with Carvajal, but the right-back was in an offside position when he received the ball. AND A HUGE SAVE FROM COURTOIS What a reaction from Barça! Balde fires a shot from distance that Madrid's keeper parries away. We're back underway... The Croatian picks up the ball on the right and drives forward towards the edge of the box, skipping past the challenges of the various defenders. He lays the ball square to his left, where Benzema is waiting, and the Frenchman directs a low drive into the far corner of Ter Stegen's goal. A MODRIC MASTERCLASS GOOOOOOOAAAAAAALLLLL GOAL GOAL GOAL BENZEMAAAAAAAAAAAAAA PUTS MADRID AHEAD ON AGGREGATE Vinicius absolutely skins Araújo, sending him out of the stadium and all the way up the stairs of the Sagrada Familia, but his cross is poor and easily cleared. We've had no changes at half-time, the two teams are the same as before. And we're off for the second half! 45 minutes to go until we get our second finalist (unless we have extra-time and penalties) Almost ready for the second half! Of course, the score is actually 1-1, given this is a two-legged tie, so Madrid still need another if they want to get to the final. Real Madrid's Camp Nou record while winning at half-time: Wins: 13 Draws: 3 Losses: 1 Debate over! The RM admin says it was Vini, too, so there we go. Handshakes all round. Sorry, Karim. Sofascore say so! Who am I to argue with the boffins over at Sofascore Towers? I think the goal is being given to Vinicius... I guess I agree... Vinzema, yep. I'll take that. I have no idea who actually put it over the line.  El Clásico, they say, always delivers on quality and entertainment. Today has been the case.  We have seen a very fun, back-and-forth game with big chances for both sides. Until the goal, it had been Barça who came closest with various chances created on the left side, but Madrid have the quality to bit when you think you're winning, and that's what they did. Balde has been excellent for Barça, and Madrid need to sort out a way to stop him from having such an influence. As well as that, they could do with some more penetration in the Barça box - does Valverde have a twin brother he can call? Xavi will be happy for the most part, I imagine. Kessié has been superb battling with just about every player in white and Gavi has done his best baby lion impression all game.  Let's see if there are any more twists and turns in the second half. (1-1) Half time! Courtois made a huge save at one end and Madrid broke with Vinicius, who played right to Benzema. The Frenchman hit the ball back to Vini on the penalty spot, whose saw his shot tapped in by Benzema after being initially blocked by a Barça defender.. GOOOOOOOOOOOOOAAAAAAAALLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL MADRID SCORE ON THE COUNTER!!!!!!!!!!!!! Madrid counter... HUGE SAVE FROM COURTOIS! 3 added minutes. The cheer that Ronald Araújo gets every time he tackles Vinicius Jr is incredible; I think the Uruguayan has fully wedged himself inside Vini's head. Lots of small fouls being given now, which only helps Barça to make it to the half-time break unscathed.  Barcelona look to counter Madrid's insistence by keeping the ball between the defenders. Real Madrid are pushing, but they can't quite find the final touch to create a clear chance. Barça are holding them off very well. 5 minutes to go. Still 0-0. Vinicius tries a slipped pass in behind the Barça back line towards Benzema, but it's overhit and flies out for a goal kick. Real Madrid now with some sustained pressure outside the Barça box... the whistles from the crowd begin. Lewandowski is OK. We're back underway and Raphinha almost gets in behind after Gavi's quick free-kick, but the ball rolls out of play. Robert Lewandowski is down after receiving a shove in the back from Militão. Madrid attack and Kroos plays a far-post cross to Benzema, who sees his weak shot saved by Ter Stegen. Balde turned into Messi and dribbled all the way past the Madrid defence, making his way down the left wing and into the box, but thankfully for Madrid fans, his cross was blocked. CHANCE FOR BARÇA! Camavinga makes a vital interception to stop a Raphinha pass from finding Lewandowski behind the Madrid back line. The Barça crowd respond with chants of Gavi's name. Fouls have peppered the last few minutes now; the latest victim is Toni Kroos.  Playing against Gavi is similar to what happens when you play with glitter: it ends up everywhere and in places you wouldn't expect to find it. And it's incredibly tricky to shake off. A double booking! The referee whipped his yellow card out of his pocket with so much sass. Powerful. Vini and Gavi had a rhino head clash after the Brazilian was brought down. Gavi, the cheeky devil, walked away with the ball in his hands, causing Vinicius to react. Madrid make it to the Barça box and Vinicius tries a Modric-esque outside-of-the-boot cross towards Benzema, but Ter Stegen saves. Carvajal then plays a dangerous pass down the line into the path of Rodrygo but again, the Barça goalkeeper collects. Madrid get pegged back and Barça win a corner after Militão takes a tumble in an effort to clear the ball. Barça are sticking to their Plan A and keeping the ball from Real Madrid; they're using Raphinha a lot in the opening stages, his battle against Camavinga is clearly one they think can be won. I've just heard a Spanish television commentator say that on Sunday his channel has got three episodes of Masterchef. No thanks. Rodrygo and Gavi almost get into a bit of handbags after the two tusslefor the ball down Madrid's right side.  I reckon Rodrygo is a better fighter than he looks, despite his posh teeth. Xavibooked for being a nosy Norris and shouting at the referee. The crowd explodes as Vini Jr goes unpunished for a "foul" on Kessie; Barça then get penalised after the Brazilian winger is brought down.  Xavi is not a happy bunny rabbit. Courtois is forced into a save from a Raphinha header after Balde was allowed to advance and cross from the left. Good work again from Madrid, who move the ball from left to right with Kroos.  Rodrygo then tries to slip Carvajal in behind, but the pass is just too heavy.  Positive signs for Ancelotti's side. Rodrygo bursts down the right wing, leaving Alonso in his wake, before hitting a low cross across goal that Ter Stegen fails to get to, leaving Vini and Araújo to battle for the ball as the pair slide in. The defender wins. HUGE CHANCE FOR REAL MADRID "MESSI, MESSI" That's the song from the fans right now... Sergi Roberto gets the first booking after bringing down Luka Modric in the middle of the pitch. A chance for Barça that Madrid defend well: Gavi and Balde link up well before he fires a shot that is blocked by Alaba. Camavinga is back on the pitch. We're back underway... The left-back is limping heavily as he leaves the pitch.  However, the doctor just gave a thumbs up, so we'll see if he can carry on. And now Camavinga has gone to ground. Rüdiger is warming up. Militão blocks an effort from Lewandowski after Camavinga lost the ball to Raphinha. Ronald Araújo fouls Vini in the first duel of the night between the two.  Camavinga is limping... Whata crazy start. Madrid are trying to calm things down with some possession, but Barça are pressing them extremely high. It looked like Alaba's hand hit the ball as it was crossed in but it was his supporting arm, so it doesn't count. AND BARÇA WANT A PENALTY! Barça break with Balde, who makes his way into the box before sending the ball left to Gavi. The Spaniard whacks a low cross towards Lewandowski but Madrid clear at the last second. HUGE CHANCE FOR BARCELONA A free-kick to Madrid is sailed over and out from Kroos after the German tried to cross it towards a teammate. (1-0) aggregate We've got extra-time and penalties if it ends all square after 90 minutes. And we're off! Madrid kick us off from right to left. Here are the XIs again: Barça XI: Ter Stegen; Araújo, Koundé, Alonso, Balde; Busquets, Kessié, Roberto; Raphinha, Lewandowski, Gavi         Real Madrid XI: Courtois; Carvajal, Militão, Alaba, Camavinga; Kroos, Modric, Valverde, Rodrigo, Benzema, Vini Jr And we've just had an incredibly frustrating out-of-time rendition of the Barça himno... And here they come! The players are out on the pitch for the Copa del Rey semi final second leg! A massive hug and laughter between Sergio Busquets and Lucas Vázquez as the full-back passes the Barça captain in the tunnel. The players are in the tunnel... here we go! CESAR MANSO / AFP And the three answers are... 1 - CARVAJAL 2 - MODRIC 3 - BENZEMA Did you get all three? DANI POZO / AFP Quiz time! A quick quiz question before the game:  Real Madrid beat FC Barcelona in the Copa del Rey final in 2014, which was the last time that Los Blancos won the trophy, but which 3 players started that game that also started the last Clásico on 19 March? *** As usual, send your answers to @English_AS or @j4brennan and the first correct answer will get posted on the live! If you've just joined us, a reminder of the two starting XIs: Barça XI: Ter Stegen; Araújo, Koundé, Alonso, Balde; Busquets, Kessié, Roberto; Raphinha, Lewandowski, Gavi         Real Madrid XI: Courtois; Carvajal, Militão, Alaba, Camavinga; Kroos, Modric, Valverde, Rodrigo, Benzema, Vini Jr Madrid start their warmup! We have just under half an hour to go, and Real Madrid have stepped out onto the Camp Nou pitch to a chorus of boos and whistles from the Barça fans that have arrived at the ground early. Never count Madrid out, says the evidence Despite Barça's great home record, it seems Madrid have it in them to get a positive result. They have only lost one of their last 5 visits to the Barcelona stadium and haven't lost 2 consecutive Camp Nou games for 8 years. Emilio Butragueño, Real Madrid legend: We are surely going to have chances, I hope we are inspired.We need to be strong at the back and have good fortune. We are surely going to have chances, I hope we are inspired. We need to be strong at the back and have good fortune. When players score, they feel better. Karim isn't just a goal-scorer, he's a fundamental player, an incredible player. He can link up very well and scores a lot of goals.We want to see the best version of Karim When players score, they feel better. Karim isn't just a goal-scorer, he's a fundamental player, an incredible player. He can link up very well and scores a lot of goals. We want to see the best version of Karim And here is Vini's nemesis... OK, it's not his nemesis, but Ronaldo Araújo is, by far, the defender in Spain that has given the Brazilian winger the most trouble. Real Madrid arrive at the stadium Nacho drops out of the last Clásico XI for Rodrygo and Camavinga shifts to left-back in move that means Ancelotti has finally decided to shake the system against Barça, something he hadn't done since January.  Will it work? Well, Raphinha will certainly have a new challenge up against the French full-back, but whether or not it will be enough to overturn the 1-0 deficit remains to be seen.  Rodrygo up front with Vini and Benzema is a curious choice, too: many people said that his performance against Real Valladolid at the weekend was one of his best in a Madrid shirt (they won 6-0) so he is being rewarded tonight with a place in the starting XI.  SOCCER Barcelona vs Real Madrid: How to watch on TV, stream online, Copa Del Rey Here's how you can watch the game tonight, as well as follow on with the live text coverage here.  Sofascore says... The excellently intelligent football boffins in white coats over at Sofascore Towers have put together this incredibly handy graphic for you and I to pore over while we wait for the football. The two sides have been incredibly close to each other over the years, but it seems that Barcelona are just edging Madrid this season - or does it? Xavi's starting XI: Ter Stegen Araújo - Koundé - Alonso - Balde Kessie - Busquets - Roberto Raphinha - Lewandowski - Gavi COPA DEL REY FC Barcelona Camp Nou home record means Madrid must beat the odds to win the Copa Del Rey semi-final Will we see a classic Madrid comeback? Well, you might think it would be on, but Barça's home record is such that this game is a huge, Godzilla-sized hurdle for Madrid to jump over. Ethan Miller / AFP Will Hazard play? I tried to find a photo of Hazard - on the database of thousands - playing against Barcelona, but this was all I could find: a pre-season game in Las Vegas. That's because, out of the 10 potential Clásico matches Hazard has had the chance to feature in, he hasn't been on the pitch for even 12 seconds. Not even one second. Today could be his 11th. Eek. REAL MADRID Vinicius has a score to settle with Barcelona Vini Jr is in Ancelotti's starting XI tonight (obviously, Joe), but he has a certain thorn in his side that keeps on jabbing him every time he plays against Barcelona. It's called RonaldAraújo, and he's a brilliant defender, as well as chief annoyance to Vini's usually brilliant game plan. The Camp Nou looks lovely this evening What a night for a game of football in Barcelona's stadium, and it's all the better that it just happens to be against Real Madrid. FC BARCELONA FC Barcelona striker Robert Lewandowski tells Bild “I wanted to go to Manchester United” "I wanted to go to Manchester United, but Klopp told me 'no way, Robert'". Read about that nearly-move to the Premier League, as well as his favourite Bayern manager, and why he moved to Barça. *Loading...* No team news for Barça just yet, but we've got a super-interesting interview with Robert Lewandowski for you to read. Check out the link above... CHEMA DIAZ / DIARIO AS Carlo changing his Clásico XI: The Real Madrid boss had not made changes to his previous 2 starting XIs againstBarcelona, going for Nacho at left-back and Valverde on the right. Before then, the last time he changed the lineup against FC Barcelona was in January, where Madrid lost 3-1 in the Spanish Super Cup. On that day he went with Mendy at left-back and Camavinga in midfield. Back inOctober, Tchouaméni played in the middle of the pitch.  Xavi pre-match quotes: With Benzema and Lewandowski, we’re talking about the top two or three strikers in the world. Lewandowski knows how we play positionally; Benzema appears everywhere, he comes back to help with the play.They both have talent: Robert might by more physical, Benzema might be better linking up, but both players make the difference in their teams. With Benzema and Lewandowski, we’re talking about the top two or three strikers in the world. Lewandowski knows how we play positionally; Benzema appears everywhere, he comes back to help with the play. They both have talent: Robert might by more physical, Benzema might be better linking up, but both players make the difference in their teams. They will come here hurt, they have lost the last 3 Clásicos but tomorrow is another war, another competition and we’re playing to be in the final. Madrid always compete and even more against Barça.  They will come here hurt, they have lost the last 3 Clásicos but tomorrow is another war, another competition and we’re playing to be in the final. Madrid always compete and even more against Barça.  We have the luck of having won the last 3 but that doesn’t mean anything. We have to change our mentality and from there compete in the best way, but it won’t be easy. I see a difficult game, a complicated one.  We have the luck of having won the last 3 but that doesn’t mean anything. We have to change our mentality and from there compete in the best way, but it won’t be easy. I see a difficult game, a complicated one.  Madrid will want to take the ball from us, they know it hurts us to not have the ball. They will press us, they did it in the first leg, they were better with the ball than us. We will try to dominate but we have a great team in front of us, we need a lot of personality to have the ball, but I see our team as prepared and ready tom compete well.  Madrid will want to take the ball from us, they know it hurts us to not have the ball. They will press us, they did it in the first leg, they were better with the ball than us. We will try to dominate but we have a great team in front of us, we need a lot of personality to have the ball, but I see our team as prepared and ready tom compete well.  We’re playing at home, with our fans, and we have to take advantage of that. We are motivated for the game. Despite the result in the first leg, the game is going to be difficult.  We’re playing at home, with our fans, and we have to take advantage of that. We are motivated for the game. Despite the result in the first leg, the game is going to be difficult.  Carlo Ancelotti pre-match quotes: We feel good, motivated, concentrated. We feel good after the game against Valladolid, so we’re going to be at our best; we’re very confident that we’re going to be at our best.  We feel good, motivated, concentrated.  We feel good after the game against Valladolid, so we’re going to be at our best; we’re very confident that we’re going to be at our best.  This is a game in which not just 11 players are going to be the protagonists, we have to think about the resources we have on the bench. Starting the game isn’t the most important thing.  This is a game in which not just 11 players are going to be the protagonists, we have to think about the resources we have on the bench. Starting the game isn’t the most important thing.  It’s best not to think about the referees, about what decisions they’re going to give, it’s best to think about winning the game.  It’s best not to think about the referees, about what decisions they’re going to give, it’s best to think about winning the game.  The Clásico is always the most important game. For Real Madrid, for the fans, the players, the manager, there is a huge rivalry.  The Clásico is always the most important game. For Real Madrid, for the fans, the players, the manager, there is a huge rivalry.  We are close to being in a final and we’ll do all we can to play in the final. We are close to being in a final and we’ll do all we can to play in the final. COPA DEL REY Real Madrid 0-1 Barcelona: summary: score, goals, highlights, Copa del Rey semi-final Barça have a 1-0 lead going into the game tonight, and Madrid need to overcome a huge task in getting something at Camp Nou. But more on that later.  In case you forgot, here's what happened last time. And here is the team! Right on time, Ancelotti has posted his XI for the game: Courtois Carvajal - Militão - Alaba - Camavinga Kroos - Modric - Fede Rodrygo - Benzema - Vini Jr Team news: Real Madrid Whispers circled that Alaba was due to be rested but he is finally in the squad list for tonight and may feature. Rüdiger is also back. The main absentee is Ferland Mendy, who has gone back to the infirmary with another injury. Team news: FC Barcelona The injury list isn't long, but it's full of significant players: Frenkie De Jong is out of action tonight as he has a hamstringinjury and didn't make the squad.  Andreas Christensen is also absent as he is recovering from a calfissue. The usual two: Dembélé and Pedri, both remain out with thigh injuries.  One of the two sides facing off against each other tonight will take their place in the final of the cup and play for the silverware against CA Osasuna, who beat Athletic Club 1-2 on aggregate after an astonishing semi-final last night in Bilbao.  It’s Joe here to guide you through the laughter and tears of the game tonight.  Hello and a warm welcome with dos besos to the AS USA live coverage of the Copa del Rey semi-final second leg.  Things are set to be a quiet night tonight, as it’s only FC BARCELONA vs REAL MADRID! Yes, we have a Clásico semi-final in this year’s edition of the cup - and what a story we’ve had so far.  About the author Joe Brennan Born in Leeds, Joe finished his Spanish degree in 2018 before becoming an English teacher to football (soccer) players and managers, as well as collaborating with various football media outlets in English and Spanish. He joined AS in 2022 and covers both the men’s and women’s game across Europe and beyond.