By Julian Bovill For Mailonline   Published:  06:52 EDT, 3 December 2022   |  Updated:  08:35 EDT, 3 December 2022      6 View  comments  Cristiano Ronaldo has been named in the worst XI of the World Cup group stages - alongside four Qatar players.  Ronaldo, 37, started every match for Portugal in their successful group stage campaign but struggled to make an impact, scoring only once and generally looking anonymous for large periods.  Sofascore, announcing their worst side of the initial phase of the World Cup, placed Ronaldo up front with an average rating of 6.37 across his three matches.  Cristiano Ronaldo endured a poor opening three games to the tournament and has suffered the ignominy of being named among the 11 worst performing stars He appeared a frustrated figure for much of his time on the pitch for Portugal, growing frustrated at team-mates for not shovelling him the ball more. His misery was compounded on Friday when he ducked at a corner, allowing the ball to deflect off his back and into the path of the grateful Kim Young-Gwon to fire home. Sofascore's own clarification is that only players who had played 60 per cent of minutes across the group phase were eligible, though it remains an unwanted gong for a player whose chief confidant in the media, Piers Morgan, declared was playing to achieve a move to a 'Champions League club' in Qatar.  It comes as Sportsmail's Oliver Holt told World Cup Confidential that Portugal can win their maiden World Cup crown in Qatar - but only if they drop the high-profile star.  Sofascore's worst group stage XI saw Ronaldo take his place alongside four Qatar players Meshaal Barsham - who came in after the first game - endured poor performances against Senegal and Holland, conceding five times Elsewhere in the side, Meshaal Barsham, who replaced Saad Al-Sheeb after Qatar's opener with Ecuador, was the lowest rated goalkeeper, scoring an average of 6.10 for his two performances, in which he conceded five times.  Meanwhile, thanks largely in part to conceding seven in their opening game against Spain, the two centre-backs both hail from Costa Rica with Francisco Calvo and Oscar Duarte forming the partnership in the middle.  They achieved average ratings of 6.25 and 6.30, respectively, such was the nature of their poor showing against the 2010 world champions. Francisco Calvo endured a horror showing at the hands of Spain - conceding seven goals Ronaldo's stats for the group stages made for grim reading, as displayed by Sofascore At left-back, Homam Ahmed features having achieved an average rating of 6.23. Alistair Johnston, one of two Canada players to have the ignominy of making the side, plays with an average overall rating from his three games of 6.40. Playing a 4-4-2 formation, Abdulelah Al-Malki and Karim Boudiaf make up the central midfield pairing, coming from Saudi Arabia and Qatar, respectively. Al-Malki was the third lowest scoring player in the team, with 6.15. Boudiaf, according to Sofascore, was not much better only achieving an average rating of 6.30.  Tajon Buchanan, who looked bright in spells for Canada and might consider himself unlucky to have been awarded such a lowly score, fills in on the left as the joint-lowest ranked player in the side alongside the goalkeeper with an average rating of 6.10. Saudi Arabia midfielder Abdulelah Al-Malki was among the worst performers in the side  Almoez Ali joined Ronaldo up front after a series of clumsy performances for the hosts   Ronaldo managed one goal from the penalty spot for Portugal, as seen here with Sofascore The right side, rather surprisingly given his decisive effort against Denmark, is Australia's Mathew Leckie who was awarded 6.33. The Australian, alongside Ronaldo, is the only player in the side who will appear in the last-16.  Ronaldo's partner up front completes the Qatari quad, with Almoez Ali being awarded the unfortunate berth having been adjudged to have been 6.23 good across his 226 minutes.  Meanwhile, Ronaldo's international - and former club - team-mate Bruno Fernandes leads the way in the team of the group phase, having recorded an averaging rating of 8.60. His two goals and two assists so far have established him as one of the frontrunners for the player of the the tournament award.  He is joined in the forward areas by Antoine Griezmann, enjoying something of a renaissance at the tournament, as well as Lionel Messi, Kylian Mbappe and Holland's young star Cody Gakpo.  Casemiro is named as the sole central midfielder while the back four is made up of Theo Hernandez, Andreas Christensen, Cameroon defender Jean-Charles Castelletto, Morocco's Achraf Hakimi.  Wojciech Szczesny, rewarded for his remarkable penalty save against Messi on Wednesday, is named in goal.  In quite a contrast - Bruno Fernandes was named the best performing player of the group stage Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group