To make sure you never miss out on your favourite NEW stories, we're happy to send you some reminders Click 'OK' then 'Allow' to enable notifications Marcus Chan As the 2022 World Cup in Qatar draws to a close, the top 10 rated players from the tournament have been revealed, with Lionel Messi and Kylian Mbappe missing out on the top spot.  Sunday’s final between France and Argentina went down in football history as one of the best matches ever played, both teams left everything on the pitch in the search for glory. After 120 minutes of breathtaking football, Argentina eventually came out on top after a 4-2 win in the penalty shootout, clinching their third World Cup trophy. During the trophy presentation, Argentina captain Messi was handed the Golden Ball trophy in recognition of being named the best player of the tournament. Advert France superstar Mbappe received the Golden Boot as he finished as the top scorer. However, the Paris Saint Germain stars were overlooked by Sofascore for their top 10 rated players of the World Cup. Portugal player Bruno Fernandes was ranked the top player of the tournament with a score of 8.38 out of 10. Fernandes was closely followed by Messi, who was rated at 8.27. Advert Mbappe however was much further down the list, coming in at fifth place with a score of 7.60, below his France teammate Antoine Griezmann. Despite being named the best goalkeeper of the tournament, Emiliano Martinez was not named in the top 10. Polish goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny was ranked in third place with a score of 7.93. There were no players from England in the top ten. Advert Fans reacted to Sofascore’s ratings on social media. One said: “Sofascore's rating is weird.” Another commented: “I'll take Bruno in first place as a moral victory for our nation.” A third added: “Bruno the GOAT confirmed?” Advert It was a truly spectacular World Cup that had a fairytale ending as Messi finally got his hands on the trophy that has been eluding him throughout his stellar career. Topics: Football World Cup, Football, Lionel Messi, Kylian Mbappe, Bruno Fernandes Advert Advert Advert