Several government agencies express concerns about Apple's compliance with EU tech rules, including opening up iPhones to rival app stores and allowing developers to opt out of its in-app payment system. The move has sparked concerns about sideloading and app vetting, while facing criticism from companies like Epic Games and Spotify Technology. India and Bangladesh will hold their bi-annual DG-level border talks in Dhaka next month to discuss issues related to curbing a variety of cross-frontier crimes and measures to create better coordination between their security forces and agencies, official sources said on Thursday. Petrol and diesel sales in India fell in the first two weeks of July compared to the first half of June, due to heavy rains impacting travel demand. Diesel sales were down 19.7% to approximately 2.96 million metric tons, while petrol sales from state-run firms Indian Oil Corp, Hindustan Petroleum and Bharat Petroleum fell by 10.8% to about 1.26 million metric tons. However, demand for aviation turbine fuel (ATF) rose 6.1% to 301,800 tonnes amid a rise in passenger traffic at airports. Private forecaster Skymet had earlier predicted that the monsoon would set in on June 7 with an error margin of three days. Experts say that a slightly delayed onset over Kerala usually doesn't mean that the monsoon will reach other parts of the country late, and it won't impact the total rainfall over the country during the season. Normal rainfall is critical for India's agricultural landscape. The Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket final is set to take place between Chennai Super Kings and the Gujarat Titans, with Chennai skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni aiming to win a record-equalling fifth title. The Titans will be led by Hardik Pandya and feature last year’s player of the tournament, Shubman Gill, whose third century helped them defeat Mumbai Indians in the semi-finals. The two most in-form bowlers in the tournament, Rashid Khan and Mohammed Shami, will also be playing for the Titans. Sunday’s game will be Dhoni’s last as a player for Chennai. * Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 2019, Company/LLP Data, (Government of India administrative body to govern and regulate corporate affairs through the Companies Act 1956 & 2013 including other allied Acts, Bills and Rules) http://www.mca.gov.in/, Updated as on 04 Dec, 2018. Please Note: Data on this page may not be updated vis-à-vis company’s current credentials. Quick Links Trending Now Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Calculators Latest News Follow us on: LoadingPlease wait...