MENU CLOSE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS MEDIA BRANDS Close Content Source Content Type Cancel SEARCH MEMBERSHIP PROGRAMS About Us | 
                Contact Us | 
                Site Map Advertise | 
                Customer Service | 
                Terms of Service FAQ | 
                Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.  NEWS A new product, Employee Compliance, will be a stand-alone offering that works with Intapp’s existing suite of risk and compliance products May 04, 2023 at 02:15 PM  5 minute read Mergers and Acquisitions On Wednesday, Intapp, a provider of cloud software for law firms, acquired cloud-based employee compliance software solution provider Paragon Data Labs. A new offering from Intapp, called Employee Compliance, “combines personal trading oversight, employee disclosures, and attestation management to help firms stay aligned with regulations and protect against reputational risk,” the press release stated. The financial details of the deal were not released. “We have seen firms place an increasing focus on ensuring employees remain in continual compliance with different—and often quickly evolving—regulatory standards and a desire for the associated workflows and data to be integrated into their wider compliance processes,” said Nigel Riley, General Manager of Risk and Compliance at Intapp, in the press release. “Paragon’s capabilities will let us address personal regulatory requirements such as SEC code of ethics, personal independence, and employee trade monitoring, and—in combination with our existing risk and compliance solutions—provide a comprehensive compliance solution for our clients.” To view this content, please continue to their sites.  
Go to Lexis 
 Not a Lexis Subscriber?Subscribe Now 
Go to Bloomberg Law 
 Not a Bloomberg Law Subscriber?Subscribe Now Why am I seeing this? 
    LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law are third party online distributors of the broad collection of current and archived versions of ALM's legal news publications.  LexisNexis® and Bloomberg Law customers are able to access and use ALM's content, including content from the National Law Journal, The American Lawyer, Legaltech News, The New York Law Journal, and Corporate Counsel, as well as other sources of legal information. 
For questions call 1-877-256-2472 or contact us at [email protected]
 By Brian Lee By Isha Marathe | Rhys Dipshan By David Kalat, BRG By Jay Madheswaran, Eve Special Report 'Big Law Killed My Husband': An Open Letter From a Sidley Partner's Widow The American Lawyer The Law Firms With the Largest Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer 'Increasingly Rare': These Law Firms Still Maintain Smaller Partner Pay Spreads The American Lawyer Kamala Harris Would Only Be the Second Lawyer-President With a Non-T-14 Law Degree Law.com Announcing the Finalists of the 2024 California Legal Awards The Recorder Presented by BigVoodoo  The New York Law Journal honors attorneys and judges who have made a remarkable difference in the legal profession in New York. The African Legal Awards recognise exceptional achievement within Africa s legal community during a period of rapid change. Consulting Magazine identifies the best firms to work for in the consulting profession. 
                                        Rawle & Henderson s Blue Bell, Pennsylvania office seeks an Attorney with at least five years of civil defense litigation experience to ...
                                 
                                        Company DescriptionCruser, Mitchell is a national law firm, seeking an associate for its Bergen County office. Our lawyers possess a unique ...
                                 
                                        COLE SCHOTZ P.C.Prominent mid-Atlantic law firm with multiple regional office locations seeks an Application Engineer. This person will work...
                                 Professional Announcement Full Page Announcement Don't miss the crucial news and insights you need to make informed legal decisions. Join Legaltech News now! Already have an account? Sign In The industry-leading media platform offering competitive intelligence to prepare for today and anticipate opportunities for future success.