Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? While laptops are great for the sort of mobility you get by being able to carry them around, one big downside is that they can’t really go really high-specced, at least without sounding like a jet engine is about to take off. That’s because the constricted space in there means you have more heat and less ability to get rid of it, which is not as big of a problem when talking about desktop computers. Even better, you don’t need the best desktop computer to get really powerful performance, especially since you aren’t paying for the premium of a smaller design and portability. That means that you can even play some of the best PC games without spending thousands of dollars on a PC. That’s why we’ve gone out and found our favorite deals that will give you the best bang for your buck so that you don’t get too overwhelmed with all the options out there. Once you’ve found a good one, pair it with discount monitor deals to save some more cash. If you’re looking for something better suited to gaming, then you may want to check out these gaming PC deals as well. The HP Desktop M01 is an affordable desktop computer that still provides decent performance for basic functions with its AMD Ryzen 3 5300G processor, AMD Radeon Graphics, and 8GB of RAM. You’ll also get a solid amount of storage with its 256GB SSD, which comes with Windows 11 Home pre-installed. It also comes with a wired keyboard and mouse, so you just need a monitor to complete your setup.  The Apple Mac Mini M2, which is powered by Apple’s M2 processor and 8GB of RAM, features an eight-core CPU for fast performance, a 10-core GPU to handle graphics-intensive apps, and a 16-core Neural Engine for advanced machine learning — all within a tiny package. The computer is equipped with a 256GB SSD, and ships with macOS Ventura.  For a computer that won’t have trouble with even the most demanding tasks for work or school, go for the HP Pavilion Desktop PC with an Intel i5 processor, Intel UHD graphics, and 8GB of RAM. Our guide on how much RAM do you need can be helpful in figuring out is this is enough for your needs. The HP Pavilion also comes with Windows 11 Home pre-installed in its 512GB SSD, which should provide enough space for your projects.  While the Lenovo IdeaCentre 3i Desktop might not be that powerful, it’s a good starter option if you want to stay within a strict budget. It comes with an Intel Core i5-14400, which is a mid-range CPU that will handle productivity and day-to-day tasks just fine. Similarly, while the 8GB of RAM isn’t a lot, it’s not too bad for the basics, even though Windows will certainly take a chunk out of that. As for storage, you get a reasonable 256GB SSD, which you can always supplement with one of these external hard drive deals.  Dell is one of the most recognized names in desktop computing, and with this build Inspiron PC it offers some good performance with plenty of room to expand your hardware in the future if you feel the need. It has a 10-core Intel i5-14400 processor, which is a solid mid-range option, a very solid 16GB of RAM for a smooth experience, and a 512GB SSD drive for storage. You’ll get plenty of connectivity for connecting anything from external hard drives to any of the best monitors, making this a great option for those looking to do some professional desktop work.  Gamers can land a great PC to build a set up around with the Lenovo LOQ Tower. It features a 14-generation Intel i5 processor and the popular NVIDIA RTX 3050 graphics card with this build. It also has 16GB of RAM that goes a long way toward keeping the system stable and ensuring your games keep moving. It also has a 512GB solid state drive, which is super fast and offers enough space to house medium-sized gaming libraries.  The HP Omen 25L is a relatively affordable gaming PC with the Intel Core i7-13700 processor, Nvidia RTX 3060 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM. With these specifications, it may not be able to play the best PC games, but you should be able to handle quite a few modern games without many graphical comprimises. There’s enough space for multiple games on its 1TB SSD, which has Windows 11 Home pre-installed.  The eighth-generation Lenovo Legion Tower 5i is another budget option that provides dependable performance, as it’s equipped with the 13th-generation Intel Core i5-14400F processor, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4060 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM. The gaming PC ships with a 512 GB SSD with Windows 11 Home, and you’ll also get three months of access to Xbox Game Pass.  One of Dell’s more popular lineups is the Dell XPS. It’s almost always among the best laptops on the market and here it takes the form of a desktop PC. This build of the Dell XPS Desktop features an Intel Core i7-14700 processor and a whopping 32 GB of RAM. You may need to dive into some more at some point depending on the paces you plan to put this PC through, but it’s easy to upgrade, as the frame of the XPS is designed to open up for quick installs of upgraded internal hardware. You’ll also get a very generous 2 TB of solid-state storage with this build, and it even has an RTX 4070 inside of it if you also want to game.  After setting your budget, it’s time to decide what exactly you’re looking for in a good cheap desktop computer. First, is this PC going to be primarily for work and general daily use, primarily for gaming, or a fairly even split between these? This will naturally determine what sort of specs you’re looking at — such as, for instance, whether you need a discrete graphics card or not — but the good news is that in the sub-$1,000 category, you can find many good desktop PCs packing solid up-to-date hardware that won’t be outdated within two years. Another important consideration is peripherals. What monitor (or monitors) is your desktop computer going to be connected to? Do you already have a mouse and keyboard; if not, do you want a desktop PC that comes with these included, or do you plan to buy nicer ones separately? Bear in mind that while many desktop towers come with accessories, you’ll still need to decide how much you’re budgeting for things like a mouse, a keyboard, a monitor, mouse pad, speakers, and other peripherals you might need. The bottom line is this: Don’t merely look at the price and basic hardware specs when shopping for a cheap desktop computer. Set your budget, know exactly what features you want (write this down if you need to) and then work from there. When shopping for any sort of cheap computer, be it a laptop or desktop PC, the biggest risk you’ll face is ending up with something that is running on outdated hardware (or hardware that will be outdated very soon). This is what happens when you consider only the price and don’t familiarize yourself with the current state of computer hardware. Thankfully, there’s not too much to remember. First, when looking at CPUs, it’s best to stick with 11th- and 12th-generation Intel Core processors and AMD Ryzen (also known as “Zen”) processors, as these are more recent and will keep your system – even a relatively basic one – reasonably “future-proof.” We also suggest a minimum of 8GB of RAM unless you’re sailing into sub-$300 waters and 16GB is even more strongly recommended for something like a gaming desktop. Finally, solid-state drives (now common even on cheap computers) are generally preferable to traditional hard drives. These SSDs are generally more reliable and considerably faster than old-school HDDs, although they offer less storage space per dollar. Any PC packing an up-to-date CPU, GPU, and SSD (or at least a 7,200rpm HDD) should be good to go for gaming, and there are plenty of good cheap desktop computers that fit this bill nicely. Along with the processors we mentioned, modern graphics card generations include Nvidia’s 16- and 30-series cards, although you’ll most likely be sticking with the GTX 16-series GPUs in the sub-$800 price bracket. These replaced Nvidia’s 10-series cards as entry- and mid-level GPUs, and while there are still PCs with those older cards floating around, we don’t recommend them. AMD’s Radeon family of budget-tier graphics card includes the RX 5000 series, with GPUs like the RX 5500 offering good performance capabilities for 1080p gaming. The RX 6000 series GPUs are better for higher-end gaming. You’re not likely to achieve 4K or even 1440p gaming with most cheap desktop computers, but that is a sacrifice you make for keeping costs down. Also, remember that an SSD will load games (and everything else) noticeably faster than an HDD. Looking for more great stuff? Find tech discounts and much more on our curated deals page. Even though 17-inch laptops aren't as popular as some of the other sizes, especially the 16-inch, which we're starting to see a lot of, you can still find some of the best laptop brands offering a larger 17-inch option. And it certainly makes sense, too, since a lot of folks prefer having a larger screen, whether it's for work or because watching and streaming content on a larger screen just makes a lot of sense. Even better, they aren't as expensive as they used to be several years ago, and you can snag a solid 17-inch laptop for a reasonable price these days. To that end, we've gone out and found some of our favorite 17-inch laptop deals out there, including HP laptop deals, Dell laptop deals (and Dell XPS laptop deals), and gaming laptop deals.
HP 17.3-inch laptop — $630, was $950 With so much stuff being online these days, you're almost always going to need some form of laptop, but the good news is, you don't need to snag one of the best laptops to get a good experience. In fact, pretty much all the top laptop brands have budget options, as well as the really high-end stuff where you can do things like play the latest AAA games. Sure, they may not entirely compete with desktop computers, but if you're looking for a laptop with a lot of power, we're certainly you'll find one.
As such we've collected these deals from the best brands, you'll find HP laptop deals, Dell laptop deals, Acer laptop deals, Lenovo laptop deals, and more. They run the gamut from Chromebook deals and 2-in-1 laptop deals to powerful gaming laptop deals and everything in between. HP Chromebook 14a -- $280, was $370 Among the many back-to-school laptop deals happening at the moment, there’s a particularly attractive one from HP. Right now, you can buy a HP 17-inch laptop for $420 instead of $850. Saving $430 is just the kind of deal we all like to see from the HP back-to-school-sale and is sure to be very popular for anyone looking for a new laptop before heading back to class. If that sounds like you, keep reading and we’ll take you through what it has to offer. It’s sure to rival even what the Amazon back-to-school sale has to offer. Why you should buy the HP 17-inch laptop
HP is one of the best laptop brands around. This particular model has a 13th-generation Intel Core i5-1334U processor along with 8GB of memory and 512GB of SSD storage. The bigger highlight in every sense of the word is its 17.3-inch HD+ screen with 1600 x 900 resolution and 250 nits of brightness. The extra screen space compared to the usual 15-inch displays we’d see in this price range is perfect if you want a desktop replacement without having to spend a fortune. It means plenty of extra room while you work or juggle multiple windows. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.