Sport | Rugby Union New Zealand vs Uruguay - LIVE! Leicester Fainga’anuku scored a hat-trick as New Zealand hammered Uruguay 73-0 to book their place in the quarter-finals of the Rugby World Cup. The All Blacks went into their final Pool A match knowing a bonus-point win would see them through to the last-eight, and they had the four tries required inside the first-half despite a relatively sluggish start by their lofty standards. Uruguay kept New Zealand at bay for the opening 20 minutes, threatening to find the first try themselves, but the sensational Damian McKenzie broke the deadlock and from there it became a procession. Richie Mo’unga and Will Jordan quickly followed McKenzie in going over, before scrum-half Cam Roigard secured the bonus point before the break. Seven more tries followed in the second-half, three of them for Leicester Fainga’anuku, as the All Blacks strolled into the knockout stages, where Ireland are the most likely opponents in a blockbuster quarter-final encounter. New Zealand vs Uruguay latest news Live updates Leicester Fainga’anuku scored a hat-trick as New Zealand hammered Uruguay 73-0 to book their place in the quarter-finals of the Rugby World Cup. The All Blacks went into their final Pool A match knowing a bonus-point win would see them through to the last-eight, and they had the four tries required inside the first-half despite a relatively sluggish start by their lofty standards. Uruguay kept New Zealand at bay for the opening 20 minutes, threatening to find the first try themselves, but the sensational Damian McKenzie broke the deadlock and from there it became a procession. Richie Mo’unga and Will Jordan quickly followed McKenzie in going over, before scrum-half Cam Roigard secured the bonus point before the break. Seven more tries followed in the second-half, three of them for Leicester Fainga’anuku, as the All Blacks strolled into the knockout stages. Read our full report here! So, New Zealand safely through to the quarter-finals as expected. Now the serious business begins. And it gets very serious very quickly, with Ireland likely waiting in the last-eight. That would be some match! Uruguay try to run it from their own half with the final play of the match, knocked on though and that will be that in Lyon. Job done for New Zealand, they have cruised into the quarter-finals with another battering. Uruguay kept it tight for 20 minutes - a bit of a bloodbath after that. 79 mins: For once something doesn’t come off! Barrett with a lovely burst, tries to bend a kick off the outside of his boot into the path of McKenzie... doesn’t pull it off. That would have been very special. 77 mins: Still time for a couple more tries... Swiftly back to the Uruguay 22, where the All Blacks have been camped all half. Blackadder breaks through the tackle, tries to pop it up to Clarke but the ball goes loose. New Zealand still have it though and they’re over again! Faingaanuku has his hat-trick. 73 mins: Not the prettiest try from the All Blacks, but they won’t care! Williams powers over from a couple of yards out, Uruguay can’t keep him out. New Zealand continue this relentless dominance. 71 mins: Two brilliant conversions from McKenzie since he took over kicking duties. He’s had some night. Here come the All Blacks again, Jordan with the kick into space and Uruguay need a kind bounce here... get it. Berchesi has to ground it under huge pressure, that’s all he could do. 5m scrum. We’re going to have a hat-trick battle in the closing stages of this match. McKenzie and Jordan both have two tries tonight... Fainga’anuku has joined them. Lienert-Brown creates the space, times the pass perfectly and the winger has an easy job out wide. 66 mins: McKenzie now on kicking duties, with Mo’unga off the pitch. And that’s a really confident start, tough angle wide on the touchline but that’s perfect to add the extra two points. MORE ABOUT Have your say... 1 Showbiz Jeremy Clarkson raises concern about his health after Kaleb Cooper spots issue 2 Football Transfer news LIVE! Arsenal surprise U-turn, Merino medical; Chelsea earn Osimhen boost; Man Utd doubts; Spurs 3 UK Woman dies and girl, 17, injured in Manchester triple stabbing 4 Showbiz Eamonn Holmes replaced on GB News with no explanation 5 Football Tottenham XI vs Leicester: Predicted lineup, confirmed team news, injuries, Dominic Solanke debut today