Williamson, who became New Zealand's highest Test run scorer in February, had to be helped off the field after suffering the injury New Zealand's white-ball skipper Kane Williamson has been ruled out of this season's Indian Premier League by a knee injury. The 32-year-old was hurt in defending champions Gujarat Titans' opening win against Chennai Super Kings on Friday. He leapt to stop a six near the boundary but landed awkwardly and fell to the ground clutching his knee. It is not known whether the injury will mean he misses the ICC World Cup in India, which starts in October. "Preparations are now under way for him to return to NZ next week and be seen by relevant medical specialists to establish a treatment plan," said New Zealand Cricket. Gujarat director of cricket Vikram Solanki said a replacement would be announced in due course. "It is sad to lose Kane to injury so early in the tournament. We wish him a speedy recovery, with the hope of seeing him in action very soon," he said. It's sink or swim for rookie police officers in Belfast: Watch Blue Lights, a nail-biting new drama, on BBC iPlayer Four movies that predicted the future wrong: Are practical hoverboards and flying cars just a distant dream? 'Leicester's greatest' - how 'special' Vardy outshone Solanke East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals If Verstappen wins title, who will be best of the rest? Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help 'Shock & despair' - how Southport FC helped a town in mourning Who makes Troy Deeney's first Premier League team of the week? East v West - Germany's drug-fuelled Cold War for medals The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.