This video can not be played New Zealand v Uruguay - highlights Rugby World Cup: New Zealand v Uruguay New Zealand: (26) 73 Tries: McKenzie 2, Mo'unga, Jordan 2, Roigard, Newell, Fainga'anuku 3, Williams Cons: Mo'unga 5, McKenzie 2, B Barrett 2 Uruguay: (0) 0 New Zealand booked their spot in the World Cup quarter-finals with an 11-try hammering of Uruguay. Leicester Fainga'anuku scored a second-half hat-trick in Lyon, while the impressive Damian McKenzie and Will Jordan touched down twice. Richie Mo'unga, Cam Roigard, Fletcher Newell and fellow replacement Tamaiti Williams also scored. New Zealand will finish second in Pool A if France avoid defeat against Italy on Friday to top the group. The All Blacks will play Ireland or Scotland, who meet on Saturday in Paris, or defending champions South Africa in the last eight. Uruguay leave the competition with their heads held high after impressing for large periods against France and Italy before a second-half fightback against Namibia. Defeat against New Zealand was their heaviest in the pool stage. World Cup fixtures, pools & BBC coverage Who are the leading try scorers at the World Cup? England's Willis out of tournament because of neck injury Before the tournament two-time champions New Zealand hit their best form under Ian Foster and entered their final warm-up game against the Springboks one of the favourites for the World Cup after an 11-match unbeaten run. But South Africa inflicted the heaviest defeat in All Blacks history on them before France beat them 27-13 in an epic World Cup opener. However, 14 tries and 96 points last week against Italy reminded the rugby world not to write off New Zealand just yet. They did not make the same emphatic start because of a stubborn Uruguay defence, before McKenzie injected life into the attack. The utility back, who scored 26 points in the victory over Namibia, has struggled for a regular starting spot under Foster because of the presence of fly-half Mo'unga and full-back Beauden Barrett. McKenzie scored the opening try and produced a moment of magic when he regathered his own grubber kick before flicking the ball one-handed back infield for Jordan to score New Zealand's third. McKenzie grabbed another in the second period as the Uruguay defence struggled with the relentless New Zealand attack. He moved to fly-half in the final quarter and kicked two touchline conversions to further strengthen his case. Captain Sam Cane returned to the starting line-up and New Zealand head into the quarter-finals high on confidence. New Zealand: McKenzie; Jordan, Lienert-Brown, J Barrett, Fainga'anuku; Mo'unga, Roigard; Tu'ungafasi, Taylor, Lomax, Whitelock, Vaa'i, Frizell, Cane (capt), Jacobson. Replacements: Taukei'aho, Williams, Newell, S Barrett, Blackadder, Christie, B Barrett, Clarke. Uruguay: Silva; Mieres, Inciarte, Vilaseca (capt), Freitas; Etcheverry, Arata; Sanguinetti, Kessler, Arbelo, Dotti, Leindekar, Ardao, Bianchi, Diana. Replacements: Pujadas, Benitez, Peculo, Rodríguez, Civetta, Ormaechea, Berchesi, Alonso. Referee: Wayne Barnes (England) Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser Premier League: Leicester v Tottenham - team news & build-up Chelsea agree Felix fee, Gallagher to join Atletico The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.