Notifications can be managed in browser preferences. Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile Follow live coverage of Bangladesh vs New Zealand from the New Zealand in Bangladesh 2023 today. The ICC Test Championship sees nine teams compete across a two-year cycle of matches before a two-team final decides the winner. The inaugural competition was won by New Zealand after a thrilling victory over India in June 2021. The 50-over World Cup is far older and has been competed for since back in 1975. Australia are the record winners having run out victorious on five occasions (1987, 1999, 2003, 2007 and 2015). England took the 2019 crown after a dramatic Ben Stokes-inspired super-over win over New Zealand at Lord's. The shortest form of the game sees teams compete in Twenty20. The newest format has been an instant global hit with a number of hugely-lucrative competitions massively popular all over the world. Australia are reigning world champions having taken victory in the 2021 tournament. Follow all the latest live coverage of today's match in the live blog below: New Zealand are 136 for 5 with 8.2 overs left 33.4 FOUR! Tanzim Hasan Sakib to Cole McConchie. Short, outside off stump on the back foot pulling, top edge in the air uncontrolled past third man for 4 runs. 33.2 Tanzim Hasan Sakib to Tom Blundell. Length ball, outside off stump on the back foot defending, back to bowler for no runs. 33.1 Tanzim Hasan Sakib to Cole McConchie. Back of a length, outside off stump on the back foot Fended, inside edge to square leg for 1 run, fielded by Tamim. 32.6 Nasum Ahmed to Tom Blundell. Stock ball half volley, middle stump on the front foot working, to deep mid wicket for 2 runs, fielded by Hridoy. 32.5 Nasum Ahmed to Tom Blundell. Stock length ball, outside off stump on the front foot defending, to point for no runs, fielded by Sohan. 32.4 Nasum Ahmed to Tom Blundell. Stock length ball, to leg on the back foot working, hit pad to square leg for no runs, fielded by Sohan. 32.3 Nasum Ahmed to Cole McConchie. Stock length ball, off stump on the front foot pushing, to point for 1 run, fielded by Hasan. 32.2 Nasum Ahmed to Cole McConchie. Stock length ball, outside off stump on the back foot pushing, to backward point for no runs, fielded by Rahman. 32.1 Nasum Ahmed to Cole McConchie. Stock length ball, off stump on the back foot defending, missed for no runs, fielded by Sohan. Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies Getty Images Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today. Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in Log in New to The Independent? Or if you would prefer: 