Millennium & Copthorne Hotels New Zealand Ltd is engaged in the ownership and operation of hotels in New Zealand. The group is also involved in the residential development and sale of land in New Zealand and the development and sale of residential units in Australia. The operating segments of the group are Hotel operations which comprise income from the ownership and management of hotels; Residential land development, comprising the development and sale of land; Residential and commercial property development, comprising the development and sale of residential apartments; Investment property comprising rental income from warehouses. The majority of the revenue is generated from the Hotel operations segment. The company operates in the geographical areas of New Zealand and Australia. 23 Customs Street East, Victoria Street West Level 7, PO Box 5640,   Auckland  1142 NZL 
					T: +64 93535010
				 https://www.millenniumhotels.com Consumer Cyclical Cyclical Lodging 31 December 2024 1,200 Information on this site is intended for Australian users only.The content provided does not constitute investment advice, is provided solely for information purposes, is not an offer to buy or sell a security, and is not warranted to be correct, complete or accurate. Neither Morningstar, its affiliates, nor the content providers are responsible for any investment decisions, damages or losses resulting from, or related to, the content, data and analyses or their use. Certain content provided may constitute a summary or extract of a full research report. Full research reports are available from Morningstar. Additionally, important disclosures regarding these research reports, methodologies and Morningstar can be found under the legal section on this site. To the extent any content is general advice, it has been prepared by Morningstar Australasia Pty Ltd (ABN 95 090 665 544, AFSL: 240892). Any general advice has been provided without reference to your investment objectives, financial situations or needs. For more information refer to our Financial Services Guide. To obtain advice tailored to your situation, contact a financial advisor. You should consider the advice in light of these matters and if applicable the relevant Product Disclosure Statement before making any decision to invest. Past performance does not necessarily indicate a financial product’s future performance. Some material is copyright and published under licence from ASX Operations Pty Ltd ACN 004 523 782. The content is current as at date of publication. © Copyright 2024 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.