By Alex Bywater For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  16:58 EDT, 14 October 2023   |  Updated:  05:51 EDT, 15 October 2023      879 View  comments  As the clock ticked towards midnight in Paris late on Saturday night, Johnny Sexton sat in a media room deep in the bowels of the Stade de France, his eyes filled with tears.  To Sexton’s immense credit, the Ireland captain defied yet more quarter-final heartbreak to discuss a cruel end to not only his team’s World Cup, but also his glittering career.  The fly-half had just finished leading his team-mates on a lap of the Paris pitch to applaud Ireland’s astonishing fans. It was the ultimate irony that as they did so, Gloria Gaynor’s I Will Survive played out over the Stade de France PA system.  Sexton must have felt like dying inside. This wasn’t supposed to happen. This time, it was supposed to be different.  ‘It’s gutting,’ said Sexton, who will now head into retirement aged 38 having never made it to a World Cup semi-final. ‘The last six weeks have been incredible with the support and the way we’ve played. The combination has been a dream come true for all of us and I include today in that. I couldn’t be prouder to be Irish.  Ireland's dismal run of never making it to a Rugby World Cup semi-final continued as New Zealand pulled off a miraculous 28-24 victory Ireland crashed out the Rugby World Cup in a difficult defeat against an inspired New Zealand side Ireland captain Johnny Sexton suffered a 'gutting' defeat and will now retire from rugby  ‘This group will bounce back. It’s the best I’ve been a part of bar none.  ‘They will go on to achieve great things and I’ll be in the stands having a pint. The last couple of years in the green jersey have been the most enjoyable of my career. I’m grateful.  ‘But it’s disappointing we couldn’t finish it off. We left it all out there at least.’  Ireland Tries: Aki 27, Gibson-Park 39, Penalty 64 Cons: Sexton 29, 40 Pens: Sexton 22 New Zealand Tries: Fainga'anuku 19, Savea 33, Jordan 54 Cons: Mo’unga 21, J Barrett 55 Pens: Mo’unga 8, J Barrett 14, 69 Ireland Ratings: Keenan 7; Hansen 7 (O'Brien 56,6.5), Ringrose 7, Aki 8.5, Lowe 6.5; Sexton (capt) 6.5, Gibson-Park 7 (Murray 61); Porter 7.5 (Kilcoyne 76,6), Sheehan 5.5 (Kelleher 64), Furlong 6.5 (Bealham 53,6.5), Beirne 8, Henderson 5.5 (McCarthy 59,7), O'Mahony 7.5, Van der Flier 6 (Conan 59,6.5), Doris 7 Replacement not used: Crowley New Zealand Ratings: B Barrett 6.5; Jordan 7.5, Ioane 6.5, J Barrett 8.5, Fainga'anuku 7(Lienert-Brown 64,6.5); Mo'unga 7.5, Smith 6; De Groot 6.5 (Williams 64, 6,5), Taylor 6.5 (Coles 75,6.5), Lomax 7 (Newell 64,6.5), Retallick 7 (Coles 65,6.5), S Barrett 8, Frizell 7.5 (Whitelock 59,7), Cane 8.5 (Papali'I 75,6.5), Savea 8.5 Replacements not used: Christie, McKenzie Referee: Wayne Barnes (England) Attendance: 78,845 Star man: Jordie Barrett (New Zealand) After an astonishing game, it remains the case that no team in green has ever made the last four of a World Cup. The hoodoo lives on.  Ireland won’t be comforted by the fact they more than played their part in a truly remarkable Test match. Nor will they be consoled by the fact that they didn’t choke on the big stage.  Time and time again Andy Farrell’s side fought back against what was a superb New Zealand performance. But, it must be said, the best team won. The All Blacks may well have been further clear too had they not lost Aaron Smith and Codie Taylor to yellow cards.  This was supposed to be the best-equipped team in Ireland history to end their quarter-final curse given head coach Farrell had led them to 17 straight victories and to world No 1. Ireland also went into this World Cup as Six Nations grand slam champions. And yet still it wasn’t enough.  Leicester Fainga'anuku (middle) scored New Zealand's first try of the evening against Ireland Ardie Savea stayed wide to bundle over another try for the All Blacks as Ireland struggled in defence ‘Fine margins and all that,’ said Farrell. ‘It was two good teams playing some outstanding rugby.  ‘Unfortunately for us, we came out on the wrong side. Sport can be cruel. I guess that’s why we love it so much. I’m incredibly proud of the group.  ‘If you go out with a whimper it’s pretty hard to take. We didn’t.’  Ireland certainly didn’t surrender meekly. Needing a try to win the game, they launched a late attacking salvo of 37 phases with the players of both sides out on their feet.  Ireland head coach Andy Farrell was unable to guide his team to victory It was astonishing stuff, but veteran All Blacks lock Sam Whitelock won a penalty and it was New Zealand who set-up a semi-final with Argentina. It ended Irish rugby’s Parisian party and sent Farrell’s side out.  The Fields of Athenry drowned out the Haka, Ireland’s players lining up in response in a figure of eight. It was in honour of former No 8 Anthony Foley, with the anniversary of his death coming on Monday. Ireland did likewise when they beat New Zealand in Chicago in 2016.  But there was to be no repeat of that success. As they did at the end of the game, New Zealand went through the phases right at the start, only this time it was in attack. There were 29 straight rucks before Richie Mo’unga kicked three points.  In Ardie Savea, Sam Cane and Jordie Barrett, Ian Foster’s side had three world-class performers. Savea got over the ball to win a breakdown penalty and Barrett stepped up from just inside the Ireland half to make it 6-0. Then came the New Zealand attack.  Beauden Barrett countered brilliantly, chipping ahead and collecting his own kick. Back left the ball went, effortless handling sending Leicester Fainga'anuku to the line. Ireland were stunned. They trailed 13-0.  But Sexton responded with a penalty. A high hit on Bundee Aki from Mo’unga was checked but waived away. And it seemed to anger the Irish centre who jinked over for Ireland’s opener.  Sexton’s conversion narrowed the gap further. Ireland’s line-out wasn’t firing. From another lost throw, Will Jordan kicked a 50:22 and the outstanding Savea finished in the corner.  But back the game swung, Smith yellow carded for a deliberate knock on of a Mack Hansen pass. Ireland made the most of their man advantage, Jamison Gibson-Park scoring.  The ever-reliable Jordie Barrett was responsible for kicking eight points in the match Bundee Aki (right) played brilliantly for Ireland and scored his side's first try of the night Ireland scrum-half Jamison Gibson-Park reduced the deficit just before half time Ireland would have been happy to be just a point behind at the break given their early deficit. Ireland’s defence had been outstanding. But, out of nowhere, it cracked.  From a New Zealand line-out, Mo’unga showed his running threat by bursting past a crucial missed Josh van der Flier tackle. With the electric Jordan in support, there was only ever going to be one winner.  Jordie Barrett converted and when Sexton missed a penalty, you sensed trouble on the horizon. But, after Farrell unloaded the bench, Ireland at last won a line-out and their maul was unstoppable. So good was it that Taylor tried to stop it illegally. Referee Wayne Barnes promptly awarded a penalty try and yellow carded Taylor. Jordie Barrett couldn’t respond to the automatic seven points with a kick from range but had better luck just minutes later.  Ireland went over the line and a fourth try looked certain, but incredible Jordie Barrett work prevented a try. Caelan Doris then shelled the drop out.  New Zealand played smart rugby with Taylor off and when he returned, they shut out the game to leave the whole of Ireland totally and utterly devastated with Whitelock the hero.  ‘I’m immensely proud of everyone connected to Irish rugby,’ said Farrell. ‘The sad thing is that for this group it’s the end. Johnny is going to retire and so will Keith Earls.’ Will Jordan (left) scored a crucial try for New Zealand against the run of play in the second half Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group