MarketWatch Guides is a reviews and recommendations team, independent of the MarketWatch newsroom. We might earn a commission from links in this content. Learn More with our partner, Faye Alex Carver is a writer and researcher based in Charlotte, N.C. A contributor to major news websites such as Automoblog and USA Today, she’s written content in sectors such as insurance, warranties, shipping, real estate and more. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Here’s a breakdown of how we reviewed and rated the best travel insurance companies Whether you plan to ski the slopes in Queenstown or sample the wineries in Wellington, travel insurance for New Zealand can offer financial protection and peace of mind. From medical emergencies to flight delays, unforeseen circumstances can occur while traveling. If things don’t go to plan, travel insurance can help recoup your losses by reimbursing nonrefundable trip costs. We at the MarketWatch Guides Team have analyzed the best travel insurance companies to help you review travel insurance advantages, costs and coverage options for a New Zealand vacation. Use the table below to compare the costs and coverages of our top recommended travel insurance companies that will cover a trip to New Zealand: Our editorial team follows a comprehensive methodology for rating and reviewing travel insurance companies. Advertisers have no effect on our rankings. Companies Reviewed Quotes Collected Rating Factors New Zealand does not require visitors to have travel insurance to enter the country. But it is recommended if your health insurance does not extend to emergency treatment abroad. Framed by forested mountains, volcanoes, glaciers and beaches, New Zealand is known for its natural wonder. But considering the country’s vast landscape and unpredictable weather, it can take hours to reach remote places in an emergency. Whether you’re hiking, mountain biking or snowboarding, travel insurance can reimburse the cost of medical care in case of injury. New Zealand extends some health care coverage to temporary visitors with its Accident Compensation Corporation (ACC) Program. However, the program may not cover all medical costs. Purchasing travel insurance can further protect you from financial burdens by offering additional medical coverage. The weather in New Zealand is notoriously volatile, with extremes at each end of the year. Due to its geographical position, New Zealand is prone to natural disasters like earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. Such events could cause trip cancellations or travel delays. Travel insurance can reimburse you for prepaid, nonrefundable expenses (like your flight or hotel) if you experience an interruption due to severe weather. Cancel for any reason (CFAR) coverage allows you flexibility to cancel your trip for reasons outside those predetermined by your travel insurance policy. However, since CFAR coverage is considered a policy add-on, it is more expensive than a standard policy. This type of coverage is also subject to disclaimers, deductibles and restrictions. You must meet certain requirements to qualify for CFAR insurance, including: You may want to bring cameras, sporting gear or other valuables if you’re planning to explore New Zealand’s diverse destinations. Whether you want to photograph the rich Maori culture or mountain bike through the forest, gear theft protection can help recoup the cost of lost or stolen goods. Each travel insurance policy will include specific coverage limits and exclusions regarding stolen or damaged gear. Gear theft protection is worth considering if you wish to bring the following on your trip: Note that your insurance may not cover the full value of your items, so review the policy wording and product disclosure statement carefully to determine your coverage. If the total of the items you plan to bring exceeds your benefit limit, consider leaving some items at home. Although the ACC offers some medical coverage to non-residents, the program does not always cover the full cost of treatment. If your health insurance does not extend coverage in other countries, you can safeguard yourself with travel insurance for medical emergencies. Travel medical insurance covers emergency medical expenses in the event of an injury or illness. Most providers also cover evacuation to your home country if you can’t receive health care locally and repatriation if you die while traveling. A standard travel insurance policy may include the following medical emergency and assistance coverage: When booking your trip insurance, be sure to declare any pre-existing medical conditions like asthma or high blood pressure. While some providers do not extend coverage for pre-existing conditions, others may offer a pre-existing condition exclusion waiver. Travel medical insurance also may not extend to injuries sustained as a result of extreme sports, but some providers may offer add-on coverage. Read your policy’s full details for restrictions and exclusions. New Zealand boasts an extensive network of public transport, making it easy to travel around big cities like Auckland and Wellington. But you may prefer to rent a car to explore on your own schedule. As a tourist, you can legally drive for up to 12 months in New Zealand as long as you have a current driver’s license. If your license isn’t in English, you’ll need to obtain an English translation. Otherwise, you can opt for an International Driver’s Permit (IDP) issued or written in English. New Zealand requires rental car companies to include basic insurance for coverage against accidents. The level of protection varies by provider, but usually covers the following: The insurance will include an excess or deductible or the amount of money you pay before the insurance policy covers the costs. Your rental car provider may offer a daily fee in exchange for reducing or eliminating the excess. For example, let’s say that your rental car agreement offers a standard policy with a $1,000 excess. If your rental vehicle is damaged and costs $3,000 to repair, you’ll only need to pay the $1,000. As long as you’ve met the terms and conditions in your contract, the rental company will cover the remaining $2,000. While you can purchase travel insurance with rental car protection, it may not be necessary for a trip to New Zealand. Consider existing rental car coverage before adding more with a travel insurance policy. Whether it’s extreme weather or natural disasters, unexpected circumstances can impact your trip to New Zealand. Trip cancellation insurance can reimburse you for prepaid, nonrefundable costs like your flight, hotel or travel excursions if you have to cancel your trip due to the following reasons: The cost of travel insurance can vary depending on your coverage preferences, personal details and travel logistics. Some providers offer single-trip plans for a one-time visit or annual multi-trip coverage if you travel more often. Cheap travel insurance options are available if you are on a budget. To receive a quote from a provider, you’ll be required to submit the following information: We requested quotes from ten travel insurance companies for their most affordable plan for a trip to New Zealand. The below quotes are for a 30-year-old traveler from Florida, traveling to New Zealand for ten days in September 2024, with a total trip cost of $4,000. Policies include coverage for cancellations, interruptions, delays, medical care and evacuation. These quotes were collected in April 2024 for a trip in September 2024. Each of the above insurance plans includes the following coverage: Before you buy travel insurance for your New Zealand trip, check to see if your current health insurance plan or credit card offers some level of coverage. If you have private health insurance, it may include coverage for international travel and medical emergencies. Or you might have flight, rental car or other form of travel insurance through your credit card. We recommend requesting a free quote from at least three travel insurance companies. Be sure to compare various trip insurance options and consider factors like COVID-19 coverage, emergency assistance and trip cancellation. Make sure your chosen travel insurance covers what you need. Carefully review policy wording for exclusions and consider add-ons to cover additional expenses. According to the Global Peace Index, New Zealand is ranked as the second-safest country in the world. But crime can still happen while traveling. We’ve included the below information and travel tips to help you safely navigate New Zealand. New Zealand is considered a safe destination for travelers, but it is not crime-free. Be careful not to leave valuables in campervans or parked cars near trailheads or tourist spots. When in the big cities, avoid walking alone late at night or in unlit alleyways. With fjords, dormant volcanoes and hidden beaches, New Zealand boasts a diversity of day trips. But don’t overestimate your ability or underestimate the risks of exploring the great outdoors. Plan your adventures ahead of time, use a local guide or tourist service if necessary, and be sure to research the destination and weather. Some tourists may also plan to visit both New Zealand and Australia on the same trip. If you purchase travel insurance, check to make sure your policy covers travel to multiple destinations. As of January 2023, New Zealand has lifted all pandemic-related restrictions. International travelers are not required to provide a vaccination passport or negative PCR test to enter the country. You are not required to wear a mask on public transport but may still encounter mask advisories in medical facilities or other buildings. You will be required to self-isolate for seven days if you contract the coronavirus while in New Zealand. It’s ultimately up to you to decide if travel insurance is worth it for your New Zealand vacation. Standard travel insurance can offer coverage for unexpected trip cancellations, lost baggage, flight postponements and other travel inconveniences. Although New Zealand offers some medical coverage for foreigners, the country will not always cover the full cost of your care. Travel insurance can extend emergency medical coverage if you are hurt or get sick while abroad. If you opt for a more comprehensive travel insurance plan, you can consider add-on options like CFAR coverage, rental car damage or sporting gear protection for added peace of mind. Travel insurance offers protection against financial loss if your flight is canceled or delayed. Otherwise, flight compensation is subject to the conditions of each airline and reimbursement is not guaranteed. Travel insurance is not mandatory for U.S. citizens entering New Zealand, but it is highly recommended if your health insurance does not extend abroad. Travel insurance can also protect you from financial loss if your trip is unexpectedly canceled, you experience travel delays or are traveling with expensive gear. The best travel insurance plan depends on your preferences, coverage needs and budget. To determine the best policy for you, compare at least three options. Pay attention to the coverage limits, policy exclusions and overall cost. Make sure you select a policy with enough coverage to offset potential financial losses. U.S. citizens must provide a valid passport and travel document to visit New Zealand. Your passport must be valid for at least three months prior to your planned departure date. Tourists from the U.S. must also have a travel visa or an NZeTA (New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority) to enter New Zealand. If you have feedback or questions about this article, please email the MarketWatch Guides team at editors@marketwatchguides.com. Alex Carver is a writer and researcher based in Charlotte, N.C. A contributor to major news websites such as Automoblog and USA Today, she’s written content in sectors such as insurance, warranties, shipping, real estate and more. Tori Addison is an editor who has worked in the digital marketing industry for over five years. Her experience includes communications and marketing work in the nonprofit, governmental and academic sectors. A journalist by trade, she started her career covering politics and news in New York’s Hudson Valley. Her work included coverage of local and state budgets, federal financial regulations and health care legislation. Copyright © 2024 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the
Terms of Use | Privacy Notice | Cookie Notice MarketWatch Guides may receive compensation from companies that appear on this page. The compensation may impact how, where and in what order products appear, but it does not influence the recommendations the editorial team provides. Not all companies, products, or offers were reviewed.