Popular exchange on Solana becomes victim to an exploit. Investigation into the attack is launched, price of SOL remained unaffected.  Throughout the year, Solana [SOL] encountered a series of challenges, spanning from downtimes to the SEC’s classification of SOL as an asset. However, the woes for Solana didn’t end there; a well-known exchange on the network fell victim to exploitation in a more recent development. Is your portfolio green? Check out the Solana Profit Calculator Following an estimated $1 million exploit, the decentralized futures exchange known as Cypher Protocol, operating on the Solana platform, took the proactive step of halting its smart contract. Notifying its 13,500 Twitter followers on August 7, Cypher revealed a security incident occurred. Thus, compelling the suspension of its smart contract.  At press time, the team was actively delving into the root cause of the exploit. They also tried to initiate communication with the hacker in pursuit of potentially recovering the pilfered funds. Cypher has has experienced an exploit/security incident. The smart contract has been frozen. The team is currently working with individuals and investigating To the hacker: We are writing to see whether you would be open to speaking with us about any potential next steps. — cypher ©️ (@cypher_protocol) August 7, 2023  As per Solana blockchain explorer Solscan, the wallet that was believed to be linked to the exploit managed to appropriate around 39,704 SOL tokens, alongside $123,231 worth of USDC. This activity amassed a total of $1,036,423 in unlawfully acquired funds. Source: SOLSCAN Shortly after the exploit, the wallet in question initiated the transfer of 30,000 USDC to Binance’s Solana USDC address “kiing.sol,” seemingly aiming to liquidate the misappropriated funds. Subsequent to the exploit, various NFTs have been dispatched to the wallet, urging the return of the funds. Among these, an NFT message conveyed, “People will find you. Please do the right thing and give the rest back.” This message reflected the sentiment of those seeking an ethical course of action in this situation. Source: SOLSCAN Read Solana’s [SOL] Price Prediction 2023-24 At the time of writing, the Cypher team were still not able to contact the hacker. The most recent tweet made by the Cypher Team included ways in which the attacker could contact them. if you are the attacker you can reach out on email or session chat app email: recover_protocol@proton.me session id: 05acb0ff5ecb13d3e9d6e8225342994157df834f5f14ac916f2212b20539fe113d https://t.co/ZnEbJN8Kju — cypher ©️ (@cypher_protocol) August 7, 2023  At press time SOL was trading at $23.23. The price witnessed some appreciation over the last few days. However, it was still far away from its monthly high. Source: Solana    Disclaimer: AMBCrypto's content is meant to be informational in nature and should not be interpreted as investment advice. Trading, buying or selling cryptocurrencies should be considered a high-risk investment and every reader is advised to do their own research before making any decisions. © 2024 AMBCrypto