Pickaboo, an online and offline platform specialised in mobile, gadget and electronics, has raised 1.5 million in pre series A round from local and international investors. Zannatun Ferdous Mohua (24), a physically challenged student of Bogura Government Azizul Haque College, has become a successful e-commerce entrepreneur, by exporting several hand-made embroidery products to foreign countries. Online educational platform 10 Minute School has raised $2 million in seed funding from Surge, Sequoia Capital India’s rapid scale-up programme, to increase investment in product and technology. DataBird - a Bangladeshi IT company working on building an internet ecosystem, recently celebrated the winning of 6 innovative ideas at the Grand Finale of DataBird LaunchPad 2021, held on October 7, 2021, Thursday, at the BCC auditorium, ICT Division, Dhaka. Fresh from announcing their latest funding round of $1.3m USD, home-grown Bangladeshi edtech Shikho, a Dhaka-based edtech startup building a hyper-localized digital learning ecosystem, and Teachmint, India’s largest teaching platform, today announced a partnership to deliver classroom solutions to students in Bangladesh leveraging Teachmint’s live class technology infrastructure.  Fashol.com, a wholesale marketplace for retailers, collects products--fruits and vegetables--from different parts of the country at night, including the wholesale markets of the capital and brings them to the Fashol distribution centre. In the next step, products get sorted using in house sorting method and then goods are delivered to the retailer early every morning. Retailers get 5% -10% lower prices than the market price. Fashol.com also offers zero delivery costs to retailers. India sees huge potential in collaborations with Bangladesh regarding fostering startups, especially those in the entertainment industry that produce films and music or provide streaming services. However, just having co-founders is not enough. Having the right co-founders is crucial for your team to perform satisfactorily and your business to succeed in the long run. The challenge lies in finding the co-founder who is right for both- your business and yourself as a co-founder. The Hon'ble State Minister of ICT Division Mr Zunaid Ahmed Palak MP enlightened the media about the present state and the future action plans of BIG 2021. It took only about two years to translate an idea into a business and make Nagad the fastest-growing mobile financial service in the world, thanks to the adoption of state-of-the-art technologies and a disruptive approach, which also sped up the overall financial inclusion in Bangladesh. The launching ceremony of the “Probashi” app was held on March 30, 2021 from 3:00pm to 5:00pm at the ball room of Hotel Pan Pacific Sonargaon. The chief guest of the event was the State Minister for Ministry of Foreign Affairs Md. Shahriar Alam, MP. The special guests were Kabir Bin Anwar, Senior Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, Dr. Ahmed Munirus Saleheen, Secretary, Ministry of Expatriates’ Welfare and Overseas Employment, Hosne Ara Begum ndc, Managing Director (Secretary), Bangladesh Hi-Tech Park Authority, Tina F Jabeen, CPA, Managing Director & CEO, Startup Bangladesh Ltd, ICT Division, and Asif Ibrahim, Chairman, Chittagong Stock Exchange Ltd. Start Fund Bangladesh (SFB) is a £10m rapid emergency response fund that was created in 2017 with support from UK Aid. Modelled on the Start Network’s successful Start Fund, which activates funding within 72 hours of a crisis alert, it fills a crucial gap in humanitarian funding. It is accessible to local, national, and international member non-governmental organisations (NGOs) operating in Bangladesh to respond early to under the radar emergencies. Rokkhi Limited is one of the few companies in Bangladesh that work both as a building management companion and a security solution. The aim is to come out of the conventional building management system and create a new building assistant that shall work as an all-around solution for buildings. Rokkhi has the vision to be the service and security operator of every building. Everything a building or flat owner does to manage their building and building security Rokkhi wants to upgrade the system in an easy way so that the daily hassles can be managed by a single platform.  Bangladesh-based renewable energy start-up SOLshare has been awarded a $120,000 cash prize along with a $364,000 fund for investment by EIT InnoEnergy, the world’s largest sustainable energy engine, to support expansion of SOLshare’s pioneering peer-to-peer solar trading platform. Accelerate Bangladesh, an investment readiness programme by BetterStories Limited and Bangladesh Angels Network in collaboration with Bridge for Billions and Biniyog Briddhi, has been launched via a virtual webinar.

 Though the online sales of health products and daily essentials were booming due to Covid-19, the ongoing pandemic has taken a heavy toll on online retailers of fashion, cosmetics, and other imported products, says a recent study. A programme focusing on startups is held in Chittagong for young entrepreneurs and students under the banner of Startup Talk Chattogram. Social barriers and a lack of access to finance, the two big obstacles for women to become entrepreneurs, have eased somewhat in the last 8-9 years, a recent study found.