Getty Images Analyst Gartner has warned that new changes to Java licensing has meant Oracle will actively target organisations, even those who do not run any Oracle products, on Java compliance. Gartner reported that in the 12-month period leading up to 31 December 2022, 52% of the Oracle software compliance and audit-related interactions focused on Oracle Java. This is set to become more of an issue in 2023 following some recent licensing changes. In 23 January 2023, Oracle introduced changes to Java SE licensing. Unlike the previous Java SE licence, which was measured either per named user or per processor basis, the new subscription includes usage across desktops, servers and third-party cloud deployments. Gartner pointed out that the new Oracle Java SE Universal Subscription means every person employed in an organisation where Java SE is deployed is counted for the purpose of the subscription. According to Gartner, in an organisation with 45,000 employees of which 40,000 are full-time, part-time and temporary staff, and 5,000 are agents, contractors and consultants, the company will require 45,000 licences. Assuming the 65% discount Oracle gives, this results in an annual bill of $2.8m. The Java SE Universal Subscription fee starts at $15 per employee per month. While the Java SE Desktop Subscription started at $2.50 per named user or desktop per month and the Java SE Subscription started at $25 per processor per month, Gartner warned that the Java SE Universal Subscription fee starts at $15 per employee per month. Companies with large numbers of employees where only a small proportion are licensed to use Java SE software may find their annual licence fee increase dramatically. As an illustration of the price hike, Gartner said an organisation with the old Java SE licence to cover 19,000 named users would find that the new annual subscription fee is 117% more expensive. Looking at its Securities and Exchange Commission quarterly filing, Oracle reported an increase in its cloud services and licence support revenues of 14%, and a 16% increase in its cloud licence and on-premise licence revenues, adding $1.4bn to its revenue. In a report exploring the implications of the licensing scheme, Gartner said: “According to Gartner client interactions, Oracle actively targets organisations – both existing Oracle customers and those with no Oracle products – on Java compliance, and deploys its global Java licensing team to enforce compliance.” While Oracle states that the new Java SE Universal Subscription will remove the need to count desktops and servers, Gartner said it is not yet clear if this compliance-targeting will decrease. The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Data is one of the most important assets in any organization. To truly protect it, you need a DDR strategy. Here's what you need ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Broadcom shutters the VMware IT Academy and Academic Software Licensing programs on Aug. 15, leaving universities and trade ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
