Work sucks. But maybe don't try to repeat workplace crimes you see in movies. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 A software engineer who worked for online retailer Zulily has been charged with stealing roughly $301,000 from the company, Komo News reports, claiming to have been inspired by the plot of 1999 Mike Judge movie Office Space. The engineer wrote code for Zulily's checkout page, and allegedly took this opportunity to have $260,000 in shipping fees diverted to his own bank account. He's also been charged with altering prices to buy roughly $41,000 worth of products from the site for "pennies on the dollar." Astute readers will have noticed that this is not how the scheme in Office Space is supposed to work. A classic salami-slicing tactic, the movie scheme involves manipulating software to ensure that fractions of cents from financial transactions are diverted into a secret account. Gus Gorman, Richard Pryor's character, tries a similar scam in Superman 3. In Office Space, suspicion is only aroused when a rounding error results in $300,000 being dumped into the secret account all at once. The Zulily theft seems to have involved the full amount of each shipping fee being taken, resulting in a similar amount being taken in a single month. Unsurprisingly, this was noticed by Zulily, and a team was put together to investigate. Funnily enough, the engineer who was later arrested was part of that team. His involvement was apparently uncovered when a document was found on his computer that detailed a plan to alter logs of audits and alarms to cover up evidence of theft. It was called "OfficeSpace project".  When investigators arrived at the engineer's house, they found delivery boxes from Zulily piled up outside his door. He'd ordered over 1,000 items from the site, which specializes in brand name goods aimed at young mothers. We're not exactly talking Richard Pryor buying a Ferrari with his ill-gotten gains here.  Given that Pryor's character gets caught, and the protagonists of Office Space also arouse suspicion almost immediately, it seems like criminals aren't paying enough attention to these movies. Even small amounts of missing money get noticed by accountants, who are famously detail-oriented sticklers who are paid to keep track of the little things. And also the big things—like $260,000 worth of shipping fees and $41,000 worth of baby goods piled up in an employee's driveway. Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team. Jody's first computer was a Commodore 64, so he remembers having to use a code wheel to play Pool of Radiance. A former music journalist who interviewed everyone from Giorgio Moroder to Trent Reznor, Jody also co-hosted Australia's first radio show about videogames, Zed Games. He's written for Rock Paper Shotgun, The Big Issue, GamesRadar, Zam, Glixel, Five Out of Ten Magazine, and Playboy.com, whose cheques with the bunny logo made for fun conversations at the bank. Jody's first article for PC Gamer was about the audio of Alien Isolation, published in 2015, and since then he's written about why Silent Hill belongs on PC, why Recettear: An Item Shop's Tale is the best fantasy shopkeeper tycoon game, and how weird Lost Ark can get. Jody edited PC Gamer Indie from 2017 to 2018, and he eventually lived up to his promise to play every Warhammer videogame. List of the UK's richest game devs and influencers puts Garry's Mod creator neck-and-neck with Rockstar founders, but the richest of all is a different pair of gaming brothers worth £12.5 billion About half—50 in total—of Hi-Fi Rush developer Tango Gameworks' staff will be taken on by new publisher Krafton Today's Wordle answer for Sunday, August 18 PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 