
          
            June 24, 2023 at 12:00 p.m.
          

          
         by 



Community submission An age-old expression says workers are only as good as their tools. Even the most talented people will struggle to get the job done without the proper tools, especially in the automotive industry, which requires a pretty large-sized toolbox of wrenches and ratchets, pliers and prybars. To make sure future auto technicians have the tools they need to succeed, seven local automotive groups, representing more than 20 automotive brands in the area, created the Automotive Toolkit Initiative, according to a news release. They wanted to help Chattanooga State's TCAT (Tennessee College of Applied Technology) students in the Automotive Technology program. The group raised $81,000, enough to supply 15 fully stocked toolkits for students' use, the release stated. The toolkits include all the tools of the trade for any automotive technician and come stored in a giant seven-drawer tool cabinet for proper tool care and storage. But the automotive groups behind the Toolkit Initiative went even further than that. They also plan to provide mentorship and job search support, the release stated. Chattanooga State's Toolkit Initiative recently won the Silver Star of Excellence Award by American Technical Education Association in collaboration with the National Technical Honor Society. This award recognizes a business (or group of businesses) that shows the greatest support of technical education, according to the release. Automotive groups participating in the award-winning initiative include: Acura of Chattanooga, Bowers Automotive Group, Capital Toyota/Lexus of Chattanooga, Crown Automotive Group, Integrity Automotive Group, Mountain View Auto Group and Sonic Automotive Group. Chris Lykins Chattanooga State Copyright © 2024, Chattanooga Times Free Press, Inc. All rights reserved. This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Chattanooga Times Free Press, Inc. Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2024, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.