A woman was stabbed eight times by her boyfriend, who was visiting from Illinois, at a Scottsdale hotel for the Fourth of July holiday, according to court documents. The man was identified by authorities as Aidan Andrew Theis, 18. Theis was arrested Friday on suspicion of attempted first-degree murder, aggravated assault causing a serious injury, aggravated assault with a deadly weapon and disorderly conduct. The unidentified woman was hospitalized for several wounds and lacerations. including a punctured lung, according to court records. According to Scottsdale police, her injuries were serious, but not life-threatening, and she is expected to survive. Just before 3 a.m. Thursday, the Scottsdale Police Department received an emergency call about a stabbing from the lobby staff at Scottsdale Sonesta Suites Hotel, near East Doubletree Ranch and North Scottsdale roads. The front desk clerk told police a woman came running into the lobby, bleeding from her neck and back, and said she had been stabbed, according to arrest records. During a later interview with police, the woman told officers that she was at the hotel visiting Theis, whom she identified as her boyfriend. Theis flew to Arizona on June 22 and was planning to stay through the holiday, according to court documents. The woman told police she and Theis argued throughout the day Wednesday and at some point, she went to sleep. She told police that around 2:45 a.m. on Thursday, she woke up in pain and saw Theis holding a knife, telling her she was "okay," court documents say. Theis told police after he was arrested that he and the women first met playing online games and they had been in a relationship for two years. He told police that a few months ago, she flew to Illinois to visit him and at the time, he found videos on her phone showing her giving oral sex to another man. Theis said he and the victim had an argument about the videos, but they later got back together, according to court records. Theis told officers during his interview that he stabbed her after she fell asleep because he was still upset about the videos and he thought about killing her for some time. He told officers he watched a movie while his girlfriend slept next to him and thought about killing her during the movie. When the movie ended, "I decided to attempt to take her life," Theis told police, according to arrest documents. According to court documents, Theis previously threatened to kill the victim if she left him. Theis said he took a knife from the room's kitchen area and held it for about 10 minutes while he thought about "taking her life," according to court documents. He then walked to his girlfriend while she was asleep and tried to "cut her throat," records say. After the woman woke up and realized Theis had stabbed her, she wrestled the knife from him and was able to run out of the room. Officers and paramedics found her with stab wounds on her neck, back and side of her torso. Scottsdale police took her to the hospital to receive treatment for her injuries. Theis also told police after she woke up, he asked her if she was okay and told her "I'm sorry," according to arrest documents. He then continued to stab her until she took the knife away from him. Theis tried to flee from the scene and ran down a stairwell while wearing only his underwear, but police found him shortly after at a parking lot east of the hotel, according to court documents. Theis had what seemed like dried blood on his hands and legs. Later DNA samples showed the blood was from the victim, according to court records. Theis also had multiple lacerations on his right ring finger and pinky from the struggle over the knife, court records say. Theis was then arrested and booked into jail "without incident," according to arrest documents. He was scheduled to appear in court on July 7 and was being held on a $125,000 bond. SUBSCRIBE TODAY:  Act now, to get the best in local journalism. Subscribe at https://subscribe.azcentral.com/offers. This article originally appeared on Arizona Republic: Illinois man arrested in girlfriend's stabbing at Scottsdale hotel New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.