
The dealership's annual event was host to South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem and top industry partners
 
Sonic Automotive, Inc. ("Sonic'' or the "Company") ((SAH), a Fortune 500 Company and one of the nation's largest automotive retailers, today announced another successful "Rally at Exit 55" hosted by Black Hills Harley-Davidson during the 2023 Sturgis Motorcycle Rally last month. The Company acquired Black Hills Harley-Davidson and its four sister dealerships in the Rapid City, South Dakota area in February 2023. Black Hills Harley-Davidson is western South Dakota's only full-service Harley-Davidson dealership and is best known for hosting "The Rally at Exit 55" during the Annual Sturgis Motorcycle Rally, an iconic destination for approximately 500,000 Harley-Davidson enthusiasts each year.

 This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231003390589/en/ Aerial photo of Black Hills Harley-Davidson during the 2023 Rally at Exit 55. (Photo: Business Wire) 
Over the past 22 years, Black Hills Harley-Davidson has hosted the popular Rally at Exit 55 during the annual Sturgis Motorcycle Rally. The Rally at Exit 55 is the premier shopping destination for rallygoers, providing access to 120 of the industry's top brands. The Rally at Exit 55 allows attendees to purchase quality new and pre-owned Harley-Davidson motorcycles, have genuine Harley-Davidson parts and accessories installed on-site, purchase Harley-Davidson motor clothes, receive service on motorcycles driven to the event, and enjoy camaraderie with other Harley-Davidson enthusiasts and industry partners.

 
Out of the estimated 500,000 rallygoers at the 2023 Sturgis Motorcycle Rally this year, Black Hills Harley-Davidson hosted 150,000 people who visited the Rally at Exit 55 to experience the premier Harley-Davidson shopping environment. Despite a few days of less-than-optimal weather conditions for riders and attendees, Black Hills Harley-Davidson sold 550 new and pre-owned motorcycles, making it one of the highest-volume rally events in the dealership's history.

 
"We are grateful for the Harley-Davidson community and the support we receive each year from attendees as we host the Rally at Exit 55. This event is successful due to the efforts of teammates at Black Hills Harley-Davidson and our surrounding dealerships, the communities of Rapid City and Sturgis, South Dakota, fantastic vendor partners, and incredible support from Harley-Davidson," said Al Rieman, General Manager of Black Hills Harley-Davidson.

 
The Rally at Exit 55 has a large fan following, including South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem, who stopped by the dealership with her new Harley-Davidson motorcycle purchased from Black Hills Harley-Davidson to meet rallygoers this year.

 
"It was an honor to have Governor Noem visit our dealership and show her support for the Rally at Exit 55 and the Harley-Davidson brand which has a deep history in our community," Rieman said.

 
"We are incredibly proud of Al, the entire team at Black Hills Harley-Davidson, and our surrounding dealerships for their work each year to host the popular Rally at Exit 55," said David Smith, Chairman and CEO of Sonic Automotive. "Months of planning and preparation, along with strong partnerships with vendors and Harley-Davidson made 2023 another great year for rallygoers and our teammates."

 
"Our team at Black Hills Harley-Davidson continues to exceed expectations year after year with their planning and execution of a fantastic shopping experience for rallygoers," said Jeff Dyke, President of Sonic Automotive. "Our teammates have established a reputation for top-notch motorcycle and accessory sales and service during the multi-week event, which keeps guests coming back each year."

 
About Sonic Automotive
 
Sonic Automotive, Inc., a Fortune 500 company based in Charlotte, North Carolina, is on a quest to become the most valuable diversified automotive retail and service brand in America. Our Company culture thrives on creating, innovating, and providing industry-leading guest experiences, driven by strategic investments in technology, teammates, and ideas that ultimately fulfill ownership dreams, enrich lives, and deliver happiness to our guests and teammates. As one of the largest automotive and powersports retailers in America, we are committed to delivering on this goal while pursuing expansive growth and taking progressive measures to be the leader in these categories. Our new platforms, programs, and people are set to drive the next generation of automotive and powersports guest experiences. More information about Sonic Automotive can be found at www.sonicautomotive.com and ir.sonicautomotive.com.

  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231003390589/en/ © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.