WEATHER ALERT Sarah Spivey, KSAT Weather Authority Meteorologist Mia Montgomery, KSAT Weather Authority Meteorologist Published: December 9, 2022 at 10:31 AM Sarah Spivey, KSAT Weather Authority Meteorologist Mia Montgomery, KSAT Weather Authority Meteorologist SAN ANTONIO – It’s here! Friday morning brought our first recording of mountain cedar to the pollen count this season. So perhaps your eyes are feeling a bit itchy? Maybe your throat is sore? Sinuses stuffed up? Recommended Videos No matter how you feel it, many of us will battle through mountain cedar season — which runs from December through February every year. Get weekly updates from the KSAT Weather Authority by subscribing to the free Whatever the Weather newsletter. Technically, mountain cedar trees aren’t cedar trees at all! The plant we know as “mountain cedar” is actually ashe juniper (juniperus ashei). Around Texas, ashe juniper trees mainly grow in the Hill Country, with male trees pollinating late in the year. By December, wind can easily pick up the tree pollen, spreading the irritating pollen grains across South Central Texas. By Valentine’s Day, most of the tree pollen has blown from the trees or is washed out of the air, and cedar season comes to an end. It’s important to note that although ashe juniper cause literal and figurative headaches for millions of Texans, the trees are still very beneficial to our local ecosystem. Female mountain cedar trees produce berries, which feed many different birds and other wildlife. Because pollen grains are so light, they are easily transported by the wind. Cold fronts are very common between December and February, when winds pick up from the north. That means that anytime a cold front moves across the Hill Country into San Antonio, you can expect the mountain cedar count to become elevated. Because everyone reacts differently to a mountain cedar allergy, most allergists suggest using many different treatments. Try consistently taking an allergy pill or using a nasal spray. Allergy drops are also helpful for many. When all else fails, allergy shots from a specialist is another option. Every morning, on KSAT 12 & KSAT.com, Your Weather Authority reports the pollen count. To understand more about the pollen count process, check out this nifty article: How does the pollen count for San Antonio work? Copyright 2022 by KSAT - All rights reserved. Sarah Spivey is a San Antonio native who grew up watching KSAT. She has been a proud member of the KSAT Weather Authority Team since 2017.

Sarah is a Clark High School and Texas A&M University graduate. She previously worked at KTEN News. 


When Sarah is not busy forecasting, she enjoys hanging out with her husband and cat, and playing music. email facebook twitter Meteorologist Mia Montgomery joined the KSAT Weather Authority Team in September 2022. As a Floresville native, Mia grew up in the San Antonio area and always knew that she wanted to return home. 

She previously worked as a meteorologist at KBTX in Bryan-College Station and is a fourth-generation Aggie. email facebook twitter instagram Recommended Videos Cookie Preferences If you need help with the Public File, call (210) 351-1200. At KSAT, we are committed to informing and delighting our audience. In our commitment to covering our communities with innovation and excellence, we incorporate Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to enhance our news gathering, reporting, and presentation processes. Read our article to see how we are using Artificial Intelligence. Copyright © 2024 KSAT.com is managed by Graham Digital and published by Graham Media Group, a division of Graham Holdings.