NEW JERSEY— Allergy season in New Jerseycould drag on longer than usual this year. Right now, maple, juniper, and poplar trees are dropping pollen, according to a well-regarded ZIP Code-level allergy tracker that is updated daily.  New Jersey may not be home to the worst places for allergies in the country – the Garden State was left off of the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America (AAFA)’s 2023 “Allergy Capitals” list – but residents will still be reaching for those eye drops and antihistamines this year. Pollen.com, operated by the health and wellness company IQVIA, says almost a quarter of the country is experiencing medium to high levels of pollen from trees, typically the first and most prominent pollen producers in the spring. Grass pollen kicks up in the late spring and early summer, and toward the end of summer and early fall, weed pollen takes over. Some 50 million Americans are affected by seasonal allergies. Pollen season starts 20 days earlier and can last about 10 days longer, and there’s 21 percent more pollen in the air than three decades ago, according to research from the Agriculture Department and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The higher pollen counts and longer pollen seasons are the result of climate change, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Weather conditions such as rain, wind and temperature greatly affect the severity of pollen seasons, AccuWeather senior meteorologist Alan Reppert said in the private weather company’s recent spring 2023 spring allergy forecast. Here’s a look at what to expect in New Jersey and when to expect it, according to AccuWeather: Tree pollen: Peaking in mid-April and will be about average.Grass pollen: Will peak in mid-June and be average.Weed pollen: Weed pollen will peak in September, and be high this year. AccuWeather’s Reppert said weed pollen will be a problem along the entire East Coast as an increase in moisture and temperatures creates ideal conditions for weeds to thrive. It’s shaping up to be a bad season in the interior West, too. The Dakotas, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa and eastern Nebraska should see below average weed pollen, while everyone else can expect an average season. “It’s really going to increase here as we get into September, and any tropical moisture that may come into the area or any storms that come in over the plains and from the north, that could really help to increase any of the weed pollen that we’re seeing,” he said. In general, tree pollen is expected to be the worst in the Pacific Northwest through early May. The Southeast saw tree pollen reaching peak levels in March. Other areas of the country will see normal levels of tree pollen, and it will be lower than normal in Southwest and Northern Plains states. Allergy sufferers in a large swath of the country extending from the Great Lakes to the Gulf Coast, including Mid-Atlantic states, should brace for a nasty grass pollen season, Reppert said. The Northwest could see high grass pollen levels as well, while -people living in areas from the Southwest through the Northern Plains can expect a lower-than-average grass pollen season. Everyone else, including people in the Northeast, can expect an average grass pollen season. Confused by seasonal allergy lingo? Here are a few keywords to watch for when you find yourself with a case of spring sniffles: Here are some suggestions to nip allergies in the literal bud, according to the Mayo Clinic: Here are a few other things you can do to head off an allergic reaction: Patch’s national desk contributed to this report. Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.