Total sales for Sonic Frontiers have surpassed 2.5 million units, SEGA announced.  Sonic Frontiers launched for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC via Steam on November 8. Here is an overview of the game, via SEGA: In Sonic Frontiers, Sonic, Tails, and Amy set off on a new adventure in a mysterious new land searching for the missing Chaos Emeralds. Players will battle hordes of powerful enemies as they explore a breathtaking world of action, adventure, and mystery. Sonic fans can accelerate to new heights and experience the thrill of high-velocity, open-zone platforming freedom as they race across the Starfall Islands with no predetermined path. Within the open-zone landscape, players can complete side quests, solve puzzles, scale enormous structures, go fishing, and test their 3D platforming skills in Cyber Space. With nothing but a handful of questions and a disembodied voice to guide him, Sonic sets out to save his friends and the enigmatic inhabitants of the Starfall Islands from a colossal, mechanized threat. In addition, to make Sonic Frontiers more exciting, SEGA will provide multiple free downloadable content that will add many new elements, playable characters, modes, and costumes. The first piece of downloadable content will be Sonic’s Holiday Cheer Costume, free on December 21, 2022. SEGA is committed to making every effort to ensure a long and enjoyable experience for our players. Sonic Frontiers is the newest addition to the growing portfolio of Sonic media initiatives, including projects like the upcoming Netflix animated series Sonic Prime, Paramount’s Sonic the Hedgehog films, and a collection of high-speed action games since 1991. (Image via.) August 19 @ 6:00 pm - 6:10 pm  EDT  August 20 @ 10:00 am - 10:30 am  EDT  August 20 @ 1:30 pm - 4:00 pm  EDT  August 20 @ 4:30 pm - 5:00 pm  EDT  © Copyright Gematsu 2008 to 2023. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without acknowledgment of Gematsu is prohibited. Use of this site is governed by all applicable laws. Website by 44 Bytes