Action News Jax Now  JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Pine pollen season is officially underway and allergy sufferers are starting to feel it across Northeast Florida. Yellow dust found on cars or any other outdoor surface is a reminder that allergy season has begun. Amelie Peterson faces an ongoing battle with allergies. She says over the last two years, she’s been more sensitive to pollen. “I get a really bad runny rose or like my eyes will start to water, and I get a headache,” said Peterson. “I have a good few weeks where I’m just a stuffy mess.” Action News Jax spoke with Doctor Paul Radabaugh, who said 19 million Americans suffer from pollen allergies. He says most of the key symptoms to look out for are sneezing, a stuffy nose, and itchy, watery eyes. Paul said when it comes to differentiating between allergies and any other cold or flu- a fever is the biggest clue. “Fevers will not come with allergies,” said Radabaugh. “Complete loss of taste or smell, we’d want to be seen by a primary care or some sort of medical professional.” Action News Jax checked the National Allergy Bureau pollen count. The most recent count as of last Monday, specifically for pine trees was 249. That is considered high on the scale. The immune system’s response to pollen is what Radabaugh said causes allergies. “That response is usually led by histamine, and it creates kind of a slew of symptoms that we know today as seasonal allergies,” said Radabaugh. He said over-the-counter medicines are a good treatment option. “The nice part is that we can tropically treat a lot of these things, but it takes that consistency for you to get that benefits long-term,” said Radabaugh. [SIGN UP: Action News Jax Daily Headlines Newsletter] Click here to download the free Action News Jax news and weather apps, click here to download the Action News Jax Now app for your smart TV and click here to stream Action News Jax live. © 2024 Cox Media Group. This station is part of Cox Media Group Television. Learn about careers at Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices. 