Our website is temporarily unavailable in your location. We are working hard to get it back online. New images from the sixth and final season of The Crown, which will air on Netflix next month, have left fans questioning the appearance of a young Prince Harry in the show. Prince Harry has faced another blow after Netflix released their first-look images of the sixth and final upcoming season of The Crown, according to a royal writer. The new pictures show a fictional Princess Diana, portrayed by Elizabeth Debicki, a few months before her death on a private yacht in a pink bathing suit, while another snap shows her sitting in a car with Dodi Fayed, who was the other passenger that died in the 1997 car crash that killed the royal. There are also family snaps that show the former Princess of Wales embracing her two sons, Prince Harry and Prince William and a picture of Harry, William and then Prince Charles walking their dog Widgeon along the banks of the River Dee at Balmoral Castle. The real life moment took place in the summer of 1997, just three weeks before Diana's fatal trip to Paris which she sadly never returned from, the Express reports. However, the reason why that particular picture attracted so much attention from royal fans was due to the inaccurate appearance of a young prince Harry. According to news.com.au royal writer Daniela Elsner, Fflyn Edwards, the actor who plays the Duke of Sussex in the show, looks nothing like the young royal but every bit as similar as Harry Potter's Ron Weasley. In response to the newly emerged snap, she wrote "poor Harry" and said the portrayal is something of a "pantomime". Royal fans also seemed to picked up on the similarities between Edwards and the fictional wizard character too as one said on X:" Prince Harry looks too much like Ron Weasley. Bad casting. Ugh."  Many others said that the actor looks nothing like Harry as they suggested that the streaming giant may be deliberately trolling him. The Crown's controversial sixth season will be released in two parts with the first four episodes being launched on November 16 and the remaining six coming out on December 14. The first half of the season will cover the final months of Diana's life as well as her tragic death in August 1997. The second part will focus on the late Queen's life as she approaches her Golden Jubilee, the marriage of King Charles and Queen Camilla and the blossoming romance of a young Prince William and Kate Middleton. Join the Daily Record's WhatsApp community here and get the latest news sent straight to your messages. The controversial scenes that show Diana's last moments have been largely criticised with producers saying they will do all they can to ensure the subject of the princess' death is handled "sensitively". Sources say that Prince William is 'sickened' by the show's final season and is angry with his younger brother for maintaining his partnership with Netflix who have "ruthlessly exploited" the royals. Get the latest celebrity gossip and telly news sent straight to your inbox. Sign up to our daily Showbiz newsletter here.