
 We're more than halfway through 2023 and PS5 supplies are still in high demand. Despite the shortage in semiconductors, retailers are selling Sony's console faster than everyone expected. If you're in Australia, you can check several trusted stores to score a great PlayStation 5 deal. It's better to be early than later if you're planning to purchase the console at checkout. During the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, more people are looking for PS5 units because most of them are just staying indoors.  With the high demand on the line, Sony needs to keep up with the pace. Still, it struggled to chase its target numbers that can cater to the needs of the customers. In Australia, the PS5 disc model's price has increased from AU$ 749 to AU$ 799. If you want a cheaper version, you can opt for the digital model which currently sits at AU$649.95 (originally AU$599.95). Hunting the PlayStation 5 console feels like a hide-and-seek game for all we know. Some buyers often stumble upon scalpers just to get this gaming machine as soon as possible even if it means getting milked out big time. According to GamesRadar, Sony's console now comes with regular discounts only if you find them in reputable sellers.  The increased pricing is reasonable because of the impact of inflation. Make sure that your hard-earned money won't be put in vain. Go to reputable retailers to get your dream PS5 gaming console. Related Article: Sony PS5 Sales Are Nearly Double Than Xbox Series X/S, New Data Reveals Here are the stores you need to visit if you want to obtain this precious console JB Hi-Fi Expect to see regular PS5 restocks on JB Hi-Fi, but make sure you're eagle-eyed when visiting its online store. Regardless, it's still much better if you can book a slot on a waiting list at the nearest outlet in your area. EB Games While PS5 units are somewhat uncommon for EB games, it sometimes flashes waiting lists for the customers who are interested in buying the console. It's always important to regularly visit its website for updates. Your chance of snagging PS5 will be higher if you walk inside the store. Big W Big W is known for having frequent PS5 supplies. Unfortunately, you have to be quick or else you'll lose the chance to get a unit since the restock only lasts for a minute on average. The Gamesmen It's always good to check its page every once in a while. Who knows you might score your first-ever Christmas present here. Sony Online There's no question that Sony Online remains one of the most reputable PS5 stores in Australia. With a free shipping offer, you can't say no to this pioneer store. Amazon AU Amazon is another big retailer you need to always check. The standalone console only cost AU$ 699 last month, but it shot up to AU$ 796 in the latest update. Still, it's a wise choice to buy on Amazon especially if you're also looking for PS5 accessories. For American buyers, check our latest report about the Spider-Man 2 PS5 plate restock.  Read Also: Best Monitors for PS5 Gamers and What to Consider Before Buying [2023] Sign up for our free newsletter for the Latest coverage!  