Most Popular 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing. When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.  Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers. ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors  thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. When you upgrade your smartphone, you may be interested in a more powerful processor, larger storage, or an upgraded camera system. But with brand-new smartphones demanding thousands of your dollars, it's smart to be on the lookout for deals. As a top US carrier, AT&T emphasizes that both current and potential customers can qualify for a quality deal at all times throughout the year.  Also: The best Verizon deals To ensure you know what the best deals are this month, we rounded up the best AT&T promotions that apply to both old and new customers. Samsung's Galaxy S24 range, the latest in the tech giant's product line, includes the base Galaxy 24 model, Galaxy 24+, and premium Galaxy 24 Ultra. One of the top deals at AT&T is for the mid-range option, the Samsung Galaxy 24+. While its full $1,000 retail price translates into $27.78/month, you can pick up this device for free with the suitable trade-in of an older device. You will need to agree to sign up for a qualifying unlimited plan, but to sweeten the pot, AT&T will throw in free Samsung Galaxy Buds FE earbuds. If you need to pick up more than one handset, choosing a Samsung Galaxy S24 Series model, Galaxy Z Flip5, or Galaxy Z Fold5 means you will receive enough in bill credits to bring down the cost of a secondary Samsung Galaxy S24 to $5.99/month. No trade-in is required. AT&T will also give you a pair of Samsung Galaxy Buds FE for free. As we noted in our hands-on review, the new Google Pixel 8a is a mid-range phone with a flagship-tier display, solid performance, and power packed into a compact design.  This mobile device is currently available for pre-order. AT&T has elected to launch a promotion which means that you can pick up this device for $5.99/month (reduced from $14.45/month) without trade-in. In addition, pre-ordering the Google Pixel 8a will net you a free Pixel Watch 2 and 50% off a pair of Pixel Buds.  Also: Google Pixel 8a hands-on: 3 features make this my favorite $499 phone today If you want a top-tier Android device, Samsung's Galaxy S24 Ultra smartphone will likely interest you. AT&T will give you up to $1,000 off the typical retail price of $1300 with the trade-in of a suitable, older device. You will also need to agree to sign up for an eligible plan. Additionally, AT&T will throw in a pair of free Samsung Galaxy Buds FE. The same promotions as above are available for this handset -- purchasing another eligible Samsung smartphone will allow you to pick up a Samsung Galaxy S24 for $5.99/month without a trade-in.  You can pick up the Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra in four titanium finishes: violet, black, gray, or yellow. If you want a substantial upgrade to your existing iPhone, you can save up to $1,000 when purchasing the Apple iPhone 15 Pro -- in other words, you'll pay nothing beyond your typical usage charges each month. Retailing for $999 at the entry storage level (128GB), you can pick up the device for free when you trade in a suitable device. The discount is applied in bill credits over 36 months. The iPhone 15 Pro is available in black, natural, blue, or white titanium. With any purchase of an Apple iPhone, if you add a 9th-gen iPad and/or Apple Watch SE to your basket, you can enjoy these devices for only $0.99/month.  If you're more interested in a flip phone, AT&T has an interesting deal on the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5.  You can pick up the flip phone for free if you trade in an eligible device (up to $1,000 in bill credits) and sign up for or maintain a suitable line. If you purchase a qualifying device, AT&T will provide bill credits toward another, bringing down the cost of the Samsung Galaxy S24 to $5.99/month. Four colors are available: mint green, lavender, cream, or graphite. Plus, the company will give you free Samsung Galaxy Buds FE earbuds.  Samsung's Galaxy Z Fold 5 has outer 6.2-inch and inner 7.6-inch displays, a Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 mobile processor, and up to 512GB storage.  At AT&T, customers can take advantage of a discount of up to $1,000 with the trade-in of an old, eligible device, granting you the device for free. A second device, a Samsung Galaxy S24, can also be yours for $5.99/month with the purchase of a Samsung Z Fold 5. In addition, Samsung Galaxy Buds FE are yours, for free. The Motorola Razr+ is a sleek, foldable smartphone and a great alternative to an Apple, Samsung, or Google device. If you order this product via AT&T on a suitable plan, you will receive this mobile device for only $2.99 per month, with savings applied in bill credits. No trade-in is required. The Motorola Razr+ comes with 256GB storage. When we made our selection for the best AT&T deals, we wanted to include options based on the following criteria:  It's true that carriers are the most aggressive with their offers when it's year-end and new customers are shopping around for services to switch to. Still, AT&T has done a fairly balanced job of pushing promotions for new and existing customers, including all the deals we have listed above. If you've been a loyal customer, we'd even recommend reaching out to your local AT&T provider to see if there are any exclusive deals just for you. In general, there is no difference in how much money you save whether you shop online or in stores. Instead, deciding between the two really boils down to your preference for transactions. With how complicated carrier phone deals can be, you may be better off heading down to the local AT&T store and consulting with a product expert to help you navigate the fine print. Otherwise, shopping online can be faster and more convenient. ZDNET experts split out the latest and greatest deals for you below.