Brands Discover Events Newsletter More The Captable SMB Story HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS life YS Hindi YS Tamil YSTV Daily Newsletter By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign In Founder first  Just In  Brands  Resources  YSTV  Events  Newsletter  Stories  Brands Resources Stories General In-Depth Announcement Reports News Funding Startup Sectors Women in tech Sportstech Agritech E-Commerce Education Lifestyle Entertainment Art & Culture  Travel & Leisure Curtain Raiser Wine and Food YSTV The CapTable HerStory Social Story Enterprise Story The Decrypting Story YS Life YS Hindi YS Tamil practo microsoft ola swiggy zomato uber delhivery amazon cred nykaa Glossary Everything AI How-to’s knowledge base Opinion TechSparks Bengaluru 2024 List Your Startup Startup Spotlight Pitch To Us Browse Startups Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox. Subscribe I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website. Wednesday January 18, 2023 , 2 min Read Logistics startup ﻿Delhivery﻿ has launched the Delhivery Training and Recruitment Programme to empower young jobseekers to build a career in the logistics industry. The programme ensures guaranteed jobs for recruits in entry and mid-level operational roles.  The company will conduct a national entrance exam with an initial focus on 25 Tier II and Tier III cities, including Ganganagar, Ujjain, Kurur, Purulia, and Srinagar, among others, on February 19, 2023, to select candidates for a five-week training programme in Gurugram.   Candidates between the ages of 22 and 32, are 10th/12th pass or diploma holders and have basic English reading and writing abilities are eligible to apply for the programme. "The initiative is in line with our long-term vision to connect with talent across the country and create secure employment opportunities in one of the fastest-growing sectors in India," Pooja Gupta, Chief Human Resources Officer, Delhivery, said.   The training will be both classroom and practical in-centre, covering subjects such as operational processes, software tools, soft skills, and people management.   After the training is completed, Delhivery will onboard the recruits for open managerial roles at its facilities across India.  "Our five-week training is a comprehensive, in-house programme designed by Delhivery Academy, focused on creating a ready talent pool in logistics. The depth and breadth of the programme will empower the youth with all the necessary skills to excel in logistics," Suraju Dutta, Head of Delhivery Academy, said.  Edited by Suman Singh 1 2 Is Tier 3 India Ready for Its Own DMart? 3 Foxconn working on plans to set up battery energy storage system unit in India 4 EQT Private Capital Asia’s Mid-Market Growth Fund raises $1.6B
 5 Rare Rabbit raises Rs 150 Cr from A91 Partners, Nikhil Kamath-backed NkSquared, and others
