It’s almost summertime—(yeah, where has the time gone?!) As E3 is canceled, don’t fret; there will be plenty of exciting video game announcements and reveals to come this June. From IGN’s own Summer of Gaming event to the Xbox Showcase, be sure to mark your calendars accordingly so you don’t miss a beat. Here are 10 of the biggest events you can look forward to this summer, with more details to come!   IGN's Summer of Gaming is returning for its fourth year this June for a multi-day event filled with tons of game and developer content. IGN is excited to share exclusive reveals, interviews and more; (see what was announced last year). As part of our Summer of Gaming programming, tune in on June 8th for Geoff Keighley's Summer Game Fest stream and all of our analysis! Guerilla Collective’s Showcase will officially kick off June’s games events on June 7th. If it’s anything like last year, there’s a “truckload” of announcements to expect. There were a whopping 40 new trailers and game announcements from Guerrilla Collective in 2022!   We're proud to bring you the official date of the amazing Guerrilla Collective event we have planned this summer: ? Wednesday, June 7th @ 9AM PST | 6PM CET! More info below:➡️ https://t.co/lj68oroG0y pic.twitter.com/p8JidwbnGQ— Guerrilla Collective (@GuerrillaCollec) April 19, 2023 Summer Game Fest is still on for 2023, and has been confirmed for Thursday, June 8, Noon PT/3p ET. It’s once again a free livestream hosted by Geoff Keighley, with big partners and anticipated announcements to come throughout June 8th-9th.  Be sure to check back here on IGN.com for the Summer Game Fest stream and catch our real-time reactions as part of June’s Summer of Gaming event!  See what’s next in video games when @summergamefest goes live!?Thursday, June 8, Noon PT/3p ET?Free livestream from @youtubetheater pic.twitter.com/cxpZlQk0fq— Summer Game Fest (@summergamefest) March 30, 2023 Future Games Show (FGS) is still a go for June 10th and is one of Future’s three total gaming showcases of the year. If you’re wondering what Future Games Show is all about, FGS debuted in 2020 with a mission “to celebrate the most exciting, unusual and innovative upcoming games across all formats”. For June 2023, you can expect gameplay footage from indies and the like, with some new surprises and “tweaks to the show format” according to their site. Final Fantasy fans can anticipate a pre-launch celebration stream for FFXVI on June 11 at 3:00 p.m. PT / 6:00 p.m. ET, hosted by Square Enix. More details to come, but you’ll definitely want to mark your calendars for this special sneak peek around the 16th chapter of this anticipated franchise release (June 22). Catch up on the latest Final Fantasy 16 Showcase from Sony State of Play. Pre-Order Final Fantasy XVI and see what comes in each edition. PS5 Release Date: June 22, 2023 As usual, Xbox will be hosting its summer showcase (and extended showcase again, perhaps?) this June. Here’s what went down last year with almost three dozen games announced during Microsoft's event; from Starfield to Forza Motorsport to Redfall and more! Immediately following the Xbox Showcase will be Starfield Direct. After a couple of delays, Starfield is confirmed to launch in September 2023 for Xbox Series X/S and PC, and people are stoked!  Join us for #StarfieldDirect following the Xbox Games Showcase on Sunday, June 11 https://t.co/Igj84qH7AT— Xbox (@Xbox) March 8, 2023 According to PC Gamer’s announcement, the start time for the PC Gaming Show will be shared at a later date, and will be broadcast on Twitch and other platforms on June 11th.  See the latest from Ubisoft during their livestream on June 12th. Ahead of the event, catch up on everything announced from Ubisoft Forward in Fall 2022 to give you an idea of what’s to come still. Reveals in September 2022 included a sneak peek into the future of Assassin's Creed, Rayman coming to Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope, and Skull and Bones Trailer showing ship customization to name a few. While last year’s summer showcase contained several announcements for the Meta Quest 2 and major VR headsets, this showcase should focus on VR games. Although we’re not likely to get any new VR headset announcements, if VR is your jam, you’ll want to see what VR games will be announced. Timing TBD. You can expect truly wholesome aesthetics shown again this year at the Wholesome Direct event, including new trailers in tandem with new release dates and windows. 2022’s Wholesome Direct event showed off 90+ games in total, with three new games announced including Bubblegum Galaxy. What new cozy games can we look forward to this time around?  Today is your last chance to submit for Wholesome Direct 2023! https://t.co/2WSSDLrNjm— Wholesome Games (@_wholesomegames) March 31, 2023 With a new, big release coming up on May 12th for Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, it’s hard to imagine what fans will care about even more than Zelda come June! This event is TBD at the moment, but there were a ton of announcements from September’s Nintendo Direct event to recap if you need an idea of what news comes from these showcases. Although unconfirmed for now, if Sony comes through again with a showcase in June, we’re likely to see a handful of new reveals for PSVR2 and PS5, along with new character reveals and new looks at upcoming releases like we did in February’s State of Play event. Earlier this year, we got the news about new Street Fighter 6 fighters and saw new Suicide Squad gameplay to name a couple of the bigger highlights.   What are you hoping to see this summer from these gaming events? Let us know in the comments.