A new PlayStation showcase is finally on the way. We're expecting a detailed insight into what the next year of gaming software and hardware will look like for Sony, and fans won't have long to wait as PlayStation has confirmed the showcase will take place on Wednesday May 24th at 1pm Pacific Time/9pm British Time. Looking for some gaming inspiration? We have a detailed guide to to both the best PS5 games and PSVR 2 games. If you've yet to grab yourself this powerhouse of a console, we also have a hub of the best PS5 deals for the best prices wherever you're based. See you soon! PlayStation Showcase broadcasts live next Wednesday, May 24 at 1pm Pacific Time: https://t.co/GZVl6Du3Mu pic.twitter.com/mdvIlLq3PhMay 17, 2023 See more The showcase will be streaming on both the official PlayStation YouTube or Twitch accounts. Youtube usually streams in 1080p at 60fp, so we suggest watch on there to best view gameplay and visuals (although 4K versions of each trailer are usually released immediately after the showcase if you can wait). So what can we expect from this showcase? Well, in the most recent PlayStation press release, details are hazy so far. What we do know is that the showcase will be an impressive hour long, focusing on both news PS5 and PSVR 2 titles. We're really excited to see what comes out of this event, as it seems to be a biggie based on the blog post where Sony tells us to "expect a glimpse at several new creations from PlayStation Studios, as well as spellbinding games from our third-party partners and indie creators."  Does that mean we'll finally get an update on Spider-Man 2 from Insomniac Games? Or the long-awaited Last of Us multiplayer? Who knows, but at least we don't have long to wait. Rumours of everything from God of War DLC to a reboot of Silent Hill and even a remake of Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater have been circulating – we'll have to see what happens next week. We may even get a glimpse at new hardware that could be on the way, like the rumoured PS5 Pro. PlayStation also recently announced an updated gaming controller kit designed for optimised accessibility, so we're expecting a few deeper insights into that in the coming weeks (if not during the showcase itself). The latest PlayStation showcase will take place on Wednesday May 24th at 1pm Pacific Time/9pm British time, and will have a run time of just over an hour. The livestream will be available on both YouTube and Twitch. We generally reccomend watching the stream on YouTube as that's where video will be better quality. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.