
Menu
 
Search

 
Menu
 
Search

 

                                                                                        Hyundai Claims 10% of US EV Market, Closing the Gap with Tesla in 2024                                         

                                                                                        Taco Bell’s Baja Blast Twists Could Be Coming Soon in a Nationwide Rollout                                         

                                                                                        Honduras’ Prospera Special Economic Zone Accepts Bitcoin as Standard Monetary Unit                                         

                                                                                        SEC Approves Terraform Lab’s Co-Founder Do Kwon’s Request to Delay Trial                                         

                                                                                        Ex-Google CEO Turns Arms Dealer, Unleashes AI Attack Drones to Alter Ukraine War                                         

                                                                                        U.S. EV Sales Surge in June, Outpacing Overall Auto Market Growth: Report                                         

                                                                                        Shiba Inu Community Faces New Scam Threat: Fraudsters Impersonate Legit Wallets to Steal SHIB                                         

                                                                                        Weather risk can move markets months in advance                                         

                                                                                        Dubai Court Declares Crypto Salary Legal, Ushering in a Revolutionary Shift for UAE Workers                                         

                                                                                        Samsung Leads the Race to Make CXL Memory the Next Big Thing in AI                                         

                                                                                        Robo-advisers are here – the pros and cons of using AI in investing                                         

                                                                                        Starbucks Korea’s Green Step: NFTs for Sustainable Cup Choices                                         
                                                                                        Biden administration’s negotiated price cuts for 10 common prescription drugs likely to save Medicare billions, beginning in 2026                                         

                                                                                        Colorado Church Tokenizes $2.5M Chapel to Secure Historic Old Stone Church                                         

                                                                                        Air Jordan 17 Low 'UNC' Returns August 28th for $300—Where to Buy 'Diffused Blue'                                         

                                                                                        US Marshals Likely to Sell Silk Road Bitcoin Stash, Expert Predicts                                         

                                                                                        Young investors: Here’s some tips for getting into the market                                                 Photo by: Startale Press Release Telegram Messenger Integrates TON Crypto Wallet; Toncoin Price Surges FTX Trading Ltd. Granted Permission to Liquidate Crypto Assets Worth Over $3.4B Hana Bank, BitGo Forms Alliance for Joint Cryptocurrency Custody Business Sony Network Communications and Startale Labs Pte. Ltd. embark on a joint venture project, aiming to establish a next-generation blockchain, positioning themselves as leaders in the evolving digital landscape. Sony Network will work with Startale Labs as it sets its sights on a business related to blockchain technology. For this project, it has teamed up with the right group, as the latter is a known Web3 infrastructure developer. Moreover, through this blockchain joint venture, their goal is to become a pillar of the new generation of the World Wide Web. As per CoinMarketCap, the Japanese internet service provider and the Singapore-based Web3 firm agreed to create a blockchain network to speed up the worldwide adoption of Web3. This latest cooperation comes just three months after the former invested $3.5 million in Startale Labs. At that time, the companies also appointed Jun Watanabe, President and Representative Director of Sony Network Communications Inc., as a director of the Startale. During the contract signing, they committed to working on revolutionary Web3 applications by developing a sound blockchain infrastructure. It was also noted that this blockchain venture was revealed several months after Sony Interactive Entertainment filed a trademark application to obtain a patent on a technology or system allowing PlayStation players to transfer non-fungible tokens (NFTs) between game titles and consoles. Thus, the Sony Group is diving deeper into the blockchain world. Meanwhile, the Sony Network and Startale Labs joint venture company has been named Sony Network Communications Labs Pte. Ltd, and it will be officially established this month. The exact date of the launch was not revealed. "Following our capital partnership with Sony Network Communications in June and the subsequent announcement of this joint venture, we are looking forward to collaborating more deeply," Startale Lab's chief executive officer, Sota Watanabe, said in a press release. "This joint venture is founded on the synergy of our respective assets and knowledge, aimed at co-developing leading blockchain and its ecosystem. We are determined to discern web3 trends and drive them globally." Sony Network's Jun Watanabe also said, "By combining Sony Network Communications' experience in communication, IoT, AI, and solution services with Startale Labs' insights and technical prowess in Web3, we aspire to create a global infrastructure that underpins the Web3 era, driving innovation across existing industries."   Photo by: Startale Press Release Breathing through your nose when you exercise may make your runs easier Entrepreneurs are facing a mental health crisis — here's how to help them Are fish oil supplements as healthy as we think? And is eating fish better? Will AI kill our creativity? It could – if we don’t start to value and protect the traits that make us human Does AI have a right to free speech? Only if it supports our right to free thought How can I lower my cholesterol? Do supplements work? How about psyllium or probiotics? Why we need to set limits on sperm donation Aging with a healthy brain: How lifestyle changes could help prevent up to 40% of dementia cases Seven techniques to avoid weight regain, approved by experts  
                                                                                                Mark Gonzales’ adidas Aloha Super Lands in 'Burnt Sienna' as Gazelle Indoor Sports Halloween Colors  
                                                                                                Tesla Cybertruck Hits 400-Mile Range with Core Wheels, New Owner Reveals  
                                                                                                McDonald's to Launch Yu-Gi-Oh Happy Meal in August as Pokemon Announces New Toy Line  
                                                                                                U.S. EV Sales Surge in June, Outpacing Overall Auto Market Growth: Report  
                                                                                                Gurman: Apple Intelligence Fails to Impress, Lags Behind Google's Gemini in AI Race  
                                                                                                McDonald’s Brings Back the Beloved Pumpkin and Creme Pie Just in Time for Fall  
                                                                                                Hyundai Claims 10% of US EV Market, Closing the Gap with Tesla in 2024  
                                                                                                Fall Flavors Arrive: New Seasonal Menus from Krispy Kreme, Cracker Barrel, and The Human Bean  
                                                                                                Major crypto levels and bias summary  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Posts Crude Alanis Morissette Parody Attacking Kamala Harris: 'Down on Her Knees' for 2024 Nomination 
Back to Top ▲
 
                        

                        
                        ©Econometrics LLC . All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.                     Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results. Sign up for daily updates for the most important
            stories unfolding in the global economy. 