
																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- PR Newswire)    
Elevai Labs Inc. (PRNewsfoto/Elevai Labs Inc.)
   Former Evolus and Allergan Executive to Support the Company's Mission of Leading the Regenerative Skincare market  NEWPORT BEACH, Calif., Feb. 7, 2023 /PRNewswire/ --elevai labs, inc ., a medical aesthetic biotechnology company specializing in physician-dispensed skincare, proudly announces the addition of Crystal Muilenburg as an independent member of the company's Board of Directors.
Crystal brings more than two decades of experience in marketing, corporate communications, and public relations for global Fortune 500 companies and public-company start-ups. She will play a key role in supporting the ELEVAI management team as it commercializes ELEVAI's flagship exosome product line while driving the market adoption for physician-dispensed topical exosomes.
'I'm thrilled to join ELEVAI as theylead the aesthetics industry and as they establish a new segment of physician-dispensed skincare products harnessing topical exosomes,' shares Muilenburg. 'With a science-first approach, an industry-leading management team, and the market's interest in the novel approach to skin leveraging the power of exosomes, ELEVAI's future is bright.'
Most recently, Crystal served as Chief Marketing Officer for Evolus where she led the re-launch of Jeuveau®1, a disruptor brand to BOTOX® Cosmetic2. Under Crystal's leadership, Jeuveau became one of the fastest-growing neurotoxins in the United States and one of the top product launches in aesthetics history.Prior to Evolus, Crystal was Head of Global Strategic Marketing for Sienna Biopharmaceuticals, a publicly traded, clinical-stage medical dermatology company. Crystal also spent more than a decade at Allergan in various leadership roles in US and International marketing and communications where she gained significant FDA approval and commercial launch experience with the company's flagship BOTOX franchise and leading aesthetics brands.'We are excited to welcome Crystal to ELEVAI's Board,' details ELEVAI Founder, Jordan R. Plews, Ph.D. 'We believe her track record, accomplishments, and science-first approach will help propel ELEVAI in becoming the preferred topical exosome company as this segment continues to grow in interest and demand.'For more information visit elevailabs.comTo find an authorized ELEVAI Skincare Professional follow this link   ABOUT ELEVAI  ELEVAI LABS, INC. is a biotechnology company developing cutting-edge physician-dispensed skincare applications. The company solves unmet needs in the regenerative aesthetics space through a combination of cutting-edge science and next-generation consumer applications. ELEVAI Labs develops state-of-the-art topical aesthetic and medical-grade skin care with a focus on leveraging a proprietary stem cell exosome technology.  Media Contact  Brenda BuechlerChief Marketing Officer[email protected]   Investor Relations Contact  Tyler Troup[email protected]     __________________________     1 Jeuveau is a trademark ofEvolus, Inc.     2 BOTOX a registered trademark ofAllergan Inc.    SOURCE Elevai Labs Inc. MENAFN07022023003732001241ID1105536727   Former Evolus and Allergan Executive to Support the Company's Mission of Leading the Regenerative Skincare market   NEWPORT BEACH, Calif., Feb. 7, 2023 /PRNewswire/ --elevai labs, inc ., a medical aesthetic biotechnology company specializing in physician-dispensed skincare, proudly announces the addition of Crystal Muilenburg as an independent member of the company's Board of Directors. Crystal brings more than two decades of experience in marketing, corporate communications, and public relations for global Fortune 500 companies and public-company start-ups. She will play a key role in supporting the ELEVAI management team as it commercializes ELEVAI's flagship exosome product line while driving the market adoption for physician-dispensed topical exosomes. 'I'm thrilled to join ELEVAI as theylead the aesthetics industry and as they establish a new segment of physician-dispensed skincare products harnessing topical exosomes,' shares Muilenburg. 'With a science-first approach, an industry-leading management team, and the market's interest in the novel approach to skin leveraging the power of exosomes, ELEVAI's future is bright.' Most recently, Crystal served as Chief Marketing Officer for Evolus where she led the re-launch of Jeuveau®1, a disruptor brand to BOTOX® Cosmetic2. Under Crystal's leadership, Jeuveau became one of the fastest-growing neurotoxins in the United States and one of the top product launches in aesthetics history. Prior to Evolus, Crystal was Head of Global Strategic Marketing for Sienna Biopharmaceuticals, a publicly traded, clinical-stage medical dermatology company. Crystal also spent more than a decade at Allergan in various leadership roles in US and International marketing and communications where she gained significant FDA approval and commercial launch experience with the company's flagship BOTOX franchise and leading aesthetics brands. 'We are excited to welcome Crystal to ELEVAI's Board,' details ELEVAI Founder, Jordan R. Plews, Ph.D. 'We believe her track record, accomplishments, and science-first approach will help propel ELEVAI in becoming the preferred topical exosome company as this segment continues to grow in interest and demand.' For more information visit elevailabs.com To find an authorized ELEVAI Skincare Professional follow this link    ABOUT ELEVAI  ELEVAI LABS, INC. is a biotechnology company developing cutting-edge physician-dispensed skincare applications. The company solves unmet needs in the regenerative aesthetics space through a combination of cutting-edge science and next-generation consumer applications. ELEVAI Labs develops state-of-the-art topical aesthetic and medical-grade skin care with a focus on leveraging a proprietary stem cell exosome technology.   Media Contact  Brenda BuechlerChief Marketing Officer[email protected]    Investor Relations Contact  Tyler Troup[email protected]  __________________________ 1 Jeuveau is a trademark ofEvolus, Inc. 2 BOTOX a registered trademark ofAllergan Inc. SOURCE Elevai Labs Inc. MENAFN07022023003732001241ID1105536727 MENAFN07022023003732001241ID1105536727 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN