Dec. 20—It was a sight so rare it might have been historic: a moose — yes, a moose — skipping along Hyde Park Road toward the Ski Santa Fe parking lot on Sunday afternoon. A video captured by a Santa Fe family heading home after a ski trip shows what could be a thousand-pound animal moving in sync with the holiday song "Let It Snow," playing on their car radio when the beast trotted by. "That thing'll kill you," driver Adam Ronan says in the video as the moose passes his car. "We couldn't believe it," added his wife, Theresa Ronan, who sent the video clip to The New Mexican. "We didn't think there should be moose in New Mexico." The sight delighted the couple and their two young sons, Omar and Teddy. Moose sightings remain a rarity in the state, with only about a half-dozen in the past decade. In October and November, however, several people reported seeing a bull moose in areas of Taos and Mora counties. Could it be the same moose that visited the mountains northeast of Santa Fe? Perhaps. "It may not be outside the realm of possibility it is the same one," said Darren Vaughan, a spokesman for the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish. The moose spotted in Mora in November has been tracked moving "gradually south." The Ski Santa Fe moose encounter could be historic, Vaughan added: His department has never recorded a sighting of a moose as far south as Santa Fe. After viewing the footage of the moose, Vaughan said, "That's pretty spectacular." When Ski Santa Fe mountain manager Jack Dant saw the video, he said, "My jaw hit the floor." "I have never in a lifetime of skiing up here and 21 years of working up here seen or heard of a moose," he said. "He looks stressed; he looks scared, and I think he's probably headed for the woods," Dant said of the animal. Moose are found in the northern regions of the United States, from Maine to Washington, throughout Canada and into Alaska. They were introduced to Southern Colorado in 1978, according to the Colorado Parks and Wildlife website. Vaughan said moose that move south from Colorado are usually younger males looking for a new habitat or breeding opportunities. "That's not to say we haven't seen females," Vaughan said. "It's definitely more males than females." Adam Ronan said he and his wife first spotted the moose around 2 p.m. Sunday, coming up the road to the ski basin from a distance of about a quarter-mile. He estimated the animal was moving about 25 mph. "I was amazed at how fast he was moving," Ronan said. As the moose approached, Ronan thought to himself, "Please don't run on top of our car." Omar and Teddy, who enjoy watching animal shows on television, "weren't afraid at all. I think they got a kick out of it," Ronan said. He had assumed someone else would have spotted the moose when it got to the ski basin parking lot and that there would be many photos and videos of the moose on social media sites Monday. He didn't find any. "With all those people around, it probably hid," he said. Vaughan said that was probably best for both the moose and any people who were nearby. Though moose are not a threat to the general public, he said, "they can be dangerous, and if you can avoid approaching them, you should." New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.