Wagner boss Yevgeny Prigozhin profanely mocked Russian President Vladimir Putin in a new video. The military group's leader hinted Putin was a "grandfather" who could turn out to be a "complete asshole." Prigozhin has been stepping up his feud with Russian leadership as Wagner troops are dying in Ukraine. Wagner Group boss Yevgeny Prigozhin took a not-so-subtle swipe at Russian President Vladimir Putin, mocking him during Russia's Victory Day Parade as he complained about ammo shortages on the frontline in Ukraine. In a new video, Prigozhin lamented the progress of Russia's stalled war in Ukraine, rhetorically asking how Moscow will be able to win if their "grandfather" turns out to be a "complete asshole," according to a translation from the Institute for the Study of War. The ISW said Putin is often referred to as "grandfather." Prigozhin releasing the video during Russia's Victory Day Parade is also significant. The parade — which commemorates Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in 1945 — was a scaled-back event, featuring one measly tank, no air force presence, and 8,000 military personnel who weren't actually deployable soldiers. According to ISW, Prigozhin's comments are similar to his previous attempts to "upstage Putin's authority" and could "further erode the norm in Putin's system in which individual actors can jockey for position and influence (and drop in and out of Putin's favor) but cannot directly criticize Putin." Prigozhin also announced Wagner will continue fighting in Bakhmut after he previously threatened to withdraw his troops if Russia's Ministry of Defense didn't send the additional ammunition he requested. He's feuded with Russian generals and leadership in recent weeks as Wagner Group forces — made up of mercenaries and conscripted convicts — have been dying in the fierce fighting around Bakhmut in Ukraine. Read the original article on Business Insider But it's not down to hot weather Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Katie Price's staggering TikTok earnings have been revealed in court, with the glamour model raking in around £100,000 from the platform - but now a judge has ruled that they be suspended. Liam Jones, 14, had been unwell for a while but his symptoms were initially thought to be that of a common virus BBC Breakfast issued a breaking news alert and the programme was paused as Sally Nugent and Ben Thompson issued a warning to viewers EXCLUSIVE: Julia Clark speaks to OK! about how one holiday to Egypt changed her life forever as she embarked on a new romance and later moved to the country to begin a new chapter Spiders are most commonly found in your kitchen and bathroom during this time Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look "We still have hope and will never give up" A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. Jeremy Clarkson has raised concerns about his health after his TV co-star Kaleb Cooper pointed out an unusual change in his appearance.The 64-year-old, who has been managing Diddly Squat Farm for several years, returned from a trip to the South of France, only to have his farm manager remark that Clarkson looked like he might have vitiligo—a chronic autoimmune disorder that causes patches of skin to lose pigment.Fortunately, Clarkson doesn't suffer from the condition but did note that his days of sunbathing are long gone. King Charles's cancer diagnosis was announced six months ago, but the type of cancer he is fighting has never been disclosed for a very specific reason, it has been claimed Katie Price has showcased the results of her latest cosmetic surgery in a new photograph with eldest son Harvey, after recently undergoing a £10,000 facelift in Turkey The security detail has been told their services will not be needed from November. Over the weekend Kesha blessed our Instagram feeds, with not one, but two, new nude selfies, and honestly, we are not worthy. The Northern Irish, 64, star co-hosts the show with Isabel Webster, 41 "A deep water excursion operated by OceanGate." Debbie Duncan has spoken out on rumours her son was involved with a drug cartel As King Charles and Prince Andrew reportedly still disagree over the younger royal's living arrangements, he has been offered the exclusive use of the Queen's old Balmoral cottage A former Russian lawmaker self-exiled in Ukraine is seeking to establish a new political power base right under the nose of Vladimir Putin in Russian territory seized by Kyiv’s forces.Ilya Ponomarev, a 49-year-old ex-politician now on Russia’s list of terrorists and extremists, says the stunning cross-border incursion launched by Kyiv’s forces on Aug. 6 presents a new “political opportunity.” “I’ve been telling Ukrainian authorities for two years that Putin’s power is weak, that nobody is defend