Eli Lev will perform at The Lab this Friday. LIMA — Eli Lev wants to tear down the walls that divide us. The award-winning acoustic singer-songwriter will try to do that in a show at 7 p.m. Friday at The Lab. “I love the Midwest,” the Maryland-based artist who once taught English in the Navajo Nation in northern Arizona said. “I went to university in the Midwest and loved the vibe, so I’m excited to be with my family and friends out here back on the road. This is my first year where I’m touring consistently.” For Lev, whose folk-based sound and four-track EP debut album “Four Directions” were informed by his time in Arizona, his mission comes from his experiences living all over the world. “My music is meant to tear down the boundaries that we think keep us apart and bring us together into a collective experience,” he said. “It is joyous, it is celebratory and it is a testament to our human spirit as individuals. From all my travels around the world, in Arizona, Israel, Andorra and Australia, trying to bring that worldwide view to U.S. audiences is my main mission.” For this tour, though, Lev is promoting his latest EP, “Walk. Talk. Dance. Sing.” “I think it’s about the roller coaster ride of the pandemic and the highs and lows that went along with it,” he said. “So, I’m really excited to share the new songs and the focus.” New material is on the horizon for Lev, as well. “I’ve got a couple new songs coming out this year that are going to be on my next project, so I’m really excited for those,” he said. “One is a song called ‘That Universal Song’ that essentially imagines what it would be like if all the world was singing one song. So I’ll be excited to share a sneak peek of that at the show.” For anyone interested in staying up to date on Lev and even checking out lyrics to his song, his website is eli-lev.com. Tickets for his show at The Lab are on sale now on the venue’s website. IF YOU GO WHAT: Eli Lev in concert WHEN: 7 p.m. Friday WHERE: The Lab, 230 N. Main St., Lima. Tickets are $10 and are available at http://www.thelablima.com. Reach Jacob Espinosa at 567-242-0399. Powered by:  AIM Media Midwest © AIM Media Midwest