Too much notification noise? Here's how to quiet things down on Windows 10. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 On Windows 10, notifications keep you in the loop about things happening around your apps and services, and they also alert you of anything in your system that may require attention. However, each banner that slides out in the bottom-right corner also includes a sound, which can quickly get annoying. If you constantly receive notifications and muting the system volume or disabling notifications completely is not the solution, Windows 10 includes at least two ways to turn off the sound while still being able to see toast notifications. This guide will walk you through the steps to prevent notifications from playing sound using the Settings app on Windows 10. If you want to turn off the sound for notifications, you can quickly do this for each application using the Settings app. To turn off the sound for notifications from the Settings app, use these steps:   After completing the steps, the apps you configured won't play sounds anymore. However, you'll see a banner in the bottom-right corner, and the notification will continue to be listed in Action Center as they arrive. The only caveat with this approach is that you need to configure apps individually, which is fine if you plan to keep a few high-priority apps with sound. However, if you want to mute all the apps, the easiest way is to use Control Panel. All the latest news, reviews, and guides for Windows and Xbox diehards. If you have many apps installed on your computer and don't want to repeat the steps, you can also use the Settings app to turn off the sound for all notifications. To disable the sound for all apps on Windows 10, use these steps:  Once you complete the steps, you'll continue to get toast notifications, and Action Center will work as before. However, you'll not get annoyed with the same sound repeatedly every time a new notification arrives. For more helpful articles, coverage, and answers to common questions about Windows 10 or Windows 11, visit the following resources:   Cutting-edge operating system A refreshed design in Windows 11 enables you to do what you want effortlessly and safely, with biometric logins for encrypted authentication and advanced antivirus defenses. Mauro Huculak has been a Windows How-To Expert contributor for WindowsCentral.com for nearly a decade and has over 15 years of experience writing comprehensive guides. He also has an IT background and has achieved different professional certifications from Microsoft, Cisco, VMware, and CompTIA. He has been recognized as a Microsoft MVP for many years. Windows Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 