What Californians pay on their electric bills is based almost entirely on how much power they consume, with maintenance, grid operation and other expenses built into the rates. That’s a problem, not only because rates in California continue to climb even while state climate policies push people to switch to electric vehicles and appliances. But because energy use does not vary as much by income as you might think, it means that low-income customers end up spending more of their paychecks supporting the utilities' infrastructure than wealthy users. That’s soon going to change. Under Assembly Bill 205, a sweeping energy bill the California lawmakers passed last year, the state Public Utilities Commission is required to adopt fixed monthly charges based on household income for the three big investor-owned utilities to help pay for delivery costs including poles, wires, energy efficiency subsidies and wildfire mitigation, while lowering consumption-based rates. California is breaking new ground with this progressive approach. Using income-based brackets means higher earners would pay more and low-income Californians would not shoulder too much of the burden from home and vehicle electrification. But state regulators shouldn’t go as far as the three big utilities — Southern California Edison, San Diego Gas & Electric and Pacific Gas & Electric — have proposed. Instead, the state should ease into what will be a radical change in how residential customers pay for power. Earlier this month the utilities, consumer advocates, environmental groups and others each submitted proposals for how the new fixed-charge system should be designed. The utilities want higher fixed charges to cover more of their infrastructure and administrative costs. Southern California Edison's proposal, for example, has low-income customers paying between $15 and $20 a month on top of their usage. The monthly charge for middle-income customers would be $51, and $85 for customers in the top 19% of earners. The rates for the amount of electricity used would decrease by about 33%. Consumer and environmental groups proposed a variety of more reasonable alternatives with lower fixed charges. The investor-owned utilities’ use of fixed charges had been capped out of a well-founded concern that assessing an across-the-board fee would discriminate against low-income customers who use less electricity. Climate change necessitated a move from focusing solely on energy conservation to shifting from fossil fuels to electricity generated from wind, solar and other clean, renewable sources. The utilities have pushed to recover more of their costs through fixed charges, and would benefit from the certainty of knowing what they will collect, no matter how much their customers consume. Consumer advocates came to support the idea as long as the charges were graduated by income. There are many details yet to be worked out by the PUC before final approval is expected in 2024. One of the most important will be coming up with a realistic and secure way to verify household income without giving utilities access to customers’ financial information. Whether that’s through a state agency using tax data or an outside party, such as a credit agency, this process should be as automatic, painless and protective of privacy as possible. But if done carefully, this new approach could help customers save money as they replace their gas-fueled cars and furnaces with electric vehicles, heat pumps and other zero-emission technology, and roughly double their household electricity use. To be clear, this plan does nothing to limit the total amount of money utilities are allowed to bill their customers in the future, and the PUC continues to approve massive rate hikes that are making power less affordable. California already has some of the highest electricity rates in the nation. They have roughly doubled over the last decade and are forecasted to rise as much as 26% by 2025. California needs to race toward home and vehicle electrification to confront a worsening climate crisis. If done with care and caution, this redesign of electricity rates and charges can smooth the transition to a zero-emission future and minimize customer backlash. Regulators should take pains to get it right. This story originally appeared in Los Angeles Times. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.