Kidnapping accessory charges have been dropped against Fabian Marta, a crowd-funding contributor to the marketing push for "Sound of Freedom," a movie about child sex trafficking. Marta was one of many who contributed small sums to help market "Sound of Freedom," generating small returns for each investor. The film became a surprise summer hit, earning more than $183 million at the North American box office. Marta was arrested in St. Louis in July and charged by the Missouri Circuit Court as an accessory to kidnapping. On Sept. 25, the circuit court released a memorandum noting a grand jury had determined there was insufficient evidence to obtain a conviction. Christine Bertelson, the circuit court's public information officer, told USA TODAY the case involved "a misunderstanding" between relatives of the children in question. "There was no kidnapping." Marta's attorney, Scott Rosenblum, confirmed his client's release to USA TODAY, but did not provide a statement or further details. St. Louis police did not respond to a request for arrest details. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. The original complaint describes charges consistent with reports that Marta was providing housing to a woman who was in a custody dispute with a relative that involved two minor children. Rosenblum told St. Louis' KMOV4 a week after the arrest that the charges against Marta were "unfounded" because he was merely providing living space to the other suspect in the case in exchange for rehabbing some of the properties Marta owned. USA TODAY has reached out to the film's distributor, Angel Studios, for comment. In early August, shortly after Marta's arrest, Angel co-founder Jeffrey Harmon posted on X, formerly Twitter, distancing the studio from its small investors. "He is one of 6600+ crowd investors. Seriously, who sorted through 6600 names of random people who put a few hundred dollars into P&A funding and cross checked it with local judicial databases?" he wrote. On the day of the grand jury's decision, Marta posted the document on X. His messages said in part: " 'Sound of Freedom' is an important movie, go see it. As far as all the demons out there who are trying to tie me to some (BS) story, here you go. Grand jury could not indict. No crime was ever committed." "Sound of Freedom" is based on the true story of former Homeland Security officer Tim Ballard, who went from federal agent to anti-child sex-trafficking crusader. The movie was written and directed by Alejandro Monteverde. 'Breaks my heart':'Sound of Freedom' director Alejandro Monteverde addresses controversies The independent film, made for a reported $14.5 million, languished for four years without distribution, but was after a crowd-funded marketing campaign organized by Angel Studios. Partly through word of mouth, the movie soon turned into the unexpected hit of summer. Yet the thriller, which features "The Passion of the Christ" star Jim Caviezel as Ballard, became a lightning rod for criticism and a political football. Caviezel made comments on Steve Bannon's podcast that referenced QAnon and adrenochrome, topics that have surfaced in far-right circles, and then Marta made headlines with his arrest. In an August interview with USA TODAY, the film's director said he knew nothing of Marta. "This was crowd-funding where people could give $10 to a max of $500 and there were like 7,000 people, I never knew (Marta) or even know what this case was about. It's like he owned Tesla or Apple stock," Monteverde said. "This has nothing to do with the film itself." More controversy encircled the film when Ballard, who founded an anti-sex trafficking organization called Operation Underground Railroad, left the group in July. In a series of reports about Ballard and his organization, Vice News said the departure was related to sexual misconduct allegations against Ballard. Sources who asked to remain anonymous “because they fear retaliation” told Vice that Ballard invited female employees to act as his “wife” on undercover overseas missions aimed at rescuing young victims of sex trafficking. Ballard would coerce the women into sharing a bed or showering together, claiming that was necessary to fool traffickers, Vice reported. Ballard denied the reports. “As with all of the assaults on my character and integrity over many years, the latest tabloid-driven sexual allegations are false," Ballard said in a statement sent to USA TODAY by The Spear Fund, an anti-human trafficking group. "They are baseless inventions designed to destroy me and the movement we have built to end the trafficking and exploitation of vulnerable children." Despite such controversy, the success of "Sound of Freedom" can in part be credited to it being a solid thriller that some critics praised. In a largely positive review, Variety's Owen Gleiberman wrote, “Let’s assume that, like me, you’re not a right-wing fundamentalist conspiracy theorist looking for a dark, faith-based suspense film ... you needn’t hold extreme beliefs to experience ‘Sound of Freedom’ as a compelling movie that shines an authentic light on one of the crucial criminal horrors of our time, one that Hollywood has mostly shied away from.” Though the movie has a 57% positive rating from Rotten Tomatoes critics, it has a 99% audience score. "Sound of Freedom" will soon be available for home viewing. An exclusive viewing window begins Oct. 13 via the Angel Studios app, followed by digital purchase options on Nov. 3. The movie will be available Nov. 14 on DVD and Blu-ray at major retailers. Digital rental will be available Dec. 15.  Contributing: Bryan Alexander, USA TODAY 'Sound of Freedom':Why Jim Caviezel's controversial child sex trafficking film is a hit