By David Kaminski-Morrow2023-04-25T12:54:00+01:00 UK regulators are proposing the introduction of a ranking system to assess airlines’ ability to support and assist disabled and less-mobile passengers, similar to that which was brought in for airports nearly a decade ago. The UK Civil Aviation Authority has detailed its proposed airline accessibility framework in a consultation document, and is inviting comments on the measure. It says the similar framework introduced for airports in 2014 has driven “improved compliance” with UK legislation and increased the quality of assistance at many airports. “We have been heartened by the positive and constructive way in which airports have embraced the framework and its aims,” it states. Work to extend the initiative to airlines started in 2019 but was interrupted by the disruption from the pandemic, forcing the authority to redo some of the data-gathering when it revived the project last year. “During our work, we have identified some issues that we consider may provide a barrier to access for some passengers,” it says. “We also noted some inconsistencies in the application of operational policies between airlines, often because of varying interpretation of safety rules. Such inconsistencies can create confusion for passengers and potentially reduce choice for disabled and less-mobile passengers.”  Source: British Airways Proposed extension of the accessibility framework to airlines follows positive results at airports It points out that the analysis did not uncover a “sizeable” number of issues, and the authority is generally satisfied by the performance of many carriers surveyed. But it adds that there are “sufficient concerns” for it to proceed with the airline accessibility framework. Under the scheme, airlines would be ranked according to their performance in providing services to affected passengers in a range of areas – including ticket booking, support at the airport, boarding and access on the flight, and handling of complaints. It also sets standards for use of assistance dogs, and gives guidance on handling mobility equipment and dealing with compensation. “Our proposals to introduce this new framework are about holding airlines to account in meeting their obligations to disabled and less mobile passengers across all aspects of their journey,” says Civil Aviation Authority head of consumer Anna Bowles. According to proposals in the consultation document – which is open until 21 July – airlines will be assessed on provision of essential information and website accessibility. The authority highlights that, out of 12 airlines it surveyed most recently, half failed to meet requirements for easy-to-find online information. It adds that passengers need to be told whether the airline with which they book, and the actual operating carrier, have equivalent facilities. Airlines will also need to meet various criteria to achieve the highest rankings in such areas as check-in, medical clearance, accompanying persons, seating and lavatory access, and support during flight disruption. 
2022-12-13T10:44:00Z
By David Kaminski-Morrow
 London Luton has been singled-out by the UK aviation regulator as providing poor service for reduced-mobility passengers, and – unlike other airports in the country – failing to improve over the course of this year. The UK Civil Aviation Authority has revealed its verdict in an interim accessibility report, running ... 
2022-06-28T11:18:00Z
By David Kaminski-Morrow
 Lack of capacity on a special-assistance vehicle during disembarkation preceded a reduced-mobility passenger’s fall from the staircase attached to an Air France Airbus A350-900 at Paris Charles de Gaulle, investigators have determined. The passenger was hospitalised with a broken arm and head injury after falling from the stairs on 29 ... 
2024-08-20T00:16:00Z
By Jon Hemmerdinger
 Boeing confirms it has halted flight tests of its entire 777-9 test fleet after discovering the failure of an engine-related structural component, marking a setback to the widebody’s already delayed certification programme. 
2024-08-19T18:13:00Z
By David Kaminski-Morrow
 Iberia has reached an agreement with Spanish cockpit union SEPLA under which pilots will be rewarded if the carrier achieves operational as well as financial targets. The pact will run until the end of 2027 rather than 2025. Pilots will receive additional income tied to Iberia’s earnings, says the carrier. ... 
2024-08-19T16:00:00Z
By Graham Dunn
 Kenya Airways posted its first interim net profit in over a decade during the first six months of the year, as revenues increased by more than one-fifth. 
2024-08-19T08:21:00Z
By David Kaminski-Morrow
 Two aircraft in the fleet of Canadian freight specialist Cargojet were damaged by a recent hailstorm, the company has revealed, although it expects both to return to service within a short time. Cargojet co-chief Jamie Porteous, speaking during a 14 August first-half briefing, stated that a Boeing 767 wet-leased to ... FlightGlobal is the global aviation community’s primary source of news, data, insight, knowledge and expertise. We provide news, data, analytics and advisory services to connect the aviation community globally and help organisations shape their business strategies, identify new opportunities and make better decisions faster. Site powered by Webvision Cloud