It does not receive public fundingEditor in chief: CLARA MOSCHINI The German group Lufthansa within this week could formalize its offer to acquire a stake in the capital of the air carrier ITA Airways. The negotiation on the privatization of the national airline is at a decisive turning point, but the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), currently the 100% shareholder of the national airline, must not make the same mistakes as in the past. There is a need to positively close the negotiation with a reliable industrial partner such as Lufthansa. Otherwise the company will continue to lose money as in the last 15 months, during which the Italian State has put 1.1 billion euros on the plate of taxpayers to make ITA Airways work. According to some experts, the Meloni Government should make the airline attractive, which now holds a small market share: in 2021 it operated 3.8% of international air connections to and from Italy. A solution could be the reduction of the weight of the municipal surtaxes, which instead some municipalities are increasing. Even more important is the fact that the State acts as a "silent partner", letting Lufthansa integrate the Italian airline into its network as best as possible. If Rome intervenes directly in management, the mistakes made in the past with the former Alitalia will most likely recur. With the Lufthansa Group's interest in the acquisition of the national air carrier ITA Airways, made official yesterday, the unions ask the Government to be summoned to discuss the objectives of the business... more The privatization procedure of the national air carrier ITA Airways enters a week that could be decisive for the future of the company. The German aviation group Lufthansa could in fact formalize the acquisition... more La privatizzazione del vettore aereo ITA Airways è ad una svolta decisiva. Entro questa settimana potrebbe essere formalizzata l'offerta per l'acquisizione di una quota del capitale da parte del Gruppo te... more The US Boeing Group has appointed Robert Kelly Ortberg as its new CEO and president, thus confirming the latest rumors. The former executive of the Rockwell Collins company (now part of Collins Aerospace)... more Flights cancelled for days or weeks at Beirut's "Rafik Hariri" international airport. This is a choice made by numerous global airlines operating at the Lebanese stopover. The reason? The crisis in the... more Tension remains high in the Middle East. Tonight, Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) planes hit around ten Hezbollah targets in seven different areas of southern Lebanon. Yesterday Turkey threatened Tel Aviv... more Agency: AVIONEWS - World Aeronautical Press Agency     Editor in chief: CLARA MOSCHINI     Publishing house: Urbevideo S.r.l.s.     VAT: 14726991004     © 2024: AVIONEWS - World Aeronautical Press AgencyPress agency registered to Rome Court Press Register with number 46 and to Communication Operators Register with number 7722SubscriptionsContactsPrivacyTerms of use