The sale is valid on flights from Los Angeles, San Francisco, Houston, and Chicago. Bai Xuefei/Getty Images Air New Zealand is putting flights on sale from the United States to cities across Australia — helping to make the dream of a trip to Oz a reality. The sale, which must be booked by Aug. 6, is valid on travel from several of Air New Zealand’s North American gateways including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Houston, and Chicago to Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, and more, Air New Zealand shared with Travel + Leisure. Tickets during the sale start at just $1,195 and valid travel dates vary by destination and fare class. “Our nine Australian destinations are easily accessible from seven North American gateways, with a quick stop in Auckland,” Ben Evers-Swindell, the airline’s general manager, Americas, told T+L. “We’ve seen strong demand for travel to Australia out of the US, so we’re excited to offer our US customers reduced fares to Australia as part of our current North American sale.” Bai Xuefei/Getty Images To take advantage of the sale, travelers must purchase their tickets at least 90 days in advance for economy or 120 days in advance for the Business Premier fare. A seven day minimum stay is required. Fly from Los Angeles to Sydney, Melbourne, or Brisbane starting at just $1,195, or fly from the southern California city to Perth starting at just $1,460. Travelers can fly to Sydney, Melbourne, or Brisbane from San Francisco starting at $1,295, or fly to the major cities from Chicago starting at just $1,595. Business class starts at $6,995 from both Los Angeles and San Francisco. Air New Zealand also has deals on flights to Hobart, the Gold Coast, the Sunshine Coast, Cairns, and Adelaide. Air New Zealand flies direct to Auckland from Houston, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, New York, and Honolulu. From there, travelers can connect to flights to Australia. Currently, flights from New York, one of the longest flights in the world, are not on sale. Earlier this year, Air New Zealand introduced a new “Economy Stretch” cabin class, which features 39 percent more legroom for a total seat pitch of 35 inches. The airline also offers a Skycouch in economy, which allows passengers to turn three seats into a makeshift bed. Next year, the airline plans to introduce an Economy Skynest, which will feature six sleeping pods passengers can take turns using complete with a full-size pillow, sheets and a blanket, ear plugs, a separate reading light, a personal device USB outlet, a ventilation outlet, and a seatbelt. For more Travel & Leisure news, make sure to sign up for our newsletter! Read the original article on Travel & Leisure. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.