Airline ticket prices are on the rise, according to fresh data from the Transportation Department, even as passengers had to endure a summer of woes precipitated by staffing and technology issues. The average airfare in the third quarter of 2022, according to DOT's Bureau of Transportation Statistics, was $384, up from the inflation-adjusted fare of $340 during the same time in 2021 — a 13 percent increase. The increase comes as DOT continues to deal with a record number of airline complaints. In October of last year, DOT received 5,379 complaints, well above the 1,139 complaints received in October of 2019 — a 372 percent increase. Though fares are rising, they haven't yet returned to levels seen before the Covid pandemic. The average fare in the third quarter of 2019 when adjusted for inflation was $399, compared with $384, according BTS. The results for average fares were based on BTS' origin and destination survey, a sample of 10 percent of airline tickets that were used during the quarter. Background: Air fares remain lower than their all-time inflation adjusted high of $577 set in 2000, according to BTS data that dates back to 1995. However, the lower fare prices since the mid-2000s don't take into consideration the proliferation of add-on fees like baggage, seat upgrades and selecting an assigned seat. These "ancillary" fees, which began increasing around 2008, are a growing part of airlines' profits. In 1990, 88.5 percent of airline revenue was derived from fares, while in 2022 airlines collected just 72.6 percent of operating revenue from fares. U.S. airlines raked in $112.2 billion in passenger fees during the first nine months of 2022, BTS said. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.