SpaceX is planning to launch its Falcon 9 rocket containing Tranche 0 satellites from the Space Development Agency from a California base Saturday morning. The space exploration company, founded by Elon Musk, plans to launch the rocket at 10:25 a.m. ET/7:25 a.m. PT from the Space Launch Complex 4E at Vandenberg Space Force Base, over 150 miles north of Los Angeles on California's central coast. It has been rescheduled twice, first from the initial planned Thursday morning launch, then from a Friday morning launch. The livestream of the launch will begin about 15 minutes before liftoff. You can watch at the top of the page or on SpaceX's YouTube channel. Once launched, the Falcon 9 rocket will send the satellites to low-Earth orbit. They will be used as part of the Space Development Agency's Proliferated Warfighter Space architecture, a layered network of satellites that will "provide global military communication and missile warning, indication, and tracking capabilities," according to SpaceX. After the first stage separation, the Falcon 9 is set to land on Landing Zone 4 at the Vandenberg Space Force Base. Russia's failed moon mission: NASA said its orbiter likely found the crash site of Russia's failed Luna-25 moon mission 'Extraordinary': Researchers discover mysterious interstellar radio signal reaching Earth This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: SpaceX launch today: Watch livestream of rocket launch from Vandenberg New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Raiders head coach Antonio Pierce announced Sunday that Minshew had won the starting role for the 2024 season.