Get this HP laptop/tablet hybrid for just $600 at Best Buy. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Heading back to school in 2023 and looking for a boost? This huge deal cuts $350 off of a versatile laptop. Laptops are great, capable of offering plenty of portability and a full computing experience with a keyboard and trackpad. Touch screen laptops add additional ways to react with your content, but this HP Envy machine can become a tablet with its 360-degree hinge, making it one of the best laptops for students. Best Buy has reduced the price by $350 off of the MSRP, bringing the laptop down to just $599.99, down from the usual price of $949.99. Ideal for making notes in class, presenting to classmates, or kicking back and watching some Netflix at the end of the day, the HP ENVY x360 is well worth a look and this is easily one of the best student laptop deals we’ve seen recently. HP Envy x360 - was $949.99, now $599.99 at Best Buy Save $350: This laptop has Windows 11, a touch screen and large display, and flips to become a tablet, too.  Check out our HP Envy x360 13 review where we gave it an impressive 4 out of 5 stars. The HP Envy x360 is running Microsoft’s latest operating system, Windows 11, which offers a more consistent experience throughout – whether you’re using touch or a traditional keyboard and trackpad. That’s handy because when folding the screen back over the keyboard section, users can carry the laptop as a tablet. That makes it ideal for quick note-taking, and the hinge is durable, too. In fact, the whole product weighs just 3.88 pounds, making it ideal for taking between lessons. In terms of ports, there’s a Thunderbolt port for connecting to up to two displays, and there’s Wi-Fi and Bluetooth included for connecting to networks and peripherals, respectively. Get the world’s most fascinating discoveries delivered straight to your inbox. You’ll even find a 5MP camera for video calls, as well as Bang & Olufsen dual speakers for crystal clear audio. User reviews are positive, too, with an average customer rating of 4.7 stars out of 5. Reviewers range from general consumers to IT professionals, and all are impressed with the machine’s power and versatility to switch to a tablet-like format. Lloyd Coombes freelance tech and fitness writer for Live Science. He's an expert in all things Apple as well as in computer and gaming tech, with previous works published on TopTenReviews, Space.com, Dexerto and TechRadar. You'll find him regularly testing the latest MacBook or iPhone, but he spends most of his time writing about video games as Editor in Chief at GGRecon.com. He also covers board games and virtual reality, just to round out the nerdy pursuits. Atomic-scale graphene-based magnets could spur on much smaller and more powerful computing components Unique transistor 'could change the world of electronics' thanks to nanosecond-scale switching speeds and refusal to wear out Elon Musk said he's 'definitely going to be dead' before humans go to Mars — and you probably will be too Live Science is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 