Everyone enjoys a smooth and luxurious ride in a spacious vehicle, which is why more people prefer riding in SUVs. For people who love going on off-road trips, the Rivian R1S would be a great selection. Not only does the R1S have excellent off-roading performance, but it also has sufficient space and seven-passenger seating, which makes it ideal for families. A quad-motor electric engine powers this muscle car, generating a 600 lb-ft and 600 hp torque. This Rivian can go for 316 miles on a full charge, which is pretty impressive for a vehicle that consumes as much power as it does. Here are the good and bad when it comes to the Rivian R1S. A good exterior is one of the features that a good vehicle could have. According to TrueCar, the R1S is built with a distinctively rugged design, responsible for its improved aerodynamic performance and efficiency. As a result, the vehicle can comfortably navigate through even some of the most difficult obstacles and road conditions. Thanks to its steep departure and approach angles, the R1S smooths the ride quality on bumpy roads, especially on trims with higher suspension. What makes the R1S so popular is its outstanding off-road performance, mainly because of its powerful engine, which has an output of 300 kWh. In addition, the car is equipped with all-season tires, which play an important role in maintaining its performance in the cold winter season and the hot summer. Also, the R1S has a range of 69 MPGe, a trait you won’t find with most vehicles on the market. 2022 Rivian R1S First Test: Another Showstopper https://t.co/zaNrF0p0PJ pic.twitter.com/AxAfGZm0g3 Even though the R1S is a big vehicle, it still manages to satisfy muscle car junkies with its astounding acceleration. It bolts from 0 to 60 mph in just 3.1 seconds, and many drivers relish the R1S’s thrilling adrenaline rush. Every tire on the Rivian has its own electric motor, contributing to this amazing pace and the vehicle’s ability to tow up to 7,700 pounds. The R1S is undoubtedly a high-quality SUV with some quality features. However, some factors make consumers avoid buying it. Primarily, the model faces stiff competition from the Tesla Model X. One of the things that makes the Model X more efficient is the increase in horsepower to 670 and a range of up to 346 miles, which shifts many people’s focus toward it. Using DC fast charging, the R1S takes an hour to charge for 220 miles, while the Model X supercharger needs only 15 minutes to charge it enough for 220 miles. Despite having some of the most impressive qualities, some people would still avoid buying the R1S because it is a newer manufacturer that just recently went into production. Since it hasn’t been on the market for that long, it has no achievements yet, unlike some of its competitors. An example is the BMW iX, which had been on the market for over a year before the R1S started its distribution. Therefore, the R1S still has a long way to go before it is in a position to dominate other electric SUVs. Lastly, while most modern vehicles have Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, the R1S doesn’t come with either. A good infotainment system should have either one or both apps since they make driving a lot easier with features such as maps and stunning voice control features. Even so, the 2022 Rivian R1S is still a high-quality electric SUV many buyers would love. 

			Rivian R1T Fried After Being Stuck to Charger for Days After ‘Loud Explosion’		
 Our experienced team of Digital Editors works to produce all of our content from contributing authors, including everything from assigning headlines and crafting the angles that readers will be interested in, to editing and publishing the articles once they’re drafted. Our DEs are editors and writers in their own right, who each have several years of experience in digital media and publishing. Each one caters their work to their specific interests.