The myth that Innovation and Technology (I&T) companies only welcome people with a technical background is far from the truth. There are many examples of successful tech entrepreneurs and leaders who have come from diverse backgrounds. Tech mogul Elon Musk who studied physics and economics at university, stressed in his speech at a Caltech’s 118th annual commencement ceremony, that being able to bring a lot of people together to work with you to create something is necessary if you want to create something significant. Musk said, “When I was young, I didn’t really know what I was going to do when I got older … eventually, I thought the idea of inventing things would be really cool.” As a preteen, Musk also taught himself programming and even sold a game he developed to a computer magazine for US$500. I&T companies need diversity to create dynamic teams In fact, I&T companies actively seek out people with different perspectives and experiences – those who can bring something unique to the table when developing new products or services. There’s no need for despair for those with a background that isn’t particularly technical, there will always be opportunities available for those willing to put themselves out there and show what they’re capable of achieving. Perry Ko was a professional football player whose passion had always been football. An injury led him to rethink what he wanted to do in the future. He is now the Re-Founder at Actywell Digital Limited, having joined the company at a later stage and tasked with keeping the company mission and culture on track. After secondary school, Ko went to the UK for further study and earned a BSc in Sports Management and Development and then an MSc in Innovation and Entrepreneurship. When he returned to Hong Kong after his studies, he was offered a spot with JC PROcruit C, a one-year traineeship programme in future-oriented job roles across four sectors: Creativity, Technology, Business and Healthcare. Actywell Digital Limited produces earphones that accurately measure user’s bio-signals – heart rate, temperature, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation (Sp02) – as well as allowing users to enjoy their favourite music. Ko explained that the readings from the earphones were more accurate than from devices worn on the wrist, which people are familiar with. Elephant in the dining room: Australian start-up makes mammoth meatball to show the potential of lab-grown meat Ko said he’s learned some important lessons from working in I&T. One is that, “No one person can do everything. You need a team,” he said. The second is that patience is important, “R&D takes time. Product success takes time. Results take time.” Having the right mindset is key to overcoming challenges. With his background in team sports and management, Ko, like Musk, understands the importance of building a good team and the willingness to learn to achieve success. I&T companies need people with different backgrounds and perspectives to be successful. Until April 17th, Hong Kong I&T Career Expo 2023, the city’s largest virtual I&T Career Fair is on, offering more than 2,700 I&T tech and non-tech job opportunities from over 250 companies in the hottest I&T sectors, including AI & data, biotech, fintech, and robotics, among others. Check out the jobs on offer today!