
International Security Program
,  Diversity and Leadership in International Affairs Project
,  Energy Security and Climate Change Program
,  Strategic Technologies Program
 While there is increasing knowledge that resilience is important for mitigating emerging risks with greater agility, its practical implications, associated costs, and needed reforms are not as clearly understood. The Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) engaged in a year-long study on how the U.S. government can most effectively support public and private sector initiatives aimed at improving national resilience. This has been a joint project involving the CSIS International Security Program, Diversity and Leadership in International Affairs Program, the Energy Security and Climate Change Program, and the Strategic Technologies Program.  On March 23, the CSIS team will release its final "Innovation for Resilience" report and host a program with leading experts that will discuss the ways in which the federal government can best support national resilience efforts. Specifically, the group will highlight resilience in the following focus areas: climate resilience, cyber resilience, supply chain resilience, and workforce resilience.  This program is made possible by the generous support of Deloitte Consulting LLP.  Caitlin Durkovich, Deputy Homeland Security Advisor for Resilience and Response, National Security Council (NSC) CSIS Research Team Stephanie LaRue, Chief of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) Hadeil Ali (moderator), Director, Diversity and Leadership in International Affairs (DLIA), CSIS Benjamin DeAngelo, Deputy Director, Climate Program Office, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Joseph Majkut (moderator), Director, Energy Security and Climate Change Program, CSIS Robert Costello, Chief Information Officer (CIO), Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Emily Harding (moderator), Deputy Director and Senior Fellow, International Security Program, CSIS John Costello, Principal, WestExec Advisors; Former Chief of Staff, Office of the National Cyber Director; Former Deputy Executive Director, Cyberspace Solarium Commission Suzanne Spaulding (moderator), Senior Adviser for Homeland Security, CSIS John Costello, Principal, WestExec Advisors; Former Chief of Staff, Office of the National Cyber Director; Former Deputy Executive Director, Cyberspace Solarium Commission Alice Hill, David M. Rubenstein Senior Fellow for Energy and the Environment, Council on Foreign Relations; Former Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Resilience Policy, National Security Council  Stephanie LaRue, Chief of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI), Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) Bob Kolasky (moderator), Senior Associate, CSIS; Senior VP for Critical Infrastructure, Exiger Jim Lewis, Senior Vice President; Pritzker Chair; and Director, Strategic Technologies Program, CSIS Center for Strategic and International Studies
1616 Rhode Island Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20036 Tel: 202.887.0200
Fax: 202.775.3199 See Media Page for more interview, contact, and citation details. ©2024 Center for Strategic & International Studies. All Rights Reserved.