Yeti 500W integrates Infineon's CoolGaN products for improved efficiency and reduced EMI Infineon and Spark Connected, a wireless power developer, have announced the release of a 500W wireless charging solution named Yeti. The ready-to-integrate wireless charging module is intended for powering and charging industrial machinery, autonomous mobile robots, automated guided vehicles, light electric vehicles, e-Mobility and other power-intensive applications. The Yeti 500W uses Infineon’s dual-core PSoC 63 Bluetooth Low Energy MCU for intelligent control, and the company’s CoolGaN products for improved efficiency (95 percent) and reduced EMI.  “We are excited to partner with Spark Connected and provide differentiated Bluetooth Low Energy microcontrollers and highly-efficient power devices for their latest Yeti 500W industrial wireless charging module,” said Tony Antonacci, senior director applications marketing at Infineon Technologies. “The Yeti represents a step forward in charging power and integration, enabling industries to improve their operations and move towards an energy-efficient wire-free future.” “Combining Spark’s disruptive wireless power technology with Infineon’s broad semiconductor portfolio, we are empowering industries to embrace the full potential of wireless charging, enabling truly autonomous systems and revolutionising the way they operate,” said Ruwanga Dassanayake, COO of Spark Connected.     Power Electronics World™ is an Angel Business Communications publication.               You may choose to subscribe to the Power Electronics World Magazine, the Power Electronics World Newsletter, or both. You may also request additional information if required, before submitting your application.  Please complete all fields below.These will only be used to evaluate your application, and to ensure your requested subscription reaches you.  We will not share your personal details with anyone else without your permission.  Please see our Privacy Policy if you have any concerns.