CM Punk has not appeared on AEW programming since All Out 2022. 2022 was the year where CM Punk burned yet another bridge in the wrestling business. But if FTR has its way, 2023 could be the year that sees him improbably mend fences with Kenny Omega, The Young Bucks and AEW. Speaking on a his newly launched podcast “FTR with Dax Harwood,” Harwood implored all parties to work together in hashing things out following CM Punk’s ugly backstage brawl with The Elite following AEW All Out in September. "This is my plea to all four guys. Please find a way to make it work,” pleaded Dax. “If we can make it work, we can set up the future of professional wrestling for a long time and we can change the course of professional wrestling for a very long time. When you think about it, unselfishly, we're doing this for 20-30 years down the road so guys and girls can make a living." Punk has not appeared on AEW programming since AEW All Out in September. AEW President Tony Khan has gone radio silent in addressing his status with AEW, though there have been reports of contract buyout talks.  Harwood’s plea didn’t fall upon deaf ears, particularly when it came to CM Punk. In an Instagram post of these comments from @theprowrestlingpodcast, Punk plainly responded with the phrase “duh.” Though short, sweet and as cryptic as most of his social media posts, CM Punk’s response suggests he agrees with the notion that he should find a way to make it work with The Elite. Punk being open to sitting down with The Elite would breathe life into what seemed like an impossible AEW reconciliation. Even if Punk is open to extending an olive branch, his AEW returns till feels like a longshot. Between his heated remarks about the company at the AEW All Out media scrum and the ensuing brawl, there’s a plethora of hashing out to be done. But, then again, this is the wrestling business. If you’re a proven commodity as a needle-mover for a wrestling promotion—which CM Punk was for AEW—there will always be a promoter scheming to bring you back into the fold. Pro wrestling is littered with stories of highly controversial and polarizing personas receiving endless second chances due to their star power. It’s the type of ecosystem that has even fostered Vince McMahon return rumors as the disgraced former WWE Chairman reportedly plots his own comeback.   “Time heals all wounds historically in wrestling,” noted Dave Meltzer on “Wrestling Observer Radio.” “Every time people say ‘never, never, never...’ especially when it’s a top star, learn history. I remember being told Brock Lesnar will never be back in WWE, Steve Austin will never ever be back in WWE, Bob Sapp will never be back in K-1. And the reality is, if you can draw money, they’re always going to want to try to bring you back. And Punk can draw.” CM Punk’s memorable return resulted in over one million viewers for the second broadcast of AEW Rampage. The B-show has not come close to that viewership since. As Punk infamously reminded a room filled with terrified AEW-friendly reporters, he headlined AEW’s first million-dollar house. AEW drew over $1 million in ticket sales for AEW Double or Nothing 2022, when Punk defeated Hangman Adam Page in the main event to capture his first AEW World Championship. Punk’s AEW exit led to speculation of a potential WWE return, even after his messy divorce from the promotion, because the “teflon top star” theory is universal. As cooler heads begin to prevail on all sides, CM Punk’s pro wrestling return sounds like it won’t be about whether or not a pro wrestling promotion is willing to take him back (they probably will), but rather whether or not Phil Brooks is ready to return to wrestling.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.