terms terms of use privacy privacy policy cookie settings cookie settings ca privacy california privacy site map site map public notice public notice accessibility statement accessibility statement COMPLEX participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means COMPLEX gets paid commissions on purchases made through our links to retailer sites. Our editorial content is not influenced by any commissions we receive. © Complex All Rights Reserved. The TDE president called out how dangerous mob mentality is regarding the lies that get spread amongst people based off misinformation. Top Dawg Entertainment president Terrence "Punch" Henderson has addressed a viral thread on X (formerly known as Twitter) claiming he isn't putting his best foot forward when managing SZA. The tweet in question, "SZA's management giving sos the messiest rollout possible: a timeline thread," gathered evidence that claimed TDE is mismanaging the singer and included several clips such as SZA reacting to a phone call from Punch pushing her SOS album back and Punch removing several songs off the tracklist such as "PSA," "Boy From South Detroit," and "Joni." Punch caught on to the thread that already has 2.8 million views in less than 24 hours and shared a tweet of his own that called out "mob mentality." According to Punch, having that mindset will cause people to conjure up lies based on misinformation. "It's amazing watching mob mentality in real-time," he wrote. "Absolute lies and misinformation can snowball into being what the public perceive as truth." He continued, "I laugh and play into a lot because I understand that a lot of the time people need a face to blame. a bad guy if you will lol. I rather it be me. I rather take the hits." Punch then reflected on a moment where he was criticized for holding back the music video for "Snooze." According to Punch, the visual hadn't even been shot yet when he was getting dragged by people. "It's all so interesting," he tweeted. "It's funny for a long time I was getting killed for holding back a snooze video that we hadn't even shot yet. but honestly I wouldn't have it any other way. we thrive on that passion and appreciate it thoroughly. sincerely yours, the bad guy (in Scarface's voice lol)." Punch then responded to the Twitter page that created the thread and saluted the person while also advising they do something more "constructive" with their time. "You should invent something. Mankind needs you. Seriously. You should do something constructive with your time and imagination," Punch tweeted. The person replied, "you fat fuck how about YOU do something constructive with your time and respect the artists that are under you? you're holding her back and everyone knows it. you aren't respected by any of her fans & do an AWFUL job at managing her. be better." Punch continued the back and forth telling the person, "Listen here Freddie.. you keep it up and you're gonna ruin it for everyone… I'm kidding lol (or am I??? Ha ha ha!)." Things got interesting when the person called out Punch asking if he would "delay the deluxe over a few hate comments" and advised he focus on his rap career and let SZA handle hers. Punch took the jab and responded, "That's it Freddie. You've done it now. SMH. All of Camp can thank you!" Reason Accuses TDE of Sabotaging New Album, Label Co-President Responds Asking If Anyone Can Name 10 Reason Songs (UPDATE) TDE's Punch Talks About SZA Having an ‘EP’s Worth of Full Rap Records’ and How She's Navigating Fame in 'SOS' Era SZA Smokes in Bed With Shirtless Justin Bieber, Gives Robot a Lap Dance in “Snooze” Video Earlier this week, Punch took to his Twitter and reflected on the "demonic" influences that are more present than ever these days. In response to a tweet about Miguel's suspended-from-hooks stunt, Punch described what he saw as "the demonic influence" in the music industry. "The demonic influence is getting more and more blatant in this thing," he said. "The gradualism was numbing, now it's just out loud." SHARE THIS STORY Got something to say?