QNAP NAS devices are vulnerable to CVE-2022-27596, which allows unauthenticated, remote SQL code injection. February 2, 2023 UPDATE A critical security vulnerability in QNAP's QTS operating system for network-attached storage (NAS) devices could allow cyberattackers to inject malicious code into devices remotely, with no authentication required.  The issue (CVE-2022-27596) is a SQL injection problem that affects QNAP QTS devices running version 5.0.1, and Q,uTS Hero version h5.0.1. It carries a score of 9.8 out of 10 on the CVSS vulnerability-severity scale. In its advisory this week, QNAP said the bug has a low attack complexity, which, when combined with the popularity of QNAP NAS as a target for Deadbolt ransomware and other threats, could make for imminent exploitation in the wild.  "If the exploit is published and weaponized, it could spell trouble to...QNAP users," Censys researchers warned in an analysis of the bug. "Everyone must upgrade their QNAP devices immediately to be safe from future ransomware campaigns." Since publication, QNAP updated its advisory to state the following: "QTS 5.0.0, QTS 4.x.x, QuTS hero 5.0.0 and QuTS hero 4.5.x are not affected.” Dark Reading had previously reported on an analysis from Censys that found there to be more than 30,000 hosts running a vulnerable version of the QNAP-based system. However, with the revision, that is no longer the case. "With this new wording, the exposure is less extreme," according to Censys' revised blog post. "It narrows down the number of affected versions to just a very small number of devices." This post was updated on Feb. 3 at 6 p.m. ET. Dark Reading Staff Dark Reading Dark Reading is a leading cybersecurity media site. You May Also Like CISO Perspectives: How to make AI an Accelerator, Not a Blocker Your guide to the great SIEM migration How to Find and Fix Application Vulnerabilities Securing Your Cloud Assets Determining Exposure and Risk In The Event of a Breach Black Hat Europe - December 9-12 - Learn More SecTor - Canada's IT Security Conference Oct 22-24 - Learn More State of Enterprise Cloud Security Managing Third-Party Risk Through Situational Awareness 2024 InformationWeek US IT Salary Report AI-Driven Testing: Bridging the Software Automation Gap Forrester Report: The Total Economic Impact Of Bizagi's Low-Code Intelligent Process Automation Platform Generative AI Gifts Managing Third-Party Risk Through Situational Awareness OT Cybersecurity Glossary & Quick Start Guide Tracking the Untrackable: Taking a Proactive Approach to Emerging Risks Google Threat Intelligence Black Hat Europe - December 9-12 - Learn More SecTor - Canada's IT Security Conference Oct 22-24 - Learn More Copyright © 2024 Informa PLC Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.