The manufacturing supply chain is, by definition, the  epitome of complexity. There are changing demands for product, varying levels  of lead times for supplies, the balancing of production capacity, and  logistical bottlenecks. Add in a global pandemic, a raw materials shortage, and  a ship wedged across the Suez Canal and global supply chain operations can  become a real business quagmire. “It’s a big Rubik’s cube,” says Adrian Wood, director of  strategy and marketing for Dassault Systemes’ Delmia software brand. “Companies  are trying to get the best forecast of supply and demand and crunch that into a  strategic plan. It’s an optimization problem that companies today normally  solve through Excel and manual processes.” But there’s an evolution taking place as companies wake up  to the fact that they must move away from manual processes and start automating  aspects of their supply chain. That doesn’t mean throwing a robot into the mix;  rather, it requires the creation of a virtual replica of operations to predict  outcomes that can be preemptively acted upon. Simulation software providers are responding to this need. “The supply chain deserves to have a digital twin of its own,”  Wood says. “It’s a model of the capabilities and constraints in an organization  that allows you to play with ‘what if’ [scenarios]. What if demand suddenly skyrockets? What if demand falls off  a cliff? What if the supplier goes out of business? What if we open a new  distribution center or change the supply chain layout? When the pandemic came  in, I don’t think there were many dramatically new problems, but they were all  exaggerated. And the magnitude of problems forced [manufacturers] to get off  the manual processes and design a virtual twin model to prepare for future  disruption and have the agility to react.” The supply chain is quickly becoming a strategic priority. According  to the IDC white paper “A Modern, Connected Cloud Environment Optimizes Supply Chain  Collaboration—A North American Perspective,” notes: “the supply chain has  traditionally been thought of as a support organization that works in the  background to ensure that products are planned, made, and fulfilled to  customers and consumers. That is changing. The supply chain is now perceived by  manufacturers and retailers as a strategic tool for business performance and  growth—and is moving from a cost center to an opportunity center.”  But it’s not so easy to re-engineer the ERP systems that have  long coordinated supply chain schedules. Which is why, according to IDC, cloud  and software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications that can be layered over the  manufacturing and enterprise systems are rapidly becoming the default choice  for the supply chain. Case in point: In November, Amazon Web Services (AWS) rolled  out its AWS Supply Chain application, which is based on nearly 30 years of  Amazon.com’s own logistics network experience. AWS Supply Chain is a cloud-based system that uses  electronic data interchange (EDI) feeds to pull data from a variety of sources  (including ERP and supply chain management systems) into a data lake. It then  unifies and contextualizes the data by applying machine learning (ML) and  natural language processing (NLP)—based on Amazon’s own proprietary algorithm—to  understand and learn from the data. According to AWS, much of the industry today spends  significant time and third-party consulting resources to get various platforms  to work together, but this app removes those heavy deployment costs without  overhauling existing IT.  Early customers using AWS Supply Chain, like Amazon’s subsidiary,  Whole Foods Market, are already experiencing benefits. Whole Foods has more than 500 stores across the U.S.,  including some in the U.K. and Canada, with 11 distribution centers serving the  stores. The perishable side of the business is complex due in part to the  locally sourced products. “We have a strong and efficient operation, but are always  looking for improvement,” says Leandro Balbinot, chief technology officer of  Whole Foods Market, who was speaking at the AWS re:Invent 2022 event in  November. “Supply chain systems are good for transactions day to day but are  hard to innovate.” Balbinot noted that AWS Supply Chain’s natural language processing  has been instrumental in the company’s ability to easily integrate complex data  and, more importantly, comprehend it. “It’s not about having the data, it is about having the data  in a way that makes sense. That is what you can get with the NLP capabilities  the platform offers,” Balbinot says, noting that it provides a way to quickly  see current and future inventory situations. “We started a proof of concept and  in a few days got the data to provide on-hand inventory positions to the team,  as well as future predictions about risks for all the distribution centers.” This “future aware” aspect of the AWS algorithm provides  options to rebalance inventory for the best possible outcome, taking into  consideration outside conditions, like weather patterns, for example. “At the end  of the day, we are simulating scenarios,” explains Pantoja-Navajas. “The  algorithms will provide different outcomes based on the data it has. You can  run and re-run scenarios by adding more variables into the system, so we are  simulating multiple scenarios for [the customer] to select which one best fits  their needs.” And a graphical map component provides visibility of where  inventory is in stock, or has an excess or out-of-stock risk, providing a  mechanism to drill down into the product levels. “The map is what supply chain managers love,” says Balbinot.  “It’s good to have an easy way to understand what the inventory looks like for  every distribution center and drill down to see what actions we have to take to  mitigate the risk.” Pantoja-Navajas adds that the AWS application offers a  holistic view of different systems, which impacts visibility across the supply  chain. “With the unified view of the supply chain data, and using ML to power  the insights of data, you can see what is important. You can have data  visibility, but if you don’t have insights into that data to what will happen  next, the only thing you are doing is telling me the news that happened  yesterday, and you are not predicting how the supply chain will be affected by  a natural event like a hurricane or snowstorm or other disruptions.” SCM Globe offers its own supply chain modeling and map-based  simulation tool that has been used for military logistics, humanitarian supply  chains, business planning, and even for training students. The company, started  in 2012 by Michael Hugos, former chief information officer for an $8 billion  distribution company and author of several books, aims to make the supply chain  more understandable through real world visualization and intelligence.  Data is imported from ERP and other applications to  automatically create supply chain models. The cloud-based app sits on top of  Google Maps and leverages a satellite tool to zoom in and find buildings,  ports, and infrastructure, thereby merging real-time mapping and 3D data  displays of the landscape. “If I know that a factory is 150 miles away from a port, and  that port will ship products to four other places, and I can see facilities and  vehicles and routes that connect the facilities, I can do a lot of calculations  automatically,” Hugos says, explaining that those calculations govern how the  four entities interact, adjusting to changing circumstances and applying  simulation to optimize the data. “We try to create useful models everyone can  see and understand, and within that context we can talk about specific issues.” In one business example, SCM Globe worked with a large  furniture manufacturer in Europe that wanted to redesign its supply chain to  accommodate its biggest business unit in Indonesia. The company put together a  supply chain task force composed of people from different geographical areas  and responsibilities, including operations, purchasing, sales, and finance. However,  different groups within the company were fixated on different parts of the  supply chain, emphasizing their own interests without understanding the overall  effects of different actions. For example, the finance folks were focused on  how to increase productivity in factories. Operations argued for improved  movement of products between the factory and the port. Purchasing people wanted  to know if they should line up new suppliers or shippers. And sales managers  just wanted to do whatever it took to increase production to support rising  worldwide sales. To get everyone on the same page, they need to see the big picture  and how changes in one part of the supply chain can affect other parts. And the  best way to do that is to show everyone an overview of the supply chain via a  global map with the ability to zoom down into it for more detail. For example,  the team could identify a particular shipping port on Google Maps and then  switch to a satellite view to see the actual facility. Then they were able to  run a simulation to answer questions such as, how the existing supply chain  would support a 40% sales increase. All these supply chain simulation tools—Delmia Quintek, AWS  Supply Chain, and SCM Globe—are designed to work more effectively the more data  points are provided. But the real value is the ability to roll with the  punches, regardless of what happens, to deliver products. “Agility and visibility are the two foundation components  that companies need to develop as part of their operational processes,” says  Dassault’s Wood. “And that adds a host of potential benefits in terms of  getting new products to market sooner and lowering cost while providing higher  quality.” The next step, according to Wood, is to link manufacturing  and the supply chain. The root cause of disruption is not always because a ship  got stuck, it’s often due to a problem with the product design or a problem in  manufacturing. As such, the digital twin of the supply chain can be made  even better by connecting it to the digital twin of the product.  So, if you are adding a new component to a  product, you can go to the supply chain model and ask it if you can realistically  source that component at this time. The simulation may say, ‘no,’ but offer an  alternative supplier with a similar component that has a longer lead time.  Then, you can start building that into the design of the product. “The biggest point we are trying to make is, don’t think  about the supply chain in isolation,” says Wood. “Think broader about its  impact across the organization.” Leaders relevant to this article: