The perfect purchase to kick off your summer.   Women's Health may earn commission from the links on this page, but we only feature products we believe in. Why Trust Us? If you're someone who likes to get rid of body hair, you already know that classic shaving is, honestly, the worst. In addition to the risk of nicking yourself with the razon, the process never seems to end with perfectly silky smooth skin—there's always hair left behind. Still, the big world of laser hair removal can be a difficult space to break into. The tools can be pricey, and TBH, it's intimidating for first timers.  Normally, even I'd concede to a standard razor. However there is currently an unmissable sale on a very highly-rated, Amotoas laser hair removal device from Amazon. The Amotaos three-in-one, at-home, IPL hair removal kit is currently 67% (!!) off. Yup. Normally priced at $300, you can currently snag one of these bad boys for just $100. It's practically begging to be added to your cart.   A major sale also isn't the only reason to purchase the Amotaos. This device is highly rated on Amazon, with almost 700 five star reviews. The new version's upgraded light technology also removes hair 30% faster than other competing hair removal devices. Plus if you, like me, have no idea how to even use a hair removal device, this IPL device is very user-friendly. It even comes with protective eyewear to ensure you're totally safe throughout the process. The device also has nine energy levels to best match your skin type and sensitivity. Plus, this upgraded Amotaos device includes a new function that allows you to achieve a "skin care effect" while removing hair. Still not totally sold? Check out some of these reviews:  "This is an amazing product! I bought this product 6 months ago and I've noticed a great difference in my hair. My daughter has used this too and her skin looks great," one happy customer wrote.  "The machine is super easy to use and I had no discomfort or after effect. For the 12 days since the last use, I had only very few, tiny, white hairs to come back," another review reads.  Many other people who purchased this device reported a painless removal process and significantly reduced hair growth. TBH, there's really no better purchase to kick off your summer. Happy shopping!  Olivia Evans (she/her) is an editorial assistant at Women’s Health. Her work has previously appeared in The Cut and Teen Vogue. She loves covering topics where culture and wellness intersect. In her free time, she enjoys cooking, running, and watching rom-coms.  8 Best Facial Toners Of 2024, Tested By Experts The Best Aloe Vera Gels, Tested By Beauty Experts The 12 Best Hair Growth Oils The Best Lip Stains Hailee Steinfeld's Pre-Aging Skincare Routine The 7 Best Hair Straighteners For Every Hair Type The Best Eye Creams for Wrinkles Can You Use Beef Tallow As A Moisturizer? 6 Best Stretch Mark Creams Money Can Buy 7 Best Home Waxing Kits, Tested By Beauty Experts Stylist-Approved Hair Brushes For Every Hair Type How Exactly Do You Use Face Toner? A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazins, Inc. All Rights Reserved.