Apparently she swears by it! 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 When it comes to the wellness industry, there are new techniques or products released every single day. We as humans do the same thing, always looking for a new breathing exercise to start or a better gym routine to take on. Whether you're a fan of the best essential oils or prefer sticking to fitness trackers, you have to admit that self-care is the way to go.  Well, recent photographs have shown that Meghan, Duchess of Sussex is no stranger to a bit of self-care as well. Only a few weeks ago, she was spotted in Montecito sporting a NuCalm Biosignal Processing Disc. Also known as an anti-stress patch, the small circular device has seriously turned some heads. Have a look for yourself:   You may be wondering at this point how a sticker that small is supposed to help. Well, the NuCalm Biosignal Processing Disc works by activating the parasympathetic nervous system, tapping into the body’s Pericardium Meridian with particular electromagnetic (EM) frequencies.  Let me break that down a little further. In other words, the discs are designed to slow down adrenaline and begin the relaxation process. You place one on the inside of your left wrist, known as your Pericardium-6 acupuncture point, before you start your session. The process then mimics your body’s normal transition to a peaceful and calm state of mind. To get the full effect, you have to use the NuCalm app to select which session you want to follow. There are 6 in total: Rescue pushes you into a deep restorative near-sleep state to jump start cellular regeneration, and turn off your body’s adrenal process so you can relax to the max. DeepSleep sets the stage for a return to healthy, restorative sleep. Stop fighting with falling asleep, staying asleep, or long morning wake-ups, and experience firsthand the difference healthy sleep makes. Get the latest news, reviews, deals and buying guides on gorgeous tech, home and active products straight to your inbox. FlowState boosts creativity and productiveness with this series of 15-20 minute journeys that promote creativity, concentration, and deep productive focus. PowerNap allows you to recover and recharge in as little as 20 minutes. Power Nap is the perfect tool to fight back against poor sleep, jet lag, the afternoon doldroms or get well rested and ready in the shortest time possible. Focus helps you experience a level of focus and inspiration typically reserved for Tibetan Monks, Artists, and Philosophers. Focus lets you go deep without taking your frequency low enough to feel tired or too relaxed. Ignite is your secret performance superpower. Used by Special forces and elite sports teams, IGNITE activates your senses and adrenal system, giving you the edge to win right in your pocket.   It's also important to know that the discs aren't reusable and there is a paid subscription in place. You then receive your discs in the post, either monthly or yearly, depending on your subscription. However, it is stated that you can leave the disc on after your session, as there is said to be some residual benefits that will continue through the day. There are also 5 different subscription plans you can choose from, with most priced at $29.99 (£24.02) per month or $299.99 (£240.26) for the year. Although, each plan allows you to access only a few of the channels, so you have to pick one that focuses on your specific needs.  In an interview with Hello, NuCalm's CEO Jim Poole explained that “NuCalm allows you to manage your mental state on demand without the need for drugs. From the deepest levels of sleep to the highest levels of intensity and everywhere in between. Using complex physics, mathematics, and algorithms in a software underneath music, NuCalm gently guides brain wave function. All you need is a mobile device and headphones.” Whether or not the patch really eradicates all stress and anxiety is another question, but if Meghan is finding it useful, then it has to be worth looking into, right?   Why don't you have a look at our review of the Moonbird? It's a handheld coaching device that helps you meditate! Lizzie is T3's Home Staff Writer, also covering style, living and wellness. She works closely with Bethan Girdler-Maslen, T3's Home Editor, ensuring all the latest news, trends and recommendations are covered. Outside of T3, Lizzie can be found mooching around Bath, attempting (or at least trying to) a new DIY project or spending time with family and friends. 
Another comic book from Garth Ennis is in line for adaptation
 
By Rik Henderson

Published 19 August 24

 
That will replace the Blue from this year
 
By Sam Cross

Published 19 August 24

 
Emma launches the Original Hybrid Pillow which lets you ‘choose your snooze’
 
By Bethan Girdler-Maslen

Published 19 August 24

 
How to get a good night’s sleep on a camping trip, according to experts
 
By Bethan Girdler-Maslen

Published 17 August 24

 
5 tips for getting your kids into a good sleep routine for back to school
 
By Bethan Girdler-Maslen

Published 16 August 24

 





 
Sleep deeper, focus better, and relax without distractions wearing these comfy earplugs that reduce unwanted noise up to 27 dB
 
By Joanna Ebsworth

Published 16 August 24

 
The best yoga poses to stretch your whole body after a long flight to reduce blood pressure and release tight muscles
 
By Kat Bayly

Published 13 August 24

 
As an avid fan user, this shocked me
 
By Lizzie Wilmot

Published 12 August 24

 





 
I tried the Lush Bath Bot and I might never get out of the bath again
 
By Bethan Girdler-Maslen

Published 9 August 24

 
Lovehoney launches the Venus Glow, a shell-shaped sex toy for your next holiday
 
By Emily Cox

Published 29 July 24

 T3 is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street New York, NY 10036