I stayed at Disney's Contemporary Resort in a Main Tower lake-view room priced at $809 per night. This hotel's convenient if you want to walk to Magic Kingdom or easily take transit to the parks. The gorgeous hotel is worth a visit despite the mediocre pools and limited on-site dining options. I recently spent three nights in one of Disney World's oldest resorts: The Contemporary. The resort began operating when Disney World opened in 1971, making a stay at the Contemporary a bucket-list item for many Disney fans. Plus its proximity to Magic Kingdom — just 10 minutes away — is a huge selling point. In April, I stayed in a Main Tower lake-view room priced at $809 a night. Here's what the resort and my room were like. Disney's Contemporary Resort is a deluxe resort located just minutes from the gates of Magic Kingdom. The resort has a pretty distinct and unique look at first glance with its metal frame and many windows. According to a 2010 Yesterland interview with Disney historian Jim Korkis, the steel frame of the resort was constructed first and the individual rooms were then inserted into the A-frame buildings' open slots. Inside the lobby is a massive mural designed by Mary Blair, one of the designers behind It's a Small World. Blair, who worked on It's a Small World, designed the iconic nine-story Grand Canyon Concourse mural located in the atrium of the resort. It features her signature style of magnificent color theory and modernist design.   The space features mid-century modern design throughout its decor and furnishings. The Contemporary was recently updated and debuted a new mid-century modern look in 2021. The lobby has plenty of space for lounging and features art by Blair and has a unique rendering of the Monorail on the wall. The furniture is fantastic for fans of mid-century modern design.   The lobby is also home to a massive Monorail stop. The lobby is home to one of Disney's Monorail stops. The single rail train line spans over 14 miles and carries guests between Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Ticket and Transportation Center, and several Disney resorts. During my stay, I never waited long for the Monorail to arrive. Although the line got fairly long during peak travel times, cars seemed to arrive every 10 minutes or so. It was great to be able to travel to other resorts so conveniently. The Main Tower lake-view room I stayed in during April was priced at $809 per night. Main Tower rooms are located directly in the open-air lobby so I was worried about the noise levels during my stay. Fortunately, my room was quiet throughout my trip. The room comes with two queen-size beds. I found plenty of outlets surrounding the beds and I liked the reading lights built into the bed frame. It also has a mini fridge, safe, Keurig coffee machine, and ample space for storage underneath the beds. The bathroom has a double vanity, large shower/tub combination, and products from Disney's toiletry brand H20+. The toilet area is behind a separate pocket door.   In addition to being inspired by mid-century modern design, rooms at the resort feature design aspects inspired by "The Incredibles." The room is filled with touches inspired by the 2004 Disney movie "The Incredibles." I loved the subtle theming in the closet.     The room also comes with a pull-out couch, balcony, and a view of Bay Lake. The pull-out couch was really comfortable for sitting and the orange upholstery seemed to be in great shape. The side table was really attractive but not large enough for my husband and me to eat a meal on it. I missed having a desk and would keep this in mind before booking a room here if I was trying to get work done during my stay. Still, I was excited about our view of Bay Lake. The balcony has a view of Bay Lake and, at night, the Electrical Water Pageant. The view from my balcony was wonderful and I was able to watch the Electrical Water Pageant each night. The pageant has been around since the 1970s and involves a cavalcade of floats making its way across Bay Lake and The Seven Seas Lagoon. In it, classic Disney songs play and the screens on the barges light up with aquatic creatures and characters. The show stops in front of The Grand Floridian, The Polynesian, The Contemporary, The Wilderness Lodge, and Fort Wilderness. Each of these resorts has public areas to view the floating parade from, but it was extra special to be able to watch from my own hotel room.     Nods to "The Incredibles" are spread across the resort in a way I thought was subtle but still nice. Artwork that combines "The Incredibles" and the Contemporary can be found on each floor near the elevator and on the walls next to hotel rooms. I thought what I saw looked nice. In the lobby, the Contemporary offers both quick-service and sit-down dining. Located in the lobby of the resort is Chef Mickey's, a character breakfast and dinner buffet. In my opinion, it's pretty expensive at more than $30 per child and $50 per adult. I've heard the food isn't that great and character dining isn't a priority for me, so there are other places I'd rather visit. Nearby is Contempo Café, a quick-service location that offers breakfast, lunch, dinner, and grab-and-go snacks and beverages. There are a couple of great items on the menu here, like the lemon-grass chicken bánh mi and the grilled tofu bowl. The café is open until 11 p.m., which is nice because sometimes the food options around the Magic Kingdom resort area feel limited, especially later in the day. Plus it's always great to find a meal that includes vegetables after a long park day. The area also has Outer Rim, a standard hotel bar offering beer, wine, and cocktails. I don't think it has any specialty items worth traveling out of your way for, but the service is usually great. Steakhouse 71 is also located on the first floor of the resort. Steakhouse 71 is located on the first floor of the resort. The modern eatery offers breakfast, lunch, and dinner. It also has a lounge serving up an abbreviated menu throughout the day. Photographs of the Disney World construction process and early years of the park line the corridor leading to the dining space. The restaurant itself is full of nods to the 1970s in an ode to the decade the resort opened. Guests can also order nostalgic menu items, such as Walt's Prime Rib Hash.   California Grill is a signature restaurant located on the top of the building. Located on top of the resort, California Grill is a fine-dining restaurant that typically serves a prix-fixe menu. Reservations are highly recommended but guests can stop at the desk located on the second floor to inquire about the walk-up wait-list or bar availability. Those who get bar seating can order from an a la carte menu featuring the restaurant's greatest hits like sushi, wontons, and pizza. California Grill also has platforms where you can get an incredible view of Disney World's fireworks. This restaurant is a very special place to view the show because the interior lights dim and music from the show is played. The ground floor of the resort has a coffee shop and the atrium has a market and a larger gift store. The resort has even more to explore on the ground floor and atrium including a coffee shop, market, and gift store. Fantasia Market sells snacks, beverages, and alcohol as well as some souvenirs. It's convenient to have a place to pick up some last-minute items without having to leave the resort. Bayview Gifts had a lot of merchandise to choose from, including some resort-specific items like bathrobes, Christmas ornaments, and Chef Mickey's aprons. This store receives a lot of great items that can be somewhat hard to find, so it's always worth a stop during your trip if time allows. There are two pool areas at the Contemporary. The Contemporary has two pools — the feature pool has a 17-foot-high curved waterslide and the Bay Pool is considered the quiet one at the resort. The area also has a hot tub. Compared to other Disney Deluxe resorts, this pool area feels basic at best to me, so if that's an aspect that's important to you, consider choosing a different property. Seating is somewhat limited at both of these pool areas and I've found shaded areas are next to impossible to secure, so be prepared to arrive early if you're hoping for a great lounge spot. It's great to be able to walk out of Magic Kingdom and be poolside in 15 minutes, but these resort pool areas just don't feel deluxe to me. I've also never seen a server walking around taking drink orders, something I've experienced at every other deluxe Disney resort I've stayed at. Near the pool, there's also a billiards table, volleyball area, and a sandy beach lined with Adirondack chairs and a perfect view of the Electrical Water Pageant. Nearby is the Sand Bar, a poolside bar with pretty basic offerings. The Sand Bar offers both a walk-up bar and window. In my opinion, the menu here is extremely limited and somewhat disappointing, especially compared to what I've seen at other deluxe resorts. You can find a hot dog, cheeseburger, and garden salad — that's about it. The cocktail menu offers the typical drinks found at Disney properties. There's a marina area on the property, too. Guests can rent pontoon boats for personal use, book a guided bass fishing excursion, or reserve a private fireworks cruise. The fireworks cruise typically fills up ahead of time, so be sure to plan ahead if that's a priority for your trip. The booking window currently opens 60 days prior to travel dates.   The Contemporary Resort is located directly next to Magic Kingdom. The resort is connected to the park by both a walkway as well as the aforementioned Monorail. The direct access to Magic Kingdom via the walkway is unmatched. This access saves guests time by allowing them to avoid crowded Monorail, boat, or bus lines at the end of their park day. I traveled with my husband during this trip and the close proximity to Magic Kingdom was perfect for us. I was able to rope drop the park when it opened in the morning, leaving him to sleep and meet up with me later in the day.   If you plan to spend a lot of time at Magic Kingdom, it's hard to beat the convenience of the Contemporary. There's also a bus stop at the hotel and guests can ride to Animal Kingdom, Hollywood Studios, Disney Springs, Typhoon Lagoon, and Blizzard Beach.   Fans of classic Disney history and mid-century design may also love staying at this particularly nostalgic resort. Although the price point is hard to justify due to the somewhat limited on-site dining options and the mediocre pool situation, the resort's convenience of direct access to Magic Kingdom is hard to beat. The Contemporary is far from my favorite resort, but I do believe it's a great choice for a split stay or to just cross it off your bucket list. Read the original article on Insider New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Monterey Car Week in Pebble Beach ended yesterday with a bang.