One of the keys for Brock Purdy during his tenure as the 49ers’ starting quarterback was going to be gaining the trust of head coach Kyle Shanahan. In order for Shanahan to be maximally effective as a play caller, he has to have faith in his QB to execute. Purdy needed fewer than 11 quarters to gain that trust. Shanahan on Friday in a conference all with reporters talked about a play call in Thursday night’s game where he had the rookie seventh-round pick throw on first down from the 49ers’ own 1. The throw was batted down at the line, but the process matters more than the result. That play call was borne from Shanahan’s confidence in Purdy. “My confidence in Brock just allows me to call what I think is right,” Shanahan said. “You trust him to make the right play. And so, you call things that you think are right at the time. In that situation, every play to me is risky. It’s when you’re on the half-yard line running the ball is risky, sometimes more risky than throwing it. You can get rid of it at least when you throw it. But sometimes when you run it’s just one guy has to take one wrong step, one little stunt and a three technique meets the back in the back field and there’s not much you can do about it. So that is why people sneak it a lot in that situation just to avoid that. But with Brock’s situation and his health going into that game sneak wasn’t much of an option.” Had Shanahan not trusted Purdy, they might’ve run into a catastrophe at their own goal line by trying to hand it off in that spot. Alas, he was comfortable letting the rookie spin it. The pass was batted down, but the confidence is what matters here. There’s no expectation that Purdy is going to be Patrick Mahomes in his first year in the NFL. All he has to do is execute the offense at a high level, and the fact Shanahan is already sure he’ll make the correct play is a great sign for the 49ers as they try and get a rookie QB to the Super Bowl for the first time ever. It’s still just 11 quarters though and there’s a long way to go before the postseason. Then the postseason is an entirely different beast. However, the foundations for success are being laid. Shanahan trusts his QB and calls him the most poised rookie QB he’s been around. With Shanahan calling plays on one side of the ball and the NFL’s No. 1 defense on the other, San Francisco may have a real chance if Purdy keeps playing the way he has these last three games.   Story originally appeared on Niners Wire Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros preview the United States men’s Olympic soccer team ahead of their opening game on Wednesday vs. France, Riccardo Calafiori’s ex-girlfriend breaking his Arsenal transfer news and why we’ll never see what Inter Miami did last year in the MLS League Cup happen again. Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Quarterback Colt McCoy is retiring from the NFL after 14 years in the league. NBC Sports announced that he will be part of the network's Big Ten coverage for the upcoming season. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. Not ideal for the Yankees outfielder. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Todd Bowles says the team won't miss linebacker Randy Gregory, who never reported to training camp amid his lawsuit against the NFL. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend series, including Blake Snell’s no-hitter and the White Sox epic losing streak. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine recap Team USA’s win over Brazil, preview Thursday’s game against Serbia and go through all of the NBA news they can find.