The incredible level of play that LeBron James has been serving up lately may be starting to fade. He shot 11-of-25 on Wednesday in a 116-111 loss to the Sacramento Kings, and although the Lakers came from behind to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies on Friday, he went just 8-of-21. In Friday’s contest, he appeared to be tired for much of the second half, and if he is tired, there is a very likely reason why – he has been playing heavy minutes. Over his last nine games, James has logged 37.8 minutes per game, which is seventh in the NBA during that span. For the season, he is averaging 36.3 minutes a contest, which is 11th. Given that he is 38 years of age, in his 20th season and has played over 53,000 regular season minutes over his career, the Lakers need to start conserving him. Ideally, they would get him down to about 32-34 minutes a game, and that extra rest would compound over time and make a difference in how he feels in the fourth quarters of games. All head coach Darvin Ham needs to do is take him out for his usual rest each quarter about 30 seconds of game time earlier, and then bring him back into the game about 30 seconds later. Another by-product of doing so is that James’ teammates would be forced to step up offensively for a few more possessions a game, particularly men such as Dennis Schroder and Lonnie Walker IV (when he returns from injury), the team’s most capable scorers other than him, Anthony Davis and Russell Westbrook. All too often, James, Davis and Westbrook have been the team’s only reliable and aggressive scorers. Having others step up in multiple facets of the game would also allow the four-time MVP to get more rest while on the court. With Davis apparently nearing a return and the team nearing a very challenging five-game road trip, now is the time for Ham to make this move for the good of his team.   Story originally appeared on LeBron Wire Matt Harmon and Dr. Renee Miller explain the human psychology of some of the most common fantasy pitfalls on Friday's episode of 'Yahoo Fantasy Forecast'. Christian Polanco and Alexis Guerreros talk about all the action from the United States successful group stages in the 2024 Olympics, the club friendlies happening in the U.S. and an awkward substation with Korbin Albert. Dominate your drafts with these 2024 fantasy football rankings from the analysts of Yahoo Fantasy. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Once you’ve drafted, it’s time to start scoring! Learn how your fantasy football team accumulates points. It's another edition of 'Mock Draft Monday' and this time we dive deep into our latest staff mock: A 12-team, full PPR, 3 starting WR format. Dalton Del Don joins Matt Harmon to identify the biggest observations for the draft. Both found interesting trends in rounds 2-4 and identified a steep cliff for one position after the sixth round. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman discuss the weekend that was in Major League Baseball and talk about which division races they are keeping a close eye on in the final couple of months of the season and they get into some of our favorite segments, including Sorry for Your Mentions. We continue 'rankings week' on the pod by looking at what goes into making a good ranking for draft season. 4 for 4's John Paulsen joins Matt Harmon to discuss what goes into his draft rankings and what the common flaws are when people make them. The two then identify 6 position groups that are hard to rank and project this year and 6 players Paulsen is much higher on than consensus. Jake Fischer and Dan Devine talk through Team USA’s win over South Sudan and preview their game against Puerto Rico on Saturday before going through some NBA news, including Gordon Hayward’s retirement. On today's episode, Matt Harmon is joined by Ben Gretch to discuss two of fantasy football's most consumed prediction metrics: rankings and projections. How do fantasy analysts such as ourselves come up with them? What situations should you read one versus the other? And in what situations are they completely useless? Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. With the first week of preseason action in the books, fantasy football analyst Tera Roberts gives her take on some polarizing ADPs. We're almost to the end of the 2024 offseason! With Week 0 just over a week away, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and SI's Pat Forde take a peek at the slate of games next Saturday. On today's show, they also pitch the biggest headlines of the 2024 season they're most excited to see. From conference realignment to the expanded playoff, they dive into how this season will be the most momentous ever. The Yahoo Fantasy football crew got together for their very first mock draft of 2024. Andy Behrens recaps the results. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their tight end rankings for the 2024 NFL season. Manage your fantasy football leagues in an hour (or less) every week. The Yahoo Fantasy football analysts reveal their defense rankings for the 2024 NFL season. It's a very special edition of the pod as Matt Harmon and Scott Pianowski record from the Hall of Fame Village in Canton, Ohio. The pod is ON LOCATION at the Fantasy Football Expo, one of the biggest weekends of the year in the fantasy industry. For 'Mock Draft Monday' the two recap two very real drafts they participated in at the expo. Harmon and Pianowski share their biggest observations from their expert level 14-team snake and salary cap drafts. Boise State named Maddux Madsen the team's starting quarterback for the 2024 season, tabbing him over Malachi Nelson, who transferred from USC.