Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Baltimore Sun eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 A monthslong campaign by homeowners to stop Baltimore Gas and Electric Co.’s controversial practice of installing gas regulators on the facades of city homes has been resolved in residents’ favor.Residential gas customers can choose whether gas pressure regulators are installed inside or outside their homes, except under some circumstances, said the Maryland Public Service Commission, which oversees utilities, in an order Tuesday.“The commission prefers regulators be installed outside of dwellings but finds that both indoor and outdoor installations are generally permitted by state and federal law if proper engineering standards are followed and determines that both indoor and outdoor installations are generally safe,” the order said.In addition, utilities no longer will be able to cut off gas service or threaten to discontinue service because a customer declines an exterior regulator, unless outdoor installation is required by state or federal law, the order says.The commission noted in its order that BGE customers had filed numerous complaints with its consumer affairs division and joined a court petition in June protesting the utility’s work to install regulators, part of a larger initiative to upgrade its low pressure gas system to high pressure.After BGE began defaulting to external installations in 2021 and work moved into urban neighborhoods with historic homes lining highly trafficked streets, residents began pushing back, citing safety and aesthetic concerns. Many have been upset about the use of the bulky regulators outside homes when interior options exist.Homeowners who complained about the regulators viewed Tuesday’s order as a hard-fought win but indicated the fight is not over.Those who filed a class action lawsuit against BGE plan to file an amended complaint by Friday that will seek damages or a reversal of work for anyone in the BGE service territory who had an external regulator installed over their objections, said Thiru Vignarajah, the plaintiffs’ attorney.

“The next phase is to get BGE to fix all the things it’s broken,” said Vignarajah, who said the lawsuit has grown to 500 potential plaintiffs in the class, including more than 100 who said they already have been forced to accept external regulators.Magdalena Fitzsimmons helped organize a grassroots movement against BGE’s practice of shutting off or threatening to shut off homeowners’ gas service if they refused exterior regulators.“Everybody was happy with the decision” that gives customers a choice between two options considered to be safe, said Fitzsimmons, board president of Washington Hill Community Association, which represents a neighborhood north of Fells Point. “We’ve been working on it for months, and many people thought that we would never succeed in achieving these goals.”BGE said in a filing Tuesday that the company worked with the customer group to reach the proposal approved by the PSC.The company will comply with the order, but still maintains that “placing gas regulators outdoors is safer because it reduces the risk of a catastrophic gas event,” a position in line with industry experts, engineering best practices and National Transportation Safety Board recommendations, said Nick Alexopulos, a BGE spokesman.“We appreciate that customers still can select the safer outdoor option,” Alexopulos said. “Safety is, above all, the number one priority in all of our work.”The commission’s order said that BGE has said technologies such as a smart methane detector or a thermal shutoff valve could be used to decrease the risk associated with future indoor installations.Residents and the utility have clashed over the use of and necessity for the gas equipment and whether it enhances public safety or poses serious dangers. The commission heard arguments for and against the regulators from dozens of residents, community association representatives and BGE executives during a hearing last month.Homeowners who filed a class action lawsuit against BGE had asked the commission to address its top priorities. Those included barring utilities from denying or terminating gas service because a homeowner declines an exterior regulator and leaving the choice of interior or exterior installation up to homeowners.Plaintiffs also asked the PSC to clarify that no provision of the previously approved gas service tariff can be used as a justification or basis for cutting off gas service as residents have been told. They argued that exterior locations may be preferred or recommended by BGE, but are not required by any federal, state, or local law.“This is a remarkable victory for residents across Baltimore and beyond,” Vignarajah said. “Homeowners get to choose what makes the most sense, what’s safest for their family, for their block, for their community. … Today’s decision makes clear that when communities come together and organize and stand up for one another, that justice can be delivered.”Residents had argued that hundreds of BGE customers had been given a choice of whether regulators would be installed inside or outside the home and that BGE has said both types are safe. Homeowners should have that choice, they had argued, as long as the practice conforms with state law and federal regulations.The city’s Commission on Historical and Architectural Preservation recently voted to disallow exterior gas regulator installations in historic districts in the city, unless required by law or requested by a homeowner.Vignarajah had shown the commission data highlighting the frequency of accidents involving external regulators in which people were injured, hospitalized or killed. In many cases, vehicles hit external equipment, causing a fire or explosion, while intentional damage or tampering caused most of the incidents involving equipment installed indoors.The commission said it was not able to determine the likelihood of indoor versus outdoor incidents based on the testimony presented.Commissioners found that a state law known as the Flower Branch Act does not apply to single-family residences and that state law in general allows both indoor and outdoor regulators. Under Flower Branch, outdoor installations are mandatory for multi-family dwellings with six or more units and must be placed away from locations exposed to vehicular traffic. Federal regulations also allow both indoor and outdoor installations, the commission said.The order calls for BGE to give customers a choice unless that choice violates state or federal laws or a homeowner’s interior equipment is blocked off by permanent walls or fixtures. BGE must give customers written notice informing them of their right to choose regulator location 14 days in advance of installation.BGE is adding the regulators as part of a project to replace aging natural gas pipes and equipment throughout the Baltimore region. The utility has said its work is being done for safety and reliability reasons and that outdoor regulators are needed to maintain a safe level of pressure between the gas system and customer homes and appliances.During a hearing Tuesday morning in Baltimore Circuit Court, Judge John Nugent granted a motion by plaintiffs in the homeowners’ lawsuit against BGE allowing them to file an amended complaint by the close of business Friday. The judge also extended until Friday a temporary restraining order, with BGE’s consent, barring the utility from installing external regulators without a homeowner’s consent. Residential gas customers can choose whether gas pressure regulators are installed inside or outside their homes, except under some circumstances, said the Maryland Public Service Commission, which oversees utilities, in an order Tuesday. “The commission prefers regulators be installed outside of dwellings but finds that both indoor and outdoor installations are generally permitted by state and federal law if proper engineering standards are followed and determines that both indoor and outdoor installations are generally safe,” the order said. In addition, utilities no longer will be able to cut off gas service or threaten to discontinue service because a customer declines an exterior regulator, unless outdoor installation is required by state or federal law, the order says. The commission noted in its order that BGE customers had filed numerous complaints with its consumer affairs division and joined a court petition in June protesting the utility’s work to install regulators, part of a larger initiative to upgrade its low pressure gas system to high pressure. After BGE began defaulting to external installations in 2021 and work moved into urban neighborhoods with historic homes lining highly trafficked streets, residents began pushing back, citing safety and aesthetic concerns. Many have been upset about the use of the bulky regulators outside homes when interior options exist. Homeowners who complained about the regulators viewed Tuesday’s order as a hard-fought win but indicated the fight is not over. Those who filed a class action lawsuit against BGE plan to file an amended complaint by Friday that will seek damages or a reversal of work for anyone in the BGE service territory who had an external regulator installed over their objections, said Thiru Vignarajah, the plaintiffs’ attorney. “The next phase is to get BGE to fix all the things it’s broken,” said Vignarajah, who said the lawsuit has grown to 500 potential plaintiffs in the class, including more than 100 who said they already have been forced to accept external regulators. Magdalena Fitzsimmons helped organize a grassroots movement against BGE’s practice of shutting off or threatening to shut off homeowners’ gas service if they refused exterior regulators. “Everybody was happy with the decision” that gives customers a choice between two options considered to be safe, said Fitzsimmons, board president of Washington Hill Community Association, which represents a neighborhood north of Fells Point. “We’ve been working on it for months, and many people thought that we would never succeed in achieving these goals.” BGE said in a filing Tuesday that the company worked with the customer group to reach the proposal approved by the PSC. The company will comply with the order, but still maintains that “placing gas regulators outdoors is safer because it reduces the risk of a catastrophic gas event,” a position in line with industry experts, engineering best practices and National Transportation Safety Board recommendations, said Nick Alexopulos, a BGE spokesman. “We appreciate that customers still can select the safer outdoor option,” Alexopulos said. “Safety is, above all, the number one priority in all of our work.” The commission’s order said that BGE has said technologies such as a smart methane detector or a thermal shutoff valve could be used to decrease the risk associated with future indoor installations. Residents and the utility have clashed over the use of and necessity for the gas equipment and whether it enhances public safety or poses serious dangers. The commission heard arguments for and against the regulators from dozens of residents, community association representatives and BGE executives during a hearing last month. Homeowners who filed a class action lawsuit against BGE had asked the commission to address its top priorities. Those included barring utilities from denying or terminating gas service because a homeowner declines an exterior regulator and leaving the choice of interior or exterior installation up to homeowners. Plaintiffs also asked the PSC to clarify that no provision of the previously approved gas service tariff can be used as a justification or basis for cutting off gas service as residents have been told. They argued that exterior locations may be preferred or recommended by BGE, but are not required by any federal, state, or local law. “This is a remarkable victory for residents across Baltimore and beyond,” Vignarajah said. “Homeowners get to choose what makes the most sense, what’s safest for their family, for their block, for their community. … Today’s decision makes clear that when communities come together and organize and stand up for one another, that justice can be delivered.” Residents had argued that hundreds of BGE customers had been given a choice of whether regulators would be installed inside or outside the home and that BGE has said both types are safe. Homeowners should have that choice, they had argued, as long as the practice conforms with state law and federal regulations. The city’s Commission on Historical and Architectural Preservation recently voted to disallow exterior gas regulator installations in historic districts in the city, unless required by law or requested by a homeowner. Vignarajah had shown the commission data highlighting the frequency of accidents involving external regulators in which people were injured, hospitalized or killed. In many cases, vehicles hit external equipment, causing a fire or explosion, while intentional damage or tampering caused most of the incidents involving equipment installed indoors. The commission said it was not able to determine the likelihood of indoor versus outdoor incidents based on the testimony presented. Commissioners found that a state law known as the Flower Branch Act does not apply to single-family residences and that state law in general allows both indoor and outdoor regulators. Under Flower Branch, outdoor installations are mandatory for multi-family dwellings with six or more units and must be placed away from locations exposed to vehicular traffic. Federal regulations also allow both indoor and outdoor installations, the commission said. The order calls for BGE to give customers a choice unless that choice violates state or federal laws or a homeowner’s interior equipment is blocked off by permanent walls or fixtures. BGE must give customers written notice informing them of their right to choose regulator location 14 days in advance of installation. BGE is adding the regulators as part of a project to replace aging natural gas pipes and equipment throughout the Baltimore region. The utility has said its work is being done for safety and reliability reasons and that outdoor regulators are needed to maintain a safe level of pressure between the gas system and customer homes and appliances. During a hearing Tuesday morning in Baltimore Circuit Court, Judge John Nugent granted a motion by plaintiffs in the homeowners’ lawsuit against BGE allowing them to file an amended complaint by the close of business Friday. The judge also extended until Friday a temporary restraining order, with BGE’s consent, barring the utility from installing external regulators without a homeowner’s consent. Copyright © 2024 Baltimore Sun