Working from home by day, gaming and streaming by night? Defeating Wi-Fi dead zones is more important than ever. A mesh network system can help, and these are the best we've tested. I’ve been working with computers for ages, starting with a multi-year stint in purchasing for a major IBM reseller in New York City before eventually landing at PCMag (back when it was still in print as PC Magazine). I spent more than 14 years on staff, most recently as the director of operations for PC Labs, before hitting the freelance circuit as a contributing editor.  
Our team of experts test, rate, and review more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 
Our team of experts test, rate, and review more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology.
 Having smooth Wi-Fi is critical for video streaming, gaming, and linking up smart home devices. But with the rise of telecommuting and digital home-based learning, it matters even more that your home network can ace productivity applications and video conferencing, too—upstairs and down. Strong, whole-house wireless coverage is a must, and a solo router may no longer suffice. That's where getting the best Wi-Fi mesh router system comes in: Kits like these blanket your home in a wide web of Wi-Fi signal, with the help of multiple physical pieces of transmitting hardware. In our tests of today's best Wi-Fi mesh systems, our top overall pick is the Asus ZenWiFi AX (XT8). We stand behind it and our other recommendations below. All are drawn from reviews backed by our rigorous testing and decades of expertise. Whatever your budget and precise needs, our pick list has a mesh system that's right for you. 
*Deals are selected by our commerce team
 The Asus ZenWiFi AX (XT8) is a tri-band Wi-Fi 6 mesh system that delivered speedy throughput scores in testing. It’s a two-piece system that offers plenty of coverage for medium to large homes (up to 5,500 square feet) and can be paired with other Asus devices that support AIMesh technology. It’s a snap to install and manage thanks to a user-friendly mobile app, and it comes with free lifetime parental controls and network security software.  The Asus ZenWiFi AX (XT8) is a solid choice for anyone looking for an easy way to eliminate wireless dead spots. Its robust parental controls and anti-malware software make it an ideal choice for families that want to monitor and limit online activities while providing secure Wi-Fi 6 coverage to all corners of their home. It’s also a great choice if you plan on making wired connections, as its 2.5Gbps WAN/LAN port lets you take advantage of high-speed internet plans and provides speedy connectivity to NAS devices. Plus, at $399 for a two-pack and frequently available on sale, its current pricing is less than it was when we tested it three years ago, making it still expensive but potentially more attractive to people who want to maximize their networking budget.  The Vilo Mesh Wi-Fi System is the most affordable three-piece mesh system we’ve come across. It's now $115.99 for a three-pack, up from $59.99 when we tested it in 2021, but it's still a steal even at current pricing. It’s not a superstar performer, and it uses older Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac) technology, but it is very easy to install and manage, offers good range, and comes with parental controls that let you schedule internet access times and allow or disallow internet access for any device. If you need to fill in Wi-Fi dead zones but don’t have the money for a mesh system that uses the latest Wi-Fi 6 technology, the Vilo Mesh Wi-Fi system will get the job done. We don’t recommend this system for users who do a lot of 4K video streaming or those who download large chunks of data, but it is more than suitable for everyday web surfing and basic home networking duties. Asus' ROG Rapture GT6 is a sleek-looking, two-piece mesh system designed with gamers in mind. It combines game-enhancing settings, fast throughput, strong signal performance, and free Trend Micro network security software in a package that's a snap to set up and manage. The Asus ROG Rapture GT6 kit not only delivered superior throughput and strong Wi-Fi signals in our tests, but it offers numerous features designed to enhance your online gaming experience, including a dedicated game port and a variety of gamer-centric settings. Throw in a cool-looking design with Aura RGB lighting effects, and it's obvious why this mesh system should be at the top of gamers' lists.  The GT6 is a no-brainer addition to any household with many connected devices, especially if several of those are gaming PCs and consoles. The two reasons to opt for a cheaper non-mesh gaming router over the GT6 are if you've got a smaller home with less interference from neighboring Wi-Fi networks, or you're on a strict budget.  As with the eero 6+, the eero Pro 6E delivered fast throughput scores and strong signal strength in our performance tests. Both also offer the ability to control home automation devices and easy setup. But in return for a slightly higher price, the eero Pro 6E adds multi-gig connectivity and support for Wi-Fi 6E. As more and more compatible client devices become available, this mesh system will let you take advantage of the relatively un-crowded 6GHz radio band without missing a beat. If you want a Wi-Fi 6E-powered mesh system that is easy to set up and manage, the eero Pro 6E is worth a look. As every high-end mesh system should, it supports 160MHz channel bandwidth for optimal throughput speeds. A USB port or two would be nice, and it's unfortunate that parental controls require an optional subscription, but if easy setup and strong performance are your main concerns, the eero Pro 6E will fit the bill. Reasonably priced as far as mesh systems go, the Wyze Wi-Fi 6E Mesh Router Pro delivered speedy 5GHz throughput in testing, is easy to manage, and offers multi-gig and USB connectivity. Its performance on the 6GHz (Wi-Fi 6E) band is also good, though not quite as good as its 5GHz performance. It comes with free network security software, and you can add an additional node to cover homes up to 6,000 square feet for a total price of $393.99.  The Wyze Wi-Fi 6E Mesh Router Pro two-pack is a good value and a smart choice for anyone looking to jump on the 6GHz bandwagon. It’s also a breeze to install and manage using the Wyze mobile app.  The Eero Max 7 is a whole-home mesh Wi-Fi system that uses Wi-Fi 7 technology and high-speed ports to deliver exceptional throughput speeds. Wi-Fi 7 is still a draft wireless standard, and few devices other than routers support it. Still, if you'd like to future-proof your network, the Eero Max 7 is the way to do it. The system we reviewed, which has three nodes, managed more than 2Gbps throughput speeds in testing. The Max 7 also offers extensive support for home automation protocols like Zigbee, Matter, and Thread.  If you're looking to future-proof your Wi-Fi network, you probably also dabble in home automation, and the Max 7 serves both needs proficiently. Most other people don't need to spend the kind of cash that Wi-Fi 7 requires right now, and will be just fine with a much cheaper Wi-Fi 6 mesh system.  Any Wi-Fi mesh system worth its salt is easy to use, delivers good performance, and comes with parental control software that allows you to monitor and limit internet usage. The TP-Link Deco X4300 Pro checks all these boxes, plus it delivers up to 7,000 square feet of coverage for those who like to live large. It installed in minutes using the intuitive Deco mobile app and performed admirably on our throughput and signal strength performance tests. It also uses most of the latest Wi-Fi 6 technologies, including support for 160MHz channel bandwidth.   If your current Wi-Fi router is unable to bring a strong wireless signal to every room in your four-to-six-bedroom house, the Deco X4300 Pro can help. It’s a moderately priced three-piece system that comes with free basic network security and parental control software, and also offers a paid subscription for more advanced parental controls and network security tools.  The Netgear Orbi RBKE963 is a three-piece mesh system that employs the latest Wi-Fi 6E technology to access the relatively uncrowded 6GHz radio band. This wildly expensive system delivered very fast throughput speeds in our performance tests, and it offers excellent signal range. It’s loaded with high-end components and is easy to configure.  People with very large dwellings (up to 9,000 square feet) and very large bank accounts who want to blanket their home in the latest Wi-Fi technology should take a look at the Orbi RBKE963. This beefy mesh system offers multi-gig WAN and LAN ports and comes with basic parental controls, but you can subscribe to Netgear’s Smart Parental Controls if you require age-based web filters, detailed browser history reports, and internet time rewards. Amazon’s Eero 6+ is more than just a stylish three-piece Wi-Fi 6 mesh system. Sure, it delivers fast wireless throughput and strong signal transmissions in homes of up to 4,500 square feet, but it also has hidden talents. It functions as a home automation hub that controls Zigbee devices such as cameras, smart plugs, and thermostats. And of course, it works with Alexa voice commands and routines. The Eero 6+ is a good fit for those who use Amazon Alexa to control their smart home devices. It uses sleek, low-profile nodes to bring Wi-Fi 6 connectivity and home automation control to every room in the house, and it can access 160MHz channels. It comes with a thoughtfully designed mobile app that lets you control everything from your phone, but you’ll have a pay a bit more for parental control and network security software. A mesh system can use one of a few different means of communicating between its nodes. This process, called backhaul, is essential to blanketing your home with strong, fast Wi-Fi signals. While most mesh systems use a dedicated 2.4GHz or 5GHz band for backhaul, the TP-Link Deco XE75 Pro instead defaults to using a 6GHz band, known as Wi-Fi 6E. This is among the most efficient setups we've seen, since few client devices have Wi-Fi 6E support yet, and the 6GHz spectrum is still relatively uncrowded. And if you do have Wi-Fi 6E-capable devices or are lucky enough to have a wired Ethernet connection for backhaul, the XE75 Pro can be configured to use 6GHz for client communications instead.  If you're in the market for a cutting-edge Wi-Fi 6E mesh system, but don't have many Wi-Fi 6E-capable devices, you might want to consider the XE75 Pro. It puts Wi-Fi 6E technology to good use behind the scenes, while standing ready to use the 6GHz band for client devices in the future. Plus, at the current MSRP of $299 for a two-pack (cheaper than when we reviewed it), it's reasonably priced.  Many late-model wireless routers can project strong signal to most rooms of a typical medium-size house. But larger homes and dwellings with dense walls, multiple floors, metal and concrete substructures, and other material impediments may require additional components to bring Wi-Fi to areas that a single router can't reach. Range extenders can help fill dead zones, but most provide only half the bandwidth that you get from your main router. Access points, meanwhile, offer more bandwidth than range extenders, but they require a wired connection to the main router. And both solutions typically create a new network SSID that you have to log in to as you move from one area of the house to another. If you're new to networking, you might be worrying that all of the above will leave you sitting on the floor surrounded by a lot of router documentation and questioning your life choices. Fortunately, there's another alternative: a mesh Wi-Fi system. Also known by popular brand names like Google Nest Wi-Fi Pro, or TP-Link Deco, mesh systems (or mesh Wi-Fi routers) are designed to blanket your home with wireless coverage. These systems are a hybrid of sorts, made up of several networking components. A main router connects directly to your modem, and a series of satellite modules, or nodes, get placed throughout your house. They are all part of a single wireless network, and they share the same SSID and password. Unlike range extenders, which typically communicate with the router via the 2.4GHz, 5GHz, or 6GHz radio bands, most Wi-Fi system satellites use mesh technology to talk to the router and to each other. Setting up and maintaining a traditional wireless home network can be daunting, even if you're tech-savvy. Wi-Fi mesh systems, on the other hand, are geared toward users with little or no technical knowledge and can be installed in minutes. They typically come with a user-friendly mobile app that walks you through the installation process with easy-to-follow illustrated instructions. The app tells you where to place each node for maximum coverage and chooses the best Wi-Fi channel and radio band for optimal throughput performance, so you can maintain a strong wireless connection as you move about the house. Wi-Fi mesh systems are easy to expand (with no current limit on the number of nodes you can add) and manage using your smartphone. From an app, you can disable Wi-Fi access to specific devices with the press of a button, or give certain devices network priority without having to log in to a complicated network console. Most Wi-Fi mesh systems look nothing like a traditional setup with a router and range extender. The router and nodes use internal antennas and are almost always tastefully designed so you can place them out in the open rather than in a closet or under a desk. (Don't expect to find a lot of flashing LED indicators—these systems are designed to blend in with your home's décor.) They usually have at least one LAN port for connecting to devices like TVs and gaming consoles, but USB connectivity is a rare feature at this point. Similar to modern standalone routers, mesh systems are multi-band networking devices that operate on the 2.4GHz, 5GHz, and 6GHz radio bands. Some models offer support for Multi-User Multiple Input Multiple Output (MU-MIMO) technology, which streams data to multiple compatible wireless clients simultaneously rather than sequentially. Most Wi-Fi systems use band steering to automatically select the least-crowded radio band for the best performance and offer easy-to-use parental controls, guest networking, and device-prioritization options. While designed for ease of use, they usually let you configure port forwarding and wireless security settings but lack the advanced network-management options such as individual band control, firewall settings, and wireless transmission rate settings that you get with a traditional router. Nor can you use third-party WRT firmware to customize the system for enhanced performance and network monitoring. The only significant disadvantage of mesh networking systems is their pricing, which is almost always higher than a standalone router's. Most manufacturers sell mesh systems in flexible configurations, where you choose the number of nodes that match the coverage needed for the amount of square feet your house contains. A system with three nodes is typically pricier than a system with two nodes, which in turn is pricier than either a single node (which is available with some mesh systems) or an alternative standalone router. And if you need to spread signals throughout a house that's 4,000 square feet or more, you're typically going to need a three-node system, which means upgrading to a mesh system from your existing standalone router will be a significant hit to your wallet.  However, in return for the higher cash outlay, you get all the advantages described here—consistent Wi-Fi coverage throughout your house, easy installation, and much more. And in some cases, you might actually save money by buying a multiple-node mesh system instead of trying to improve your existing router's coverage by adding boosters or extenders. We'll take a look at the advantages mesh offers over this scenario below. Speed problems are a secondary potential disadvantage with mesh systems. Concerned that using a mesh system to spread consistent Wi-Fi signals throughout your home will reduce your internet speed overall, or take away the peak speeds you experience on devices that currently have a wired connection to your existing router? It's possible, at least in theory, but only if you have a large number of Wi-Fi devices and a relatively slow plan from your internet service provider. For example, if your connection offers 100Mbps download speeds and 5Mbps upload speeds, a common scenario for entry-level broadband plans in many areas of the country, you could easily max them out with just two or three connected devices, like a phone, TV, and a computer. If you've got a dozen or so additional devices spread throughout your home—the average American household has 21, a number that's actually decreasing over time—that can suddenly access that full speed thanks to your new mesh system, you could inadvertently create a bottleneck.  It's an easy problem to solve if you do run into it, though. Thanks to the ease with which most mesh systems can be configured, you can often group devices together into high-priority categories that get allocated bandwidth first (like your work PC you use for videoconferencing) and relegate other devices like thermostats and alarm clocks to a lower tier. And if that doesn't work, you could consider upgrading the speed of your internet plan.  A few super-high-end mesh systems do support the cutting-edge Wi-Fi 7 standard, but they're quite expensive for now, and overkill for most people. Wi-Fi 6 support is much more common on mainstream mesh systems, and you should insist on it in a new mesh system, especially if you own client devices that support it.  Wi-Fi 6 (also called 802.11ax) is an evolution of Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac) technology that promises increased throughput speeds (up to 9.6Gbps), less network congestion, greater client capacity, and better range performance courtesy of several new and improved wireless technologies, including Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiple Access (OFDMA). OFDMA improves overall throughput by breaking Wi-Fi channels into sub-channels, allowing up to 30 users to share a channel at the same time.  Additionally, 802.11ax takes advantage of previously unused radio frequencies to provide faster 2.4GHz performance and uses MU-MIMO streaming, too. Some Wi-Fi 6 devices can also communicate on the less-crowded 6GHz band, which is known as Wi-Fi 6E—Wi-Fi 7 devices also use the 6GHz band.  Aside from a few pricey contenders, most mesh systems are only slightly more expensive than a router/range extender combination. Wi-Fi systems range in price from less than $100 for a single-node system to at least $300 for a setup that can cover a 3,000-square-foot house with three or more nodes. The pricing looks higher with these systems because, in most cases, you're paying for at least two devices, the router and a router node that forms the mesh. Most systems, in fact, come with two nodes, so you're buying three devices in total. If you break it down per device, you'll most often find that they cost only a little more than you'd pay for a similarly powered router and range extender solution. That's especially true now that we're seeing prices coming down on mesh systems in general, even the newer models compatible with Wi-Fi 6E. Also remember: Wi-Fi systems are all about ease of use. They are a snap to set up and manage, offer whole-house coverage via a series of attractive nodes, and provide seamless room-to-room roaming over a single network. If you want total control over your network and require the best possible throughput performance and connectivity options, stick with a traditional router solution. If you don't want to deal with things like assigning radio bands and logging in to different networks as you move throughout your home, however, a Wi-Fi system makes sense. (For more about the differences between these two technologies, check out our explainer Wi-Fi Range Extender vs. Mesh Network: What's the Difference?) We've laid out our top mesh picks in the detailed spec breakout that accompanies this guide. For even more detail, click through to our full reviews of the best Wi-Fi systems we've tested. Need some more help getting all your devices up and running their fastest? Check out our tips for troubleshooting your internet connection. And once you've picked out the best mesh system for your home, read our primer on how to set up a mesh Wi-Fi router. Advertisement Sign up for Lab Report to get the latest reviews and top product advice delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I’ve been working with computers for ages, starting with a multi-year stint in purchasing for a major IBM reseller in New York City before eventually landing at PCMag (back when it was still in print as PC Magazine). I spent more than 14 years on staff, most recently as the director of operations for PC Labs, before hitting the freelance circuit as a contributing editor.  Read John R.'s full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.