Media is more complex than ever. Discover the future of cross-media measurement with Nielsen ONE. Explore what consumers are watching, playing and listening to around the world. Client Login Solutions > Gracenote content metadata For more information on Gracenote solutions, please visit www.gracenote.com/solutions Overview The automotive industry is experiencing a rapid shift, as consumers demand more entertainment options and easier access to their favorite apps. As a result, automakers are facing a variety of new challenges. These include offering connected audio and video entertainment, differentiating their brand with modernized media experiences, and utilizing apps and services available on Android Automotive OS (AAOS), web and other platforms. Gracenote Nexus Auto gives automakers easy access to the company’s industry-leading entertainment datasets covering audio, sports and video content. The platform works with Android Automotive OS (AAOS) and other popular automotive operating systems, enabling car brands to simplify integration with their infotainment offerings, reduce development time and deliver the content-first interfaces consumers want. Through Gracenote’s connected APIs, automakers can enhance their personalized entertainment and make recommendations that include radio, streaming music, podcasts, sports, movies and TV based on user activity and popularity. Automakers can maintain brand differentiation and customize in-car displays to deliver an intuitive, visually appealing UI. Over 300M vehicles worldwide have shipped with Gracenote metadata. Media Types Enhance radio navigation by displaying names, logos and categories across stations to create a consistent, easy to use interface. Create an engaging music experience by displaying automatically recognized artist and song information, lyrics, related music and streaming links. Power podcast discovery by category such as news or sports and deliver recommendations for podcast series. Give users the ability to follow their favorite teams and leagues, catch up on stats, and watch live games in the car. Allow passengers to search for and watch their favorite TV shows and movies, and discover new content using in-car screens. Use cases Provide a seamless entertainment experience across multiple content types, auto apps and services. • Simplify audio discovery with radio, music and podcasts in a single view.• Allow fans to keep up with sports content while in the car.• Link content across media types, such as timely sporting event updates with prompts to watch games if parked.• Customize and personalize automotive UIs based on make and model leveraging descriptors and connected IDs.• Create differentiation with media browsing experiences that can link to preferred entertainment apps and services. Coverage Gracenote provides global and local content solutions in key regions across the Americas, Asia-Pacific, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Gracenote Nexus Auto enables search and discovery across audio, sports and video content, including: See the map above for an example of coverage for our radio solutions. Transform how music is organized and discovered, with factual and descriptive metadata for over 100 million music tracks…  Empower audiences to find and enjoy their favorite content with the definitive collection of worldwide sports, music, TV,…  Deliver in-depth sports data, including schedules, scores, statistics and team and player information for the world’s…  Let’s discuss your connected car needs.  Keep up-to-date with our weekly newsletter, Media Pulse. Copyright © 2024 The Nielsen Company (US), LLC. All Rights Reserved. Privacy notice | Terms of use | Do not sell or share my personal informationLimit the use of my sensitive personal informationNielsen Marketing Cloud Privacy Statement | Integrity Helpline | Health Privacy Notice 粤ICP备17078252号 | 粤公网安备44010402001179号 | 上海尼尔森市场研究有限公司广州分公司 Impressum  Contact us In an ever-changing world, we’re here to help you stay ahead of what’s to come with the tools to measure, connect with, and engage your audiences.