NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT This article contains affiliate links. We will earn a small commission on purchases made through one of these links but this never influences our experts’ opinions. Products are tested and reviewed independently of commercial initiatives. Aldi has a number of offers in the middle aisle every week – called Specialbuys. From egg chairs to bedding, and fire pits to gin, there are always some great deals to be found. If you’re planning ahead to visit the iconic middle aisle – or you prefer to get your bargains online – we’ve got you covered. Here are our top picks of this week’s Aldi Specialbuys. Get your Christmas shopping sorted at Aldi this week, as the deals are focused on gifting for the whole family. There are tons of kids toys, along with luxe-on-a-budget beauty presents that’ll delight your loved ones come the big day. LED masks can cost hundreds of pounds, so this option for under £50 is a real steal.  It has three different wavelengths for different skin therapies – red, blue, and green – and can be used to reduce inflammation and breakouts and brighten your complexion. Buy for £49.99 exclusively on the Aldi website. Get glammed up in style this party season with this freestanding mirror that features 15 bright lights. Use the touch screen controls to switch between warm white, natural, and dimmer settings and recharge via USB. Buy for £79.99 exclusively on the Aldi website.  Pokemon fans will love this toy, which lets you build your own 12-inch Pikachu from 600 pieces. When the life-size model is built, the articulated design means you can also pose it too. Buy for £34.99 on the Aldi website now and in stores from Sunday December 11. There are toys-a-plenty on Aldi’s shelves this week, but this game will be a hit with any car fanatics. The secret spot behind Pret at Heathrow Airport where anyone can enjoy free champagne Aldi shoppers ‘genuinely gutted’ over supermarket’s major change with little warning Aldi store manager reveals supermarket secrets we've all been dying to know This TikTok viral hot brush can give you a salon blowout in 5 minutes Along with a real spinning wheel with two launchers, you’ll get a Hot Wheels car to race with. Buy for £29.99 on the Aldi website and in stores now.  You can order online and find more Specialbuys on the Aldi website. Do you have a story to share? Get in touch by emailing MetroLifestyleTeam@Metro.co.uk. 

	MORE : Aldi is now selling Yorkshire pudding beer

 

	MORE : Send this sexy wedding morning text to your bride for a stress-free day

 

	MORE : Stocking fillers: 57 affordable Christmas gifts for £20 or less

 Get the latest trends, offers and trusted reviews  Get us in your feed