

Published 1 year ago.
About a 4 minute read.
Image: Leonardo Dourado
 NatureMetrics says new platform represents breakthrough in understanding and managing our impact on nature — providing simple, standardized metrics to track and report on site-based nature impacts. Recognition of the importance of thriving, global biodiversity to our survival
has grown in recent years. But, as with substantive action to mitigate climate
change,
strategies to protect and restore our natural world have been slow and
piecemeal. But momentum is building; and leading corporations and financial institutions
are increasingly taking biodiversity into account, seeking ways to align
financial flows to global biodiversity goals: Kering, for example, has
committed to having a net-positive impact on biodiversity by
2025.
In 2021, the Natural Capital Finance Alliance released its ENCORE
biodiversity
module
— which enables banks and investors to analyze the potential impact of their
investment activities in agriculture and mining on biodiversity loss;
the Science Based Targets Network issued interim
guidance
showing companies how to protect and restore nature in line with science; and
HSBC, WRI and WWF launched their $100 million Climate Solutions
Partnership,
of which projects that protect and restore biodiversity are a key focus. But
standardized metrics for quantifying the value of natural capital and our
impacts on it have remained elusive. So, today, from the COP15 Biodiversity
Conference
in Montreal, NatureMetrics — a
UK-based provider of nature intelligence technology — is launching what it’s
calling the world’s most powerful nature performance-monitoring service. Whether
just starting out on biodiversity data collection or have a sophisticated
strategy for achieving nature positivity, the new platform aims to support any
company with the need to improve its nature performance and to make a real
difference on the ground through site-based biodiversity monitoring. NatureMetrics’ ‘environmental DNA’ (eDNA)
technology
provides continuous nature-impact monitoring at scale to enable standardized
performance measurement of natural ecosystems. Fundamental for businesses to
report and manage nature risk (which a record number of companies say they are
ready and seeking guidance on how to do, according to recent CDP
data),
these insights will be accessible through a new digital dashboard — making vital
information on nature impact easy to understand by multiple stakeholders across
any organization. Join us to hear insights from brands including Applegate on marketing lessons from consumer response to sustainability claims on CPG packaging, at SB'24 San Diego — October 14-17. “The vast complexity of nature has made it almost impossible to set actionable
goals and targets. eDNA technology is genuinely transformative in this regard,
enabling biodiversity to be routinely monitored at large scales,” states
NatureMetrics founder Kat Bruce. “Our
new platform brings eDNA data to life, translating complex datasets into clear,
simple trends and insights that drive effective actions to improve outcomes for
nature.” The company says eDNA technology captures tiny traces of all species — from
bacteria to blue whales — to provide an accurate understanding of the state of
nature within site-based assets. Alongside understanding the changing state of a
single or group of sites, needed to make resourcing decisions at the executive
level, it will also provide insights into the drivers of change at
site-management level. Through comparing management regimes, it will drive
adaptive management and enable real change on the ground — whether that is
minimizing risks and impacts or increasing returns on natural capital
investments. “Nature
risk
is moving up company agendas fast; but many of our members are concerned about
the lack of robust data to drive decision-making. It's really encouraging to see
new solutions coming to market which will enable nature-related financial risks
and opportunities to be better assessed and reported from the site level up and
ultimately enable TNFD members to access performance metrics of their assets,
suppliers or portfolio companies,” says James d'Ath, Technical Lead of Data
and Analytics at the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
(TNFD). Nature provides critical life-support functions — from the provision of clean
air from plants and
trees
to food crops from healthy
soils
and
pollination.
However, unlike net-zero targets aimed at mitigating climate change, nature has
not yet been subject to a clear, measurable global goal — partly because the
technology and data to support such targets has not existed until now.
NatureMetrics hopes to change that and is launching its new monitoring service
with a message of hope for leaders at COP15. Interested companies can learn more at naturemetrics.com/insights. Published Dec 7, 2022 7am EST / 4am PST / 12pm GMT / 1pm CET