Among the many lessons taught to Cub Scouts and Scouts BSA members is service to others. Most units will perform some service for their sponsoring organization, usually a church or adults’ service organization such as Kiwanis. Service is embedded in the requirements for several ranks, adventure awards or merit badges. The Scout is rewarded in this way, but the main purpose is to introduce boys and girls to the idea of doing something for others without expecting a reward. With Cub Scouts able to start as early as kindergarten age and Scouts BSA going until age 18, there is plenty of time for youth members to get used to the idea and, hopefully, build up willingness for service as adults. Younger Scouts are limited to things they can physically and safely handle, such as trash pickups or helping at events at which they can perform safely and parents don’t have to worry about them jumping into a dangerous situation such as passing traffic. As they get older, they can tackle more challenging projects. They become strong enough to move heavier objects and safety-conscious enough (at least most of the time) to be trusted to keep themselves out of danger.There are seven ranks in Scouts BSA, beginning with Scout and ending with Eagle. The top three – Star, Life and Eagle – require participation in one or more service projects. Each should be more challenging than the last. An Eagle project must be approved by the council and must show planning and leadership. The Eagle candidate often doesn’t do much of the actual work at the project site; his/her main duty is to keep everything flowing and address problems that come up. Their work is in getting everything organized, securing materials and/or funding and recruiting a work crew. Some examples of recent Eagle service projects: In the past, Abilene State Park, Kirby Lake Park and Swenson House have benefitted from a variety of projects. And that is just a short and very incomplete list. Other youth groups also participate in their own projects, either as requirements or just to do them. This is indeed a chance for our “all right” kids to prove their generosity. Cub Scout/Scouts BSA adult leaders’ roundtable, 7 p.m. Thursday, Highland Church of Christ, 425 Highland Ave., Abilene (one block west of Sayles Boulevard). 325-677-2688. Girl Scout cookie sales begin Friday for Girl Scouts of Texas Oklahoma Plains Council; through March 5. “Fireside Chat” for Texas Oklahoma Plains Council summer programs, 7:30-9 p.m. Jan. 19. Virtual event; register by Jan. 18 at gs-top.org under “Events and activities.” Heidi Vose, 817-869-0736 or hvose@gs-top.org. Girl Scout cookie sales begin Jan. 21 for Girl Scouts of Central Texas Council; through Feb. 26. National Center for Children’s Illustrated Literature, 102 Cedar St., Abilene, offers art activities each Saturday from 10 a.m.-1 p.m. at no charge. 325-673-4586 There are many events (a lot of them virtual) you can join. Keep up at gs-top.org or gsctx.org for Girl Scouts; and at texastrailsbsa.com for Cub Scouts/Scouts BSA. Contact Carl Kieke at 325-673-3552 (voice only); or kiekec@suddenlink.net. Deadline is Monday for publication the following Monday.