
Dragos Global Partner Program develops resellers into ICS/OT cybersecurity experts and advisors with the full spectrum of OT cybersecurity offerings in their portfolios HANOVER, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dragos Inc., the global leader in cybersecurity for industrial controls systems (ICS)/operational technology (OT) environments, today announced the launch of the Dragos Global Partner Program, the only channel program to comprise OT cybersecurity technology, services, and threat intelligence. The Dragos Partner Program extends even further by offering training that prepares partners as experts who can offer their customers assessment services based on Dragos’s proven assessment methodology; resell the Dragos Platform including asset discovery, threat detection, and vulnerability management; and manage deployment for customers. 
The Dragos Partner Program enables channel partners to offer their customers the full range of ICS/OT cybersecurity technology and services to increase revenue opportunity and deliver positive customer outcomes. Partners gain confidence in being backed by Dragos experts, the industry’s largest, most experienced group of ICS/OT security practitioners who’ve been on the frontlines of major cyberattacks on industrial infrastructure. 
“Market demand for OT cybersecurity is accelerating as evolving threats, geopolitical dynamics, and regulations shine a spotlight on the need to protect industrial infrastructure,” said Christophe Culine, Vice President of Global Sales and Chief Revenue Officer, Dragos. “With the new Dragos Global Partner Program, we will transfer our knowledge and experience as the industry’s ICS/OT cybersecurity leader to our channel partners, enabling them to fully manage their customers’ deployments with the industry’s most comprehensive and complete ICS/OT security solution.” 
The Dragos Global Partner Program revolutionizes partner training by providing a self-service portal that includes automated deal registration, materials for co-branding and other marketing assets, and access to self-paced ICS cybersecurity skills training through Dragos Academy training modules. 
With the Dragos Partner Program, cybersecurity resellers receive the following benefits, depending on level of participation: 
“With the Dragos Partner Program, we achieve joint commercial success while at the same time helping our customers manage their cyber risk and secure their critical assets,” said Sean Tufts, Practice Director of ICS and IoT Security, Optiv. “The comprehensive, unparalleled training we get from Dragos and the highly differentiated product offerings allow us to triage and investigate potential incidents for our customers, enabling quicker response and visibility into the breadth and depth of attacks as well as affected devices. All this allows us to give our customers the confidence that their operational technology and industrial infrastructure are secure, resilient, and compliant.” 
“Our approach at Blackwood combines progressive technology with significant domain expertise and our partnership with Dragos greatly extends our ability to secure industrial security controls and operational technology,” said Ryan Morris, President, Blackwood. “Our company has supported large enterprise networks for four decades and the people who work here are committed to making an impact on this industry. We align with Dragos on a deep philosophical level because they are equally committed to the mission and their new program was designed to encourage collaboration towards common goals.” 
To learn more about Dragos Global Partner Program or to become a member, visit https://www.dragos.com/dragos-partner-program/. 
About Dragos, Inc. 
Dragos has a global mission to safeguard civilization from those trying to disrupt the industrial infrastructure we depend on every day. The Dragos Platform offers the most effective industrial cybersecurity technology, giving customers visibility into their ICS/OT assets, vulnerabilities, threats, and response actions. The strength behind the Dragos Platform comes from our ability to codify Dragos’s industry-leading OT threat intelligence, and insights from the Dragos services team, into the software. Our community-focused approach gives you access to the largest array of industrial organizations participating in collective defense, with the broadest visibility available. 
Our solutions protect organizations across a range of industries, including electric, oil & gas, manufacturing, building automation systems, chemical, government, water, food & beverage, mining, transportation, and pharmaceutical. Dragos is privately held and headquartered in the Washington, DC area with regional presence around the world, including Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Europe, and the Middle East. 
PR Contact:

Kesselring Communications for Dragos
Leslie Kesselring, 503-358-1012
Leslie@kesscomm.com 

PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

 PharmiWeb.com is Europe's leading industry-sponsored portal for the Pharmaceutical sector, providing the latest jobs, news, features and events listings.The information provided on PharmiWeb.com is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her physician. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

            follow us
        
 

            Copyright © 2024 PHARMIWEB.COM LIMITED, rights reserved by the relevant holders.
        
 
        Version: 2022.9.21.3
     You are leaving PharmiWeb.com Disclaimer: You are now leaving PharmiWeb.com website and are going to a website that is not operated by us. We are not responsible for the content or availability of linked sites. ABOUT THIRD PARTY LINKS ON OUR SITE PharmiWeb.com offers links to other third party websites that may be of interest to our website visitors. The links provided in our website are provided solely for your convenience and may assist you in locating other useful information on the Internet. When you click on these links you will leave the PharmiWeb.com website and will be redirected to another site. These sites are not under the control of PharmiWeb.com. PharmiWeb.com is not responsible for the content of linked third party websites. We are not an agent for these third parties nor do we endorse or guarantee their products. We make no representation or warranty regarding the accuracy of the information contained in the linked sites. We suggest that you always verify the information obtained from linked websites before acting upon this information. Also, please be aware that the security and privacy policies on these sites may be different than PharmiWeb.com policies, so please read third party privacy and security policies closely. If you have any questions or concerns about the products and services offered on linked third party websites, please contact the third party directly.