Rep. Nicole Malliotakis announces funding to support local Boy Scouts of America programs on Staten Island and in Southern Brooklyn during an event at Pouch Camp, Todt Hill, on Monday. (Staten Island Advance/ Priya Shahi)Priya Shahi STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. -- Rep. Nicole Malliotakis on Monday announced federal funds to support local Boy Scouts of America programs on Staten Island and in South Brooklyn, as she gathered with officials, youth and their parents at Pouch Camp, Todt Hill. Malliotakis (R-Staten Island/South Brooklyn) secured a total of $50,0000 for the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America, to benefit nearly 1,000 young people on Staten Island and up to 500 in South Brooklyn. “I am very proud at a time when we need more young people to take part and learn about our civics, more people to contribute to the community ... these young people are exemplifying true leadership and true love for Staten Island and Southern Brooklyn,” Malliotakis said. “I expect to see wonderful things from all of you in the future.” The funding will go toward engaging nearly 2,000 young people across 111 Cub Scout and Boy Scout programs. “Our New York City kids need positive adult role models and they need that more than ever. They need encouragement, guidance and support to help them face all of the challenges that are out there,” said Saroya Friedman-Gonzalez, president and CEO of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America. Michael Lopiano, 16, Mark Lopiano, 14, Philip Dalgin, 14, and Steven Tesoriero, 17, said they have learned many important life skills through the Boy Scouts of America. (Staten Island Advance/ Priya Shahi)Priya Shahi According to Boy Scouts Michael Lopiano, 16, Mark Lopiano, 14, Philip Dalgin, 14, and Steven Tesoriero, 17, some of the most important life skills they have learned are leadership, how to use first aid in emergency situations, and how to become a valuable community member. They said they wish to see more youth join the organization, adding that within the last eight years, they have seen the number of members in their troop dwindle from 35 to eight, which they believe is due to lack of funding. “The funding is absolutely necessary. The program keeps getting more expensive, as does everything. It becomes necessary to find other ways to help families get involved,” Steve Fehr, an assistant Scout master, said. “Some can afford it, and for some it’s a real struggle, but for every one of them there’s going to be a huge advantage of learning to be self-sufficient, to get into the outdoors, to learn the leaderships skills, how to organize, how to plan, and how to pull off one of those weekend campouts ... They’re not easy to do.” Fehr recalled how he started seeing girls join Boy Scout troops right before the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, and how it would be a good goal if the funding continued that trend. Pictured here are the Graham siblings, both members of the Boy Scouts of America. As of 2019, the organization began accepting girls. (Staten Island Advance/ Priya Shahi)Priya Shahi As of two months ago, Troop 76 on Staten Island -- which originally started out as a troop for boys has now started a girls troop, according to Elizabeth Gattull, Troop 76 assistant Cub Scout master. “I know the young ladies are very excited, because BSA [Boys Scouts of America] is much different than Girl Scouts ... just the whole program is different,” she added. Sophia Snyder, who has been in Boys Scouts for about five years and has been the only girl in the her troop for the majority of that time, said she has learned to cook for herself and deal with first aid. Sophia Snyder, who has been in Boys Scouts for about five years and has been the only girl in the her troop for the majority of that time, said she has learned to cook for herself and deal with first aid. (Staten Island Advance/ Priya Shahi)Priya Shahi “It helped me boost my confidence, because being the only girl in my troop was definitely kind of hard to deal with, but it was fun to know that there are other girls around the world who are like me ...,” said Sophia, a member of Troop 74. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices