Under the terms of the deal, Turin will receive and initial 30 trams, with an overall delivery of 70 locomotives by 2024. Hitachi Rail, a subsidiary of Hitachi, is set to deliver the first newly manufactured 30 trams for Gruppo Torinese Trasporti (GTT), which will be running in Turin commencing September 11, 2023. Thank you. 
                        The gold standard of business intelligence.
                     
                            Find out more
                            



 Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. The deal, which was funded by the Ministry of Transport and signed in Q2 2020, calls for the total delivery of 70 trams by 2024. Each tram features a top speed of 60km/h and a length of 28m, with a capacity of 218 passengers. According to Hitachi Rail, the contract is set up in order to improve train services in major urban areas, particularly across the city of Turin. Hitachi Rail COO Luca D’Aquila emphasises how the new tram project is set to revolutionise the passenger experience across the region: “Hitachi Rail’s new trams for the city of Turin represent the evolution of the previous SIRO model, of which hundreds have been built for cities in Italy and abroad. “The trams incorporate new technologies and high-quality standards for reliability and passenger comfort and are designed to further encourage the use of public transport in cities. We are proud to contribute to Turin’s drive to provide seamless and sustainable travel on its public transport network.” The trams are equipped with two spaces for individuals with disabilities and allow simple access and good manoeuvrability for wheelchairs, reflecting Hitachi Rail’s dedication to inclusive design. Furthermore, the new service will provide a larger amount of space compared to earlier models and include air conditioning technology that guarantees a continual exchange of air from the outside, ensuring high safety requirements. The new fleet has been manufactured at the Hitachi Rail plant in Naples, which employs around 1,700 people. Thank you. Your download email will arrive shortly.Please check your mail inbox to download buyer's guide You may also be interested in: By downloading this case study, you acknowledge that GlobalData UK Limited may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services. Tick here to opt out of curated industry news, reports, and event updates Visit our Privacy Policy for more information about our services, how GlobalData may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications.  Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  




                                                                                                                                Railway Technology In Brief                                                                                                                         


 




                                                                                                                        Future Rail : Railway Technology Focus (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the railway industry 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024