Theresa Condor, Chief Operating Officer at Spire Global SPIR, reported a large insider sell on March 6, according to a new SEC filing.  What Happened: A Form 4 filing from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday showed that Condor sold 103,783 shares of Spire Global. The total transaction amounted to $105,730.  Spire Global shares are trading up 0.91% at $1.11 at the time of this writing on Monday morning. Now trade stocks online commission free with Charles Schwab, a trusted and complete investment firm. Insider transactions shouldn't be used primarily to make an investing decision, however, they can be an important factor for an investor to consider. In legal terms, an "insider" refers to any shareholder who owns at least 10% of a company. This can include executives in the c-suite and large hedge funds. These insiders are required to let the public know of their transactions via a Form 4 filing, which must be filed within two business days of the transaction. When a company insider makes a new purchase, that is an indication that they expect the stock to rise. Insider sells, on the other hand, can be made for a variety of reasons, and may not necessarily mean that the seller thinks the stock will go down.   Investors prefer focusing on transactions that take place in the open market, indicated in Table I of the Form 4 filing. A  P in Box 3 indicates a purchase, while  S indicates a sale. Transaction code C indicates the conversion of an option, and transaction code A indicates the insider may have been forced to sell shares in order to receive compensation that had been promised upon being hired by the company. Check Out The Full List Of Spire Global's Insider Trades. This article was generated by Benzinga's automated content engine and reviewed by an editor. © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.