An Apple patent mentions using satellite communications to supply voice and internet data. Its Emergency SOS service currently provides text messages to reach emergency services. I've been with PCMag since October 2017, covering a wide range of topics, including consumer electronics, cybersecurity, social media, networking, and gaming. Prior to working at PCMag, I was a foreign correspondent in Beijing for over five years, covering the tech scene in Asia. A new patent suggests Apple is interested in one day supplying voice and internet data to iPhone users through orbiting satellites.  The company already provides satellite communication on the iPhone 14 lineup. But for now, the Emergency SOS feature can only be used to send text messages to emergency services (and share your location via the Find My app). That could change in the future, though. Apple has just been granted a new patent in the US that concerns a “communication terminal,” which can be fitted on orbiting satellites.  Patently Apple, which spotted the filing, notes that the patent mentions incorporating transceivers on the communication terminal for the purposes of powering voice and internet services.  “Satellite communications data conveyed by transceivers and antenna radiators may include media data (e.g., streaming video, television data, satellite radio data, etc.), voice data (e.g., telephone voice data), internet data, and/or any other desired data,” Apple’s patent says.  The same patent mentions using antennas on the communication terminal to establish “wireless links” with potentially hundreds or even thousands of supported devices. The patent signals that Apple may have major ambitions for providing satellite connectivity to next-generation iPhones, allowing customers to go online even when no cell tower is in reach. In the near-term, Apple has already revealed it’s spending $450 million to expand the satellite networking infrastructure across the US to support the Emergency SOS feature. In addition, the company has agreed to help satellite communications provider Globalstar launch new satellites. This includes Apple paying 95% of the costs for the new satellites. In return, Globalstar will allocate 85% of its current and future network to Cupertino.  Apple won’t be alone in the cellular satellite market. T-Mobile is partnering with SpaceX to use the company’s Starlink system to supply voice and internet data to the carrier’s customers. The service is expected to launch sometime next year using existing LTE T-Mobile smartphones. Sign up for Fully Mobilized newsletter to get our top mobile tech stories delivered right to your inbox.  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! I've been with PCMag since October 2017, covering a wide range of topics, including consumer electronics, cybersecurity, social media, networking, and gaming. Prior to working at PCMag, I was a foreign correspondent in Beijing for over five years, covering the tech scene in Asia. Read Michael's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.