Home » Press Release 
Spirit AeroSystems, Inc. and Astraius Ltd. announced today a collaboration to enhance future satellite launch capabilities from Prestwick Spaceport.
 This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230317005187/en/ Executives from Spirit AeroSystems, Inc. and Astraius Ltd. sign a collaboration agreement to enhance future satellite launch capabilities from Prestwick Spaceport, Scotland, on Friday. From left, Sam Marnick, Spirit Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer; President, Commercial, Scott McLarty, Spirit Senior Vice President, Airbus & Regional/Business Jets Programs; Ivan McKee, Scottish Government Minister for Business, Trade, Tourism and Enterprise; Kevin Seymour, Chief Executive Officer, Astraius; and Sir George Zambellas, Chairman of Astraius. (Photo: Business Wire) 
During a visit to the Spaceport by Scottish Government Minister for Business, Trade, Tourism, and Enterprise Ivan McKee, the companies commemorated the announcement with a signing ceremony.
 
Prestwick Spaceport, a joint partnership between Glasgow Prestwick Airport and South Ayrshire Council, aims to become Europe’s premier location for carrying small satellites into orbit via “air launch,” a proven technique that enables a rocket to reach space after being launched from an aircraft that has flown out to an ideal location over the ocean.
 
Spirit and Astraius – both located within Prestwick’s developing space cluster – are working to advance and accelerate the system components and key processes required for the Astraius horizontal launch platform. The U.K. government has made orbital launch a key priority, with the National Space Strategy outlining plans to secure an increased portion of a global space economy expected to be worth £490bn by 2030. The space sector in the U.K. already employs over 45,000 people, with Scotland accounting for one-fifth of that figure.
 
Scott McLarty, Spirit Senior Vice President, Airbus and Regional/Business Jet Programs, said Spirit’s sites in both Scotland and Northern Ireland are well placed to support and develop a robust and sustainable space sector.
 
“Spirit is well-positioned to develop new skills and technologies to contribute to the U.K.’s resilience and supply chain in the space sector and support high-value manufacturing regional hubs,” he said. “We are delighted to be working with Astraius to explore opportunities to contribute further to the expansion of the U.K. Space Sector, through the design, manufacturing, integration and testing of aerostructures for launch activities.”
 
Astraius’ horizontal launch solution leverages the accessibility of C-17 transport aircraft, combining innovative technology with proven delivery platforms that removes the reliance on individually modified aircraft and increases responsiveness. The company brings together an international team with experience in commercial space launch and operations, to offer an affordable solution that caters to the growing demand for payloads designed to carry out a variety of tasks from orbit, such as monitoring climate change and supporting disaster relief efforts.
 
Astraius Chief Executive Officer Kevin Seymour stated, “This Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) is the first step in what I’m confident will be a long-term partnership with Spirit AeroSystems. Spirit’s advanced manufacturing expertise and world-class facilities can significantly bolster our development roadmap, bringing together UK engineering excellence with proven horizontal launch technology. With both companies located in Prestwick, Scotland’s largest aerospace cluster, our collaboration is further testament to the proactive and vibrant space ecosystem developing around Prestwick Spaceport.”
 
On the collaboration between Spirit and Astraius, Minister Ivan McKee commented, “There is great potential and opportunities in the space sector in Scotland with the first orbital launch from Scottish soil due this year. That is why we have identified the sector as a priority in our National Strategy for Economic Transformation. Our ambition is clear, we want to become Europe’s leading space nation by 2030. The signing of this MoU is great news, and it is another positive step in the development of space and aerospace opportunities in Prestwick. Spirit AeroSystems brings a wealth of capability and technologies that can support further growth of the space sector in Scotland, and I am excited about the innovative developments Spirit and Astraius can bring to Prestwick.”
 
Ian Annett, deputy chief executive officer at the U.K. Space Agency, said: “We are committed to becoming the leading provider of commercial small satellite launches in Europe by 2030 and we welcome the partnership between Spirit AeroSystems and Astraius, which brings Astraius another step closer towards conducting a launch from the U.K. Developing orbital launch capabilities is already helping the space sector to generate growth across science and engineering supply chains, catalyse investment, create new jobs and career paths, and inspire the next generation of space professionals all over the U.K.”
 
Spirit AeroSystems, Inc. (“Spirit”), a subsidiary of Spirit AeroSystems Holdings, Inc. [NYSE: SPR] (“Spirit AeroSystems”).
 
On the web: www.spiritaero.com and www.astraius.com
On Twitter: @SpiritAero and @AstraiusL
 
About Spirit AeroSystems Inc.
 
Spirit AeroSystems is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of aerostructures for commercial airplanes, defense platforms, and business/regional jets. With expertise in aluminum and advanced composite manufacturing solutions, the company’s core products include fuselages, integrated wings and wing components, pylons, and nacelles. We are leveraging decades of design and manufacturing expertise to be the most innovative and reliable supplier of military aerostructures, and specialty high-temperature materials, enabling warfighters to execute complex, critical missions. Spirit also serves the aftermarket for commercial and business/regional jets. Headquartered in Wichita, Kansas, Spirit has facilities in the U.S., U.K., France, Malaysia and Morocco. More information is available at www.spiritaero.com.
 
About Astraius Ltd.
 
Astraius has brought together a formidable international team with experience in commercial space launch and operations. Astraius will provide a dependable, global, affordable, low-risk, responsive launch option for the growing world-wide market for satellite launch. Astraius is headquartered in the UK with executive offices in Washington DC, and will operate from new, state-of-the-art, launch and payload integration facilities at Prestwick Spaceport.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains “forward-looking statements” that may involve many risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “goal,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “might,” “objective,” “outlook,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “should,” “target,” “will,” “would,” and other similar words, or phrases, or the negative thereof, unless the context requires otherwise. These statements reflect management’s current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown. Our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We caution investors not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in such forward-looking statements and that should be considered in evaluating our outlook include, without limitation, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and operations; the timing and conditions surrounding the full worldwide return to service (including receiving the remaining regulatory approvals) of the B737 MAX, future demand for the aircraft, and any residual impacts of the B737 MAX grounding on production rates for the aircraft; our reliance on Boeing for a significant portion of our revenues; our ability to execute our growth strategy, including our ability to complete and integrate acquisitions; our ability to accurately estimate and manage performance, cost, and revenue under our contracts; demand for our products and services and the effect of economic or geopolitical conditions in the industries and markets in which we operate in the U.S. and globally; our ability to manage our liquidity, borrow additional funds or refinance debt; and other factors disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors are not exhaustive and it is not possible for us to predict all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. These factors speak only as of the date hereof, and new factors may emerge or changes to the foregoing factors may occur that could impact our business. Except to the extent required by law, we undertake no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any obligation to, publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
  View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230317005187/en/