There’s a lot to be optimistic about in the Industrial Goods sector as 3 analysts just weighed in on Orion Group Holdings (ORN – Research Report), JB Hunt (JBHT – Research Report) and FTAI Aviation (FTAI – Research Report) with bullish sentiments. Orion Group Holdings (ORN) Noble Financial analyst Joe Gomes  maintained a Buy rating on Orion Group Holdings today and set a price target of $6.00. The company’s shares closed last Monday at $2.49. According to TipRanks.com, Gomes is a 3-star analyst with an average return of 2.2% and a 41.8% success rate. Gomes covers the Technology sector, focusing on stocks such as Information Services Group, Comtech Telecommunications, and One Stop Systems. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Orion Group Holdings with a $6.00 average price target.
		  See the top stocks recommended by analysts >> JB Hunt (JBHT) Benchmark Co. analyst Christopher Kuhn  reiterated a Buy rating on JB Hunt today and set a price target of $195.00. The company’s shares closed last Monday at $176.54. According to TipRanks.com, Kuhn is a 3-star analyst with an average return of 5.2% and a 59.1% success rate. Kuhn covers the Industrial Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as CH Robinson, Hub Group, and Saia. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for JB Hunt with a $190.00 average price target.
		  FTAI Aviation (FTAI) Benchmark Co. analyst Josh Sullivan  reiterated a Buy rating on FTAI Aviation today and set a price target of $45.00. The company’s shares closed last Monday at $28.06, close to its 52-week high of $30.26. According to TipRanks.com, Sullivan is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 7.9% and a 59.3% success rate. Sullivan covers the Industrial Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Spirit AeroSystems, Howmet Aerospace, and General Electric. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Strong Buy analyst consensus rating for FTAI Aviation with a $35.00 average price target. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on ORN:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks