 IONQ Today, IonQ announced that it is acquiring the operating assets of Entangled Networks in Toronto, Canada. In addition to expanding its technology base, IonQ will also be expanding its global footprint when the Entangled Networks team joins newly-formed IonQ Canada as part of the deal. Entangled Networks and its multicore technology fills an important need in IonQ’s future hardware strategy. IonQ architecture IonQ uses a trapped-ion quantum computing architecture that is currently centered on linear arrays containing ion qubits. Lasers are used for cooling, creating quantum gates and obtaining readouts. Today, qubits in IonQ's systems are contained in a single chip called quantum processing units (QPU). The QPUs have multiple linear ion trapping zones with a capacity of about 100 qubits each. IonQ's roadmap not only shows the number of qubits increasing in each QPU, but it also originally had plans to develop the technology needed to connect and network qubits between QPUs using photonic interconnections and optical networking technology. Now, rather than being developed by IonQ, technology acquired from Entangled Networks will perform the networking function that ties allow the quantum processing functions together. It will play an important role in helping IonQ achieve its ultimate architectural goal of fault-tolerant computations using entangled qubits spanning multiple QPUs scaled to millions of qubits. The critical nature of networking to IonQ’s future became apparent when the company unveiled a five-year roadmap in 2020. In one of my earlier discussions about the roadmap with Dr. Jungsang Kim, cofounder and CTO of IonQ, he said that IonQ plans to pave the way to modularity by creating smaller, lighter and cheaper QPUs that can be networked together to form a larger computer. “If you want to get to scalable quantum computers," he said, "it has to be modular, no matter what physical qubit architecture we use.” The roadmap calls for modularized QPUs to be networked together using photonic links in a distributed computing setup. The roadmap includes future development of multi-core QPUs by using multiple compute zones that are capable of scaling to hundreds of physical qubits. The roadmap also anticipates networking multi-core QPUs with other QPUs to form much more powerful quantum machines. What Entangled Networks brings to the table Entangled Network's MultiQopt product provides quantum circuit optimization for modular system architectures such as those in development by IonQ. Interconnecting clusters of QPUs isn’t a simple matter of building a fiber network and connecting the devices together. Unlike in classical clusters, the laws of quantum mechanics don’t allow quantum data to be cloned, which is why the configuration must be handled with special hardware, algorithms and programming. Entangled Networks’ multicore technology and engineering team provide:   Peter Chapman, IonQ’s president and CEO, summarized the impact of acquiring Entangled Networks to me: “With today’s acquisition of Entangled Networks, IonQ is one step closer to developing quantum networks capable of tackling the most complex problems of today and tomorrow. While classical supercomputer networks communicate between processors to divide workloads, the goal of our quantum network is to entangle qubits at scale which can lead to larger, more powerful systems used for computation. We are laying the groundwork today for future growth, scalability, and adoption of quantum.” Wrapping up In the next few years, IonQ plans to integrate the acquired technology into its quantum computer architecture. Full-scale modular connectivity will provide connections between any qubits inside the system, located across any number of QPUs. The highly scalable architecture should be powerful enough to execute large-scale, complex quantum computational problems, regardless of the structure of the problem. It should be noted that IonQ has the in-house capability to develop the technology needed to network QPU's together. Over the past decade, Dr. Kim, IonQ cofounder and chief scientist Dr. Christopher Monroe and others have researched the technology needed to network quantum computers together using high-bandwidth connections between QPU devices. However, acquiring Entangled Networks was the better and more efficient alternative than continuing to develop that technology in-house. Not only did IonQ gain a proven networking technology, it also saved a large amount in development costs and leapfrogged ahead of its original roadmap timelines. IonQ now expects to demonstrate networking between two quantum computers sometime this year. Networking technology is foundational to IonQ’s scaling goals and future success. Because the acquisition of Entangled Networks gives it the requisite expertise in quantum architecture, plus software and hardware IP, this is a brilliant move by IonQ.  Moor Insights & Strategy, like all research and tech industry analyst firms, provides or has provided paid services to technology companies. These services include research, analysis, advising, consulting, benchmarking, acquisition matchmaking, and speaking sponsorships. The company has had or currently has paid business relationships with 8×8, Accenture, A10 Networks, Advanced Micro Devices, Amazon, Amazon Web Services, Ambient Scientific, Anuta Networks, Applied Brain Research, Applied Micro, Apstra, Arm, Aruba Networks (now HPE), Atom Computing, AT&T, Aura, Automation Anywhere, AWS, A-10 Strategies, Bitfusion, Blaize, Box, Broadcom, C3.AI, Calix, Campfire, Cisco Systems, Clear Software, Cloudera, Clumio, Cognitive Systems, CompuCom, Cradlepoint, CyberArk, Dell, Dell EMC, Dell Technologies, Diablo Technologies, Dialogue Group, Digital Optics, Dreamium Labs, D-Wave, Echelon, Ericsson, Extreme Networks, Five9, Flex, Foundries.io, Foxconn, Frame (now VMware), Fujitsu, Gen Z Consortium, Glue Networks, GlobalFoundries, Revolve (now Google), Google Cloud, Graphcore, Groq, Hiregenics, Hotwire Global, HP Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Honeywell, Huawei Technologies, IBM, Infinidat, Infosys, Inseego, IonQ, IonVR, Inseego, Infosys, Infiot, Intel, Interdigital, Jabil Circuit, Keysight, Konica Minolta, Lattice Semiconductor, Lenovo, Linux Foundation, Lightbits Labs, LogicMonitor, Luminar, MapBox, Marvell Technology, Mavenir, Marseille Inc, Mayfair Equity, Meraki (Cisco), Merck KGaA, Mesophere, Micron Technology, Microsoft, MiTEL, Mojo Networks, MongoDB, MulteFire Alliance, National Instruments, Neat, NetApp, Nightwatch, NOKIA (Alcatel-Lucent), Nortek, Novumind, NVIDIA, Nutanix, Nuvia (now Qualcomm), onsemi, ONUG, OpenStack Foundation, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Panasas, Peraso, Pexip, Pixelworks, Plume Design, PlusAI, Poly (formerly Plantronics), Portworx, Pure Storage, Qualcomm, Quantinuum, Rackspace, Rambus, Rayvolt E-Bikes, Red Hat, Renesas, Residio, Samsung Electronics, Samsung Semi, SAP, SAS, Scale Computing, Schneider Electric, SiFive, Silver Peak (now Aruba-HPE), SkyWorks, SONY Optical Storage, Splunk, Springpath (now Cisco), Spirent, Splunk, Sprint (now T-Mobile), Stratus Technologies, Symantec, Synaptics, Syniverse, Synopsys, Tanium, Telesign,TE Connectivity, TensTorrent, Tobii Technology, Teradata,T-Mobile, Treasure Data, Twitter, Unity Technologies, UiPath, Verizon Communications, VAST Data, Ventana Micro Systems, Vidyo, VMware, Wave Computing, Wellsmith, Xilinx, Zayo, Zebra, Zededa, Zendesk, Zoho, Zoom, and Zscaler. Moor Insights & Strategy founder, CEO, and Chief Analyst Patrick Moorhead is an investor in dMY Technology Group Inc. VI, Dreamium Labs, Groq, Luminar Technologies, MemryX, and Movand  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.