Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Running out of energy, mana, stamina, or whatever the primary resource of the game you are playing is never a good feeling. Being completely vulnerable to an enemy’s counter assault can undo all of your hard work over the course of 20 or more minutes. Then, you need to start over from the last checkpoint — or worse, back to the very start.
      RELATED: Armored Core 6: Tips & Tricks For Beginners
                     In Armored Core 6, you will undertake missions where you will need to manage your resources carefully. Using various back and arm weapon parts of your mech will each put a strain on your mech’s energy — and do not forget about your boosters. This is referred to as their EN Load. You will need a powerful generator to make sure you never run out of energy when you need it most.
      Updated by Chad Thesen on September 20, 2023: This list has been updated for the purpose of adding additional entries to give it a more expansive range of coverage so that readers are able to make more informed decisions for their choices in the game. This list now covers every generator available in the game.
                     This generator has an EN Capacity of 4400 and an EN Recharge of 250. It has a Supply Recovery of 312, a weight of 8950, and is able to hit an energy output of 4340. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         "Prototype Coral-based internal combustion generator developed long ago by the Rubicon Research Institute. Optimized for power-hungry Coral weapons, with rapid EN recovery enabled by maximized combustion." This description says it all about this outdated prototype. It is so heavy with such a low EN recharge that there is no build that doesn't get better by changing this generator for another.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 3000 and an EN Recharge of 238. It has a Supply Recovery of 333, a weight of 4330, and is able to hit an energy output of 3500. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         “Coral-based internal combustion generator developed long ago by the Rubicon Research Institute. This model takes advantage of the coral's biological traits, enabling rapid recovery by pushing combustion to its limit.” An abysmally low EN Recharge sinks this generator to the bottom of the pile.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 3690 and an EN Recharge of 555. It has a Supply Recovery of 377, a weight of 10130, and is able to hit an energy output of 4090. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         "Circulating-current generator designed by Arquebus ADD. Features improved EN capacity and output while retaining a focus on energy weapon specialization. However, it suffers from a heavy weight burden and recharging difficulties." This description couldn't be more true, as the weight of this generator limits greatly, while also having a very unsatisfactory recharge rate.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 3300 and an EN Recharge of 763. It has a Supply Recovery of 392, a weight of 5860, and is able to hit an energy output of 2890. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         "Circulating-current generator designed by Arquebus ADD. Engineered to maximize energy weapon specialization, this model even sacrifices EN output to a degree. Positioning its performance somewhere close to a concept model." This is heavier than the previous entry, but it packs such a high recharge upgrade that it cannot help back take a higher place on this list.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 2460 and an EN Recharge of 740. It has a Supply Recovery of 418, a weight of 3590, and is able to hit an energy output of 3120. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         "Circulating-current generator designed by Arquebus ADD. Engineered to support high-spec energy weapon prototypes, it maximizes EN output at the expense of sacrificing performance in other regards." A drop in EN recharge and EN Capacity is made up for a significant drop in weight. This makes this generator a lot more viable for a lot of builds.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 2200 and an EN Recharge of 769. It has a Supply Recovery of 400, a weight of 3420, and is able to hit an energy output of 2600. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         “Internal combustion generator developed by BAWS for an old-generation AC. Performance is not dissimilar to generic labor MT models, making it an unreliable choice for combat use in a modern AC build.” A higher recharge means you can recover your energy faster and be able to continue laying on the damage. Running out of energy when you need it can be a death sentence and will be more important than your max capacity at times.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 2710 and an EN Recharge of 952. It has a Supply Recovery of 370, a weight of 7080, and is able to hit an energy output of 3810. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         “BAWS internal combustion generator developed in tandem with Elcano. Improved output allows for the use of high-burden parts, but supply recovery performance leaves much to be desired. Calling for a degree of EN management finesse.” This is a good upgrade to aspire to if your other parts are on the lighter side. Giving you a good balance.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 2550 and an EN Recharge of 1000. It has a Supply Recovery of 500, a weight of 5080, and is able to hit an energy output of 3000. The description of this generator reads as follows:
      RELATED: Armored Core 6: Impact Meter Guide
                     “Internal combustion generator developed by BAWS for modern ACs. A balanced model capable of withstanding the demands of modern combat, its development was aimed at narrowing Rubicon's post-closure technological gap.” The higher recovery allows you to get your energy back while still having a nice stockpile for hitting enemies hard with an initial assault. The lower weight gives it more flexibility for different builds.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 3250 and an EN Recharge of 714. It has a Supply Recovery of 384, a weight of 11030, and is able to hit an energy output of 4430. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         “Circulating-current generator developed by Arquebus. Designed with a focus on EN capacity and output to support Arquebus energy weapons, it supplies more raw power than any other corporate product on the market.” Its high EN Capacity lets you unleash a lot more against a target when you first arrive, but you will have a hard time recovering that energy. End fights quickly, or upgrade to a generator with a higher EN Recharge.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 2500 and an EN Recharge of 833. It has a Supply Recovery of 434, a weight of 3800, and is able to hit an energy output of 3200. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         “Circulating-current generator developed by Arquebus. Tailed to lightweight ACs such as those built by Schneider. Efforts were made to keep its weight modest while providing capable output for its size.” This will please fans of the YABA as it gives you a similar feel for a significant drop in weight. This weight loss allows for many more build options with heavier parts. However, it does see a drop in recovery, so do not stay engaged or burn through energy too fast.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 2720 and an EN Recharge of 909. It has a Supply Recovery of 454, a weight of 5320, and is able to hit an energy output of 3670. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         “Circulating-current generator developed by Arquebus. The design goal for this model was to create a generator with no drawbacks, resulting in a product that provides stable performance in any AC assembly.” A weight of 5320 is well worth the capacity and recharge you will get from this generator.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 4420 and an EN Recharge of 1176. It has a Supply Recovery of 625, a weight of 10060, and is able to hit an energy output of 3210. The description of this generator reads as follows:
      RELATED: Armored Core: Best Games In The Series, Ranked
                     “Internal combustion generator developed by Dafeng Core Industries. This model was designed for use with the corporation's independently manufactured heavyweight ACs, and features outstanding EN capacity.” This is the king of Capacity, if you want to hit hard initially, this is your go-to. Its recharge is good as well, unlike its weight that exceeds 10K.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 2000 and an EN Recharge of 2000. It has a Supply Recovery of 833, a weight of 3860, and is able to hit an energy output of 2340. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         “Internal combustion generator developed by Dafeng Core Industries. Commissioned by Balam, the specifications for this model demanded lightweight construction matched with excellent EN recharge capabilities.” With unrivaled recharge, use this generator for any build that struggles to manage its energy. It is highly flexible thanks to its low weight.
                         This generator has an EN Capacity of 2900 and an EN Recharge of 1250. It has a Supply Recovery of 666, a weight of 6320, and is able to hit an energy output of 3160. The description of this generator reads as follows:
                         “Internal combustion generator developed by Dafeng Core Industries. A joint development with Balam, this model focuses on ensuring good EN capacity and recharging.” This is the perfect balance for high-end ACs. You get a strong initial assault, good recovery, and a weight of only 6320 means a large size of your end-game builds will be able to use this. If you have a mech with special needs, use Ling Tai for faster recovery and San-Tai for a stronger initial assault.
      NEXT: Armored Core 6: Best Melee Weapons, Ranked
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Kojima's shenanigans continue, but at least its something we can understand this time. Against all odds, these games managed to become huge success stories.  Fans divided regarding Dr.Disrespect's imminent return to streaming.  Sorry, we're closed.  We talked to Mary Kenney, associate narrative director at Insomniac Games about the lack of LGBTQ representation in gaming. Dragon Age: The Veilguard intends to set a new standard for character creation