The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 A home’s foundation is one of the largest costs in the overall building estimate, typically ranging from $5,000 for a small home to $40,000 for a large home. On average, though, a new foundation costs $10,000. A foundation is an essential component of a house since it supports the structure and transfers the weight of the building and its contents to the ground. In addition, a foundation levels and stabilizes a house, ensuring that doors and windows open and close properly and that the floors are even. Featured PartnerAdvertisementTHIS IS AN ADVERTISEMENT AND NOT EDITORIAL CONTENT. Please note that we do receive compensation for any products you buy or sign up to via this advertisement, and that compensation impacts the ranking and placement of any offers listed herein. We do not present information about every offer available. The information and savings numbers depicted above are for demonstration purposes only, and your results may vary.158 FoundationsCustomer ReviewsExcellentStates Available11Professional Installation RequiredYes158 FoundationsGet Free Estimates From Participating Partners
 
Key Takeaways

The average cost of a foundation is $10,000, ranging from $5,000 for smaller homes to $40,000 for larger homes.
The labor costs to build a foundation typically account for 40% to 60% of the project, depending on factors such as your home’s size, regional labor rates and the foundation’s complexity.
From concrete slabs and stem wall concrete slabs to pier and beam foundations and cinder block foundations, each foundation type features distinct cost, suitability and durability characteristics that are important to consider.


  Featured Partner 1 58 Foundations Customer Reviews Excellent States Available 11 Professional Installation Required Yes 1 58 Foundations From Participating Partners 
Key Takeaways 
 The labor costs to build a foundation typically range from $3,000 to $8,000, or about 40% to 60% of the project. Notably, this range only represents the labor costs explicitly associated with building the foundation. Since materials to build a house foundation are fairly basic, labor typically accounts for a significant part of the total cost. However, labor costs can generally vary depending on several factors, including your home’s size, regional labor rates and the specialized skills needed for the foundation’s complexity. The Right Foundation Solution Near You! No matter the type of need, be it for new construction, home addition, garage or commercial building foundations, look for top-rated foundation contractors in your area. When building a home, the size of the foundation is a major factor in determining the overall cost of the project. For instance, you can estimate the starting cost to construct a concrete slab foundation is approximately $4 per square foot, starting at $2,000 for 500 square feet and scaling up to $10,000 for 2,500 square feet. However, keep in mind that the overall cost can also vary based on the requirements of the foundation project. Significantly more expensive than slab foundation, a full basement foundation for an average home will usually cost from $13,000 to $30,000 or more, depending on the size of the house. The average of the high and low costs is $18,500. The cost of a basement foundation can range from $30 to $100 per square foot. When your home’s foundation is in need of replacing, there are a few factors you should keep top of mind, such as the type of foundation being replaced, the extent of damage and the location of the property. Therefore, the cost of foundation replacement typically ranges from $5,000 to $15,000, for an average cost of $10,000. For a more accurate estimate based on your foundation’s circumstances, it is recommended to consult with a professional contractor. A concrete slab foundation, also called a slab-on-grade foundation, is poured directly on top of the ground. It consists of a single, thick slab of concrete that is poured and finished to create a smooth, level surface that serves as the base for the structure. Concrete slab foundations are the most affordable foundation option, ranging between $4 to $8 per square foot, as they require minimal excavation and backfilling. Monolithic Concrete Slab Pros and Cons Pros Cons A stem wall concrete slab combines a concrete stem wall with a slab-on-grade foundation. The stem wall is a vertical wall of concrete that is poured around the perimeter of the foundation. It typically extends up from the ground a few feet and provides support for the structure above it. Costing approximately $6 to $12 per square foot, a stem wall concrete slab foundation is often used in areas with expansive soils because it helps to anchor the structure to the ground and prevent it from moving due to soil movement. Stem Wall Concrete Slab Pros and Cons Pros Cons Compare Quotes From Top-rated Architects, Builders & Designers Free, No-commitment Estimates A pier and beam foundation, also known as a post and beam foundation, consists of concrete or masonry piers that support the weight of the structure, with beams or girders spanning between the piers. More expensive than concrete slab foundations, you can expect to pay approximately $7 to $12 per square foot. Pier and Beam Foundation Pros Pier and Beam Foundation Cons Cinder block foundations, also known as concrete block foundations, are made from blocks of concrete that are stacked and cemented together to form the walls of the foundation. Although the cost of a cinder block foundation can vary depending on size, height and other factors, you can expect to pay anywhere from $10 to $15 per square foot. Cinder Block Foundation Pros Cinder Block Foundation Cons A basement foundation is a deep foundation dug into the ground which provides a space below the main level of the house. This space can be turned into a habitable space for entertainment, or it can be converted into an apartment. Therefore, it is the most expensive foundation type, averaging $33 per square foot. Basement Foundation Pros Basement Foundation Cons The foundation type you choose often makes up a significant portion of the project’s total cost. For instance, opting for a monolithic concrete slab foundation can offer a cost-effective way to initiate the project. On the other hand, stem wall concrete slabs, pier and beam foundation and cinder block foundations offer various advantages with slightly higher price tags. If you’re interested in a full basement foundation, you can expect substantially higher costs due to an higher investment in time and labor, but offers homeowners additional living space or storage options. Building permits are always required for any work on the foundation of a house. The cost of the permits is dependent on the type and size of the house and the specific requirements of the local building code. The time of year can make building the new foundation easier or more difficult, especially with inclement weather. The cost may be higher during the peak construction season or lower during the off-season, which is usually in the winter months. The location of the site can also influence the cost of foundation installation. Labor and materials may be more expensive in certain regions, and this can increase the overall cost of the projects. Soil testing can help to identify potential issues with the soil, such as unstable or expansive soils. Professional soil testing allows the foundation design to be adjusted accordingly. Grading prepares the site for the foundation by shaping and smoothing the ground to create a level surface. With grading, the foundation will be properly supported and water will drain away from the foundation. Sloped sites will require more extensive grading than level sites. Overall, it is generally best to hire professionals to install a house foundation, as they have the experience, labor, tools and knowledge of local building codes to make sure that the foundation is built correctly. In addition to hiring a contractor, it’s often necessary to consult with a structural engineer.




Advertisement






THIS IS AN ADVERTISEMENT AND NOT EDITORIAL CONTENT. Please note that we do receive compensation for any products you buy or sign up to via this advertisement, and that compensation impacts the ranking and placement of any offers listed herein. We do not present information about every offer available. The information and savings numbers depicted above are for demonstration purposes only, and your results may vary.



Compare Quotes From Top Rated Foundation Contractors
Free, No-commitment Estimates



				Find A Contractor
			



 Compare Quotes From Top Rated Foundation Contractors Free, No-commitment Estimates To arrive at the average costs in this article, editorial team members surveyed a range of providers on national and local levels. All averaged figures were correct at the time of publication and may be subject to change. The cheapest foundation is usually a slab-on-grade concrete foundation, followed by a crawl space foundation and a concrete block foundation. No, most homeowners should not try to pour their own foundation unless they have extensive knowledge of construction techniques and are comfortable working with heavy machinery and materials. The cost of a house foundation will vary depending on the size and complexity of the foundation and the location of the site. In general, the cost of foundation installation can range from a few thousand dollars to several tens of thousands of dollars, depending on the scope of the work. Filling in a crawl space, also known as crawl space encapsulation, is the process of sealing and insulating the crawl space of a house to create a dry, controlled environment. Across the U.S., the average cost to professionally encapsulate your home’s crawl space is  $5,500. Poured concrete foundations are designed to last for a long time, as long as they are built properly and well-maintained. With proper care and maintenance, a poured concrete foundation can last for decades. For slab-on-grade foundations, the slabs are typically four to six inches thick. Basement foundations are usually eight to 12 feet deep. Crawl space foundations typically range in depth from three to four feet deep. 
				Having remodeled homes while providing home improvement content, Lee has lived the home remodeling life. Throughout his career, Lee has lived and worked overseas, worked on historic properties and has worked in the home finance industry.
			 
				Corinne Tynan is a highly skilled contributing editor at Forbes Home, with a wealth of knowledge and expertise in various areas such as interior design and home improvement. With over 10 years of experience in writing, editing and SEO content strategy for digital properties, such as Bed Bath & Beyond, buybuy BABY, Harmon and Macy's, Corinne brings a unique perspective and deep understanding of all things related to enhancing and beautifying homes.
			 
				Lexie is a deputy editor at Forbes Home and has over 6 years of professional experience as a writer and editor in the home improvement space. She's previously worked at sites such as HomeAdvisor and Angi (formerly Angie's List).
			