Scotland's Kim Little retired from international football in September 2021 Arsenal captain Kim Little will miss the rest of the season after suffering a hamstring injury in their Women's Champions League quarter-final win. The midfielder, 32, was substituted 12 minutes into the second leg against Bayern Munich in March, which Arsenal won 2-0 to triumph 2-1 on aggregate. Arsenal visit Wolfsburg for the first leg of the semi-final on Sunday, 23 April and play the home leg on 1 May. They travel to Women's Super League leaders Manchester United on Wednesday. Jonas Eidevall's side are third in the domestic league and just three points adrift of United. Arsenal have already won a title this season, beating Chelsea in Continental League Cup, to pick up their first trophy in four years. Emma Sanders, BBC Sport football reporter This is a huge blow to Arsenal as they prepare to take on Wolfsburg. Little is undoubtedly one of their best players and has been for several seasons - leading the team as captain and acting as a focal point in midfield, helping Arsenal tick. It is the latest injury to one of Arsenal's key players, following the season-ending anterior cruciate ligament injuries to last season's top-scorer Vivianne Miedema and Ballon d'Or runner-up Beth Mead. However, Arsenal have performed well given those injuries and showed in the Champions League quarter-final win over Bayern Munich that they can adapt to Little's absence. England captain Leah Williamson is a good back-up option and is likely to move into midfield from her preferred centre-back position, as she did against Bayern. But Arsenal's squad depth is thinning at a time when they remain in a four-way battle for the WSL title and are chasing a second European trophy. It will be a major concern. Women's Super League Premier League: Porro heads dominant Spurs into deserved lead at Leicester Chelsea agree Felix fee, Gallagher to join Atletico The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.