When there's a missing or corrupted file on Windows 10, you can fix the problem using the DISM and SFC command tools, and here's how. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Deployment Image Servicing and Management (DISM) is a command-line tool built into Windows 10 that allows network administrators to prepare, modify, and repair system images, including Windows Recovery Environment, Windows Setup, and Windows PE (WinPE). However, you can also use the tool with the local recovery image to fix most system problems. When you try to fix a specific error, figure out why the computer stopped booting correctly, or resolve performance problems, the System File Checker (SFC) is one of the best to replace missing or corrupted system files using the recovery image. The only caveat with this approach is that if one or more system files in the local image are damaged, the SFC command won't work. In this scenario, you can use the "install.wim" image file with DISM to repair the image and then use the SFC tool to fix the setup without reinstalling the operating system. In this how-to guide, I will show you how, in 2024 and beyond, the DISM and SFC are the best tools for restoring a computer from a broken to a healthy working state without reinstallation. The DISM command tool includes multiple features to repair a system image, including "CheckHealth," "ScanHealth," and "RestoreHealth," and you want to use them in that order. Also, depending on the issue, you can use the "RestoreHealth" option to fix the locally available image using different source files. Warning: The commands outlined in this guide are non-destructive, but since you will be making system changes, it is still recommended to create a temporary full backup before proceeding. The "CheckHealth" option with the DISM determines any corruptions inside the local Windows 10 image. However, this option does not perform any sort of repair. To check the image of Windows 10 for issues with DISM, use these steps: All the latest news, reviews, and guides for Windows and Xbox diehards.  Once you complete the steps, the DISM tool will run and verify any data corruption that may require fixing inside the local image. The "ScanHealth" option performs a more advanced scan to find out whether the image has any issues. To check image problems with the "ScanHealth" option, use these steps:  After completing the steps, the scan may take some time to check whether the image needs fixing. If the system image has problems, use DISM with the "RestoreHealth" option to scan and repair common issues automatically. To repair Windows 10 local image problems with DISM, use these steps:  Once you complete the steps, the Deployment Image Servicing and Management tool will connect to the "Windows Update" servers to download and replace damaged files (if applicable). The Deployment Image Servicing and Management commands typically don't cause issues. However, if the tool finds problems replacing the damaged files or the computer doesn't have an internet connection, you can use another image using the "Source" option. Usually, you can use an "install.wim" or "install.esd" file from another device, install media, or ISO file. You only need to ensure the files match the version, edition, and language of the version you are trying to fix. Download Windows 10 ISO file If you need another file source, use the Media Creation Tool to download a fresh copy of Windows 10. To download the ISO file of Windows 10, use these steps:      After you complete the steps, continue with the DISM tool using the "Source" option to repair the image locally stored on the computer. Fix Windows 10 recovery image To run the Deployment Image Servicing and Management tool with an alternate source (install.wim) image, use these steps: In the command, replace "E" with the mount point drive letter on File Explorer.  In the command, change "G:\Sources," for the path to the "install.wim" file. Once you complete the steps, the command will scan and repair the problems using the "install.wim" file you specified as the alternative source. In case you have an encrypted "install.esd" image, it's possible to use that image to repair the damaged system files on Windows 10. To use DISM with an "install.esd" image file as the source to repair Windows 10, use these steps: In the command, change "C:\ESD\Windows\sources" with the path to the location of the ".esd" file (if different).  In the command, replace "E:\Sources" with the path to the location of the "install.esd" file. After you complete the steps, the tool will repair the damaged files using the files included in the "install.esd" image. The above steps are meant to repair issues with the system image, not the problems with the installation of Windows 10. After restoring the image to a healthy state, you can use the System File Checker command tool to repair the current setup of Windows 10. To use the SFC command tool to repair system problems, use these steps:  Once you complete the steps, the System File Checker tool will repair the system files using the local image files, and the log files will be saved on "%windir%/Logs/CBS/CBS.log" and "%windir%\Logs\DISM\dism.log," which you can view to get more details about the process. You can use these instructions to learn more ways to use the SFC tool to fix problems on Windows 10. For more helpful articles, coverage, and answers to common questions about Windows 10 and Windows 11, visit the following resources: Mauro Huculak has been a Windows How-To Expert contributor for WindowsCentral.com for nearly a decade and has over 15 years of experience writing comprehensive guides. He also has an IT background and has achieved different professional certifications from Microsoft, Cisco, VMware, and CompTIA. He has been recognized as a Microsoft MVP for many years. Windows Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 