GO AD FREE | Get your Annual Digital subscription for only £30! Use code GAMES Powered by Grantham Journal, Rutland & Stamford Mercury, Spalding Guardian and Lincolnshire Free Press  Powered by Grantham Journal, Rutland & Stamford Mercury, Spalding Guardian and Lincolnshire Free Press    Home   Stamford   Sport   Article Manager Graham Drury insists his newly-promoted side will not just be making up the numbers as they kick-off their Southern League campaign on Saturday. The Daniels face a tough test in their first match back at step three of the non-league pyramid for the first time since the 2015/16 season. They host a Kettering Town side who are second favourites for the Premier Division Central title after being relegated from the National League North last season. Drury - whose team were crowned champions of the Northern Premier League Midlands Division last term - said: "There is no expectation on us. "We really want to stay in the division but I'm certainly not going in there to make up the numbers. "We will be going out to try and win every game of football. We've shown in pre-season what we can do against some really good sides like Stevenage, Peterborough Sports and Boston United. "They are all above us and we've got positive results which does bode well but the real stuff starts on Saturday." Drury is hoping for a strong show of support for his side against a visiting Poppies team who are expected to bring a decent away following. The Stamford boss added: "I am expecting a good crowd for it. "The fans are really excited about being at step three again so it could be our biggest gate of the season. "It could be a good day out and hopefully we can put on a performance. These are the sort of games that we want to be involved in and hopefully the people of Stamford will want to come out and watch them. "We know it will be a tough ask this year. We've got to get used to the division and teams and systems with different players. "It will be a real learning season for us but we've shown that we can compete with higher opposition in pre-season. "We've scored plenty of goals from all over the pitch again. It will be one of the toughest tests you could perhaps ask for on Saturday but it will show us where we are at." Stamford have added several new players to their ranks for the coming campaign with Ricky Miller, Trey Charles, Lee Shaw, Ashton Offler, Harry Wood, Brad Munns and Ben Whiting among the recruits. They face a Kettering side under new management from last season having appointed Andy Leese who is a familiar face to Drury having locked horns during his Southern League days with Corby Town. Drury explained: "We've managed against each other many moons ago when I was at Corby and it will be great to see him again. "We'll be friends before and after but, during the game, it's obviously all about getting the result for Stamford. "He thinks he's only at 85 per cent because he came into the job late so it might be a good time to play them because they might not be completely settled but they are second favourites at the end of the day. "We're looking forward to it though. We've been pleased with pre-season and the additions to the camp. "We brought the tougher tests into pre-season but the boys have done well. They've adapted to every situation." Stamford finished their preparations for the new season with a 1-1 draw against step two side Boston United on Saturday. Boston took the lead after 25 minutes when a quick one-two between Kelsey Mooney and Keziah Martin saw the former smash the ball into the roof of the net off the crossbar. Stamford equalised on the hour mark when Ollie Brown-Hill robbed a Boston player in midfield and he played the ball to Rob Morgan who slotted it past the visiting keeper. View magazine now! Entries are now OPEN!