GO AD FREE | Get your Annual Digital subscription for only £30! Use code GAMES Powered by Grantham Journal, Rutland & Stamford Mercury, Spalding Guardian and Lincolnshire Free Press  Powered by Grantham Journal, Rutland & Stamford Mercury, Spalding Guardian and Lincolnshire Free Press    Home   Stamford   Sport   Article Two goals from Tendai Chitiza was enough to secure the win for Stamford over AFC Sudbury as the Daniels completed a perfect winning week on Saturday. It was the wideman's first goals since returning to the club from Coalville Town as Stamford followed up victories over the Ravens and Stourbridge to seal a victory treble. Chitiza was the only change from the win against Coalville with Ollie Brown-Hill missing out. The Daniels started well and Jack Duffy had a shot which was straight at James Bradbrook in the Sudbury goal. The hosts then had a chance through Ben Hunter, but his effort was saved by Michael Duggan in the Stamford goal. Duffy had another chance after receiving the ball from a Harry Vince cutback but again the effort was saved by Bradbrook. The home side took the lead on 34 minutes when cross from the right was headed across goal and Romario Dunne was on hand to slot home. The lead did not last long as a cross from Duffy on the left found Chitiza who played a one two with Joe Burgess before slotting into the net. Sudbury started well the second half well and Dunne fired a shot that Duggan did well to get his hands to and deflect it for a corner. Stamford got themselves in front after 55 minutes as Chitiza played a quick one two with Duffy and he raced clear of the Sudbury defence and fired the ball past Bradbrook in the home goal. Despite Sudbury’s poor league position, they never gave up and Oliver Caley-Brown hit a shot which was straight at Duggan while Tre Charles had a header which was straight at the home goalkeeper. With 15 minutes remaining, Sudbury almost grabbed an equaliser as a cross from the right was heading goalwards but Burgess was on hand to clear the ball off the line. Duffy then had a shot which was deflected away at the expense of a corner but, with time running out, Sudbury were having more chances to get themselves level and they had a shot from Reuben Swann which was blocked by the Daniels defence. Stamford almost grabbed a third when substitute Tom Siddons had a shot deflected for a corner. Deep into injury time, Sudbury were awarded a corner and, with the goalkeeper coming up for the set-piece, the Daniels defence were able to repel the attack to secure the success which moved them up into third place in the table. They take a break from Southern League action on Saturday as they head to Premier Division Central rivals Hitchin Town in the FA Trophy. Goalkeeper Dan Wallis has joined Northern Premier League Midlands Division side Corby Town on dual registration following the recent arrival of Michael Duggan. View magazine now! Entries are now OPEN!