The former Ibrox and Easter Road star has really transformed himself in the A-League as he grabbed a double but his side lost out in a five-goal clash that had it all. Get the latest Rangers F.C updates from Football Scotland, including transfer news, analysis and comment delivered straight to your inbox every day for free We have more newsletters Get the latest Rangers F.C updates from Football Scotland, including transfer news, analysis and comment delivered straight to your inbox every day for free We have more newsletters Jason Cummings netted a deadly double as his side lost out in a five-goal thriller.  The former Rangers and Hibs man has really established himself as a key player since making the switch to Australia with Central Coast Mariners and after an impressive debut campaign that ended with a World Cup call-up for the Socceroos by Graham Arnold, he has taken off once again where he left off as he targets goals galore and many more caps on the international scene.  The hitman grabbed his first of a pulsating game from the penalty spot as he crashed his effort off the under-side of the bar before he expertly finished for his second. A low cross into the box was pounced on by Cummings and after swiveling his body, he set himself before finding the top corner of the net. However, it didn't prove to be enough with Sydney FC running out 3-2 winners.  READ MORE: The Celtic key trait that stands them apart from Rangers and everybody else claims Michael Stewart  Both sides received red cards during the 90 minutes with Adam Le Fondre - a name familiar with British football - grabbing a double of his own while Joe Lolley, another graduate of the English Leagues, was also on target for the hosts. Defeat leaves the Mariners in second spot trailing league leaders Melbourne City by eight points while Sydney jump into sixth spot.  Speaking last month about Cummings, Charlie Adam tipped him for a sensational return to Scotland one day. Speaking to Grosvenor Sport, he said: "I think we could possibly see Jason back in Scotland. I spoke to Jason the other day and he's loving Australia. It's been a great experience for him. "His big goal when he was with me at Dundee was to get in the national team and playing in the World Cup was another added bonus for him. If he keeps scoring goals then there will be opportunities for him to come back to Europe.  "But he could also end up going to Saudi Arabia or wherever he wants. People portray Jason as a joker but he's a good guy, trains well and can score goals. " He's a great lad and was great for the dressing room [at Dundee]. Football needs characters like Jason Cummings." READ NEXT:   - Rangers January transfers assessed by Barry Ferguson as he makes summer Michael Beale claim   - James McFadden in Rangers 'wanted more' transfer claim as he reveals what Nicolas Raskin will bring   - Nicolas Raskin in Rangers 'fighting spirit' as Michael Beale sent warning over key midfield factor   - Rangers star in Nicolas Raskin signing two word response as midfielder faces Ibrox reunion   - Nicolas Raskin in Celtic derby admission as Rangers signing reveals Europa League final 'excitement' 