The 30-year-old was a regular for the Red Devils during the 2022-23 campaign, featuring on 56 occasions in all competitions, scoring six goals and registering six assists in the process. Fred only started 12 times in the Premier League last term, though, and Mason Mount's arrival this summer has pushed him further down the pecking order at Old Trafford. Kobbie Mainoo is also expected to be heavily involved for the first team in the new season, which would, in theory, make it even harder for Fred to secure regular starts if he stayed at Old Trafford. The Brazilian was not included in the squad for Man United's pre-season tour of the United States, but he had been due to join up with his teammates at a later date. © Reuters "One player who hasn't made the flight is Fred. The Brazilian has remained in the UK to deal with a personal issue, but he is expected to join up with the rest of the squad shortly," read a statement on the club's official website at the time.  However, the midfielder has not travelled to the United States amid suggestions that he will be leaving the 20-time English champions during the summer market. According to Italian journalist Fabrizio Romano, Fred is heading for the exit door at Old Trafford, and Galatasaray view him as a 'priority target' this summer. Romano claims that the Turkish giants have already had one bid rejected for the South American but are expected to return with a new offer, while Fulham, in addition to a number of Saudi Arabian clubs, are interested in signing him during the current window. © Reuters Fred made the move to Old Trafford from Shakhtar Donetsk in the summer of 2018, and he has represented the club on 213 occasions in all competitions, scoring 14 goals and contributing 19 assists. Man United have already boosted their midfield this summer with the signing of Mount from Chelsea, while Fiorentina's Sofyan Amrabat is being heavily linked with a move to the club. Amrabat has allegedly already agreed personal terms with the Red Devils, but a move is unlikely to be completed until Fred has officially departed. Scott McTominay is also being linked with an exit, with West Ham United said to be keen to bring him to the club before the end of the transfer window. Donny van de Beek, meanwhile, could be on his way out of Old Trafford in the coming weeks, with the Dutchman said to be keen to seek regular football elsewhere. 






 Subscribe to our newsletter
 
