 Simply register at no cost.   Questions or problems? Email [email protected] or call 0711 046 000.  •Kenya Association of Air Operators has called on the government to reinvest revenue collected from the sector to develop, improve and maintain the existing infrastructure. •Meanwhile, it has lauded a proposed enhanced industry engagement rule making process between KCAA and stakeholders. Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) needs to improve certification processes sector lobby now says, citing red tape that is hindering investments and growth of the industry. According to the Kenya Association of Air Operators (KAAO), sector players are still facing challenges in acquiring and renewal of Certificate of Airworthiness. There is also bureaucracy in Air Operator Certificate (AOC) for commercial air transport operations, Approved Maintenance Organisation (AMO) approvals-which is approved and supervised by a State to perform aircraft maintenance, and Approved Training Organisation (ATO) certification which oversees flight training. The association is also concerned over what it says is continued dilapidated infrastructure, calling for increased investment in the sector. It has called on the government to reinvest revenue collected from the sector to develop, improve and maintain the existing infrastructure. “Governments around the globe have become more innovative in funding large aviation infrastructure projects through different financing mechanisms. The government should focus on investment in infrastructure that is both strategic and revenue generating” KAAO chief executive Liz Aluvanze said in a statement. The association has however commended latest developments, including a proposed enhanced industry engagement rule making process between KCAA and stakeholders in the industry. KAAO which has for years been calling for an inclusive engagement process between the different industry stakeholders termed the first Aviation Thought Leaders Forum, since creation of the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority, as a step in the right direction. This, it says will improve synergies between the regulator and the operators. “This inclusive engagement could lead to extra benefits for the air transport industry including increased collaboration in the rule making process, as well as reduction in bureaucracy and red tape that continues to inhibit transparency and accountability,” KAAO said. The association’s chairman Mbuvi Ngunze said the engagement is a progressive move that will allow better engagement between KCAA and stakeholders, reducing friction that has existed for years.   The outcome of the process should reduce surprises in regulations and amendments and simplify oversight by the regulator,” Ngunze said. It has lauded KCAA for automating its processes noting it will increase efficiency and transparency. Transport PS Mohamed Daghar has since assures sector players of government’s commitment in the delivery of services including the aviation sector. : As a ministry, we promise improved and efficient services going forward. We are willing to come in as partners with the stakeholders as aviation is one of the biggest contributors to GDP, and without which other areas such as tourism and trade cannot flourish,”Daghar said. KAAO brings together commercial, private, recreational air operators, approved training organisations (ATOs), approved maintenance organisations (AMOs) , hot air balloon operators and remotely piloted aircraft systems (RPAS) operators. It also has on board tourism associations and companies, financial institutions, insurance firms, fuel companies and marketers, tax and audit firms, local and foreign business associations among other aviation related associations and industry experts. Advertise with us: Call 0711 046 000 · [email protected]  