The England international limped off in the latter stages of his side's Champions League clash on Tuesday evening due to a problem with his groin. However, Ancelotti said in his post-match press conference in Portugal that he was not fearful over the 20-year-old's fitness ahead of the La Liga clash with Barcelona. Bellingham then said on Thursday that he would be fit to take part in his first-ever Clasico on Saturday. Ancelotti was asked about the summer arrival from Borussia Dortmund during his press conference on Friday and confirmed that the in-form attacker would be in the side. © Reuters "Tomorrow, he will play. He is fine. He has recovered well. I don't think I have to explain to him about El Clasico everyone knows very well what it is. It is one of the most important matches in the world," he told reporters.  Real Madrid were held to a 1-1 draw by Sevilla in the league last weekend, but they are top of the table, one point clear of third-placed Barcelona, and Ancelotti has opened up on the importance of the match. "We are excited. It is a special atmosphere. It will be the first Clasico of the season, we have come well and are very excited to play a great match," he said. "It is an important match, worth three points and it is very useful for the dynamic because it is very important for everyone. But the season is very long. We must be decisive. There are several teams competing as well like Atletico and Girona, and the league will be very competitive until the end. © Reuters "Barcelona are a well-organised team in every sense of the word. They have quality youngsters playing with them and we expect the same usual Barcelona as always." Real Madrid will again be without the services of Eder Militao and Thibaut Courtois for this weekend's contest due to long-term knee injuries, while Arda Guler and Dani Ceballos are major doubts. Ancelotti hinted during his press conference that Ferland Mendy would start at left-back despite suggestions that Eduardo Camavinga would be used in that position. "Mendy has an advantage because he rested on Tuesday... his (Camavinga's) main position is the pivot. He adapts as a full-back or central midfield, but his position is the pivot," the Italian added. Real Madrid lead the overall head-to-head record against Barcelona, winning 103 of their 254 previous games in all competitions, with Barcelona boasting 100 victories. 






 Subscribe to our newsletter
 
