The Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya is involved in trying to clean up the image of athletics in the country Medical professionals in Kenya are helping elite athletes cover up their drug use, according to a report. The announcement was made by a tribunal looking into the latest case of a banned Kenyan runner, with the three-member panel uncovering a "pattern of behaviour" in the defences used by athletes accused of doping The tribunal was investigating middle distance runner Eglay Nalyanya who was yesterday handed an eight-year ban for three breaches of regulations including the presence and use of a prohibited substance as well as tampering or attempted tampering with doping control.  It found that forged documents submitted by Nalyanya were similar to those of another recent case involving fellow Kenyan Betty Lempus who was banned for five years in January.  The panel observed that both Nalyanya and Lempus claimed to have received intramuscular injections while being treated at the same Kenyan hospital. "In both instances, Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) investigations - in collaboration with the Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya - discovered the documents were false; that the doctors listed were fictitious; and that neither athlete had received the respective injection though both women had attended the hospital on the respective days in question," read the verdict.  This led the tribunal to conclude that, "elite Kenyan athletes are being assisted by a person or persons, including someone with considerable medical knowledge, to commit what amounts to criminal conduct involving frauds on the AIU, and that this is not limited to a single case but evidences a pattern of behaviour." Runner Eglay Nalyanya competed for Kenya at the 2018 Commonwealth Games but has now been banned for eight years for three breaches of anti-doping regulations The latest revelations are a blow to Kenya's efforts in the fight against doping. Last year, the country narrowly avoided a ban from international athletics after vowing to clean house. David Howman, chair of the AIU, which is an independent organisation, says they are committed to working with Kenya to ensure that happens. "It is clear doping in Kenya is increasingly well organised and this is a serious threat to our sport," he said. "The AIU has been asked to work with the Kenyan government, Athletics Kenya and the Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya to attack this crisis." "We are all aware of the magnitude of this challenge and we will do our utmost to find the sources of these doping operations in Kenya, to seek the appropriate punishments and protect the integrity of international athletics."  Kenya looks to criminalise doping Medals 'no longer the priority' for Kenyan athletics No 'drug cover-up' in Kenya - Lord Coe Responding to these latest revelations, Athletics Kenya said they are committed to the war against doping and are working with the AIU to launch an operation involving criminal investigators and medical authorities to identify and prosecute anyone involved. They also pointed to the recent five-million dollar cash boost from the Kenyan government as part of the country's commitment to cracking down on drug cheats.  Premier League: Leicester v Tottenham - team news & build-up Chelsea agree Felix fee, Gallagher to join Atletico The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Charming comedy with Tom Hollander and Olivia Colman How will a rural parish vicar handle the demands of a modern inner-city church? Local gangs, old rivalries, revenge and betrayal A new series of Sherwood is coming soon to BBC iPlayer A new drug changes the streets of LA A hard-hitting drama about the rise of crack cocaine in the 1980s Spectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford. VideoSpectacular sci-fi with Ryan Gosling and Harrison Ford After a disturbing discovery, replicant hunter K looks for the one person who could help The countdown is on... Who could be on the move? Weekly football quiz: Who assisted Mbappe? 2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss. Video2 Good, 2 Bad - Richards in net & Mac Allister's miss Why Kovacic's performance shows Man City may not need Rodri understudy What next for The Hundred? Invincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights. VideoInvincibles beat Brave to retain Hundred title - highlights London Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  VideoLondon Spirit beat Welsh Fire to win first Hundred title - highlights  How Raygun made it to the Olympics and divided breaking world 'Breathtaking football' - how Slot's Liverpool machine kicked into gear Why Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis. VideoWhy Raya is a 'title-chasing' goalkeeper - Hart analysis From Everton trial to Serie A star - the rise of new Man Utd hero Zirkzee  How many Paris 2024 medallists come from your area? The rise and fall of North Korea - the sleeping giant of women's football Could there be an NFL Dream Team at LA 2028? Remarkable images from the Paris Olympics Watch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage. VideoWatch the BBC's Paris 2024 closing montage Paris Olympics: The best stats from the 2024 Games The Hollywood Olympics: All you need to know about Los Angeles 2028 © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.