
Menu
 
Search

 
Menu
 
Search

 

                                                                                        McDonald’s Brings Back the Beloved Pumpkin and Creme Pie Just in Time for Fall                                         

                                                                                        Panda Express Reignites the Heat with the Return of Blazing Bourbon Chicken                                         

                                                                                        McDonald's to Launch Yu-Gi-Oh Happy Meal in August as Pokemon Announces New Toy Line                                         

                                                                                        Huawei Export Restrictions Set for Potential US Relaxation as Lawmakers Warn of Economic Fallout                                         

                                                                                        U.S. EV Sales Surge in June, Outpacing Overall Auto Market Growth: Report                                         

                                                                                        Elon Musk is moving X and SpaceX to Texas                                         

                                                                                        SpaceX Prepares for Risky Tower Capture in Upcoming Starship Flight 5 Test                                         
                                                                                        Wi-Fi 7 Home Routers Approach £100 - Are They Worth an Upgrade?                                         

                                                                                        AMD Invests $4.9 Billion in ZT Systems to Expand AI and Data Center Capabilities                                         

                                                                                        Popeyes Worker’s Chicken Seasoning TikTok Sparks Debate Over Hygiene and Preparation                                         

                                                                                        Bitcoin Mining Stocks the Next Big Bet? Undervalued Now, They Could Skyrocket If BTC History Repeats                                         

                                                                                        AT&T, Verizon Push FCC to Block SpaceX's Cellular Starlink Over Interference Concerns                                         

                                                                                        Bitcoin Won’t See 70% Market Dominance Again, Warns Crypto Analyst in Bold Prediction                                         

                                                                                        Fall Flavors Arrive: New Seasonal Menus from Krispy Kreme, Cracker Barrel, and The Human Bean                                         

                                                                                        Apple’s $1,000 Tabletop Robot With Arm, Display Spotted in Supply Chain; Set to Rival Amazon and Google                                         

                                                                                        Colorado Church Tokenizes $2.5M Chapel to Secure Historic Old Stone Church                                         

                                                                                        The Future of News: Embracing the Paradigm Shift                                                 Eyestetix Studio/Unsplash Spotify to trim workforce by 6%, CEO announces Spotify, a Swedish audio streaming and media services provider, rolled out an artificial intelligence (AI) DJ that will be available to certain listeners. The newest feature is now being enjoyed by premium users since Wednesday. As per Fox Business, Spotify is offering this to premium subscribers in the United States and Canada. Listeners in these countries will be the first ones to try the AI DJ function while still in beta and in the English language. The DJ will give a special lineup of music complete with commentary based on the tracks and artists. The company said that listeners would be stunned by the realistic voice of its AI Disc Jockey. As for the selections of songs, the DJ will pull them from the new tunes lineup as well as from the titles the user has previously listened to. Spotify said that its AI DJ was designed to improve music recommendations on the platform as it can get more feedback from the user. The music streamer further said the DJ function was formed from several things, such as personalization technology and a generative AI that uses OpenAI technology. “The DJ is a personalized AI guide that knows you and your music taste so well that it can choose what to play for you,” Spotify said in a press release. “This feature, first rolling out in beta, will deliver a curated lineup of music alongside commentary around the tracks and artists we think you’ll like in a stunningly realistic voice.” The music streaming platform added that the AI DJ “will sort through the latest music and look back at some of your old favorites - maybe even resurfacing that song you haven’t listened to for years. It will then review what you might enjoy and deliver a stream of songs picked just for you. And what’s more, it constantly refreshes the lineup based on your feedback.” Photo by Eyestetix Studio/Unsplash Breathing through your nose when you exercise may make your runs easier Entrepreneurs are facing a mental health crisis — here's how to help them Are fish oil supplements as healthy as we think? And is eating fish better? Will AI kill our creativity? It could – if we don’t start to value and protect the traits that make us human Does AI have a right to free speech? Only if it supports our right to free thought How can I lower my cholesterol? Do supplements work? How about psyllium or probiotics? Why we need to set limits on sperm donation Aging with a healthy brain: How lifestyle changes could help prevent up to 40% of dementia cases Seven techniques to avoid weight regain, approved by experts  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Posts Crude Alanis Morissette Parody Attacking Kamala Harris: 'Down on Her Knees' for 2024 Nomination  
                                                                                                15 Spicy Fast-Food Items Guaranteed to Ignite Your Taste Buds  
                                                                                                McDonald's Collector's Meal Cups Selling for Over $100 Amid Nostalgia Craze  
                                                                                                Hyundai Claims 10% of US EV Market, Closing the Gap with Tesla in 2024  
                                                                                                Cybertruck Controversy Erupts: Musk Denies Involvement as Global Reaction to Chechen Leader Intensifies  
                                                                                                Multiverse films take characters to increasingly dark places – as Robert Downey Jr’s Doctor Doom casting shows  
                                                                                                Elon Musk is moving X and SpaceX to Texas  
                                                                                                Apple’s $1,000 Tabletop Robot With Arm, Display Spotted in Supply Chain; Set to Rival Amazon and Google  
                                                                                                What is ‘model collapse’? An expert explains the rumours about an impending AI doom  
                                                                                                Donald Trump Mocked for Struggling to Pronounce 'Regulatory' During Pennsylvania Rally: Critics Question His Cognitive Health 
Back to Top ▲
 
                        

                        
                        ©Econometrics LLC . All Rights Reserved. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.                     Disclaimer: EconoTimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and EconoTimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Brokerage. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. EconoTimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results. Sign up for daily updates for the most important
            stories unfolding in the global economy. 