
 There are a few things worse than cruising down the road, jamming to some music, and then, all of a sudden, silence. Many drivers today solely rely on Spotify on Android Auto to play their music. So, if the technology malfunctions, they have no other option except the radio, but who listens to that? There are a couple of different reasons why your Spotify isn't working on Android Auto. If you can't get any of your apps to appear on your car's screen, you need to troubleshoot your device's connection. You should also make sure you have added Spotify to Android Auto, though if you were previously using Spotify in your car, this is likely not the issue. If everything is set up and it still won't work, the solution may be to adjust your Android and Spotify settings. Below is a list of settings and fixes that may get your Spotify back up and running on Android Auto. The fixes get progressively harder in this article, so start at the beginning for the quickest potential solution. 
 The first thing you should do to troubleshoot your Spotify not working on Android Auto is restart your phone. After the restart, you should shut down all processes running in the background except Spotify. It's also always good to have your Spotify app and Android operating up to date. Additionally, you may solve the problem by clearing your app's cache. Another thing you should do is check to see if your device is blocking your connection. (Note that the location of this setting may differ if you are running an older version of Android.) To do this: You should also check your Bluetooth settings. Specifically, you want to check if your device is set to stream music. Here's how to do that: 
 There are a couple more advanced remedies that may solve your issue. The first is to adjust two important settings in the Spotify app, which can be found by following the steps below. Another thing you can try is enabling streaming to unknown sources in the Android Auto app. To do this, you must first enable Android Auto's developer options. Here's how to do both: If you still can't connect to Spotify, it may be worth switching over to another music app, such as YouTube Music. Some websites, such as Soundiiz, even allow you to transfer music from Spotify to other music services to make transitioning easier. 