Just four weeks ago, T-Mobile touted "industry-leading" post-paid net account additions of 299,000 subscribers and post-paid churn of 0.77%, as well as growth in Q2 service revenue, net income and free cash flow. And four years ago, as it worked to close its acquisition of Sprint, T-Mobile promised to grow its ranks, not diminish them. But on Thursday, the self-described "Un-carrier" announced that it's laying off 5,000 workers, mostly "corporate and back-office staff," with some technology employees included. "Today’s changes are all about getting us efficiently focused on a finite set of winning strategies, so that we can continue to out-pace our competitors and have the financial capability to deliver a differentiated network and customer experience to a continually growing customer base, while simultaneously meeting our obligations to our shareholders," T-Mobile CEO Mike Sievert, in a note to staff that was included Thursday in a company 8-K filing to the SEC. Within the broader wireless telecommunications industry, T-Mobile's cuts hardly stand out, with AT&T, Verizon and Dish Network, among other wireless companies, also conducting layoffs this year. But T-Mobile's execution has sensitivity attached to it based on the declaration made by former CEO John Legere, who in 2019 made the kind of promises you'd typically expect from a telecom executive trying to get the $26.5 billion Sprint M&A  deal approved by regulators. "This merger is all about creating new, high-quality, high-paying jobs, and the New T-Mobile will be jobs-positive from Day One and every day thereafter," Legere said. In April, GeekWire happened to notice that the combined company actually employed 9,000 fewer workers than it did before its two parts were formally combined three years earlier. Responding to the pub, a T-Mobile press rep did some top-notch contorting: “We’ve upheld our jobs commitment," the rep declared. "Before we merged with Sprint, we said we’d have more employees as a combined company than the two standalone companies would have had on their own without the merger — and we have done just that," the rep added. "The merger has also allowed us to do many things we otherwise would have been unable to do like deliver choice and connectivity for underserved and small markets and rural areas, in addition to creating new businesses and growing our consumer and enterprise businesses — all of which have created thousands of jobs for T-Mobile, as well as our vendors and partners.” New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight.