Guest Guest Login | Sign Up Push Square  Guest Login or Sign Up Update: Sony says it's due to music licensing Update: Sony says the reason the Knights of the Old Republic trailers are being removed from its YouTube and social media accounts is due to music licenses expiring. In a statement to IGN, the organisation said: “As part of normal business, we delist assets with licensed music when the licenses expire.” So, while the discourse around this project remains pretty negative overall, there’s still some hope it may see the light of day after all. Original Article: Embracer’s embattled Knights of the Old Republic remake, which was scheduled to release as a PS5 console exclusive, looks like it’s fallen on even harder times. That’s a surprising statement in itself, considering the project has been hurdling brick walls since it was revealed. You may recall that the title’s original developer, Aspyr Media, was removed from the release, with production duties handed to an unnamed arm of Saber Interactive. The acquisition-happy Embracer has since fallen upon hard times, of course, and has shuttered Saints Row maker Volition as a consequence. Now it looks like Sony has gradually been removing any references to the Knights of the Old Republic remake from YouTube and its social media accounts, as it looks to deny any existence of the project at all. The worrying thing here is that the Japanese giant was due to publish this game, so something’s gone very wrong along the way. Officially, the title’s not cancelled until someone from Embracer says so, but we’d give up any anticipation you may have had for this title, because at best it’s still several years away – assuming it even exists at all right now. [source twitter.com, via resetera.com] About Sammy Barker  As the Editor of Push Square, Sammy has over 15 years of experience analysing the world of PlayStation, from PS3 through PS5 and everything in between. He’s an expert on PS Studios and industry matters, as well as sports games and simulators. He also enjoys RPGs when he has the time to dedicate to them, and is a bit of a gacha whale. Comments 72  Sonys effort to get at least one more AAA western RPG to PS5 (after MS bought out half the WRPG industry) probably failed lol. Should have bought/build up at least one Studio for this Genre instead of mostly investing into GaaS ones  Oh dear. Hopefully the project resurrects as they must have some sort of licensing agreement. But also hopefully, Embracer can just go away, become a much more focused company, or series of focused companies. It was all doomed from the start.  The rumour is, Star Wars (and Lucasfilm in general) is a money sink for Disney at a time where they have serious financial problems. The fact is that they blew a serious amount of good will with bad project after bad project.Point is, they are scaling back. And this may be a casualty.  Kotor is one of the best Star Wars games, I hope that the remake isn’t cancelled as it would be amazing. Such sad news  @LifeGirl Disney wouldn't lose on this since games are licensed out and the bill falls upon the developer.  they could've finally snuck a W from this release as it would have sold. Back to Embracer never having released a good game!  Sony should have funded this one as an outright exclusive and that would have paid for itself. But Sony aren't bright. When's the last good rpg that was exclusive entirely to playstation. -Tumbleweed drifts past- Sure there's been rpfesque games that were more action based than rpg. But .. yeah nadda now  Doesn't sound good. Thankfully we are eating good right now for RPGs so it's not all bad. This is definitely a shame though I was looking forward to finally playing this game as I never played the original.  The best Star Wars game and an important game for WRPGs. It really paved the way for games like Mass Effect. One of my favourite games ever. I was excited to revisit it with next (current) gen features. A real shame if it doesn't see the light of day but it doesn't sound good.  @Kidfried At this point and with the Studio change I doubt Vampires will come out as a good RPG. And I was talking about AAA ones since MS bought out Obsidian, Besthda, Blizzard, inExile, exclusivity to Stalker 2 and so on  At least there’s still Star Wars Outlaws to look forward to.  Just give it to Bluepoint after they're done with whatever they're working on.  I alaways feel bit sad when I hear about coprations go out their way to erase games from the web just becuse they dont want to acknowlage existence the of a certain game. Does not seem fair to the devolpers who must alreday have spent quite some time devolping the game.  Nothing good comes from embracer. Should have left it with the devs that made the original.  I was really excited for this on announcement, but the more we heard about it the worse it seemed. Better to NOT do it at all than do a bad job, so i'm not surprised. Sony has a high quality bar and this wasn't it. Hopefully down the line the right team will get a another crack at it.  The saddest thing out of all this is KOTOR is available on all other current gen formats bar Playstation...albeit heard/read that the Switch version remains somewhat buggy.😕 A shame it wasn't handed to the likes of Bluepoint or even (what was at the time a third-party) Nightdive.  What a terrible mess.  It's for the best. The thing is if it was Sony call no way in hell they give star wars to embracer instead of using their own studios. This was a Disney call because the game wasn't more than a time exclusive, never was intended to. Sony was paying for a part of it, it didn't work, it sucks let's just stop wasting money and move on.  @MagisterMagi oh the old good gaas conversation, never fails right? But it's funny that one of those very terrible gaas investments is hoyoverse and it's not crazy to think that since genshin release it has made more money for Sony than all those wonderful wrpg developers have done for MS in the same amount of time ... oh yeah but it's about game quality and not money ... Well then I think it was a little too much to expect quality from an Embracer studio LOL  @GuttyYZ hi five for the bluepoint shout out! Great Dev!  @GymratAmarillo They haven't invested in Hoyoverse mate. And yeah, the Studios they bought/formed in the last years are mostly doing GaaS. They wasted over 2 Billion on Bungie  I predicted the moment it was announced Aspyr were developing it, this would be a disaster. I tried to warn people. Never understood why anyone was hyped, after that announcement. The ports they have done have been truly awful  It'll be a miracle if this is any good, given it's being passed from pillar to post. Why is it exclusive, as well? The original KOTOR was multiplatform, I believe?  Can they atleast put the originals on Playstation, they have literally everywhere else  Nuking like that just means that both Aspyr and Saber builds were unable to meet the minimum criteria for both Sony and Disney. How two devs could be this incompetent is beyond me.  @MattBoothDev it was only on Xbox and PC and then later ports for mobile and switch  Is "nuked" really the correct analogy? That implies a big detonation, whereas from the article it sounds like Sony is keeping this as hush as possible. It might be more apt to say "evaporated" or something else akin to a process that one does not notice happening.  Dang it. I was looking forward to playing it.  @MagisterMagi aren't there rumors of Naughty Dog working an rpg or Santa Monica making a scifi rpg? I'd take any of those than a KOTOR remake at this point.  @SoulsBourne128 No actual rumours with any substance. Naughty Dog one came from an Artstation of one of their Concept Artists who said it was just smth they draw in their free time. Santa Monica one comes from a Project they canceled years ago before GoW 2018  Sony should buy Embracer group they have tons of IP and studios and are obviously circling the drain so will be available 3 billion bargain compared to Activision  Sounds like the Sony deal for this game fell through given how many milestones embracer has failed by now. Sony likely got tired and pulled out.
Of course, we can also go with the optimistic take and say they are removing it cause an update is coming.
The game is not necessarily cancelled though. It's also possible that Sony's expectations for this game are behind all the drama and maybe people got tired of it cause embracer is not able to deliver a game the size Sony had hoped and it will never come out if those expectations aren't left behind. I get the feeling Sony wanted FF7 remake KOTOR and embracer was delivering a remaster.  I knew it was too good to be true  The project should be taken from Embracer entirely and restarted from scratch. They can't just give us hope and then kill us.  @StrickenBiged bit of a rubbish move , I'd prefer they just come out and say it didn't work out let's move on ,but this let's remove stuff and hope no one notices is rubbish  They got to get that game out.its a remake.i dont understand whats taking so long.if that was bluepoint games it would be there already.word up son  Well Jeff Grubb said he doubts it will ever come out.  @playstation1995 Sony doesn't own the IP, so it is not as straightforward as you said. This one is more of nostalgia I guess. I mean outside of the ones who have played before, this game isn't popular AFAIK. Embracer is dying, it is already expected when you hoard game IPs/studios and all of the developers without any project.  I am still baffled why this property was given to a Studio like Aspyr in the first place. Saber Interactive would be my first choice as a replacement either. With studios like BluePoint or even Sumo Digital out there this was a bad choice from the start.  @MattBoothDev If I read your comment before I played Dead Island 2 I’d agree with you, but that game turned out to be fantastic and that was passed between several developers. That gives me hope that this could still be good… if it ever comes out that is!  Probably for the best, sad as it is to say. I had no faith in any Embracer subsidiary being able to do justice to the original. Aspyr in particular was never going to make a AAA game of quality, that seemed obvious.  Again, this is symptomatic with the larger issue with acquisition happy companies. If one thing fails, it seeps down into all of the things they own. Embracer’s merger failing led to them pulling the plug on things that were struggling that they owned. There’s a world where Volition listened to feedback and made a great modern Saints Row. There’s a world where Embracer finally figured out what to do with KOTOR besides just cancelling it.  Would love to see Sony pick up some decent IPs from embracer, and maybe Warhorse studios, just incase they get f***ed over too. Let an established games publisher handle ips and decide which studios should work on them, not some weird conglomerate that's probably just a front for some people getting more ridiculously rich than required.  I'm not surprised by this at all. This game has seemed doom for quite awhile now. I think Embracer is a lot of the problem here. They bought too many studios too fast and are now crumbling. I fear for the future of many of their studios....I really hope MS does NOT buy them out.  @playstation1995 I kind of agree with that. If Sony wants this game to come out, they need to bring it in house. I doubt we'll ever hear about it again.  This is outrageous is unfair. I’m sure Sony got enough money to find a decent developer  Sony were publishing/paying for this title. It's a pretty big ip, they should just take it in house before what ever agreement with Disney expires .Let guerilla do it, outsource the service game  I guess the force awakened. I'm glad we have a new hope.  I’m glad to see there’s still hope. I never did play the original.  Complete change of subject but I watched Tipping Point earlier (uk gameshow) and one of the questions was something like " which console does the website Push Square specialise in?" You know you've made it when you get a question about yourselfs on Tipping Point 😁  On again and off again. Don't know if it's coming or going. "Oh I get it. Let's play with the old man's head is it? He's half senile, he'll forget I said anything. ...Wait what were we talkin' 'bout anyway?" -Jolee Bindo.  I can smell a total disaster all over this project.  Yikes, so if you take this and the Starfield timed deal away and throw in the delay or cancellation of the Last of us multiplayer game. that is a lot of holes in Sony’s lineup while they prepare Gaas and single player sequels.  I hope it sees the light of day, but not looking good  @HonestHick Yikes, are we still pretending Starfield is relevant? 🥱  Disappointing. Ah well i recently got the original in physical for xbox  I really hope this gets sorted, one of the few games announced that I'm proper excited for but I still think it's not gonna happen  @MrMagic “Yikes, are we still pretending Starfield is relevant? “ Heck if i know, i suppose so if a 83 meta score and 1 Billion dollars of revenue is to be believed. Than yes. I haven’t played it yet as i am grinding to have 2-3 level 100 diablo 4 characters. I will get to it at some point as i would like to play it and see what all the internet fuss about it is. My guess would be it’s in the middle of Xbox players hyping it more than it deserves and PS players calling it trash cause they can’t play it as they aren’t used to having toys taken away from them.  @MrMagic Why wouldn’t we? It’s a very good game and a huge exclusive.  @MoorePs5 GUTTED that I missed that!  @HonestHick I doubt it's reached a billion revenue, at £60 per copy it would need to sell 18 million copies to reach that revenue milestone. Also for comparison sake Final Fantasy 16 has an 87 on metacritic yet xbox fans bash that game, yet scored higher than starfield.  Such a shame, it was on the list of mine.  Just look at System Shock, we never thought that would come out. There still hope. Just need it to come to PS5  @UltimateOtaku91 hasn’t reached that yet. That is the projected numbers from Bethesda. Not that i care, just saying if the game does that and has a good meta score i would assume it’s a revelant game to the question that was asked to me. I haven’t even played it yet nor FF16 and i want to play them both at some point. Fan’s bash games all the time, i find it silly, however FF16 took more backlash from its core fan’s than Xbox trolls.  @MrMagic We are because it is a fantastic game, at least for me it is. Have you played it?  @MagisterMagi How much revenue do you think they make of microtransactions with PS think about it. And I don't know did Bungie make them lose money? Probably made a lot of money with the core group of players.  Never have I read a more hyperbolic headline! Lol Calm down man! Why so sinister?  I loved star wars as a kid growing up (i saw the first movie in the cinema at the ripe old age of 6 when it first showed) but i did not really enjoy the next 3 movies (revenge of the sith was good.) I really enjoyed star wars rogue one but i hated,absolutley hated the next ones. Disney have ruined all i held dear and they have not stopped at star wars. The daredevil series looks as though its being made woke/child friendly and they have pretty much ruined the marvel franchise. Any hopes for bernthal returning as the punisher look increasingly slim so my only hope was maybe this game would have reignited a love for star wars again but it looks as though embracer and whatever other dark forces have amassed on the horizon have snuffed that out. Oh well at least i can take solace in the fact that europes smashing the americans a new hole in the ryder cup..Embracer cant balls that up for me 👍  @Indefinable don’t aren’t bright? 🙄  Ahh yes, I can see how a Star Wars game would lose the licence to its own music and long before it comes out too  Kotor is a kind of game that would be extremely hard to make a remake for even if everything went well. But what we see is things getting worse worse.They should develop and release it like FFVII Remake – in three parts. Just release Taris and Dantooine for the first part, and than see where it goes from there.  Disney are a garbage company and regardless of what they psychotically acquire, I won’t ever support them. I hope they implode.  Show Comments Leave A Comment Hold on there, you need to login to post a comment...  Hands On: Black Myth: Wukong Is Brilliant, But We Have PS5 Concerns Monkeying around  15 PS Plus Extra, Premium Games Announced for August 2024 Time to split  Judge for Yourself with Official PS5 Black Myth: Wukong Gameplay PS5 version is no myth  Site News: Where's Our Black Myth: Wukong PS5 Review? Monkey business  Never Has a Game Looked So Good Yet So Jank as PS5's Neo Berlin 2087 Cyberdunk 2087 Game Profile Title: Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Remake System: PlayStation 5 Publisher: Sony Interactive Entertainment Developer: Saber Interactive, Aspyr Media Genre: RPG Players: 1 Release Date: PlayStation 5 Series: Star Wars Where to buy: Pre Order on Amazon 
  19 News KOTOR Remake is 'Alive and Well', Insists Saber Interactive CEO  18 News Disney Says There's 'Still a Lot of Demand' for Knights of the Old Republic Remake  29 News Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic PS5 Remake Reportedly Not Dead, Actually  64 News Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Remake Reportedly Deader than Alderaan Popular Right Now Show More  Join 427,498 people following Push Square: © 2024 Hookshot Media, partner of IGN Entertainment. Hosted by 44 Bytes.