Rosanna, Dan, and Tashanae cook with Tyrese, as a flirty tension simmers beneath the surface. MTA and NYC officials are urging fans of the U.S. Open to take mass transit as traffic is expected in Queens. The Indian American Muslim Council and other groups are calling on parade organizers to remove a float that features the Ram Mandir, saying that the temple symbolizes the destruction of mosques and violence against Muslims in India. The parade is considered to be the largest outside of India drawing hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers with Indian and South Asian origin. Bonjour New York City! A French bistro pop-up is opening for two days only in the West Village, inspired by the Netflix series Emily in Paris. NYC Comptroller says he's running for mayor but he's staying true to his St. Louis Cardinals. Experience a tropical escape in the big city. Gitano is nestled on Governors Island – just a five minute ferry ride from lower Manhattan! James Gardner is the mastermind behind the Tulum-inspired beach club and restaurant. With a beautiful beach lounge, overlooking the city skyline, and décor and wood imported from Tulum… you’ll be immersed in a jungle of tropical plants. There’s a variety of vibrant cocktails with a delicious modern Mexican menu. Billy Joel says goodbye to his Madison Square Garden residency after a historic run. FOX 5's Briella Tomassetti has the latest from the piano man. Deadpool and Wolverine opens in theaters today in New York City, and Friday across the U.S. Good Day’s Ryan Kristafer chats one-on-one with stars Ryan Reynolds, Hugh Jackman and Director, Shawn Levy about how their friendship has evolved after making Deadpool and Wolverine, what Reynolds learned from Jackman when they first worked together on-set in 2008, what it was like seeing Hugh Jackman donning the yellow and blue Wolverine suit for the first time since Jackman originated the role 24 years ago, and how the actors prepared physically and mentally for the film. Rock & Roll Hall of Famer Darlene Love, also known as 'The Queen of Christmas' gets a special call from the 'Goddess of Pop' Cher for her 83rd birthday. Entrepreneur and best-selling author Gary Vaynerchuk has a new book called “Meet Me in the Middle: A VeeFriends Book.” The book encourages young readers to see how different the world looks from another point of view with its unique two-in-one flip-book format. He joined Good Day New York to discuss. We are in a pickle this morning on Good Day New York! The sandwiches are from Seven Brothers Gourmet Food Market in Oceanside on Long Island. Anthony and Joseph Fiorito joined GDNY to explain. Dulce de Leche Bakery, one of the most well-respected Argentinian-American bakeries in the country, was entrusted with a special order for a national treasure. Good Day Wake Up anchor Dan Bowens has the story. You might know Guy Pearce from films like Memento, L.A. Confidential, or Priscilla Queen of the Desert. But now the Australian actor is playing a preacher caught in the middle of a Māori tribal war in the 1830s. Good Day’s Ryan Kristafer chats with Pearce, who shares his experience filming in New Zealand. Pearce also reflects on ‘Priscilla’ – 30 years after the movie was released, creating a positive portrayal of the LGBTQ+ community on the big screen. Women are detoxing themselves of the opposite sex saying that it's time to focus on themselves. "Oh, Mary!" is coming to Broadway. The new play had two off-Broadway runs and its opening night is tonight! The hilariously dark comedy sold out six preview shows last week. It stars the show's creator, Cole Escola as 'Mary Todd Lincoln' in the final weeks of her husband President Lincoln's life, but it's anything but a historically set piece. Escola says they didn't research their character at all. Get ready NYC -- "Balloon Story" is taking flight, finally opening as a limited two-month pop-up in the Park Avenue Armory building. FOX 5 NY's Christal Young has the story. Getting a taste of Moroccan cuisine on Good Day New York. Chef Aneesa Waheed from Tara Kitchen in Tribeca is making one of the restaurant's more popular dishes: 1,000 hole pancakes.  This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX Television Stations