 Standard auto insurance is the auto insurance offered to average-risk drivers. With only a few blemishes on their driving, insurance, or credit histories, drivers usually qualify for standard auto insurance coverage.
    Although drivers are required in most states to carry auto insurance, auto insurance companies are not required to cover you as a driver. Accurately estimating the risk in underwriting a new policy is crucial for an insurer, as it can make or break the company's profitability.
  If the company prices the insurance policy correctly while understanding the claim risk, the company may be profitable. The insurance premiums paid by drivers will exceed the benefits paid.
  But if the insurer does not recognize the risks, the company can lose money. The insurance company may wind up paying out more benefits than it receives in premiums.
  Insurance companies pay close attention to individuals and businesses when determining whether to underwrite a new policy. Insurance companies review various aspects of your driving history and auto before offering coverage to you with a standard auto insurance policy. These include:
  The company then compares these driver characteristics with actuarial information. The insurer can determine the likelihood of you getting into an accident or filing a claim. Based on the information above, insurers may break different applicants into the following rating groups:
 New Hampshire does not require motorists to buy insurance, though they must be able to demonstrate they have the financial resources to pay an injured party in the event of an accident. In Virginia, uninsured motorists must pay $500 to the DMV and drive at their own risk.  Standard auto insurance takes into account a driver’s characteristics. Actuarial information compiled from similar drivers’ records determines the premium charged.
  While a standard automobile insurance policy's qualifications may vary, requirements often include:
  If you don't qualify for standard auto insurance now, you may in the future as time passes since your last auto accident or claim, if you buy a safer car, or add more years to your insurance history.
  Most auto insurance is standard, but around 40% of new policies are non-standard. Small specialty providers and larger companies offer these policies. They may cover drivers with a claims record with many accidents, serious traffic violations, or a history of unpaid premiums. For example, you may only be able to get an SR-22 with a non-standard car insurance policy, not a standard auto insurance policy.
  Non-standard auto policies can also cover unusual driving histories (a newly arrived immigrant to the U.S. without a driving, credit, or insurance history) or unusual vehicles (high-performance, limited edition sports car) that don't conform to typical risk expectations.
  Non-standard auto insurance premiums are usually higher than standard auto insurance premiums. But a non-standard plan is likely your best bet if you don't qualify for standard auto insurance. Your other option is your state's assigned risk plan.
 Drivers who do not qualify for standard auto insurance at a major carrier may be eligible for a non-standard insurance policy. These special policies are aimed at drivers with low credit, poor driving records, or who are otherwise considered too high-risk for a standard auto insurance policy. Non-standard policies tend to have much higher premiums and deductibles than standard policies. As such, they should only be considered as a last resort for drivers who are otherwise unable to obtain coverage Non-standard auto insurance companies primarily offer coverage to drivers who don't qualify for standard auto insurance policies. Several insurers specialize in this market, but some major insurers also offer non-standard policies and standard insurance. To compensate for the extra risk, the insurance company will likely charge a driver higher premiums for coverage. The most common type of car insurance coverage in the United States is liability coverage. This is because almost every state requires liability insurance to drive a car. Other policies, such as collision, are optional.  Standard auto insurance provides affordable, consistent coverage for drivers with an average risk profile. Maintaining a strong history of insurance coverage, safe driving, and good credit can help you qualify for standard auto insurance. If you don't qualify for standard auto insurance, you'll need to shop around for non-standard plans or for an assigned risk plan.
 Insurance Information Institute. “Automobile Financial Responsibility Laws by State.” Insurance Information Institute. "What If I Can't Find Auto Coverage?" Kansas Insurance Department. "Auto Insurance Shopper's Guide." Page 7. New Hampshire Insurance Department. “2022 Automobile Insurance Consumer Frequently Asked Questions,” Page 5. Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles. “Insurance Requirements.” Verisk. "Do You Have the Right Tools to Assess the Nonstandard Auto Market?"