Olivia Fierro, co-anchor of “Good Morning Arizona” on Arizona’s Family, is leaving the stations. Fierro also hosts “Olivia’s Book Club.” Fierro announced her departure on social media, saying her last show will be Thursday, June 29. “When I decided to trust what my gut was telling me — that it was the right time to take a leap and explore new professional pursuits, I felt excited, grateful, sentimental, hopeful, even a little giddy,” she says in the post. “That was months ago, pages and pages away on the calendar. It didn't feel real. But, life moves fast, and now this is real. My last day in TV news is NEXT THURSDAY! That adds a lot of feelings to the mix (Hello self-doubt! Is that you again, fear of change?!)” Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Crime inspired Tammy Leitner's book:Surviving trauma became its message Arizona's Family veteran reporter Tess Rafols will take over for Fierro. Arizona’s Family is made up of Channels 3 and 5 in Phoenix, both owned by Atlanta-based Gray Television. Fierro came to Channel 3 in 2003 as a news reporter, after working in Amarillo, Texas. She left for Las Vegas in 2009. She returned to Arizona’s Family in 2015. Fierro didn’t specify where she is going in her social media posts, but she did look ahead — for the short term. “Looking forward to enjoying these days with the greatest local team ever!” she says in the post. “Please be patient with me as I think I'll likely share way too many pics and sappy memories between now and Thursday at 10 a.m. Mina Kimes on growing up in Gilbert:'Awkward as hell' “Please share any moments you've had when you left your comfort zone — and you're glad you did!” She referred requests for comment to her social media statement. On Monday's "Good Morning Arizona" she said it was time to "explore many new business and creative opportunities that are currently of interest to me." Reach Goodykoontz at bill.goodykoontz@arizonarepublic.com. Facebook: facebook.com/GoodyOnFilm. Twitter: @goodyk. Subscribe to azcentral.com today. What are you waiting for?