A photo of a staggeringly cheap Coles haul has gone viral, as the savvy shopper behind it reveals how she nabbed savings of almost 99 per cent. Don't miss out on the headlines from Lifestyle. Followed categories will be added to My News. A photo of a staggeringly cheap Coles haul has gone viral, as the savvy shopper behind it reveals how she nabbed savings of almost 99 per cent despite soaring food costs.    The photo, which was shared to the Mums on a Budget - Australia Facebook page, showed a surprising deal at the supermarket’s Inglewood branch in Perth. It revealed that almost two dozen pre-packaged Coles Kitchen salad bowls had been discounted by 98.5 per cent. The salads were priced at just 10c each — down from their usual price of $6.50 — and each had two “quick sale” stickers slapped on top, indicating they had been discounted twice. Want to join the family? Sign up to our Kidspot newsletter for more stories like this. Quick sale stickers are typically applied to perishable products that have to be sold quickly as they are close to reaching their expiry dates. Included in the incredible deal was the Coles Kitchen Asian Chicken Salad Bowl, Coles Kitchen Sweet Potato Superfood Salad Bowl and the Coles Kitchen Classics Mixed Leaf Garden Salad, all of which are 180g. “I guess we’re having salad for dinner,” the mum who shared the picture joked, garnering more than 400 likes. She added that she only bought two of the salad bowls and left the rest for other shoppers to pick up. For more stories like this, visit: news.com.au The impressive deal comes as millions of Aussies struggle against soaring food costs. Food and grocery prices at Coles and its biggest competitor, Woolworths, surged by a whopping 9.6 per cent in April, according to a report by investment bank UBS. Coles disputed the figure, saying they used a different model to calculate inflation, but a recently revealed set of receipts show just how much more Aussies are paying for food. One news.com.au reporter recently shared a grocery haul in which she bought butter, bread, milk, cheese slices and a jar of Vegemite — and paid a staggering $31.20. A decades-old receipt from 1992, meanwhile, resurfaced after a social media user found it hiding inside an old book. The receipt came to a total of $17.50 for close to three kilograms of white onions, potato chips and two packages of sausages. The cost was even rounded down by two cents and there was no GST added to the bill. The savvy shopper who shared the deal on salads often highlights price-slashing deals in the Facebook group. She recently shared a stunning purchase of a $23 glass mixing bowl from Woolies, which she picked up for just $1.50. The mum said she had been “eyeing” the bowl for a while but was patiently waiting for it to be discounted to half-price ($11.50). She then used $10 worth of Woolworths rewards, bringing the out-of-pocket price of the bowl down to just $1.50. Originally published as 'Almost 99% off!' Photo of staggeringly cheap Coles shop goes viral A new trend involving the popular green vegetable has been sweeping social media – but one Gold Coast woman warns it can go horribly wrong. "On one side, I'm mortified because it's so entitled. But on the other, it's kind of genius?" Our Apps