Explore Architectural Digest across the globe Select international site 

By                        
                        Alex Hawkins            



          Updated July 24, 2024
 Join the 4,617 people who have received a free, no-obligation quote in the last 30 days Enter details in under 3 minutes Join the 4,617 people who have received a free, no-obligation quote in the last 30 days All products and services featured are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. If you’re replacing your home’s windows, it’s easiest to select standard sizes. Standard windows are built to fit common window openings and are more cost-effective than custom options. You can also find new construction windows in standard dimensions if you’re building a new home, making window replacement easier when the time eventually comes. The best window brands offer standard sizes for various window styles to fit your home’s aesthetic. Below, we’ve provided essential information about standard window sizes to help you choose the right options.     The size of window you need depends on which type of window you’re installing and the dimensions of the opening. You can read our guide on how to measure windows to determine the right sizes. A professional installer can also help you measure your window dimensions. Window replacement companies use common size notations to make ordering easy. A window’s size notation is its width and height combined. The first two measurements are for the window’s width, and the second two are for the window’s height. For example, a 2426 window is two-foot-four-inches wide and two-foot-six-inches tall. The actual measurements of the window are usually half an inch less than the whole number identifier.  Below are the common types of windows you can find in standard sizes. Awning windows are hinged at the top and open out and upward. These windows are great for bathrooms and hard-to-reach areas of kitchens, such as above countertops, cabinets, or sinks. They come in the following standard sizes: Casement windows are hinged on one side and open to the left or right, similar to a door. These windows are great for ventilation, so you can place them in kitchens or bathrooms for functionality and natural light. Casement windows commonly start at 17 inches wide and range up to 41 inches. Common heights range from 16 inches up to 33 inches. Double-hung windows are one of the most common window types. They have two sashes, both of which can move up or down to open. These windows fit every home style and are best for common areas, bedrooms, or any room that can benefit from windows that can open.  Double-hung windows are always taller than they are wide. Their widths range from 24 inches to 48 inches. Their heights range from 36 inches to 72 inches. Picture windows, also called fixed windows, remain in place and have no sash or hardware for opening. You should place picture windows where you won’t need to open the window for fresh air. These windows are best for living rooms and areas where you want to maximize natural light and showcase your view. Picture windows can be as narrow as 24 inches or as wide as 96 inches. Their heights range from 12 inches to 96 inches. Single-hung windows function the same as double-hung windows, but they have one movable sash and one fixed sash, meaning they only open from one side. You can find single-hung windows in the same standard sizes as double-hung.  Sliding windows slide open horizontally rather than vertically. They work for various home styles and rooms, including living rooms, bedrooms, bathrooms, kitchens, dining areas, and basements. Sliding windows are wider than they are tall. These windows range from 36 inches to 84 inches wide and 24 inches to 60 inches tall. Your home may have openings for unique windows that don’t adhere to standard sizing. For these windows, you’ll need to give your window measurements to a window installer and work with a window specialist from the company to choose a frame material and glass. Measurements for custom windows vary too greatly to break down, mainly because many different types of windows can be custom. Some are shaped windows in circular or arched designs. Other options require multiple windows to make one statement piece, such as bay windows or bow windows.     Your home most likely has windows in the standard sizes outlined in this guide. However, knowing how to read window measurements and which standard sizes are available are just simple steps in the window installation process.  We recommend hiring a professional window installation company to ensure you choose the best window for your home’s style and functionality and receive the correct sizes. We especially recommend a professional if you need custom window sizes. Keep in mind that new homes require different windows than older homes.  We encourage you to get quotes from at least three window installation companies to compare offerings and pricing. Use our tool below to begin requesting quotes from reputable installers near you.     The most common window size in the U.S. varies by window type. The most common window type in the U.S. are double-hung windows, which are typically between 24 and 48 inches wide and 36 and 72 inches tall. Yes, vinyl windows are a good choice for homeowners looking for low-cost and low-maintenance replacement windows. Though vinyl isn’t as customizable as other window materials, it’s sturdy and provides energy savings. Most bedrooms have standard double or single-hung windows that are 24 inches wide by 36 inches tall. You can choose any size window for your bedroom, but at least one must meet egress codes and be a minimum of 20 inches wide and 24 inches tall. ©️  Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights. Architectural Digest may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices 
Cookies Settings
 Advertiser Disclosure Our editorial team is committed to creating independent and objective content focused on helping our readers make informed decisions. To help support these efforts we receive compensation from companies that advertise with us. The compensation we receive from these companies may impact how and where products appear on this site. This compensation does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides within our content. We do not include all companies, products or offers that may be available.