The Clean Fuel Standard will curb carbon pollution from transportation, the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in Washington, by reducing these emissions from the production and supply of transportation fuels. It will provide an increasing range of low-carbon and renewable alternatives that reduce dependency on petroleum and improve air quality. By requiring fuel suppliers to reduce the carbon intensity of transportation fuels, the Clean Fuel Standard will cut statewide greenhouse gas emissions by 4.3 million metric tons a year by 2038, and will stimulate economic development in low carbon fuel production.      2019 Greenhouse Gas Emissions in Washington California, Oregon, and British Columbia have adopted their own clean fuel standards. In Washington, the Clean Fuel Standard works beside the Climate Commitment Act to target the largest source of emissions in Washington. The Clean Fuel Standard law requires fuel suppliers to gradually reduce the carbon intensity of transportation fuels to 20% below 2017 levels by 2034. There are several ways for fuel suppliers to achieve these reductions, including: The Clean Fuel Standard is a market-based policy designed to provide incentives for low carbon fuels. Program implementation is paid for by an annual participation fee. Under the Clean Fuel Standard, fuels will be assessed to determine their carbon intensity. Cleaner fuels – those with a carbon intensity below the standard – will generate credits that can be kept or sold to producers of high-carbon fuels. Fuels with a carbon intensity above the standard will generate deficits. Those producers must then buy enough credits to meet the carbon-intensity reduction for that year. The requirement to reduce carbon intensity increases over time, making more low-carbon transportation fuel available in Washington. Reducing carbon intensity means fewer greenhouse gas emissions entering the atmosphere over time which helps to address impacts of climate change.                                                     Carbon intensity reduction When did the Clean Fuel Standard take effect?
The Clean Fuel Standard was implemented on Jan. 1, 2023.
When was the final Clean Fuels Program Rule adopted?
We adopted the Clean Fuels Program Rule (Chapter 173-424 WAC) on Nov. 28, 2022.
Who needs to register for the program?
Producers and suppliers of regulated fuels to Washington consumers must participate and register in the Washington Fuel Reporting System. Regulated fuels are listed in WAC 173-424-120(2).
Producers of low-carbon fuels may participate. They also need to register. Opt-in fuels are listed in WAC 173-424-120(3).
How and when do I register for the program?
Registration for the program in the Washington Fuel Reporting System (WFRS) started Jan. 1, 2023.
Is there a program fee?
All program participants are charged a fee to support implementation of the Clean Fuel Standard. All registered parties pay a flat participation fee, and deficit generators pay an additional tiered fee based on the number of deficits they generate. Fee categories are listed in WAC 173-455-15).
We publish the estimated program annual budget and the proposed fee on Feb. 1 of each year. The budget includes what the fee covers. The final fee amount will be released in March of each year.
Is my fuel eligible to generate credits?
A fuel may generate credits if the carbon intensity of the fuel is lower than the carbon intensity standard for a specific year. Tables of yearly carbon intensity standards by fuel type are listed in WAC 173-424-900.
 When did the Clean Fuel Standard take effect?
The Clean Fuel Standard was implemented on Jan. 1, 2023. When was the final Clean Fuels Program Rule adopted?
We adopted the Clean Fuels Program Rule (Chapter 173-424 WAC) on Nov. 28, 2022. Who needs to register for the program?
Producers and suppliers of regulated fuels to Washington consumers must participate and register in the Washington Fuel Reporting System. Regulated fuels are listed in WAC 173-424-120(2). Producers of low-carbon fuels may participate. They also need to register. Opt-in fuels are listed in WAC 173-424-120(3). How and when do I register for the program?
Registration for the program in the Washington Fuel Reporting System (WFRS) started Jan. 1, 2023. Is there a program fee?
All program participants are charged a fee to support implementation of the Clean Fuel Standard. All registered parties pay a flat participation fee, and deficit generators pay an additional tiered fee based on the number of deficits they generate. Fee categories are listed in WAC 173-455-15). We publish the estimated program annual budget and the proposed fee on Feb. 1 of each year. The budget includes what the fee covers. The final fee amount will be released in March of each year. Is my fuel eligible to generate credits?
A fuel may generate credits if the carbon intensity of the fuel is lower than the carbon intensity standard for a specific year. Tables of yearly carbon intensity standards by fuel type are listed in WAC 173-424-900.   The advisory panel is a working group that offers ideas about how to provide incentives and allocate credits to sequester greenhouse gases related to the Clean Fuel Standard through activities on agricultural and forest lands in Washington. The advisory panel is made up of representatives from business and industries related to forestry and agriculture, environmental and environmental justice groups, local government, and the public.  Find out more about the advisory panel. Technical contact:
Abbey Brown 
Clean Fuel Standard Technical Lead
cfs@ecy.wa.gov
360-819-0158 Media contact:
Caroline Halter
Communications Manager
Caroline.Halter@ecy.wa.gov
564-669-8947