Clay is a useful resource for crafting several items in Disney Dreamlight Valley 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Disney Dreamlight Valley Clay can be dug up in a few biomes and is necessary for completing several quests and crafting various items. It’s a very easy resource to get as you just need the shovel and the Glade of Trust unlocked in Disney Dreamlight Valley, although you can find Clay in other biomes. Once you've got chunks of the stuff, use it to craft flowerpots and bricks, and help Goofy in the Mysterious Wreck quest. Here’s exactly how you can get yourself some Disney Dreamlight Valley Clay and what it can be used for. 

  You can dig up Clay in Disney Dreamlight Valley in the Glade of Trust, Sunlit Plateau, and the Forgotten Lands. Just grab your Shovel and start digging up the ground to uncover various items. Clay doesn’t have an especially high drop rate, so you’ll likely be collecting Disney Dreamlight Valley Star Coins and Soil mostly - if you're looking for Disney Dreamlight Valley Rich Soil, you'll need to look elsewhere. Although, when Clay does drop, it at least comes in clusters of two or three meaning you might quickly rack it up even just by spending a few minutes digging around. Use the same technique in the Frozen Heights area to find Disney Dreamlight Valley snowballs instead!   Find the Disney Dreamlight Valley Falling Water and Ice Heart enchantment ingredients You’re probably looking for Clay in Disney Dreamlight Valley to complete Goofy’s ‘Mysterious Wreck’ quest, which sees Goofy tasking you with gathering up a bunch of resources, including 25 Clay, to repair a destroyed raft that has washed up on Dazzle Beach. However, Clay has lots of other uses in crafting recipes for furniture and is the main ingredient in making Bricks, which are needed for particular items. Here’s a list of everything you can craft using Clay: Weekly digests, tales from the communities you love, and more Will Sawyer is a guides writer at GamesRadar+ who works with the rest of the guides team to give readers great information and advice on the best items, how to complete a particular challenge, or where to go in some of the biggest video games. Will joined the GameRadar+ team in August 2021 and has written about service titles, including Fortnite, Destiny 2, and Warzone, as well as some of the biggest releases like Halo Infinite, Elden Ring, and God of War Ragnarok. The Wholesome Games Celebration comes to Steam, putting some of my favorite relaxing Animal Crossing and Stardew Valley-likes on sale The most realistic-looking Sims 4 competitor I've ever seen is bringing its character creator to Steam, and I still can't believe it comes from the PUBG studio Activision shut down viral Call of Duty mod because it "did not want H2M interfering with possible sales of Black Ops 6," says creator GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 