The Standard Bangkok, in Ole Scheeren’s Mahanakhon tower, and The Standard Hua Hin, designed by Onion, bring the global hospitality brand to Thailand 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Two new offerings in Thailand, The Standard Bangkok and The Standard Hua Hin, have just celebrated their official opening as the newest additions to the global hospitality brand’s growing portfolio. Since its inception in 1999, The Standard has garnered international recognition as a pioneer in its sector. From its New York sites to its Maldives property, the hotel chain is known for curating world-class cultural experiences – and is now also putting its stylish stamp on the popular Asian destination.   The Standard Bangkok sits in the Mahanakhon tower The Standard Bangkok is located in the monumental King Power Mahanakhon tower, designed by German architect Ole Scheeren, and is the brand's new flagship Asian getaway. Through the hotel's 155 rooms, designed by Jaime Hayon, and generous full-height windows, visitors can experience breathtaking views across the city among vibrant, characterful interiors. ‘The aim was to create something fresh and well-designed that has a beautiful colour palette,’ says the Spanish artist.  The Standard Bangkok Entering the building, in a spacious lobby, elegant, handcrafted rattan light fittings delicately hang from above. ‘We spent months in Thailand working with local manufacturers,’ says Hayon. This level includes a shop stocking collaborations with local designers, while an artwork featuring a couple in a warm embrace is embedded in the floor.  The Standard Bangkok Venture up the building via a psychedelic lift, to the flexible fourth-floor, and the Parlor is the hotel's main social hub. Here, guests can complete their check-in, attend events, or simply sit and listen to live music. Boasting organic arches, playful colours, and rounded edges, everything feels bespoke, from the door handles to the locally made furniture. The same approach continues throughout, juxtaposing the sharp geometries of the existing building with curves and softer forms.  The Standard Bangkok A terrace pool, fitness centre, spa, and two restaurants, Mott 32 and The Standard Grill, can be found on the floors beyond. Reminiscent of a Wes Anderson film, ‘the building can be likened to a movie. Each space is a different scene. Each room evokes a different emotion,’ says Hayon. Perched on the 76th floor is Ojo, The Standard Bangkok’s spectacular Mexican-themed restaurant that serves up delectable Guadalajara-inspired cuisine. While at the apex of the 78-level building, a stellar viewpoint titled Sky Beach offers striking vistas of Bangkok.  The Standard Bangkok A departure from its bustling Bangkok counterpart, The Standard’s second Thai outpost is a blissful beach hideaway that overlooks the gulf of Thailand in Hua Hin – a short two-and-a-half hour trip from the capital. Designed by Bangkok-based architecture practice Onion, the cosy complex is made up of a series of organic volumes nestled in a rich green oasis. Bringing youthful energy to the local hotel scene, it blends brutalist elements, such as exposed aggregate, and white-washed wood, rattan and bamboo. 'These materials were carefully curated throughout the project to create a boho-chic vibe,’ says chief design officer at Standard International, Verena Haller.  The Standard Hua Hin A nod to The Standard Miami, with its quirky elements and midcentury aesthetic, the hotel features 199 guest rooms made up of suites and villas. Each space feels tranquil with its earthy tones, soft colour palette, and generous ceiling heights. Boasting an impressive spa with a variety of treatments to leave you fully refreshed, a humble-sized gym, and a vibrant pool, there are many opportunities here to relax the body and mind. ‘Our goal was to create a restful and restorative waterfront destination that simultaneously calms and stimulates the senses through innovative design,’ says Haller.  Receive our daily digest of inspiration, escapism and design stories from around the world direct to your inbox.  The Standard Hua Hin The hotel includes an all-day dining location called the Lido, a Juice Café, and an authentic Thai food spot called Praça. ‘The Standard Hua Hin is a one-of-a-kind resort with best-in-class design, culinary, cultural programming, and service,’ says Haller. Located near the fishing town's centre, guests can easily visit local seafood restaurants, street stalls, and late-night markets – mixing global and local in true Standard style, which the brand plans to soon expand further afield, as more new resorts, in Lisbon, Milan and Singapore, are currently in the pipeline.    The Standard Hua Hin  The Standard Bangkok  The Standard Bangkok standardhotels.com  hayonstudio.com  onion.co.th  Shawn Adams is an architect, writer, and lecturer who currently teaches at Central St Martins, UAL and the Architectural Association. Shawn trained as an architect at The Royal College of Art, Architectural Association and University of Portsmouth. He is also the co-founder of the socially-minded design practice Power Out of Restriction. In 2023, POoR won the London Design Festival’s Emerging Design Medal. Shawn writes for numerous international magazines about global architecture and design and aims to platform the voices of those living across the Caribbean, Asia, and Africa. 
Boghossian's new Palace Voyages collection is inspired by royal architecture
 
By Hannah Silver

Published 18 August 24

 
'Tropicality' is a key theme in a new book on Indonesian architect Andra Matin, whose work blends landscape, architecture and living
 
By Harriet Thorpe

Published 18 August 24

 
X Muse, Scotland's home-grown young vodka brand, is taking the art world by storm; a perfect partner then for the Edinburgh Art Festival's 20th anniversary.
 
By Hugo Macdonald

Published 18 August 24

 
A piece of Phuket paradise is now available for purchase, in the form of Crescent Bay Beachfront Villas by Duangrit Bunnag
 
By Simon Mills

Published 30 May 24

 
Modernist architecture has had a tremendous influence on today’s built environment, making these midcentury marvels some of the most closely studied 20th-century buildings; here, we explore the genre by continent
 
By Ellie Stathaki

Published 30 April 24

 
These examples of minimalist architecture place life in the foreground – clutter is demoted; joy promoted
 
By Ellie Stathaki

Published 16 October 23

 
Back of the House by Bangkok Project Studio is founder Boonserm Premthada’s Thai home; take a tour inside its bespoke brick walls to find out about its ‘50% design’ approach
 
By Ellie Stathaki

Published 25 September 23

 
For some of the world's finest brutalist architecture in London and beyond, scroll below. Can’t get enough of brutalism? Neither can we.
 
By Jonathan Bell

Last updated 13 August 24

 
New book ‘The Iconic British House’ by Dominic Bradbury explores the country’s best residential examples since 1900
 
By Ellie Stathaki

Published 24 August 23

 
We talk to Loyle Carner and The Unlimited Dreams Company (UDC) about the musical artist’s stage set design for Reading Festival 2023
 
By Teshome Douglas-Campbell

Published 23 August 23

 
The Leaf in Winnipeg, Canada, is the first interactive horticultural attraction of its kind: a garden and greenhouse complex promoting a better understanding of how people can connect with plants
 
By Adrian Madlener

Published 22 August 23

 Wallpaper* is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 