We’re sorry, this feature is currently unavailable. We’re working to restore it. Please try again later. This was published 1 year ago Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time. Les Blakebrough, who for nearly 70 years was at the forefront of a growing sophistication in Australian ceramics, has died after a stroke, aged 92. His eye, always alight with inquiry, overcame dyslexia and colour-blindness to see masterful works emerge from his kilns in NSW and Tasmania for decades. Blakebrough helped mould ceramics nationally, leading in his art’s techniques, its teaching and bureaucracy. Through constantly developing his work, Blakebrough came to symbolise a haiku that he once saw a Japanese master inscribe on a ceramic tile: “the man who stokes the fire becomes the flame itself”. Les Blakebrough helped mould a growing sophistication in Australian ceramics.Credit: Sophie Underwood Gordon Leslie Blakebrough was born at Tolworth Rise, South London, of parents who, he said in his memoir, were “mere phantoms in a small boy’s life”. By the age of nine they were divorced and he was sent to a convent school at Southampton, where art was his only interest. “Eventually I learned to read, but spelling has always stumped me,” he said. He failed a medical for the Royal Navy, diagnosed as colour blind. Nevertheless, his first job was to paint backdrops for stage productions at a studio near Charing Cross Road, where he could consistently mix 25 colours. He learned precision in hand work at a stonemason’s yard, cutting letters into marble headstones. Then he left post-war Britain as a Merchant Navy cabin boy. On his third voyage Les jumped ship in Bowen, Queensland. He never regretted it. “A remarkable aspect of the life I’ve lived in Australia is the amazing opportunity it has given me. Had I stayed in England a similar course would have been impossible.” Blakebrough with a Kelp Bowl. The greatest expression of his art came after his creation of Southern Ice Porcelain Clay.Credit: Sophie Underwood After five years of soaking up Australia, he decided to get serious with art, and enrolled at East Sydney Technical College. He worked odd jobs to fund his studies, and mixed enthusiastically with other artists. In love with painting, it dawned on him that it did not make him a painter. Instead he saw the possibilities of clay, a three-dimensional medium where he could use his hands as well as his mind. In the late 1950s, the Sturt Pottery at Mittagong under Ivan McMeekin was emerging as a national force; a place where local clay was being used to develop standardised utilitarian stoneware with a solid Australian style. Blakebrough impressed McMeekin enough to earn an apprenticeship at Sturt, and in its founder, Winifred West, he had a guardian. When McMeekin left, West offered Blakebrough the job. Taking control of the pottery and its kiln, Blakebrough retained West’s trust enough to shut it down for a year, go to Japan to study, and bring back his new knowledge. In Kyoto he learned from ceramicists with centuries of tradition. At a time when Japan’s culture was being discovered, and Kyoto was electric, he mixed with Beat poets Gary Snyder and Allen Ginsberg, who were then investigating Zen Buddhism. Blakebrough absorbed Japanese traditional influences in his own techniques and kiln management, but as much as anything, the cultural influence was philosophical. “It meant concentrating on one’s practice and attending to detail, to the extent that nothing should be too much trouble in the making of the work,” he said. In Jonathan Holmes monograph: Les Blakebrough: Ceramics, the Adelaide master Jeff Mincham, said: “Les has a fundamental belief in the virtue of the material, that clay has its own special nature that can only be received, understood and mastered by collecting and preparing it.” Blakebrough’s muse was Australia: its materials, high sky, and bright colours. His career matured. He was using Australian clay to mix the refinement of Japanese pot-making with the symbols of nature in his chosen country: a waratah flower or eucalyptus leaf. Blakebrough in the studio refining a pot’s base.Credit: Anne Ferran “What was special about Les was the contribution of his own work, beside the teaching he gave over his lifetime,” said Kate Jones, president of the Australian Ceramics Association. “He was at the forefront of very refined porcelain-making. It involved very careful, complex technique, combined with Australian motifs. I think his work is timeless.” As Director of Sturt Workshops; in Hobart setting up the Ceramics Department at the School of Art; as a member of the Crafts Board of the Australia Council – through it all he held to the need to develop his own art. In 2005, he was the inaugural choice for the Australian Design Centre’s travelling exhibition series: “Living Treasures: Masters of Australian Craft”. His work is held in many collections, including the National Gallery of Australia’s. Blakebrough had a “fundamental belief in the virtue of the material, that clay has its own special nature”. The greatest expression of his art came after his creation of Southern Ice Porcelain Clay, a pure white medium with extremely accurate workability and translucency. If there is a pinnacle to this phase, it may be a series of Kelp Bowls. Long leaves of Southern Ice, somehow surviving through the firing process, emerged as a bowl that is as much air as seaweed. Les combined his great artistic gifts with a relish for life. His high peals of laughter at the ways of the world rang out from his fishing boat as he took friends to chase tuna through ocean swells off the east coast of Tasmania. His health long denied him a full glass of wine, but he would insist on a sip to test its worth. He embraced children, his own and those of his partners. His 1960 marriage to Sue Blakebrough ended in 1974. She predeceased him by two weeks. His more than 20 year partnership with the gifted Hobart teacher Sally Sorell ended with her death in 2005. He later met the Sydney photographer Anne Ferran and in 2012 moved to Coledale on the NSW South Coast. Aged 82, he built a new studio where, among the work, he continued to wrestle with his “fiendishly difficult” Kelp Bowls. Les is survived by his brother Brian, sister Jennifer, daughter Cybelle and son Ben, their children, and by Anne Ferran. A cultural guide to going out and loving your city. Sign up to our Culture Fix newsletter here. Copyright © 2024