 Analysts have been eager to weigh in on the Financial sector with new ratings on Associated Capital Group (AC – Research Report), Morgan Stanley (MS – Research Report) and Essent Group (ESNT – Research Report). Associated Capital Group (AC) In a report issued on September 20, Brett Linzey  from Mizuho Securities maintained a Hold rating on Associated Capital Group. The company’s shares closed last Friday at $36.55. According to TipRanks.com, Linzey is a 4-star analyst with an average return of 7.7% and a 58.9% success rate. Linzey covers the Industrial Goods sector, focusing on stocks such as Emerson Electric Company, Honeywell International, and Stanley Black & Decker. Associated Capital Group has an analyst consensus of Hold.
		  See Insiders’ Hot Stocks on TipRanks >>  Morgan Stanley (MS) In a report issued on September 22, Gerard Cassidy  from RBC Capital maintained a Hold rating on Morgan Stanley, with a price target of $90.00. The company’s shares closed last Friday at $83.29. According to TipRanks.com, Cassidy is a 5-star analyst with an average return of 14.0% and a 56.4% success rate. Cassidy covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Goldman Sachs Group. The word on The Street in general, suggests a Moderate Buy analyst consensus rating for Morgan Stanley with a $99.69 average price target, which is a 17.0% upside from current levels. In a report issued on September 20, Citi also maintained a Hold rating on the stock with a $90.00 price target.
		  Essent Group (ESNT) RBC Capital analyst Scott Heleniak  maintained a Buy rating on Essent Group yesterday and set a price target of $59.00. The company’s shares closed last Friday at $48.39. According to TipRanks.com, Heleniak is a 3-star analyst with an average return of 6.1% and a 81.8% success rate. Heleniak covers the Financial sector, focusing on stocks such as International General Insurance Holdings, American Equity Investment Life, and American International Group. Essent Group has an analyst consensus of Moderate Buy, with a price target consensus of $57.00. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities.
		   Read More on AC:   Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks