With all the mass shootings the United States experiences, it just stands to reason that somewhere, sometime, someone would be involved in one shooting and then later on, another. Enter Michigan State University. At least two students fell into the category of having been at another mass shooting, although there may have been more. “Get me out of here,” the one student told her mother. She was still recovering from the shooting in Oxford about 14 months ago. Schools are frequent shooting sites, as there is a large number of people gathered in a building or two. Some of those shootings are the results of copycats of the Columbine shooting many, many years ago. This assault on the MSU campus is especially disheartening to the 50,000 or so current students and the millions of Sparty Nation alums across the country. Even if you graduated from that other school down the road, today you’re a Spartan. Michigan Democrats promised quick action in the Legislature to institute some new gun regulations which have the possibility of passing since the Democrats control the House and Senate. Their proposal would call for universal background checks, safe handling and storage regulations and a red flag statute. Republicans weren’t too keen on all that, proposing instead to look at mental health issues. The problem with focusing on “mental health” issues is it does nothing to stop people from illegally purchasing weapons or being in possession of them when they threaten themselves or others. There are plenty of crazies out there — making it more difficult for them to buy and use weapons makes it more difficult for them to use them. The politics aside, Michigan has once again been the site of a mass shooting. The difference is there is a legislature that is capable of doing something about it. The quicker, the better. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis is hell bent on making his state the poster child for right-wing cultural issues, everything from education to public health. His latest effort is switching the New College of Florida from a liberal institution of about 700 students to a glorious conservative campus, as well as poking around higher education in general. The college has long had a liberal reputation, which may be why marginalized students — students of color, LBGTQ and transgender students — have found a safe haven there to attend college. DeSantis appointed six new highly conservative members to the board, which promptly ditched the college president. They are now embarking on an effort to make sure liberal bias is not part of the school’s direction. DeSantis wants to style the college like Hillsdale College, the evermore Christian, conservative college in southern Michigan. In addition to taking over New College, he has suggested professors be reviewed every five years for tenure and studies should be centered on Western civilization. Yeah right — Western civilization is well represented in the halls of academia, in many cases to the detriment of studying other world cultures. He has tangled with the Advanced Placement board over a course on black Americans; while the board that approves the coursework reworked part of the course the state’s board of education has yet to approve it. DeSantis has suggested the state not bother with AP courses or the SAT test, putting educators and parents in a tizzy as they try to shepherd students to colleges across the country. Some parents were indicating they would be moving out of state to get the AP courses they feel their children need. For now the AP courses are still in the mix but DeSantis still has the ability to hold the sword of getting rid of them over the heads of those in the education community. I’m just glad I don’t have any students in a Florida high school where my options may soon be limited. — Kendall P. Stanley is retired editor of the News-Review. He can be contacted at kendallstanley@charter.net. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the writer and not necessarily of the Petoskey News-Review or its employees. 