SpaceX's 10th launch of the year was a photogenic one. A Falcon 9 rocket topped with 55 Starlink craft launched flawlessly Sunday at 12:10 a.m. EST (0510) GMT, and SpaceX shared the photos on Twitter. The moon comes close to photobombing the early morning launch from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida. SpaceX photographers even captured the rocket streaking in front of the nearly full Snow Moon. About eight minutes after liftoff, the Falcon 9's first stage landed as expected on the droneship A Shortfall of Gravitas, available in the Atlantic Ocean a few hundred miles (or kilometers) off the Florida coast. Related: 10 weird things about SpaceX's Starlink internet satellites This was the 12th time this particular booster launched and landed, according to a SpaceX mission description. The manifest of previous missions include six other Starlink excursions and two prominent private astronaut flights: The Ax-1 journey to the International Space Station in April 2022 and the Inspiration4 Earth orbit mission in September 2021. Falcon 9 launches 55 Starlink satellites to orbit pic.twitter.com/kASyhCqrkoFebruary 12, 2023 See more The launch furnished 55 more members of the fast-growing Starlink constellation, which includes more than 3,500 operational satellites so far. SpaceX has permission to include 12,000 Starlink spacecraft altogether and has applied to add 30,000 more. RELATED STORIES: — SpaceX launches 55 Starlink satellites, lands rocket on ship at sea — SpaceX's huge Starship booster conducts historic 31-engine burn (video) — Relive SpaceX Starship's epic 31-engine burn with these photos The Falcon 9 rocket has made nine of the 10 launches of 2023, with one other performed by the powerful Falcon Heavy rocket. It is possible that Starship, a next-generation spaceship that will be tasked with bringing payloads and people to the moon and beyond, will make its first attempt at orbit soon following a huge test engine burn last week, according to CEO Elon Musk. Elizabeth Howell is the co-author of "Why Am I Taller?" (ECW Press, 2022; with Canadian astronaut Dave Williams), a book about space medicine. Follow her on Twitter @howellspace. Follow us on Twitter @Spacedotcom or Facebook. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.