Liftoff occurred Saturday evening (Oct. 21) at 10:17 p.m. ET. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket launched 23 Starlink internet satellites to orbit from Florida tonight (Oct. 21) on the company's second mission of the day. The Falcon 9 is lifted off from Florida's Cape Canaveral Space Force Station on Saturday at 10:17 p.m. EDT (0217 GMT on Oct. 22). Related: Starlink satellite train: How to see and track it in the night sky  The Falcon 9's first stage came back to Earth for a vertical landing tonight, touching down about 8.5 minutes after launch on the drone ship A Shortfall of Gravitas, which was stationed in the Atlantic Ocean. It was the fourth flight for this rocket's first stage, according to the mission description.  The 23 Starlink satellites are scheduled to deploy from the Falcon 9's upper stage about 65.5 minutes after launch. — SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket launches for record-breaking 16th time, lands on ship at sea — 8 ways that SpaceX has transformed spaceflight — SpaceX Starlink satellites had to make 25,000 collision-avoidance maneuvers in just 6 months — and it will only get worse Tonight's launch was the second of the day for SpaceX. The company launched 21 Starlink satellites from California's Vandenberg Space Force Base early this morning. Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! Starlink is SpaceX's megaconstellation in low Earth orbit, which provides internet service to customers around the world. There are currently almost 4,900 operational Starlink satellites, and the number continues to grow. Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com. Michael Wall is a Senior Space Writer with Space.com and joined the team in 2010. He primarily covers exoplanets, spaceflight and military space, but has been known to dabble in the space art beat. His book about the search for alien life, "Out There," was published on Nov. 13, 2018. Before becoming a science writer, Michael worked as a herpetologist and wildlife biologist. He has a Ph.D. in evolutionary biology from the University of Sydney, Australia, a bachelor's degree from the University of Arizona, and a graduate certificate in science writing from the University of California, Santa Cruz. To find out what his latest project is, you can follow Michael on Twitter. SpaceX launches 116 satellites on epic Transporter 11 rideshare mission, lands rocket (video) SpaceX launches 2 sharp-eyed Earth-imaging satellites to orbit Aug. 15 (video) 'Alien: Romulus' is a visceral return to form for a venerable sci-fi franchise (review) Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 