Update: Tonight’s rocket launch has been delayed. The ARABSAT BADR-8 mission will now target 11:25 p.m. on Friday. The delay will “allow more time for pre-launch checkouts and for weather conditions to improve,” SpaceX tweeted. Now targeting Friday, May 26 for Falcon 9’s launch of the @Arabsat BADR-8 mission from SLC-40 in Florida to allow more time for pre-launch checkouts and for weather conditions to improve → https://t.co/bJFjLCiTbK — SpaceX (@SpaceX) May 25, 2023 Read our earlier version below: SpaceX crews are working to launch a Falcon 9 rocket Wednesday night from Florida’s Space Coast. SpaceX is aiming to launch a communications satellite into orbit for the ARABSAT BADR-8 mission. >>> CLICK HERE TO WATCH LAUNCH LIVE <<< The 127-minute launch window opens at 11:25 p.m. The weather forecast is 20% favorable for the launch. Watch: SpaceX, Axiom-2 astronauts dock at International Space Station SpaceX said the first stage booster for this mission previously launched GPS III Space Vehicle 04, GPS III Space Vehicle 05, Inspiration4, Ax-1, Nilesat 301, OneWeb Launch 17, and seven Starlink missions. The first stage booster will attempt to land on SpaceX’s “Just Read the Instructions” droneship in the Atlantic Ocean. Watch: Liftoff: Falcon 9 rocket launches 22 Starlink satellites from the Space Coast Channel 9 will monitor the rocket launch and will provide live coverage on Eyewitness News. Watch: SpaceX’s first launch of Starship spacecraft with world’s biggest rocket ends in mid-air explosion Falcon 9 is vertical at SLC-40 ahead of tonight’s launch of the @Arabsat BADR-8 mission; weather is 20% favorable for liftoff → https://t.co/bJFjLCiTbK pic.twitter.com/Jdd01sO8iR — SpaceX (@SpaceX) May 24, 2023 Click here to download the free WFTV news and weather apps, click here to download the WFTV Now app for your smart TV and click here to stream Channel 9 Eyewitness News live. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Shohei Ohtani is on the verge of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to tally 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases in a season. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run. Jonathan Taylor's helmet looked a bit odd during his first preseason game.