Ariana Grande has reportedly been linked to her Wicked co-star, Ethan Slater. It comes after she was recently rumoured to have split from her husband, Dalton Gomez, as of January Ariana Grande is reportedly dating her Wicked co-star, Ethan Slater. Ariana and Ethan were seen in a photo sitting next to each other in March. They were celebrating Michelle Yeoh's Oscar win while in London. At the time, fans didn't think much of it since Ariana seemed to be happily married to Dalton Gomez.  However, recent reports indicate that Ariana and Dalton have been having relationship issues since before the start of the new year. A source told TMZ that by January the pair had split. Their divorce hasn't been finalised with papers, but sources say that those are inevitable. In December 2022, Ariana flew off to London to begin filming the Wicked adaptation alongside Ethan. During that time, it was reported that there were already issues between Ariana and Dalton. Distance may not have been the only issue in the relationship. According to reports from Radar Online, Dalton "struggled to come to terms with being married to one of the world's biggest celebrities". The pair were reportedly trying to reconcile their relationship at one point, but to no avail. Instead, they've agreed to just be friends and still talk on the phone from time to time. An insider told Page Six: “They were having problems before January, but they want to remain best friends.” Rumours and speculation about the pair's breakup began when Ariana was seen not wearing her ring on a few occasions. Most notably, she was seen without it when she attended Wimbledon recently. Ethan also recently went through a relationship split. In 2018, he married Lilly Jay and even has a son with her. Sources told TMZ that Ariana did not starting dating him until after his split from Lilly. Ethan Slater plays Boq in the new Wicked adaptation. Previously he has earned a Tony Award nomination for his role in the Broadway musical SpongeBob Squarepants. The Wicked movie is a two-part feature that is set to be released in Christmas 2024 and 2025. Ariana will be playing Glinda. A role in a musical is nothing new for Ariana who started her career on Broadway before moving into on screen acting and pop music.  The role was actually a dream come true for Ariana. In 2011, she posted on Twitter: "Loved seeing Wicked again...amazing production! Made me realize again how badly I want to 2 play Glinda at some point in my life! #DreamRole." The Mirror has reached out to Ariana's team for comment.  All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out. * Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. Celeb obsessed? Get a daily dose of showbiz gossip direct to your inbox