One star sign should accept the opportunity to travel abroad, while another will enjoy a refreshing change . These are the Friday horoscopes. It’s Friday and one star sign will enter abrave new chapter , while another should start prioritising their own needs. Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces - each of the 12 zodiac signs' forecasts should hold something that speaks to you and resonates with a deeper, inner truth.  Today's daily horoscopes for each star sign can be found below. These daily forecasts have been compiled by astrologer Russell Grant, who has been reading star signs for more than 50 years.  From Aries through to Pisces, here's what today could bring for your horoscope - and what you can do to be prepared.    Want to get Russell Grant’s daily reading direct to your inbox? Sign up for our daily horoscopes newsletter   HERE     Changing circumstances mean some members of your family are going to have to get used to a different way of living. It’s a brave new chapter. Some will want to celebrate; others are more wary. That change you are thinking of making should be a gradual transition rather than a dramatic move. A creative friend or colleague will be helpful in opening new doors for you. With their support you will get the chance to do something you have always wanted to do. Working on a special project that excites your imagination will give you a new lease of life. Some changes to your usual routine will make for a refreshing change. Someone close is struggling with all they have to do but reluctant to admit it. When you realise what they are going through, be the friend they are in need of and step back, give them space and guard the door to prevent others from interfering. All is not lost if you recently turned someone down when they made you an offer you didn’t feel ready for it at the time. Now you have come to terms with how you are really feeling and you do want to encourage this friendship, there will be honesty and openness between you that helps build stronger bonds. A chance to travel abroad could result in a personal transformation. You had not thought about how restricting your life has been recently but now you are facing up to the reality of a situation, you will feel ready to move from one phase to another. You have been prioritising things for others and neglecting your own care. Be honest with friends if you need some time alone. This isn’t a reflection of whether you do or don’t want to spend time with them but rather how strongly you need to do things for yourself. You just want to step off the crazy merry-go-round of life for a short while and forget about business, finances and other practical matters. Do something you find relaxing. Go back to hobbies that once brought you happiness. Remind yourself there is more to life than work and responsibility. Keep your thoughts positive and encourage those around you to do the same. If life has been difficult, keep believing that there are better days to come. It takes time to get through challenges that face you now but you will soon catch a glimpse of the light at the end of the tunnel. A spontaneous offer could lead you to travelling further afield than usual. It may be unplanned but you will enjoy every moment. Getting away from familiar places will help relax you and seeing life from a different perspective encourages you to take up opportunities that feed your spirit. It doesn’t suit you to remain in an unmanaged place of chaos. If other people can’t get their act together you may have to pull out of some arrangements. You need to work to an organised schedule. Take a chance that is being offered to you, to reduce your load. A money making opportunity is one which might sound too good to be true and yet the offer is a sincere and genuine one. You can expect to make headway with a group creative project providing you remain sensible and realistic. Keep discussions on a strictly practical level. Someone just doesn’t understand your need for space. They think they are being helpful by insisting they do things for you while this kind of interference is starting to get on your nerves. You don’t want to tarnish a friendship but you will need to communicate your fe elings and get them to listen.  Get your horoscope from Russell Grant on email every day