SOUTH BEND — The Tribune is now accepting submissions for its Festival Guide, which will be published May 21. Submissions must include the name of the entertainment event, a brief description, dates, times, location (including numbered street address), the full price range for admission (including if free), a phone or website for use by the public, and a daytime phone number for use by The Tribune. High-resolution JPEG photos (300 dpi/1MB or larger) are welcome via email. Incomplete submissions will be rejected. Deadline is 5 p.m. May 10. To submit an event, email events@sbtinfo.com, with “Festival Guide” in the subject line; or mail to Festival Guide, South Bend Tribune, 635 S. Lafayette Blvd., Ste. 138, South Bend, IN 46601. No information will be taken over the phone. This article originally appeared on South Bend Tribune: Tribune seeks info for annual Festival Guide New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map.