eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Pressroom operator Khalid Jordan checks for aligned registration and clarity of Saturday editions of the Chicago Tribune at the Freedom Center on Aug. 20, 2016. Chicago Tribune A man stands at a newsstand at Clark and Randolph streets in the Loop in 1981. Nuccio DiNuzzo / Chicago Tribune Bundles of Chicago Tribune newspapers come off the press at the Freedom Center in 2016. John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune Driver Ed Koga arranges bundles of newspapers in a box truck at the Freedom Center for delivery on Aug. 20, 2016. Chris Walker / Chicago Tribune The Freedom Center is the Chicago's tribune's printing plant. Alyssa Pointer / Chicago Tribune The Chicago Tribune Freedom Center, at 777 W. Chicago Ave., Oct. 2, 2017, in the River West neighborhood. Nuccio DiNuzzo / Chicago Tribune A Chicago Tribune newspaper edition is printed in 2016 at the Freedom Center. Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune Freedom Center, Chicago Tribune's printing and distribution plant shown March 22, 2022, is part of the site plan for the casino owned by Bally's. Nuccio DiNuzzo / Chicago Tribune Huge rolls of newsprint are stacked high at the Chicago Tribune Freedom Center on May 16, 2016. Chicago Tribune Pulpwood is assembled in 1950 at Heron Bay on Lake Superior for shipping to Tribune's paper mills to make paper for newsprint. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune Pressman Damone Griffin changes plates at the Tribune Freedom Center printing facility on an edition covering the Cubs' World Series victory, on Nov. 3,  2016. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune People ride a Chicago River tour boat and pass the Chicago Tribune Freedom Center on June 8, 2019. Charles Cherney/Chicago Tribune Newspapers are bundled at Freedom Center. Chicago Tribune Frank Conte at his newspaper stand at Racine Avenue and Van Buren Street in Chicago in January, 1938. Chicago Tribune Press workers check newspapers when the presses were in the basement of the Tribune Tower, circa 1970s. Val Mazzenga / Chicago Tribune Roszika Carroll at the keyboard of a Linotype typesetting machine in the Tribune exhibit at Chicagoland Fair on Navy Pier on June 28, 1957. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Chicago Tribune newspapers move along a conveyor system at the Freedom Center in Chicago on May 11, 2022. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune Pressmen wait for updated printing plates of the Chicago Tribune front page telling the story of the Cubs World Series victory, at the Tribune Freedom Center printing facility on Nov. 3,  2016. Charles Cherney/Chicago Tribune A newsstand at State and Division streets in 1992. Chicago Tribune archive / Chicago Tribune archive Chicago Tribune pages are pasted up in 1981 in the Tribune Tower. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Chicago Tribune newspapers are stacked before being loaded on a pallet at the Freedom Center on March 30, 2021. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune Chicago Tribunes are bundled with news of the Cubs World Series victory on Nov. 3,  2016. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Chicago Tribune newspapers travel along a conveyor at the Freedom Center on May 11, 2022. E. Jason Wambsgans, Chicago Tribune Pressman Ray Cueto checks quality at the Chicago Tribune Freedom Center printing facility in 2007. Abel Uribe / Chicago Tribune Old Chicago Tribune news boxes in the parking lot of the Tribune's Freedom Center are seen on Sept. 11, 2020. Chicago Tribune Chicagoans buy the Chicago Tribune at a newsstand at Randolph Street and Michigan Avenue for news on President John F. Kennedy's death in 1963. Nuccio DiNuzzo / Chicago Tribune Workers changing press plates at Chicago Tribune Freedom Center on May 16, 2016. Chicago Tri Holiday shoppers pause at a newsstand in the Loop to glimpse the headlines of newspapers, including the Chicago Tribune, announcing an abdication of the British throne in December 1936. Chicago Tribune Newspaper carrier Sean Aksamit in Homewood in 1974. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Newspapers travel along a conveyor system inside the Freedom Center on May 11, 2022. E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune Press operator Mike Murray works with newsprint at the Tribune Freedom Center printing facility, on March 29, 2007. GMC Truck & Coach Division A Tribune delivery truck, 1912. Erin Hooley / Chicago Tribune A delivery truck is parked at the Freedom Center, the Chicago Tribune's printing and distribution center, on March 30, 2021. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune Editions of the Chicago Tribune are bundled at the Freedom Center on May 11, 2022. Chicago Tribune Paul Lipinski, a Chicago Tribune carrier in Oak Lawn, loads his newspaper bag in 1962 before starting his route. Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune The sun sets behind the Chicago Tribune Freedom Center printing facility on June 24, 2021. Antonio Perez / Chicago Tribune Chicago Tribune's printing plant, the Freedom Center, on July 28, 2022. Chicago Tribune The Tribune used this ship to transport paper from Canadian mills. The photograph was taken in 1924. Brian Cassella / Chicago Tribune The Chicago Tribune's Freedom Center on April 21, 2021, from Willis Tower. Pressroom operator Khalid Jordan checks for aligned registration and clarity of Saturday editions of the Chicago Tribune at the Freedom Center on Aug. 20, 2016. After months of negotiation, Tribune Publishing has agreed to leave the Freedom Center printing plant in River West by July 2024 to make way for Bally’s Chicago Casino.Bally’s, which bought the 30-acre site last year, will give the newspaper company a “series of cash payments” in return for its commitment to exit the Freedom Center, Bally’s Chairman Soo Kim said Thursday.Kim did not disclose the amount of the payments to Tribune Publishing, but Bally’s may reveal more details about the relocation agreement during its first quarter earnings call Tuesday.The sprawling printing plant, which has enjoyed a four-decade run as the nexus of newspaper publishing and distribution in Chicago, is slated for demolition to make way for a $1.74 billion casino and entertainment complex to be built in its place along the Chicago River.In February, Bally’s gave Tribune Publishing notice to vacate the plant, which prints the Chicago Tribune and other newspapers. The Rhode Island-based casino company plans to break ground next year and open the permanent casino by 2026.Tribune Publishing did not announce plans for a new printing plant, but said the presses would continue to roll throughout the relocation. The newspaper company, which owns the Chicago Tribune, issued a statement Thursday regarding the move:“We are saddened to be relocated from our long-term home at the Freedom Center, but gratified to help clear the way for an economic development project that is so important to this city.“We are committed to a print edition of the Chicago Tribune and anticipate continuing to print the Chicago Tribune and our commercial print customers with very substantial investments in several locations through the Greater Chicago Metropolitan area. We hope to announce those plans shortly.

“In the meantime, it’s business as usual for our employees and commercial print customers as we invest in a transition that will take some time. In any event, we will continue printing without interruption after moving.”Built in 1981, the Freedom Center prints the Chicago Tribune, Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Chicago Sun-Times and other newspapers. It has also housed the Chicago Tribune newsroom since 2021.Bally’s became Tribune Publishing’s landlord in November when it bought the Freedom Center site from Nexstar Media for $200 million. Within days, Bally’s executed a sale-leaseback on the land with Chicago-based Oak Street Real Estate Capital, raising up to $500 million to help build the casino complex.Tribune Publishing’s lease at Freedom Center was set to expire in June, but the newspaper company exercised an option to extend it for another 10 years. Bally’s and Tribune Publishing went to binding arbitration over the terms of the lease extension.As part of the lease, Bally’s was required to help Tribune Publishing find an alternative printing location. They opted instead for an undisclosed cash settlement, Kim said.“We have come to an agreement that instead of us presenting a site, picking it and then building it, they’ve agreed to just handle that themselves,” Kim said.Bally’s won a heated competition last year to build the Chicago casino, an entertainment complex that will include an exhibition hall, 500-room hotel, a 3,000-seat theater, 10 restaurants and 4,000 gaming positions.It is planning to open a temporary casino at Medinah Temple in the River North neighborhood this summer — pending approval by the Illinois Gaming Board.rchannick@chicagotribune.com Bally’s, which bought the 30-acre site last year, will give the newspaper company a “series of cash payments” in return for its commitment to exit the Freedom Center, Bally’s Chairman Soo Kim said Thursday. Kim did not disclose the amount of the payments to Tribune Publishing, but Bally’s may reveal more details about the relocation agreement during its first quarter earnings call Tuesday. The sprawling printing plant, which has enjoyed a four-decade run as the nexus of newspaper publishing and distribution in Chicago, is slated for demolition to make way for a $1.74 billion casino and entertainment complex to be built in its place along the Chicago River. In February, Bally’s gave Tribune Publishing notice to vacate the plant, which prints the Chicago Tribune and other newspapers. The Rhode Island-based casino company plans to break ground next year and open the permanent casino by 2026. Tribune Publishing did not announce plans for a new printing plant, but said the presses would continue to roll throughout the relocation. The newspaper company, which owns the Chicago Tribune, issued a statement Thursday regarding the move: “We are saddened to be relocated from our long-term home at the Freedom Center, but gratified to help clear the way for an economic development project that is so important to this city. “We are committed to a print edition of the Chicago Tribune and anticipate continuing to print the Chicago Tribune and our commercial print customers with very substantial investments in several locations through the Greater Chicago Metropolitan area. We hope to announce those plans shortly. “In the meantime, it’s business as usual for our employees and commercial print customers as we invest in a transition that will take some time. In any event, we will continue printing without interruption after moving.” Built in 1981, the Freedom Center prints the Chicago Tribune, Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Chicago Sun-Times and other newspapers. It has also housed the Chicago Tribune newsroom since 2021. Bally’s became Tribune Publishing’s landlord in November when it bought the Freedom Center site from Nexstar Media for $200 million. Within days, Bally’s executed a sale-leaseback on the land with Chicago-based Oak Street Real Estate Capital, raising up to $500 million to help build the casino complex. Tribune Publishing’s lease at Freedom Center was set to expire in June, but the newspaper company exercised an option to extend it for another 10 years. Bally’s and Tribune Publishing went to binding arbitration over the terms of the lease extension. As part of the lease, Bally’s was required to help Tribune Publishing find an alternative printing location. They opted instead for an undisclosed cash settlement, Kim said. “We have come to an agreement that instead of us presenting a site, picking it and then building it, they’ve agreed to just handle that themselves,” Kim said. Bally’s won a heated competition last year to build the Chicago casino, an entertainment complex that will include an exhibition hall, 500-room hotel, a 3,000-seat theater, 10 restaurants and 4,000 gaming positions. It is planning to open a temporary casino at Medinah Temple in the River North neighborhood this summer — pending approval by the Illinois Gaming Board. rchannick@chicagotribune.com Copyright © 2024 Chicago Tribune