| Written by  Angel investors are a great way to obtain startup funding for your business. Typically, angel investors for startups fund early and seed-stage companies that show promise for high growth and scalability. However, the location and industry of your startup can also affect the angel investment opportunities available to you.  These are the top angel investor groups based on industry, stage, and accessibility for entrepreneurs to secure capital to launch their startups. The decision to seek angel investment to launch your startup is the first step, the second step is finding the top angel investors to secure startup capital from. Fortunately, we have a list of the best angel groups for startups here. Seeking Startup Funding? Systematic connects startups and investors on one AI-powered platform. Sign up today to receive an exclusive, limited-time discount of over 50% off—don’t miss out! One of the most popular angel investment groups for startups, Southern California-based TCA Venture Group provides startup capital in addition to mentoring, connections, and business assistance for entrepreneurs. TCA has over 400 accredited investors across four networks, and invests in a variety of industries including medtech, SaaS, IoT, and more. Golden Seeds is an angel investment firm providing startup funding exclusively for women-founded and led startups in early-funding stages. The investor group boasts over 340 members that focus primarily on startups in the consumer product, tech, and software industries.  Based in Altadena, California, Pasadena Angels is made up of over 100 angel investors providing up to $1.5 million in early-stage and seed financing. Funding is only available for startups based in the US, with primacy for California-based startups that are high-growth, scalable startups.  Alliance of Angels is an investment group based in Seattle, Washington, with over 140 angel investors. The group invests over $10 million in more than 20 startups annually while providing valuable mentorship services. NY Angels is an angel investment group composed of over 140 angels with backgrounds as entrepreneurs, CEOs, VC, and business leaders. The firm also has an internship program for “future angels,” and special interest groups in fintech, blockchain, and life sciences. Based in Menlo Park, California, Band of Angels was the first high-tech angel investment group in the US and continues to invest in over 20 startups annually. Made up of over 165 angels that are either current or former high-tech executives, the organization has invested in a variety of cutting-edge companies. Hyde Park Angels is a Chicago-based angel group composed of more than 100 investors. Funding is available for midwest startups primarily, specifically startups in seed and early stages within the industrial technology, information technology, and financial services industries.  Sand Hill Angels is a Silicon Valley angel investment group made up of angel investors with backgrounds in tech entrepreneurship. The group primarily invests in startups with products in the alpha/beta stage that are being developed to solve well-defined problems.  Since 2014, New World Angels has provided over $20 million to early-stage companies in the state of Florida. During that time, New World Angels has helped launch a wide range of Florida companies to new heights, including companies such as Aegle Therapeutics, Admiral, and SwitchBoard.  Over the past 21 years, Queen City Angels has invested over $110 million across 237 different investments. Along with providing founders with the funds they need to grow their startups, Queen City Angels also owns the QCA Education Foundation – a nonprofit arm of Queen City Angels that works to train and mentor founders. Park City Angels is an angel investing group comprised of 100+ accredited investors who live in and around Park City, UT. The group has a preference for Utah-based startups, but considers applications from startups across the United States.  Founded in 2003, BlueTree Allied Angels is an angel investor group that focuses on funding startup companies in Pennsylvania. There are a variety of innovative startups in the group’s portfolio, including companies such as ALung Technologies, 4moms, and ApartmentJet.  Founded in 2001, Launchpad Venture Group has provided over $125 million in funding to over 150 startup companies. The group primarily focuses on science and tech startups that are located in Boston or the surrounding area.  Angel investors are private investors who provide capital to businesses and startups, typically in exchange for either convertible debt or ownership equity.  Angel investor groups are simply groups of angel investors who come together to evaluate and invest in companies as a group. Along with pooling their collective expertise to help each other make wise investing decisions, these groups often pool together their capital as well in order to make more and larger investments.  A few excellent angel investor websites include AngelList, Angel Investment Network, and Angel Capital Association. Some of the most well-known angel investors today are:  The TRUiC Team TRUiC’s team of researchers, writers, and editors dedicate hours to ensure startupsavant.com’s articles are actionable and accessible for both startup founders and startup enthusiasts. From launching a startup to growing your venture, you can trust that our information is an up-to-date and reliable source. Further Reading Topics to Explore Browse Tags reviews Best LLC ServicesBest Registered Agent ServicesBest Banks for StartupsBest Website BuildersBest Business Plan SoftwareBest Press Release ServicesBest Incorporation ServicesBest Payroll Services startups Company ProfilesTop Startups to WatchStrategy StoriesFeature NewsPodcast how-to guides Start a StartupStart a Small BusinessStart an LLCStart a CorporationGet a DBAStart an S Corp topics Startup IdeasStartup ResourcesStartup FundingStartup LeadershipStartup Marketing connect with us! sign up for ournewsletter © 2024 TRUiC, All rights reserved About Us | Terms of Use | FTC Disclosure | Privacy Policy | Contact Us This website is meant to be opinion and information based, not legal advice of any kind. We spend hundreds of hours per month updating and refining our content as things change, but to be used as-is. For questions while starting a business, we recommend consulting with an attorney or accountant. Names, trademarks and logos mentioned all belong to their respective owners. Some of the links may be affiliate links, earning us a small commission if you decide to use them, allowing us to continue creating content.