Student loan payment forbearance is ending. No, for real this time. After three years and nine extensions, student loan borrowers will actually start repaying on their loans by the end of this summer. President Joe Biden and House Speaker Kevin McCarthy came to an agreement during the federal debt ceiling negotiations stating that student loan forbearance would officially end 60 days after June 30. Although the timeline is close to what the Biden administration had previously laid out, codifying it all but removes the ability to extend forbearance any longer. That means student loan interest will begin to accrue again on Sept. 1, and payments will be due starting in October, according to the U.S. Department of Education. The debt ceiling agreement only makes changes to when forbearance ends, not Biden's student debt relief plan. The Supreme Court heard oral arguments from two cases challenging Biden's student debt relief plan in late February and is expected to announce its decision sometime in late June or early July. In October, the U.S. Department of Education launched an application for borrowers to apply for student loan debt relief. In less than four weeks, 26 million people either applied for debt relief or had already provided sufficient information to the department to be deemed eligible for relief. In Ohio, about 702,000 people were approved for relief, according to the department. Despite a few lawsuits that have continued to block the department's ability to forgive debt, Secretary of Education Miguel A. Cardona has repeatedly said he is confident that Biden's plan will survive the legal challenges. "We believe strongly that the lawsuits are meritless, and the Department of Justice has appealed on our behalf," he wrote in November to borrowers who were approved for forgiveness. "Your application is complete and approved, and we will discharge your approved debt if and when we prevail in court." Since Biden announced his plan to forgive up to $20,000 in student debt back in August 2022, opponents have sought to quash it. A handful of lawsuits filed in federal courts across the country attempted to overturn the debt cancellation program, and two of those cases have put the plan on pause. The Supreme Court heard two cases related to Biden's student loan forgiveness plan in February, one brought by six conservative states and another by two borrowers who sued over the program. Though there had been considerable debate before justices heard both cases over whether or not they were the right parties to sue, the court's conservative majority signaled deep skepticism during arguments suggesting Biden overstepped his legal authority. "We take very seriously the idea of separation of powers and that power should be divided to prevent its abuse,” Chief Justice John Roberts said. “This is a case that presents extraordinarily serious, important issues about the role of Congress and about the role that we should exercise in scrutinizing that significance." Two of the court's liberal justices — Associate Justices Elena Kagan and Ketanji Brown Jackson — pushed back against some criticism from their conservative colleagues that the Biden program is unfair to those who didn't attend college or who already paid off their loans. “I just don't know how far we can go with this notion of, to the extent that the government is providing much-needed assistance to people in an emergency, it's going to be unfair to those who don't get the same benefit," Brown Jackson said. While September might sound like it's a ways out, Bruce McClary — senior vice president for membership & communications at the National Foundation for Credit Counseling — said time is going to fly by. McClary said the key word for those with loans to keep in mind right now is "proactive." "Students need to get on it," he said. "They should prepare their budget and figure out how their payments are set up starting now. Don't wait." Mark Kantrowitz, a Chicago-based higher education expert who specializes in how students save and pay for college, said the best thing you can do to prepare to begin making student loan payments again is to assume that repayment will start back up soon. Take a look at your budget and consider where you've been spending the money that you used to use to pay your student loans. Spending more than you earn? It's time to reassess, cut back and stop relying on credit cards or other loans to make ends meet. Then start shelling away your typical monthly payment now as if you were paying off your loan. Kantrowitz recommends putting it in a high-yield savings account to earn some interest. When the payment pause ends, you'll already have some money set aside that you can use to chip away at your balance. McClary and Kantrowitz said borrowers should make sure their contact information is up to date in both the profile of their loan servicer’s website and their StudentAid.gov profile. Have you moved? Changed your name? Got a new phone number or email address? Make sure everything is accurate on your profiles sooner than later. "A lot has happened in three years," McClary said. "You want to make sure that nothing fell through the cracks." Kantrowitz also suggests signing up for automatic loan payments to take out any of the confusion or amnesia that has come from not making payments for nearly three years. Plus, borrowers who use auto pay get a 0.25 percentage point reduction in their interest rate. If you were already enrolled in auto-payments before the pause, McClary warns borrowers to "triple-check" that you're still enrolled and have the right bank account linked up. Borrowers who were making payments before the student loan payment pause took place in March 2020 likely won't see a change in their monthly payment. But for those who graduated during the pause and have never made a student loan payment before, borrowers might be wondering what they owe. Kantrowitz said to contact your loan servicer to get the exact amount of your minimum payment. Monthly loan calculators can be helpful, he said, and a good rule of thumb is to pay 1% of your total 10-year loan balance. Borrowers will receive a billing statement or other notice at least 21 days before payment is due, according to the Department of Education. This notice will include your payment amount. Much has changed in the last three years, and so much economic instability and worry of an impending recession, some borrowers might be worried they won't be able to make payments once the pause ends. Kantrowitz said borrowers have several options to avoid missing payments or going into default: economic hardship deferment, unemployment deferment and student loan forbearance. Each program is a little different, and interest may still accrue while you aren't making payments, but some deferment plans can last up to three years. Borrowers can also switch to an income-driven repayment plans. Income-driven repayment plans base a borrower's monthly payments on income and family size. In some cases, that payment could total $0 per month. Kantrowitz said borrowers should contact their student loan servicer immediately if they are ever having trouble making payments. McClary also suggests talking to a nonprofit credit counselor about your debt to see what options might be available to you. "As the old adage goes, 'Measure twice, cut once,'" he said. "You want to make sure that when you're making a financial decision, it's always good to get as much knowledge as possible." If you have any doubts about making a loan payment, McClary said to act now. "The longer you wait, the harder it could be. There is certainly a time element in applying for some of these repayment options," he said. "We're on a very short timeline here." Sheridan Hendrix is a higher education reporter for The Columbus Dispatch. Sign up for her Mobile Newsroom newsletter here and Extra Credit, her education newsletter, here. shendrix@dispatch.com @sheridan120