If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience. 

Credit Cards
 

Banks
 

Brokers
 

Crypto
 

Mortgages
 

Insurances
 

Loans
 

Small Business
 

About Us
 Christy Bieber is a full-time personal finance and legal writer with more than a decade of experience. She has a JD from UCLA as well as a degree in English, Media and Communications with a Certificate in Business Management from the University of Rochester. In addition to writing for The Ascent and The Motley Fool, her work has also been featured regularly on MSN Money, CNBC, and USA Today. She also ghost writes textbooks, serves as a subject matter expert for online course design, and is a former college instructor. 
See Full Bio
 Kailey Hagen has been writing about small businesses and finance for almost 10 years, with her work appearing on USA Today, CNN Money, Fox Business, and MSN Money. She specializes in personal and business bank accounts and software for small to medium-size businesses. She lives on what's almost a farm in northern Wisconsin with her husband and three dogs. 
See Full Bio
 
Our Insurance
Experts
 Ashley Maready is a former history museum professional who made the leap to digital content writing and editing in 2021. She has a BA in History and Philosophy from Hood College and an MA in Applied History from Shippensburg University. Ashley loves creating content for the public and learning new things so she can teach others, whether it's information about salt mining, canal mules, or personal finance. 
See Full Bio
 When it comes to finding the best car insurance company, drivers need comprehensive protection at an affordable price. And with so many auto insurance companies to choose from, finding the best car insurance coverage can take time. We've researched car insurance companies, compared prices from insurers nationwide, reviewed customer experiences, and performed in-depth research into dozens of different insurers. With a focus on price, claims handling, and customer service, we've narrowed our picks down to what we believe are the best car insurance companies today. See our recommendations below. At The Motley Fool Ascent, insurers are rated on a scale of one to five stars. We primarily focus on pricing, coverage options, and customer satisfaction; however, we also take into account features like unique discounts, online and app-based experiences, and branch access. Our highest-rated auto insurers generally offer low costs, solid coverage, and high customer satisfaction. Drivers can look for discounts, such as discounts for safe driving, membership in certain organizations, or vehicle safety features, to help lower car insurance premiums. Increasing a policy's deductible can also lower monthly premiums. Ultimately, to find the best car insurance rates, drivers will need to get personalized quotes from different insurers. Prices can vary dramatically depending on an individual motorist's circumstances. Personalized quotes can make it easier to compare insurers and find one that balances affordable rates with great perks. State Farm offers comprehensive coverage, reasonable rates, and top-notch customer service to drivers of many backgrounds. Its premiums are especially reasonable for drivers with prior accidents. State Farm policies are available in all 50 states, and applicants can easily bundle its auto insurance with other policies to save even more. 


Read our State Farm review


 Geico is one of the most affordable insurers available, and it offers comprehensive auto insurance coverage options at premiums that beat out most competitors. Geico promises to save people 15% or more on car insurance, and assessments of policy premiums shows it lives up to its promise. Insurance is available in all 50 states, and there are additional discounts for military members, good students, federal employees, seniors, and others who belong to certain groups or organizations. 


Read our Geico review


 Allstate offers reasonable rates for teen drivers in all 50 states, and it also has a number of discounts to help them save even more. Teens can lower their premiums by having good grades or participating in a driver training program. There's also savings for college students who keep their vehicles with them at school. 


Read our Allstate review


 USAA offers military members and their families some of the best auto insurance coverage available. Premiums are lower than most competitors, there are plentiful coverage options, and many opportunities to save further with premium discounts. Free accident forgiveness coverage after five years also means premiums won't go up if a crash happens. USAA is open only to military members, veterans, and their families. For those who qualify, it's likely their best bet for car insurance. 


Read our USAA review


 Amica is known for its excellent customer service, both before and after filing a claim. It took the top spot in J.D. Power's U.S. Auto Claims Satisfaction Study and it scored highly in its U.S. Auto Insurance Study as well. The company also offers comprehensive protections and a variety of discounts to help drivers save. 


Read our Amica review


 Farmers offers an impressive array of auto insurance discounts tailored to a variety of drivers, including savings for being a member of certain affinity groups and for households that share a family vehicle. Not all discounts are available in all states, but most drivers should qualify for at least a few to lower their monthly premiums. 


Read our Farmers review


 
Benjamin Shiller, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Economics at Brandeis University
 Car insurance is a type of insurance policy that pays the bills if the policyholder causes an accident. It can also help pay for repairs or replacement of the driver's own vehicle. Drivers in nearly all states are required to have some auto insurance to get behind the wheel. But many choose to purchase more than the minimum so they're better protected in an accident. Here are the steps to getting a car insurance policy. Auto insurance companies require certain information to provide an auto insurance quote. This includes: The easiest way to obtain accurate information about insuring a car is to provide the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN). This way, the insurer can determine many of the details automatically. The next step is to determine how much coverage is needed. Drivers must decide: Drivers must ensure they have at least the minimum required liability coverage mandated by their state. There are also certain types of car insurance coverage that may be required by lenders or lessors but are not typically required by law. Consumers buying auto insurance should also make certain their deductible is affordable as they must pay this amount out of pocket if a covered loss occurs. But keep in mind, lower deductibles translate to higher premiums. Deductible options vary by insurer, but they typically range from about $100 to $2,000. Choosing a higher deductible is a common way to keep costs down. Drivers hoping to do this may wish to save for their deductible in an emergency fund. Premium prices and coverage options vary from one insurer to another. Drivers should obtain quotes from multiple insurance companies to get the best coverage at the best price. Motorists can get auto insurance quotes themselves online. They can also work with an independent insurance agent who compares offerings from multiple insurers to help them find the best rates. After getting at least three to four quotes, drivers can compare pricing and terms to find the best coverage. While price is important, it is not the only factor that matters when buying insurance. Drivers should check J.D. Power Rankings when shopping for insurance to see how companies fare in terms of customer satisfaction and claims handling. Motorists shopping for coverage should also read online reviews, check for Better Business Bureau Accreditation, and review the complaint database operated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to see how many complaints a particular insurer has received. After comparing quotes and reading reviews, it is time to officially apply for a policy. This will mean providing more detailed information including a driver's license number, VIN, and Social Security number. Many insurers allow online applications and it is often possible to obtain approval and proof of insurance immediately. Drivers must make sure they have insurance before picking up a vehicle from a dealer or from a private seller, as it is unlawful to drive an uninsured car. Drivers should also take care to avoid a gap in insurance coverage when shopping for a new policy, as this can also be unlawful and can cause higher insurance rates in the future. Below are the typical average annual rates of several of the larger auto insurance companies from across the country. These rates are based upon an average driver profile with a clean driving record. Rates vary greatly between companies so it is always worth getting several car insurance quotes before making a final purchase decision. There are many different types of car insurance drivers should consider purchasing. Here are some coverage types. Liability insurance covers losses the policyholder causes other people to experience. It's divided into two subtypes: Personal injury protection, or PIP, pays for the policyholder's medical bills and lost wages in minor accidents, regardless of who is at fault for the crash. Fifteen states require PIP. These are called "no-fault states." Residents of no-fault states must use their own insurance to pay for losses after minor accidents. That's true even if another driver were to blame. This type of coverage pays for losses another driver should cover but can't because they don't have any or enough insurance. Without uninsured or underinsured coverage, a person who was involved in an accident with an uninsured motorist could be forced to pay for medical bills and vehicle repairs out of pocket. With uninsured motorist or underinsured motorist coverage, the policyholder's own insurer stands in for the at-fault driver who had too little or no insurance. Collision insurance pays for damages to the policyholder's own vehicle if they cause an accident or are involved in a single-car accident. It is not required by state law, although some lenders and leasing companies require it. Comprehensive insurance is also called "other than collision" coverage. It's another protection required by many lenders and lessors, though not by state law. Some of the different kinds of losses that this type of policy may pay for include: Medical coverage helps pay for medical expenses for a covered driver and passengers in the event of an accident. This type of coverage is also called medical expenses coverage, or med pay, and it is optional. Gap insurance pays off the balance of a driver's car loan if the vehicle is totaled and the driver owes more on their loan than the vehicle is worth. Many lenders and leasing companies require gap insurance, but it is an important purchase to protect assets even when not mandated. Most insurers offer car insurance discounts that can help reduce the cost of auto insurance. Common discounts include: The best car insurance companies calculate rates based on the risk of an accident. Factors that insurers consider include: Motorists must not drive without their state's required minimum insurance. Doing so could lead to criminal penalties as well as devastating financial loss if an accident occurs. Fortunately, there are coverage options for drivers who can't buy car insurance from traditional insurers. These include: Car insurance agents can help drivers to enter the assigned risk pool or to find high-risk insurers. 
Robert P. Hartwig, Ph.D.
 Director of The Risk and Uncertainty Management Center at the University of South Carolina How can shoppers feel more confident when selecting an auto insurance provider? It’s never been easier to ensure you’re getting a good price on auto insurance. Drivers can get dozens of quotes online in minutes, either through one of many online portals or directly through insurer websites and apps. A call to an agent can also generate one or more quotes within minutes. But as with any important purchase, price isn’t everything. Here are several suggestions to help you get the best insurance for your money: What additional coverage(s) would you recommend that shoppers pay for? Even though not required (unless you have a loan or lease on your vehicle), you should consider carrying collision and comprehensive coverage if your vehicle is less than eight or nine years old. Most people should also carry bodily injury liability insurance coverage with limits of at least $100,000 per person and $300,000 per accident. Most states require minimum liability limits of just $25,000 per person. If you’re sued as the result of your involvement in an accident, costs could add up quickly, driving you into bankruptcy unless you have adequate coverage. What tips would you offer for someone looking to lower their car insurance rate? 
PV Viswanath, Ph.D.
 Graduate Program Chair of the Lubin School of Business at Pace University How can shoppers feel more confident when selecting an auto insurance provider? What additional coverage(s) would you recommend that shoppers pay for? What tips would you offer for someone looking to lower their car insurance rate?   
Benjamin Shiller, Ph.D.
 Assistant Professor of Economics at Brandeis University How can shoppers feel more confident when selecting an auto insurance provider? Shop around. Each insurer has a different pricing algorithm, and the insurer that offers the lowest price for one person might not be the insurer that offers the lowest price for someone else. Furthermore, it isn't necessarily obvious that the insurer with the lowest price is the best choice. Quality matters, too (e.g., customer service, insurer ratings/solvency). Consider looking up A.M. Best insurance ratings in the process.  What additional coverage(s) would you recommend that shoppers pay for? Many people are worried about the size of the deductible, assuming smaller is better. However, insurance is intended to prevent someone from incurring a devastating expense that leaves them with poor finances in the long term. For example, if someone only has $100,000 of coverage, but then is sued and is forced to pay $500,000, they still owe $400,000 after the insurance payout. If choosing between higher coverage and a lower deductible, I always recommend higher (and broader) coverage. For those with more significant assets or high expected future earnings, umbrella insurance should be strongly considered.  What tips would you offer for someone looking to lower their car insurance rate? The best way to lower your insurance rate is to opt for one of the programs that monitors drivers (e.g., Progressive's Snapshot). If you drive safer while monitored, your insurance premiums are reduced. These programs have the added benefit that they save lives. Additionally, consider the insurance cost when buying a new vehicle. A quick Google search can reveal which vehicles are in general cheapest to insure. Finally, opt for a higher deductible. 
Deanne Butchey, Ph.D.
 Teaching Professor in the Department of Finance at Florida International University How can shoppers feel more confident when selecting an auto insurance provider? Shoppers need to ensure the reputation of the auto insurance provider is pristine. Specifically, they need to investigate the following: What additional coverage(s) would you recommend that shoppers pay for? It is important to review deductible coverages to ensure the ability to receive adequate compensation depending on your personal circumstances. You can offset the risk you are comfortable assuming to obtain a lower premium. For example, if you are able to borrow a car while your car is being repaired, avoid rental car coverage. What tips would you offer for someone looking to lower their car insurance rate? It is important to:   
Aniruddha Pangarkar, Ph.D.
 Assistant Professor of Marketing at The University of Wisconsin-Green Bay How can shoppers feel more confident when selecting an auto insurance provider? Whether you are a first-time shopper looking at getting a car insurance policy for your new car or you are someone who is looking at switching to a new company, one of the most critical things before you embark on the process of contacting insurance companies is to first do your own research. By this, I refer to gathering information about each driver on the policy (their name, address, license numbers, date of birth, etc.), information about the car (make, model, VIN number, anticipated annual mileage, etc.), and driving history record (tickets, accidents, etc.). Once you collect this information, it is important to look at some of the auto insurance companies you have in mind online and compare them. In particular, shoppers should look at their coverage needs liability, which is required by most states, full coverage/comprehensive insurance (important and required if your car is financed), uninsured and underinsured motorist coverage, collision coverage, personal injury protection insurance, etc. Each individual's situation is different so it is important to evaluate what kind of coverage you need. The next step is to call up auto insurance companies, either captives (working for a single insurance company, for example State Farm), or an independent insurance agent who might represent several companies, or look up third-party comparison websites for insurance policies. Lastly, if you feel you need to also renew/get renters' insurance, then many companies can give you a bundled option that can save a lot of money. In short, shoppers need to be smart in doing their research, get quotes, and ask relevant questions before finalizing their auto insurance company, which would make them feel more confident of making the right decision.  What additional coverage(s) would you recommend that shoppers pay for? Shoppers should consider that if the individual has taken a car loan, then they may be required by law to take liability, collision, and comprehensive insurance. Taking liability-only car insurance is quite risky. However, it could work well in certain cases for an individual who has economic constraints wishing to save money, provided they do not have any loan on the car, or if the value of the car being insured is very low (such as if the insurance cost is higher than the value of the car. For example, if the car's market value is $1,200 but an annual full insurance coverage policy for such a car is costing $1,350). Full coverage car insurance charges will vary for each customer depending on their credit history and driving and accident history. Therefore, each individual's situation is unique. If you are a new driver or teenage driver or even someone who is risk-averse, then it is better to take comprehensive, collision, and uninsured/underinsured, along with medical payments coverage and personal injury protection, in addition to the liability insurance that most states mandate. This will give you peace of mind. If an individual is financially constrained or willing to take the risk, then they might prefer only liability insurance coverage.  What tips would you offer for someone looking to lower their car insurance rate? It is important for all shoppers to be smart and discerning. For example, if you are a teenage driver, then certain insurance providers offer good discounts for taking driver education programs or public safe-driving courses, which can alleviate higher insurance normally charged. A teenager with good grades can qualify for a discount from the insurance company. Many insurance companies provide drivers with a device that can be installed in their cars to rate driving tendencies, along with tracking daily mileage, hard braking, rapid acceleration, etc., which can lower insurance rates. There are other ways consumers can lower their insurance rate, such as increasing your deductible (which can result in a lower monthly payment), special discounts for serving in the military, teacher/educator discounts, reducing coverage on older cars, bundling of services (auto and renters' insurance/homeowners insurance from the same company), maintaining a good credit record, getting a low-annual-mileage discount, loyalty discount, discount on multiple vehicles, and accident-free record discount, etc. Lastly, it is important to also be on the lookout for cheaper car insurance policies at all times because the auto insurance industry is very competitive. Therefore, many companies will be pleased to get your business and looking at developing a long-term relationship with new customers.   According to J.D. Power, the highest-ranking auto insurers and scores by 11 geographic regions are: First, determine your car insurance needs. Then compare quotes from three to four car insurance companies. Instead of only looking at the cost, look at the value and benefits you get. Other factors to consider are customer service, mobile app experience, and reputation of the company. You should also consider third-party ratings and NAIC auto insurance ratings. The best car insurance companies offer extensive coverage options with affordable rates, are financially stable with a great reputation, and have top-notch customer service. They also have a high rating in customer satisfaction and an easy-to-use claims process that is quick and efficient. Many drivers also look for a robust mobile app experience. It is important to find the best car insurance company that fits your unique needs and offers personalized customer service. According to The Ascent's expert analysis, here are the best car insurance companies for 2024: Car insurance is required in almost all states. Drivers must purchase a certain level of insurance based on their state's laws. Some states don't require car insurance if drivers are able to show evidence of financial responsibility, such as a surety bond, cash deposit with the state, or a certificate of self insurance. Bumper-to-bumper car insurance is a type of comprehensive auto insurance policy where vehicle parts are covered without the insurer reducing the amount it pays due to depreciation. Unfortunately, this type of coverage is typically not available in the U.S. Bumper-to-bumper warranties, however, are available from auto manufacturers when a new car is purchased. A bumper-to-bumper warranty pays for anything that goes wrong with a new vehicle, excluding issues caused by routine wear and tear, for a set number of months or miles after a new car is purchased. This is not insurance, but is instead a warranty provided by the car maker. There is no one auto insurer that is the cheapest in America. Insurance premium costs vary by state, as well as based on individual driver factors, such as marital status, age, driving history, and vehicle type. Some insurers that generally offer competitive premiums include Geico, Nationwide, State Farm, USAA, and Erie. However, drivers will want to obtain insurance quotes from at least three to four different insurance companies to find the cheapest rates for their personal situation. There is no single top-rated insurance company in the United States. Customer satisfaction ratings for insurers vary by location and there are many different ways to rate insurers, including based on price, customer satisfaction, and claims handling. To find the best insurance company for their individual needs, customers should check J.D. Power Rankings, Better Business Bureau grades, complaint databases from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, and online reviews. By doing their research, drivers can find the best insurer for their location and unique situation. The data found on this page is a combination of publicly available quote data obtained directly from the carrier as well as insurance rate data from Quadrant Information Services. These rates were publicly sourced from the top ten (10) to fifteen (15) carrier markets, within each state, based on annual written premium and should be used for comparative purposes only -- your own quotes may be different.  The base vehicle used for benchmarking purposes is a 2019 Honda Civic averaging 14k miles driven per year.  The base driver persona is a 35 year old single male with a clean driving record that uses their vehicle for personal commuting with coverage limits set to the following: (unless otherwise noted)  Insurance products are then rated on a scale of one to five stars, primarily focusing on:  With so many options for insurance across the board these days, it's easiest, and quite effective, to first look at the bottom line. Do single out competitive prices across insurance categories it's important to focus on:  Insurance provides coverage for unexpected financial burdens and piece of mind. But it's important to check your policies and see how you can lower your premium. Insurance companies offer discounts for all sorts of things now from safe driving to good grades to automatic bill pay. Pay attention to:  The benefits of insurance these days have gone far beyond just what your policy covers. Most companies and policies come with perks -- some of which may be completely unrelated to your insurance policy. Take a look at:  Policy research and coverage options are great, but how is the process when you have to actually use your insurance policy? The best coverage doesn't hold much value if it's a hassle to get paid out. Pay special attention to:  

We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. The Ascent, a Motley Fool service, does not cover all offers on the market. The Ascent has a dedicated team of editors and analysts focused on personal finance, and they follow the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.


 The Ascent is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters. Copyright © 2018 - 2024 The Ascent. All rights reserved.