 Now  73  Sat  78  Sun  77 by Herb Weisbaum, contributing editor, Checkbook.org TOPICS: SEATTLE — Most Puget Sound area homeowners can save more than $500 a year by switching from their current insurance company to a lower-priced one. Some will save more than $1,500. Our researchers collected annual premiums for sample policyholders from the companies that write almost all of the homeowners insurance business in the area. Costs vary significantly from company to company. For instance, our family living in suburban King County would pay $1,698 per year with American Family, $1,722 with Farmers, or $1,817 with Progressive, compared to $3,844 with American Modern, $4,063 with State Farm, or $4,326 with Mutual of Enumclaw. Condo owners and renters will also save money by shopping around for better rates. The companies that will offer you the lowest rates depends on many factors. When we went to press, companies operating in Washington were still permitted to use credit scores to set their rates (the state legislature was considering laws that would bar them from continuing this practice). With some insurers, a poor-credit penalty more than doubles their rates. Insurers increasingly use other secretive and opaque formulas to calculate what you’ll pay for coverage. Because pricing methods and premiums can dramatically change over time, shop around for a better rate every few years. But don’t wait until the end of your policy term. If you change insurers, your old company must reimburse you for the unused portion of any payments you’ve made. RELATED | What to do if you are denied a mortgage  Although what you’ll pay to insure your home depends largely on variables you can’t control, there are steps you can take—besides shopping for the best rate—to minimize costs: You can choose a low-priced company and still get good claims service. We also provide insight into companies’ service performance. More Info: Listen to Checkbook’s Consumerpedia podcast: Insuring Your Home Consumers’ Checkbook magazine and Checkbook.org is a nonprofit organization with a mission to help consumers get good service and low prices. It does this by providing unbiased ratings, advice, and price information. Checkbook is supported by consumers and takes no money from the service providers it evaluates. You can reach Herb at his website ConsumerMan.com.