TSXV: GMINOTCQX: GMINF BROSSARD, QC, Jan. 31, 2023 /CNW Telbec/ - G Mining Ventures Corp. ("GMIN" or the "Corporation") (TSXV: GMIN) (OTCQX: GMINF) is pleased to announce that Mr. Du?an Petkovi? has been promoted to Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy. 



 Mr. Petkovi? co-founded GMIN in October 2020 and served as a founding Director of the Board until March 2021, when he joined the management team as the inaugural Vice President, Corporate Development & Investor Relations. He has been responsible for leading the Corporation's capital markets initiatives including capital raising, acquisitions, and investor relations. His strong capital markets acumen and extensive experience is instrumental in bringing institutional investor awareness to GMIN. Mr. Petkovi? has played an integral role on the GMIN team, leading the identification and acquisition of the Corporation's flagship Tocantinzinho Gold Project ("TZ" or the "Project"). He was also pivotal in securing the US$481 million financing package to fully fund the development and construction of TZ, creatively structured to include a gold stream, term loan, strategic equity and equipment financing, all at attractive costs of capital. Mr. Petkovi? is a highly accomplished investment professional with extensive experience in the metals and mining sector. Prior to joining GMIN, he was a Principal, Private Debt, at Sprott Resource Lending Corp. ("Sprott"). Over his 10 years at Sprott, Mr. Petkovi? was responsible for the origination, structuring, and investment management of bespoke financing transactions for companies in the mining sector. Prior to Sprott, he spent time in mining investment banking, advising on IPOs, equity issuance and M&A. Mr. Petkovi? earned a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from Western University and is a CFA® charterholder. Louis-Pierre Gignac, President & Chief Executive Officer, commented: "Du?an is an important member of our team, and this promotion is a recognition of his many contributions enabling the Corporation to achieve several significant milestones in its short history. We look forward to the value that I trust Du?an will continue to create in his new role as Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy." G Mining Ventures Corp. (TSXV: GMIN) (OTCQX: GMINF) is a mining company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and development of precious metal projects, to capitalize on the value uplift from successful mine development. GMIN is well-positioned to grow into the next mid-tier precious metals producer by leveraging strong access to capital and proven development expertise. GMIN is currently anchored by its flagship Tocantinzinho Gold Project in mining friendly and prospective Pará State, Brazil. Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this press release. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, contained in this press release constitute "forward-looking information" and "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of certain securities laws and are based on expectations and projections as of the date of this press release. Forward-looking statements contained in this press release include, without limitation, those related to the value Mr. Petkovi? will continue to create in his new role and, more generally, the contents of the above section entitled "About G Mining Ventures Corp.". Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, estimates and projections as of the time of this press release. Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by the Corporation as of the time of such statements, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies. These estimates and assumptions may prove to be incorrect. Such assumptions include, without limitation, those underlying the items listed in the above section entitled "About G Mining Ventures Corp.". Many of these uncertainties and contingencies can directly or indirectly affect, and could cause, actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. There can be no assurance that, notably but without limitation, (i) the Corporation will bring the Tocantinzinho Project into commercial production, and (ii) the Corporation will capitalize on the value uplift from successful mine development, and that it will use the Tocantinzinho Project as the flagship asset to grow GMIN into the next mid-tier precious metals producer, as future events could differ materially from what is currently anticipated by the Corporation. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific, and risks exist that estimates, forecasts, projections and other forward-looking statements will not be achieved or that assumptions do not reflect future experience. Forward-looking statements are provided for the purpose of providing information about management's expectations and plans relating to the future. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements as a number of important risk factors and future events could cause the actual outcomes to differ materially from the beliefs, plans, objectives, expectations, anticipations, estimates, assumptions and intentions expressed in such forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements made in this press release are qualified by these cautionary statements and those made in the Corporation's other filings with the securities regulators of Canada including, but not limited to, the cautionary statements made in the relevant sections of the Corporation's (i) Annual Information Form dated June 3, 2022, for the financial year ended December 31, 2021, and (ii) Management Discussion & Analysis. The Corporation cautions that the foregoing list of factors that may affect future results is not exhaustive, and new, unforeseeable risks may arise from time to time. The Corporation disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to explain any material difference between subsequent actual events and such forward-looking statements, except to the extent required by applicable law. SOURCE  G Mining Ventures Corp