“The adoption of hydrogen in steel making – the replacement of blast furnace iron with direct reduced iron – is something possible in the future,” he said. “However, we don’t think that is something that is going to happen in material quantities in this part of the world for another few decades. The reason is just costs.” For DRI to be economically sustainable in Asia, the price of each tonne of carbon dioxide emitted would need to rise to US$100, and the price of green hydrogen fall to US$1 per kilogram, he said. The cost of green hydrogen, made by splitting water into oxygen and hydrogen using renewable energy, could take until 2050 to fall to US$0.7-US$1.60 per kg in most parts of the world, from US$2.5-US$4.5 in 2019, according to BloombergNEF, a clean-energy industry data provider. DRI, which involves the removal of oxygen from the ore to produce iron without melting it, is much less carbon-intensive than that produced in blast furnaces. BHP plans to spend US$4 billion to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions globally by at least 30 per cent by 2030 compared to 2020. The iron ore and metallurgical coal mining giant has started to introduce electric lorries, and charter vessels powered by natural gas instead of oil to cut its carbon footprint from transport. It is also helping customers to develop low-carbon steel technology. This will take a few decades to reach commercial scale since the infrastructure needs to be built and production scaled up to slash costs, said van Jaarsveld. Two-thirds of BHP’s US$60.8 billion of annual sales – mostly iron ore and metallurgical coal – goes to China, the world’s largest greenhouse gas emitter that is aiming for peak emissions by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060. The carbon footprint of steel produced by electric arc furnaces is around 75 per cent lower than that of blast furnaces, according to metals consultancy CRU Group. “It is clear that we are not only behind in the shift from [blast furnace] to EAF steelmaking capacity, but that the situation is actually going to get worse without intervention,” she wrote.