Madison  Reporter Software from a local company is helping to make schools safer for area students.  ​COPYRIGHT 2023 BY CHANNEL 3000. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. THIS MATERIAL MAY NOT BE PUBLISHED, BROADCAST, REWRITTEN OR REDISTRIBUTED. MADISON, Wis. – A software company in Madison is working to bring technology to area schools that could add an extra layer of security at check-in. Singlewire Software is promoting tech that uses IDs and facial recognition to quickly check sexual predator databases, court orders and FBI watch lists across all 50 states when someone tries to check into a school building. The company’s founder and CEO, Paul Shain, said Visitor Aware’s simplicity and ability to run without dedicated hardware makes it unique. That means a school’s computer or iPad could run the program. “That product is something we had heard from our customers that they were interested in. It adds a level of safety and security for people coming into a facility,” Shain said, "so that you know that the people that you’re allowing into your facility are safe.” If a user is flagged, administrators are immediately alerted of the person and their background. They can then use that information to confirm whether that person should or shouldn't be allowed into the building. Schools in Verona currently have a similar Raptor Technologies software set up throughout the district. A spokesperson from the Madison Metropolitan School District said they are considering the technology but can’t move forward because they are limited by budget restraints. RELATED: Verona area schools to beef up entrance security Shain also said the software is not limited to schools but can also be used in places like long term care facilities, but he admits it doesn’t make front desk staff or security obsolete. “There’s always a human component," he said. "This helps do the screening but someone’s got to sort of deal with the situation and either say, ‘Yep, you’re free to go into the building,' or, 'No, we need to have a further discussion with you.'” Singlewire Software has been in the critical event management and emergency mass notification market since 2009. ​COPYRIGHT 2023 BY CHANNEL 3000. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. THIS MATERIAL MAY NOT BE PUBLISHED, BROADCAST, REWRITTEN OR REDISTRIBUTED. Reporter   Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: