  Wow, that title was a mouthful. But unlike the Asus ROG Harpe Ace Aim Lab Edition’s overly long name, there’s a much simpler, refined review to unpack. Firstly, this version of the mouse is inspired by Aim Lab, the very home of FPS aiming training, meaning it’s specifically made for those hardcore FPS fans. While it’s rather understated in its overall design, it more than makes up for it with its feather-like weight, satisfying mechanical buttons, and incredible battery life. Thanks to its nylon shell, this weighs in at just 54g and is the lightest mouse I’ve ever used. So much so that when I pulled it out of the box, I thought I had been given a lifeless dummy unit by accident. Prior to this review, I had been daily driving the Asus ROG Chakram X, which weighs in at a whopping 127g in comparison, so you could imagine my surprise. It’s also incredibly sleek and sits a lot lower to the desk than I am admittedly used to. That being said, its narrow design does lean towards users with smaller hands, but even with my larger palms, I rarely found this uncomfortable to use for long periods of time.  Its buttons are placed in areas you would expect, with seven in total. Dedicated connectivity, DPI and pairing buttons can also be found underneath along with the smooth PTFE pads. The two side buttons are also highlighted in blue, a small nod to the Aim Labs logo. The only RGB in sight is kept within the scroll wheel, which can also be customised to your liking. I personally like the minimalist approach, as I rarely resort to more than two side buttons on a mouse. But it’s evident that every design choice is contributing to that overall goal of being one of the lightest mice on the market; and for that, I certainly respect it. Thanks to a 36,000 DPI (Dots Per linear Inch) sensor and mechanical mouse buttons, the Asus ROG Harpe Ace Aim Lab Edition is a blast to use. While 36,000 DPI can seem ludicrous to most users, it suits the Aim Lab brand, as most users would assumingly be seeking the highest levels of sensitivity for aiming. But regardless of the DPI settings, it’s quick, responsive and downright satisfying to whiz around with. Asus has decided to go with their own ROG Mirco mechanical switches here, as opposed to the more traditional optical switches on the market. They feel responsive yet sturdy, with Asus promising a lifetime of 70 million clicks, which is surely built to last, even for the most hardcore users. When it comes to connectivity, the Asus ROG Harpe Ace Aim Lab Edition allows for both dedicated USB-A dongle and Bluetooth options. While the dongle is inevitably the faster and more responsive of the two, it’s nice to know that it caters for all types of users who want to get the most out of the experience on various devices. But even when connected via Bluetooth, the Asus ROG Harpe Ace Aim Lab Edition provides a nifty little space for that USB-A dongle underneath. The battery life on the Asus ROG Harpe Ace Aim Lab Edition is simply superb. Users will get up to 98 hours via the USB-A dongle and 98 hours via Bluetooth. While this might reveal that I have not spent 98 hours on my computer over the past few weeks, I have not had to plug this in for a recharge since setting it up. But when the time finally comes, the included USB-C cable will have this thing up and running for another round in no time. I use Asus’ Armoury Crate software for my PC, so it’s a little more convenient for me personally. But should you download it, the dedicated software allows for a multitude of customisable options, from the RGB scroll wheel, to button mapping and DPI sensitivity. It’s all pretty standard fare and adjusted settings are applied on the fly.  But unlike most gaming mice, there’s an additional bit of software to take advantage of. As the collaboration suggests, you’ll also be able to take advantage of the Aim Lab Settings Organiser software, which can be downloaded via Steam. A fair word of warning, it’s a hefty 12GB but does allow users to further fine-tune things like mouse lift-off sensitivity and further DPI settings. This is far from essential, but does provide the most hardcore users once again, with one of the most specific and adjustable setups you can think of. The Asus ROG Harpe Ace Aim Lab Edition gaming mouse is a fantastic option for many reasons. Its lightweight design is incredibly striking, but thanks to its 36,000 DPI sensor and Aim Lab Settings Organiser software, it might be one of the most in-depth alternatives geared towards FPS gamers. Should you appreciate the more understated design along with the A$189 price tag, you might have just found your next gaming mouse.  Highlights: Incredibly lightweight; Comfortable design; Incredible battery life
Lowlights: Not all users will gravitate towards dedicated Aim Lab software
Manufacturer: Asus
Price: A$189
Available: Now Review based on unit supplied by Asus. Matthew Arcari is the games and technology editor at The AU Review. You can find him on Twitter at @sirchunkee, or at the Dagobah System, chilling with Luke and Yoda. 
  
