There are four computer labs available to UH students. The labs are located on the third floor of the Albert & Mamie George Building. The labs use updated hardware and have a general software package installed. Computer lab hardware and software specifications are listed in the IT Service Catalog under the Hardware & Software section. Special software required for specific academic programs may be installed at the request of the program's instructor. Students wishing to request specific software packages can give their suggestions to the IT staff for consideration. Please call 832-842-2999 to inquire about hours during holidays or between semesters. The three instructional computer labs are designed as multipurpose classrooms for general classes, videoconferences and classes needing computing resources. The computer labs are available during those scheduled class hours. The following general rules apply to all UH at Sugar Land computer labs and computers unless otherwise noted. Please note that they do not cover every possible situation and that the IT staff has latitude in making a judgment that meets a situation that is not described below. By using the computing resources, users acknowledge that the following rules have been read, are understood and agree to follow them. An individual who violates these rules may be asked to leave the lab facilities or classroom. In addition, any individual who violates UH policies and procedures on computing resources may have their lab privileges revoked for a set period or indefinitely. Actions that are a violation of any UH or UH System policy will be reported to the appropriate university official for possible disciplinary action. Some of these rules and conditions are matters of law and to violate them is a criminal offense. UH at Sugar Land will cooperate with federal and state agencies in the prosecution of such offenses. If you have any information concerning an infraction of the above conditions, contact the IT staff. Please remember that while the IT staff is there to provide assistance to you, they are operational specialists and not specialists in the computer applications. Their responsibility is to operate, maintain and protect the security of the computer network. They may not be familiar with specific software programs or applications. If you need help with a software program and they are not able to assist you with it, contact the University Information Technology Help Desk at 713-743-1411. Federal copyright laws protect most software available in the computer labs. Unauthorized copying of software is illegal. Lack of copy protection does not constitute permission to copy the software. All software on UH at Sugar Land computers is licensed for your use. However, its use may be subject to limitations. Students wishing to request specific software packages are encouraged to give their suggestions to the IT staff. The UH at Sugar Land IT team is not responsible for loss of information from computing misuse, malfunction of computing hardware, malfunction of computing software, loss of storage media or external contamination of data or programs. The UH at Sugar Land IT team makes every effort to ensure the integrity of the campuses' computer systems and information storage. ©2024 University of Houston. All rights reserved.