A monthly overview of things you need to know as an architect or aspiring architect. View an example  
We protect your privacy.
 
                        Facilitating the Spread of Knowledge and Innovation in Professional Software Development
                       
Back to login
  
Back to login
 Jeremy Ruston explores what made the BBC Micro attractive and what can be learned from it today. Gregor Hohpe reflects on two decades working as an architect, ranging from the executive penthouse to the serverless engine room. The presenters discuss an introduction to incremental data processing, contrasting it with the two prevalent processing models of today - batch and stream data processing. In Jan 2023, we received word that we’d need to build a microblogging service to compete with Twitter in a couple of months. A small team was assembled to take on that challenge, and we shipped a new social network in July. This article describes how we developed and launched the Threads app at Meta last year. David Stenglein discusses the shift to a product model for internal platforms and how this benefits from people-centric tools like customer empathy and the new DevEx framework. Get clarity from senior software practitioners on today's critical dev priorities. Register Now. Level up your software skills by uncovering the emerging trends you should focus on. Register now. Discover emerging trends, insights, and real-world best practices in software development & tech leadership. Join now. Your monthly guide to all the topics, technologies and techniques that every professional needs to know about. Subscribe for free. 
InfoQ Homepage
News
Enhancing AI Capabilities: Google Cloud Integrates Vector Search in Managed Databases
 Jul 09, 2023
								
								
								
									
									2
									min read
								
							 by 


Renato Losio

 Google Cloud recently added support for the pgvector on Cloud SQL for PostgreSQL and AlloyDB for PostgreSQL. The extension brings vector search operations to the managed databases, allowing developers to store vector embeddings generated by large language models (LLMs) and perform similarity searches. Cloud SQL and AlloyDB can now be paired with generative AI services on Vertex AI, helping create AI-enabled applications that are aware of the application and user state. Sandhya Ghai, senior product manager at Google, and Bala Narasimhan, product manager at Google, explain: Vector embeddings are numerical representations typically used to transform complex user-generated content like text, audio, and video into a form that can be easily stored, manipulated, and indexed. These representations are generated by embeddings models such that, if two pieces of content are semantically similar, their respective embeddings are located near each other in the embedding vector space. Vector embeddings are then indexed and used to efficiently filter data based on similarity. For example, developers can use Vertex AI’s pre-trained models across text and images to generate embeddings and store and index them in a database, simplifying the search for similar records. The pgvector extension can now be installed within an existing database using the CREATE EXTENSION command: Source: https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/databases/using-pgvector-llms-and-langchain-with-google-cloud-databases The new feature can also help developers leverage pre-trained LLMs, as Ghai and Narasimhan explain: One thing to note about LLMs is that they have no concept of state. (...) Embeddings allow you to store large contexts such as documentation or long-term chat histories in your database and filter them to find the most relevant information. You can then feed the most relevant pieces of chat history or documentation to the model to simulate long-term memory and business-specific knowledge. Google Cloud released a Colab notebook and a video to build AI-powered apps using pgvector, the open-source framework LangChain, and LLMs. Showing how to add generative AI features to a sample Python application, Saket Saurabh, senior software engineer at Google, writes: The pgvector extension also introduces new operators for performing similarity matches on vectors, allowing you to find vectors that are semantically similar. Two such operators are:
‘<->’: returns the Euclidean distance between the two vectors. (...)
‘<=>’: returns the cosine distance between the two vectors. Google Cloud is not the only cloud provider targeting vector databases in the last few months, with Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL supporting the pgvector extension and Microsoft showing how Azure Data Explorer (ADX) can be used as a vector database and discussing several connectors to vector databases. 

   
        A round-up of last week’s content on InfoQ sent out every Tuesday. Join a community of over 250,000 senior developers.
        
			View an example
  
We protect your privacy.
 A round-up of last week’s content on InfoQ sent out every Tuesday. Join a community of over 250,000 senior developers.
		
			View an example
  
We protect your privacy.
  InfoQ Dev Summit Munich September 26-27, 2024 InfoQ Dev Summit Munich is a two-day software conference featuring 22 technical talks sharing actionable insights on Generative AI, security, modern web apps, and more. Learn from senior developers facing the same challenges as you as they share proven tactics, not just trends, empowering you to make smart, focused choices for your immediate dev roadmap.Register Now 
					InfoQ.com and all content copyright © 2006-2024 C4Media Inc.
Privacy Notice, Terms And Conditions, Cookie Policy
