Dynatrace has enhanced its observability and security platform with a Security Analytics solution that it bases on a proprietary AI engine. This should provide businesses with greater protection against threats in hybrid and multicloud environments. The new Security Analytics solution uses Dynatrace’s proprietary Davis AI engine to provide insights and contextual data. The AI engine should help security analysts prioritize potential threats and vulnerabilities by providing predictions and identifying causes that led to an incident. This should lead to more proactive cybersecurity for hybrid and multicloud environments. The solution delivers context-rich answers based on logs, metrics, traces and topology. This helps identify and investigate threats that are not apparent from simple log analysis. Security Analytics also provides runtime vulnerability analytics and runtime application protection. This allows threats to be identified and prioritized in real-time. This prevents these vulnerabilities from reaching production environments. Security Analytics also works closely with the Dynatrace AutomationEngine. This integration facilitates the development of automation and workflows that help analysts determine the severity of attacks, discover breach indicators and provide appropriate responses to them. Furthermore, the solution is connected to the Dynatrace Grail data lakehouse. This allows users to store relevant data for the longer term while always having it available for display in dashboards or further analysis. Finally, notebooks are available that allow security teams to create playbooks for creating complex search queries, displaying results and zooming in on breach indicators. In the near future, Dynatrace plans to further link its Security Analytics solution to its generative AI solution Davis CoPilot. Also read: Dynatrace brings observability to serverless architectures AI engine / Cloud threat detection / Dynatrace / Dynatrace Davis AI / hybrid cloud / multi-cloud  "*" indicates required fields 
The U.S. government body NIST this week unveiled three quantum-safe e... 
Security company Rubrik is integrating threat detection technology fr... 
The list of companies whose data has been captured in the massive dat... 
This week's episode of Techzine Talks on Tour was recorded several mo... 
Ransomware has been on the radar of many security professionals for y... 
Hackers are actively exploiting a critical vulnerability in SolarWinds' Web Help Desk software. This allows t... 
Starting October 15, Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) will be mandatory for administrators of Azure portal, ... 
Pixel smartphones contain a vulnerability that allows hackers to install malware or spyware unobtrusively. Th... 
The U.S. government body NIST this week unveiled three quantum-safe encryption tools. Unlike the encryptions ... 
Discover the essential strategies and imperatives to create a data an... 
Some companies thrive in times of external uncertainty. They know how... 
The IT department is currently under great pressure, partly because o... 
As the software development life cycle becomes ever more complex and ... Techzine focusses on IT professionals and business decision makers by publishing the latest IT news and background stories. The goal is to help IT professionals get acquainted with new innovative products and services, but also to offer in-depth information to help them understand products and services better. © 2024 Dolphin Publications B.V.All rights reserved.