   COMPANY NEWS: Storyblok, the content management system (CMS) category leader, was used by fintech platform Spendesk to scale its website and consolidate all of its content into one CMS. Spendesk previously used two CMSs to manage its content, but the developers experienced technical limitations, and the content team could not edit or build pages quickly without breaking the website. They decided to migrate to a single CMS that met the needs of the marketing, development, and design teams and optimised both internal collaboration and the overall experience for clients. After making the move to Storyblok, Spendesk reduced page creation time by 80%, experienced up to 2x faster CMS speeds, and achieved a 25% smaller codebase by using dynamic pages. “Pages that used to take hours to build now only take minutes with Storyblok. The Visual Editor gives our content team complete autonomy by delivering a live preview of the pages they’re working on. While our previous CMSs were expensive and didn’t provide the benefits we needed, Storyblok’s CMS capabilities deliver great value,” said Lionel Paulus, Senior Front-End Engineer at Spendesk. “Spendesk’s experience proves that modern content requires future-proof ways to manage content with a CMS that is optimized for performance and works for every team,” said Dominik Angerer, Co-Founder and CEO of Storyblok. Resources About Storyblok Storyblok, the content management system (CMS) category leader, empowers both developers and marketing teams to create better content experiences across any digital channel. Storyblok’s headless CMS architecture enables developers to build anything, publish everywhere, and integrate with any service or technology. Marketing teams can create and scale content experiences independently using a visual editing interface, collaborative tools, and custom publishing workflows. Additionally, businesses can improve digital experiences everywhere with best-in-class performance, personalization, and optimized, omnichannel storytelling. Leading brands such as Adidas, T-Mobile, Oatly, Deliveroo, and 170,000+ other developers and marketers use Storyblok to create better content experiences that are faster, more secure, and built to scale. See why Storyblok was named the #1 CMS by G2 at www.storyblok.com and follow Storyblok on LinkedIn and Twitter.   
DOWNLOAD WHITE PAPER! 

PROMOTE YOUR WEBINAR ON ITWIRE
It's all about Webinars.
Marketing budgets are now focused on Webinars combined with Lead Generation.
If you wish to promote a Webinar we recommend at least a 3 to 4 week campaign prior to your event.
The iTWire campaign will include extensive adverts on our News Site itwire.com and prominent Newsletter promotion https://itwire.com/itwire-update.html and Promotional News & Editorial. Plus a video interview of the key speaker on iTWire TV https://www.youtube.com/c/iTWireTV/videos which will be used in Promotional Posts on the iTWire Home Page.
Now we are coming out of Lockdown iTWire will be focussed to assisting with your webinars and campaigns and assistance via part payments and extended terms, a Webinar Business Booster Pack and other supportive programs. We can also create your adverts and written content plus coordinate your video interview.
We look forward to discussing your campaign goals with you. Please click the button below.
MORE INFO HERE!
 

 
MORE INFO HERE! 

 

 
                
                                Everyone got a bit of what they wanted. No one got everything, that sounds like the basis for a good[…]                             
                
                                Is this article ironic?                             
                
                                The safest way not to get snared is to avoid anything financial on your devices plus do not participate in[…]                             
                
                                Who do we trust here? A professional cloud provider with many customers or a monopolistic ticketing agency that can never[…]                             
                
                                I knew this scam was full of shit because it didn't present any actual evidence of the supposed hacker having[…]                              

