Storyblok, the content management system (CMS) category leader, was used by fintech platform Spendesk to scale its website and consolidate all of its content into one CMS.Spendesk previously used two CMSs to manage its content, but the developers experienced technical limitations and the content team could not edit or build pages quickly without breaking the website. They decided to migrate to a single CMS that met the needs of the marketing, development, and design teams and optimize both internal collaboration and the overall experience for clients.After making the move to Storyblok, Spendesk reduced page creation time by 80%, experienced up to 2x faster CMS speeds, and achieved a 25% smaller codebase by using dynamic pages.“Pages that used to take hours to build now only take minutes with Storyblok. The Visual Editor gives our content team complete autonomy by delivering a live preview of the pages they’re working on. While our previous CMSs were expensive and didn’t provide the benefits we needed, Storyblok’s CMS capabilities deliver great value,” said Lionel Paulus, Senior Front-End Engineer at Spendesk.“Spendesk’s experience proves that modern content requires future-proof ways to manage content with a CMS that is optimized for performance and works for every team,” said Dominik Angerer, Co-Founder and CEO of Storyblok.ResourcesRead the Spendesk case study: https://www.storyblok.com/cs/spendeskSee other case studies: https://www.storyblok.com/case-studiesLearn more about Storyblok: https://www.storyblok.comView Storyblok’s press kit: https://www.storyblok.com/pressSee why Storyblok was named the #1 CMS by G2 at www.storyblok.com and follow Storyblok on LinkedIn and Twitter. Storyblok, the content management system (CMS) category leader, was used by fintech platform Spendesk to scale its website and consolidate all of its content into one CMS. Spendesk previously used two CMSs to manage its content, but the developers experienced technical limitations and the content team could not edit or build pages quickly without breaking the website. They decided to migrate to a single CMS that met the needs of the marketing, development, and design teams and optimize both internal collaboration and the overall experience for clients. After making the move to Storyblok, Spendesk reduced page creation time by 80%, experienced up to 2x faster CMS speeds, and achieved a 25% smaller codebase by using dynamic pages. “Pages that used to take hours to build now only take minutes with Storyblok. The Visual Editor gives our content team complete autonomy by delivering a live preview of the pages they’re working on. While our previous CMSs were expensive and didn’t provide the benefits we needed, Storyblok’s CMS capabilities deliver great value,” said Lionel Paulus, Senior Front-End Engineer at Spendesk. “Spendesk’s experience proves that modern content requires future-proof ways to manage content with a CMS that is optimized for performance and works for every team,” said Dominik Angerer, Co-Founder and CEO of Storyblok.  Resources Read the Spendesk case study: https://www.storyblok.com/cs/spendesk  See other case studies: https://www.storyblok.com/case-studies   Learn more about Storyblok: https://www.storyblok.com   View Storyblok’s press kit: https://www.storyblok.com/press    See why Storyblok was named the #1 CMS by G2 at www.storyblok.com and follow Storyblok on LinkedIn and Twitter.