HelpPay, the profit-for-purpose Australian fintech on a mission to empower individuals to pay someone's bill and provide assistance to those in need, selected Storyblok, the content management system (CMS) category leader, to revolutionise its website and enhance brand visibility. The collaboration with Revium, an Australian digital consultancy and Storyblok Certified Partner, resulted in a fully featured site that acts as a powerful tool to drive growth and raise awareness of HelpPay's mission. Investing in a modern website is a must for ANZ businesses to thrive in today’s fast-paced digital landscape where consumer expectations are higher than ever before. Research demonstrates that 60 per cent of consumers regularly abandon purchases due to poor website user experience with businesses estimating it costs upwards of AU$108,000 in lost sales per year. Recognising the need for a modern, informative and accessible website to support its users, partners and investors, HelpPay launched its new site in September 2022. Already, the website has delivered exceptional results: The right content was available onsite within a remarkable 3-weeks, to maintain momentum. In less than a month, website traffic increased by an impressive 146%. The onsite content captivated users and kept them engaged. User attention was held, resulting in a 68% increase in time spent on the site and overall engagement. Despite being in its infancy, the number of calls to action tripled, experiencing a 378% increase over the launch period. As this ground-breaking start-up continues, the need to drive things forward remains high. The recent capital raise successfully surpassed the goal, generating over AU$400,000. HelpPay’s initial website on the previous platform lacked flexibility and a user-friendly editor experience, hindering content creation and frustrating the marketing team. The goal was clear: to transition from a placeholder approach to a dynamic site that reflects HelpPay's values and ambitions. With Storyblok, HelpPay gained a centralised location to create, manage and distribute digital content efficiently, saving valuable time and resources. "We chose Storyblok as our CMS because it is user-friendly, flexible and has the ability to seamlessly integrate with our website, mobile app and social channels," said Rowan Wild, Co-Founder of HelpPay. "It allows us to easily create and manage our digital content in a centralised location, saving us time and resources." Revium, renowned for its focus on quality and delivering exceptional outcomes, took charge of rebuilding HelpPay's website on Storyblok. Leveraging Nuxt.js as the development framework, Revium seamlessly integrated key components and performed essential integrations, including Segment by way of Customer.io for marketing automation workflows. "Given the nature of Storyblok as a headless CMS, coupled with the flexibility that the platform offers, we completed the rebuild in just over three weeks," explained Chris Newton, head of front end delivery at Revium. Revium's development team initially prioritised content-heavy elements, enabling the HelpPay team to populate the site whilst refining other components. "The Storyblok User Interface is simple and easy to run clients through," said Caitlin Merritt, senior account manager at Revium. "As a result, the marketing team at HelpPay was able to work in parallel with the Revium team to populate content during development." Dominik Angerer, co-founder and CEO of Storyblok said, "HelpPay's website transformation journey exemplifies the value of embracing modern digital solutions. By leveraging Storyblok's headless CMS, HelpPay has not only enhanced brand awareness but also created a seamless user experience for its customers. We are proud to have played a role in empowering HelpPay to make a meaningful impact in the social fintech space. It's inspiring to witness businesses like HelpPay thrive in today's fast-paced digital landscape where innovation and user-centricity are key to success.” Storyblok is experiencing significant growth in Australia, revolutionising the way leading brands like Adidas, Tesla and Deliveroo approach content management and digital experiences. To find out more about Storyblok’s collaboration with HelpPay and Revium, find the full case study here.  HelpPay has undertaken market research to address the pain points for customers and providers when handling debt. HelpPay takes all the pain points and customers' experience in the cycle of asking, giving and getting financial help today. HelpPay is also significantly cheaper for providers when managing their accounts receivable and less stressful for customers than traditional methods such as phone calls, sending letters and using debt collection agencies. 