 This has been a big year for new VR headsets: the PlayStation VR 2 and Vive XR Elite are in full swing, and Apple's mixed reality headset is causing a stir with its steep price tag. But is the biggest VR disruptor the Meta Quest 3? A survey of software and marketing industry leaders by Storyblok reveals that the introduction of the Apple Vision Pro shouldn’t cause Meta to worry about the future of its Quest product line as much as some may think. According to the survey, 44% say Meta’s Quest headsets will be strong competition for Apple, with only 18% saying the Apple Vision Pro will make them irrelevant. With that said, enthusiasm for the Apple Vision Pro is very high: Data shows Apple did a good job of introducing the Apple Vision Pro to businesses. Not only do more of them think this was another iPhone moment for Apple, but an increased number are willing to pay the high price for the device and create content for it, even though most think it’s two years away from being important for their customers. Storyblok recently unveiled their their own ‘proof of concept’ VR e-commerce store, which allows brands to create virtual store experiences from scratch, where consumers can browse and interact with VR-enabled products.  About Storyblok Storyblok, the content management system (CMS) category leader, empowers both developers and content teams to create better content experiences across any digital channel. Storyblok enhances audience experiences with best-in-breed performance, security, optimised omnichannel storytelling, and robust personalisation. Enable content teams to create and manage content intuitively and independently with drag and drop visual editing, custom collaboration workflows, and a world-class digital asset manager. Empower developers to build anything, integrate with everything, and publish everywhere with Storyblok's headless CMS architecture. Leading brands such as Adidas, T-Mobile, Renault, and Oatly use Storyblok to shape their digital storytelling. See why Storyblok was named the #1 CMS by G2 here and follow Storyblok on LinkedIn and Twitter. 