UK consumers make up their mind about staying or leaving a site in 15 seconds 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 New research on online shopping habits by enterprise CMS Storyblok has claimed poorly-designed websites could cost British ecommerce platforms to lose over £1 billion in revenue. The research found that each online shopper abandons, on average, five purchases a year, with a total value of £50 due to poor website user experience - and 12% of shoppers abandon purchases worth more than £100. In a survey that asked 6,000 consumers across the US and Europe about online shopping behaviour and website functionality, 48% of UK consumers said they abandon purchases due to bad website design and user experience.  Storyblok estimates that the loss in purchases due to poor website functionality equates to £1.41 billion annually. The results reveal that the main reasons for avoiding purchasing from a website include poor navigation or layout, slow loading speeds, pop-ups and uncompetitive prices. > How to choose an ecommerce website builder

> Five reasons why you need an ecommerce website builder

> How to gain more visitors with a solid website foundation “Consumers want easy to navigate, intuitively designed, and fast loading websites. However, a lot of ecommerce websites are falling short. Five purchases per shopper in missed sales may not seem like a lot, but when you scale this up to the number of potential new customers businesses are missing out on, it becomes a very significant amount of money,” said Dominik Angerer, CEO and co-founder of Storyblok. “Additional functionality is still an important factor in attracting customers, but it’s critical to get the basics right first. For example, by investing in a headless, composable commerce tech infrastructure, companies can set the foundation for a great, fast-performing user experience.”   Sign up to the TechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed! Those questioned between the ages of 18 and 25 say cluttered or outdated site designs are the main reasons for leaving an ecommerce website. Aside from that, the research uncovered additional functionality such as chatbots ranks highly as one of the most important parts of an ecommerce website experience.  Participants of the survey aged 55+ chose ease of navigation and fast loading speeds as the most important factors, as the research results found that older consumers account for higher value abandoned purchases - averaging of £60.52 compared to £34 for those aged 18-25.  Abigail is a B2B Editor that specializes in web hosting and website builder news, features and reviews at TechRadar Pro. She has been a B2B journalist for more than five years covering a wide range of topics in the technology sector from colocation and cloud to data centers and telecommunications. As a B2B web hosting and website builder editor, Abigail also writes how-to guides and deals for the sector, keeping up to date with the latest trends in the hosting industry. Abigail is also extremely keen on commissioning contributed content from experts in the web hosting and website builder field. The 10 most popular website templates according to Squarespace I tested 10 free AI website builders. Here's what I found Alfie Cameras TYCH+ review: pocket-sized analogue creativity unleashed TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 