  Storyblok’s Creator Fund enables creators from anywhere in the world to submit ideas for content related to CMS topics for a chance to receive $USD5K to work on the project. Storyblok is open to any creator-driven media and has previously collaborated with a diverse community of creators: bloggers, podcasters, live streamers, social media influencers, etc. Says Joe Glover, from The Marketing Meetup: “Storyblok has been nothing short of incredible. Their team is supportive, the product is innovative, and the momentum behind it all is very exciting. The Marketing Meetup is proud to work with Storyblok for over a year now, and we know they’re on the side of creators everywhere.” Says Matt Maribojoc from LearnVue: “I’ve enjoyed Storyblok as a sponsor because they give me the creative freedom to create the best content for my channel. The Storyblok community also does a fantastic job promoting my content.” Says Brian McCullough from the Techmeme Ride Home podcast: “Storyblok has been a fantastic partner for our media operation, drawing lots of interest from our listeners. I enjoyed working with them.” Says Thomas Peham, VP of marketing at Storyblok: “Whether they’re new or established creators, we find the best content ideas to promote headless architecture come from the community. Through our new Creator Fund, not only will more businesses learn about the future of content management, but we’ll also help creators get more attention for their great work and creativity.” Working with the creator community to raise awareness of the benefits of headless content management has always been a priority for Storyblok. In 2022 alone, Storyblok sponsored 231 projects from creators. Interested content creators can visit the Creator Fund page to learn more and submit an idea before April 22nd for a chance to win $USD5K. GET THE CBDAILY BULLETIN Register for Free and receive the Campaign Brief Daily Bulletin. Type your email address in the space below. GOLD SPONSORS Copyright © 2024 Campaign Brief