If you are working remotely or off-campus, you may need to connect to the UB virtual private network (UBVPN) to access these systems. Learn more about the pre-approval process for technology accessed via a web browser, or vendor hosted cloud services and subscriptions. This includes e-learning platforms, online testing, assessments, proctoring, enterprise-wide solutions, and any student or public-facing technology. UB also has some university-wide licenses that are available for departments at no charge or for a nominal fee. Purchases of hosted solutions (over the internet) or software, whether installed or accessed from on-premise or in the cloud, can put sensitive university data at risk, may not meet the needs of the campus population with disabilities, may violate the university's Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) Accessibility Policy, or may require integration with enterprise level applications or university systems. Hosted solutions and software applications installed on UB servers must be reviewed by experts in security, financial mangement, accessibility, and the Chief Information Office prior to the purchase occurring to ensure the applications are compatible with university policies, state and federal guidelines. The goal of this process is to incorporate review and approval by the Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), Financial Management and the Vice President Chief Information Office (VPCIO) prior to the purchase.   The end result of the review process is to provide a recommendation or approval regarding the purchase of the software, service or application. Ensuring that UB data is secure is a vital part of our business operations. UB has different security requirements depending on the nature of the data or IT resources the supplier will handle. The greatest risk is associated with purchases requiring the use of Category 1 or Category 2 data per the Data Risk Classification Policy. Your IT Node Support Staff can assist in determining the type of data you intend to use. Find the IT support staff for your unit, department, or academic area. In order to ensure the most efficient and cost effective process, follow the steps in this section when your software purchase is expected to exceed $50,000. When your purchase will exceed $50,000, including renewals, regardless of funding source being utilized.  Complete this process prior to selecting a vendor or product, meeting with vendors, or creating a purchase request. 1. Download the Web-based Services and Software Over $50,000 Pre-Purchase Form and complete all information requested within. 2. Email the completed form to the software buyer, Nina Anders. 3. The buyer will review the information, provide guidance on the next steps, and schedule a meeting with the necessary UB staff if required. When purchasing software or hosted solutions with an expected value of less than $50,000, regardless of funding source. The steps below must be completed prior to submitting an eReq: Departments may not sign agreements or contracts for these purchases. Read UB's Approval Authority Policy. The expected processing time is 8 weeks. Additional timeframe considerations: Cloud, SaaS (Software as a Service), and Online Services: HIPAA Business Associate Agreement (BAA): Microsoft products not covered under the Microsoft Campus Agreement can be purchased by faculty and staff for UB-owned computers. UB participates in the SUNY Cumulative Licensing Program (CLP). The SUNY CLP Agreement #4400871814 is valid until 11/01/2023.  All Adobe titles are available through Logisoft, a recommended software supplier, and will be priced under this agreement.  If you decide to purchase Adobe from another supplier, please provide the SUNY CLP Agreement number to obtain the best pricing. Logisoft Computer Products offers a wide selection of software, including the Adobe CLP products. Logisoft also sells academic-priced software from over 50 companies such as Parallels, Adobe, Avid, Absolute, Corel, TechSmith and more.    Review the software available for download to UB-owned computers for faculty and staff. You must be the administrator of your computer to install most software. Contact your departmental IT support staff to install this software. Review the software available to order from UB for UB-owned computers and find out how to order it. Most manufacturers fulfill your license order electronically through the licensing portals or download sites. The end-user (licensee) on the license order receives access. If your IT Node staff installs your software the license may need to be put in their name.  Check with your IT staff prior to ordering. UBIT has information about the purchase of software for your personally owned computer. Procurement Services is not responsible for the information provided by UBIT about personal purchases. Direct all inquiries to UBIT.  Nina Anders Purchasing and Contract Services  Phone: 716-645-4575 Email: ninaande@buffalo.edu Nina Anders Purchasing and Contract Services  Phone: 716-645-4575 Email: ninaande@buffalo.edu Nina Anders Purchasing and Contract Services  Phone: 716-645-4575 Email: ninaande@buffalo.edu When in doubt, find out! Consult with our purchasing agents for advice.   All procurement activity is subject to periodic audit to monitor compliance with policies and procedures.   Buffalo.edu uses cookies to help build a better website experience for our visitors. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.