Access over 110 courses, 6,500+ individual lessons, and 800+ hours of training. At PCMag, we know products—our experts review and recommend thousands of them. Our deals team works tirelessly to find the lowest prices on the technology you
want most. During our Last Chance Sale, you can give the gift that keeps on giving with an unlimited lifetime membership to StreamSkill.com Software Training, on sale for $59. For anyone who would like to start a business, switch careers, develop skills to qualify for well-paid remote work, or become more productive to achieve goals, success is likely to come more quickly with the right software. Fortunately, this platform requires no tech experience or additional schooling. StreamSkill's specialty is technology and software training, and it's trusted by more than 1 million students worldwide. The library comprises more than 110 courses in everything from IT to web development. For example, get hands-on training in coding languages like CSS, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, and Python, or take advantage of various non-technical, general software courses. Students can study project management, Microsoft Office, workplace productivity, and more. Or, if you're looking to pick up a creative hobby, you'll find lessons in Photoshop and InDesign; there are even deep dives into business software with courses in data analysis, financial modeling, and QuickBooks. Students can start as beginners and move on to advanced classes when ready. And with lifetime access, there's no rush to keep pace with an ongoing course; simply progress as your personal time commitments allow. Additionally, you'll receive any new courses added in the future. PCMag readers can become a StreamSkill.com Software Training member for life for $59—95% off the $1,250 MSRP. Prices subject to change. Sign up Now for the Tech Deals Newsletter  This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! Products featured in these stories are selected by our partners at StackCommerce. If you buy something through links on our site, PCMag may earn an affiliate commission. Read StackCommerce Team's full bio Advertisement PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering lab-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. © 1996-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.