Apply to the Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Certificate program today at the College of Computing & Informatics. Please refer to the application deadlines below:
For Fall 2024:
Fall classes start on Monday, September 23, 2024.

International Applicants: June 1, 2024
U.S. Applicants (On-campus and Online): August 27, 2024

For Winter 2025:
Winter classes start on Monday, January 6, 2025.

International Applicants: October 15, 2024
U.S. Applicants (On-campus and Online): December 1, 2024
 Apply to the Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Certificate program today at the College of Computing & Informatics. Please refer to the application deadlines below: For Fall 2024: Fall classes start on Monday, September 23, 2024. For Winter 2025: Winter classes start on Monday, January 6, 2025. Business information technology helps organizations solve problems and enhance processes to improve efficiency, serve customers and achieve business goals. Sometimes referred to as business IT or BIT, business information technology specialists need to know how to manage existing systems while also recommending and implementing innovative technologies to help businesses stay competitive. They also need to understand the human and capital needs of businesses to ensure that employees are effectively managed, budgets are met and projects are completed to ensure return on investment. Whether you’re a current or aspiring IT professional or on the management track, the interdisciplinary nature of Drexel's MS in Business Information Technology program combines both problem-solving and analytical skills. These skills are crucial in successfully applying technology to business problem-solving. Because every business has different challenges, there are many different applications of business information technology. Adding one or more of these skills can help you to drive innovation at your business and advance your career: When you study business information technology at Drexel, you can expect to learn about how to develop and manage information systems as well as software engineering and development, data science, and human-computer interaction. You may also want to specialize depending on your career path. For example, a student interested in working in health care may want to study topics like health informatics. Beyond computer science, a degree in business information technology should also include learning how to be an effective manager. You may take business courses on management principles, project management, budgeting and accounting, human resource management and communications. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) shows that information systems managers can expect to earn almost $150,000 per year with a job growth outlook that is much faster than average. As businesses turn to new technologies like data science and artificial intelligence and machine learning to stay competitive, they will need experienced business information technology experts who can help them create and manage the digital infrastructure to implement these solutions. Also, as cybersecurity challenges grow more widespread, businesses will need to know that their systems, data and customer information are protected. For more information on the MS in Business Information Technology program, please contact the College of Computing & Informatics’ graduate recruitment team at cciinfo@drexel.edu, or Noor Jemy, LeBow College of Business’ assistant director of graduate student services – advising, naj42@drexel.edu. Contact us here to get your questions answered about the Business Information Technology program's curriculum, our admissions process, student life or anything else CCI-related. Take the next step in your educational journey. Apply today to join CCI's talented and entrepreneurial student body! Explore Drexel CCI's classrooms, labs and offices at 3675 Market through a virtual 3D tour. International computing and information honor society Upsilon Pi Epsilon Global (UPE) has recognized its Drexel University chapter with the 2024 Upsilon Pi Epsilon Outstanding Chapter Award. Drexel University has received a successful renewal of its designation as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense by the National Security Agency (NSA). This renewal extends Drexel's esteemed, 20-year designation through 2029. During his fellowship in Fall 2024, Professor David E. Breen, PhD will pursue his joint research project, titled "3D-Scan to Knit: Digitization for the Creation of Customized Knitted Garments." 10th and 11th Floor Lobby Follow us: Drexel University, 3141 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, 215.895.2000, © All Rights Reserved