Many new dog owners say they were shocked at some of the things they had to get used to Subscribe to our free What's On email updates We have more newsletters Subscribe to our free What's On email updates We have more newsletters  Pet experts have launched a series of free online dog parenting lessons run by experts including TikTok star Ben the Vet. The classes – intended to help puppy paw-rents flourish in their new role – follow a joint survey for Burns Pet Nutrition and Admiral Pet Insurance which found that three-quarters of new dog owners are totally unprepared for the demands of looking after a puppy.   Many new dog owners say they were shocked at some of the things they had to get used to as a new puppy parent, like dogs eating their own vomit, having to wipe the animal’s bottom, and how often dogs lick their own genitals.  Top seven unpleasant things dog owners didn’t expect  1.  That their puppy would be hard to toilet train (15%)   2.  That they’d have to sometimes clean their dog’s bum (14%)   3.  That their dog would wee on so many things during a walk (13%)   4.  That their dog would eat its own vomit (13%)   5.  Having to clean their dog’s anal glands (10%)   6.  That their dog would hump everything (10%)   7.  That their dog would lick its genitals so much (9%)  Burns and Admiral have teamed up with Ben the Vet and the legendary Lioness and dog owner Bethany England to offer a series of free Puppy Parenting classes for new and expectant dog parents.  The virtual classes will give dog-loving Brits access to a series of experts including vets, nutritionists, dog trainers and breeders to share their knowledge and answer any questions, so new dog owners feel fully prepared for what to expect before they bring home a new puppy or dog.   You can sign up for the classes on the Admiral website or Facebook page at https://www.admiral.com/magazine/puppy-parenting and the Burns website or Facebook page.   Bethany England, who has two dogs herself, will be hosting a class to share the things she wished she knew before getting a dog.  Details of each class are listed below with a link where you can sign up:  Founder of Burns Pet Nutrition, John Burns MBE, said: “There is no real support for first-time puppy owners like there is for parents. Many first-time puppy owners don’t realise how much hard work it is, and often miss out on vital parts of puppy socialisation and training, which can cause long term problems including anxiety and aggression.   “Getting a dog can be the most rewarding thing a family ever does, but – just like when people have a baby – sometimes they need a bit of help, especially in the early days. These classes aim to not only help new dog owners feel prepared but also to ensure that we’re a nation of responsible dog owners giving our dogs a happy, healthy life – with the best-behaved dogs.”   Pritpal Powar, Head of Admiral Pet Insurance added: “Behavioural issues with dogs often stems from unprepared owners, but unlike expectant parents, there is no support for new dog owners to help guide them through everything they need to do to support their puppy. Pets are important members of the family and it’s obvious that people care about their dogs as if they were human, giving them the same love and attention as they would a child.   “Our free Puppy Parenting classes will offer a judgement-free space to help answer any questions to help better equip puppy parents to deal with the challenges our furry friends present, and make owning a new puppy a more joyful experience.”   Lioness and dog owner Bethany England added: “There are so many things I wish I knew before I got my dogs. If I could go back in time, I would tell myself that I’d need to be prepared for the different personalities when getting a second dog and that they can’t all be trained the same way.   “I’m excited to be part of the Burns and Admiral Puppy Parenting classes to share what I’ve learnt over the years, it can be daunting as a new puppy owner and people can be worried to speak up for fear of being judged, so I’m here to share my experiences - and hope that people will realise they aren’t the only one that feels overwhelmed and unprepared.”  TikTok star Ben the Vet who is hosting some classes added: “I have two young children and before they were born, my wife and I attended antenatal classes which we found super useful to help prepare us for our new lives as parents. But there is nothing like this for new puppy parents, and I see so many clients who are overwhelmed and surprised by some of the things that crop up with their new puppy. I hope these classes will help ease these worries, and I hope to see lots of people in the classes.” 