
                
                    
                        Let Marketing Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Campari Group’s Aperol is looking to further associate itself with music culture by setting up a pop-up at the famous Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, slated for April 14-16 and April 21-23. A pop-up piazza could help tout the brand’s Italian roots in an interactive way while forming a stronger connection to millennial and Gen Z festival attendees.  The Aperol Spritz Piazza is meant to be a hub for attendees to connect with one another while immersing themselves in the brand. Through the experience, guests can engage in AR activities, scan QR codes, visit the Orange Photo Dome, which features a slow-motion camera content capture, or take photos under the Sunbeam Installation, which touts a glowing orange mirror and neon LED lighting. Live social engagement could help bolster popularity, inviting guests to use the hashtag #jointhejoy on social media.  The spritz brand claims to have long-lasting ties to music, per release details, dating back to its inception in 1919 when the Barbieri brothers, who founded the company, released a vinyl record in the company’s earliest days. Aperol has also supported various other festivals across the globe as both a key guest and partner. Of music festivals to be at, Coachella has often been a tempting opportunity for brands looking to build immersive experiences. For example, Absolut Vodka undertook a similar initiative last year with a Coachella popup featuring an interactive AR element. During the festival, those at the event and those at home were able to interact in a metaverse house. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts After handling the CPG giant's business at Publicis, Gail Hollander now leads the marketer's in-house efforts to modernize brands for new audiences. Marketers could turn to artificial intelligence to solve for the tracking and targeting issues caused by the death of the third-party cookie. Subscribe to Marketing Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts After handling the CPG giant's business at Publicis, Gail Hollander now leads the marketer's in-house efforts to modernize brands for new audiences. Marketers could turn to artificial intelligence to solve for the tracking and targeting issues caused by the death of the third-party cookie. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines