MOVIES AND MUSICALS WITH AEDÍN GORMLEY Aedín features great numbers from Stephen Sondheim's musical, Merrily We Roll Along and heads out to sea with songs from The Little Mermaid and Moana. Classic film music from A Streetcar Named Desire, Now Voyager and A Place in the Sun. Memorable scores from the World War Two films A Bridge too Far and The Bridge on the River Kwai and hit songs from Chicago, Hamilton and High Society. RTÉ lyric fm, Saturday 6th May, 1pm-4pm OPERA NIGHT WITH PAUL HERRIOTT The Metropolitan Opera New York presents Puccini's La Bohème Music Director Yannick Nezet-Seguin conducts Puccini's timeless tragedy for the first time at the Met, leading soprano Eleonora Buratto and tenor Stephen Costello as the bohemian lovers Mimi and Rodolfo, and soprano Sylvia D'Eramo and baritone Davide Luciano as the on-again-off-again Musetta and Marcello. RTÉ lyric fm, Saturday 6th May, 7pm-10pm THE LYRIC FEATURE Kerry's Castaway Composer The music of the 19th Century composer Arthur O'Leary lay silent and forgotten until it was discovered in the 1990s by fellow Kerryman Bob Fitzsimons whose curiosity would lead to the production of concerts, a book and later a CD of O'Leary's works. In Kerry's Castaway Composer Brian McIvor discovers the reason why the works fell into obscurity and why it was a great shame that they did from two pianists who have been at the heart of the revival of interest in Irish 19th Century composers. Anthony Byrne of the Royal Irish Academy demonstrates the unique charms of O'Leary's oeuvre while Una Hunt from the Conservatoire at the Technological University Dublin, places the works in the context of other figures from the time like the also sadly neglected George Alexander Osborne and the more illustrious and celebrated John Field. Written and presented by Brian McIvor Produced by Eoin O Kelly RTÉ lyric fm, Sunday 7th May, 6pm-7pm MARTY IN THE MORNING Join Gráinne Brookfield as she takes the chill out of your early mornings with music, news, weather and travel updates. RTÉ lyric fm, Monday 8th May, 7am-10am THE FULL SCORE WITH LIZ NOLAN Andrew Davies conducts the BBC Philharmonic in today's Full Score concert with twists and takes on traditional dance forms in Ravel's Le Tombeau de Couperin and La Valse. We'll also hear an elegant display of the classical style both composers were yearning for in Angela Hewitt's performance of one of Mozart's most beloved piano concertos. Liz Nolan presents a showcase of unabridged musical masterworks, featuring live recordings of Irish and international performers, plus selections from the latest CD releases. Ravel: Le Tombeau de Couperin
Mozart: Piano Concerto No. 23 in A, K. 488
Ravel: La Valse
BBC Philharmonic
Angela Hewitt, piano
Sir Andrew Davis, conductor RTÉ lyric fm, Tuesday 9th May, 1pm-4pm NIALL CARROLL'S CLASSICAL DAYTIME Niall Carroll plays music from the heart of the classical repertoire, with Sounds on Screen, a piece from the big or small screen each day at 11am, and each day at midday, one of Niall's Five of a Kind. This week we'll hear five pieces by Manuel de Falla. RTÉ lyric fm, Wednesday 10th May, 10am-1pm THE FULL SCORE WITH LIZ NOLAN Our concert today is a recent Irish Chamber Orchestra performance with Florian Donderer including Haydn's C-Major Violin Concerto and Dvorak's genial Serenade for Strings, one of his best loved works. Liz Nolan presents a showcase of unabridged musical masterworks, featuring live recordings of Irish and international performers, plus selections from the latest CD releases. RTÉ lyric fm, Thursday 11th May, 1pm-4pm AEDÍN IN THE AFTERNOON Aedín features a selection of recordings by French composer Gabriel Fauré, born on this day in 1845, played by violinist Joshua Bell, cellist Jacqueline du Pré and a stunning choral work. A couple of recent Irish recordings from Ceithre Cinn and the ensemble Harpanno. This afternoon's singers include Natalie Merchant, Lisa Hannigan, Niamh Regan and Diane Reeves and some jazzy tunes from pianists Cormac McCarthy and Brad Mehldau. RTÉ lyric fm, Friday 12th May, 1pm-4pm RTÉ LYRIC LIVE: NATIONAL SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA Join Paul Herriott live from the stage of the National Concert Hall as Jaime Martin conducts the National Symphony Orchestra with works by Irish composer Ian Wilson and the wonderful Kirill Gerstein joins the orchestra for Rachmaninov's Piano Concerto No.2 Ian Wilson: Man-o'-War
Rachmaninov: Piano Concerto No. 2
Rimsky-Korsakov: Scheherazade
National Symphony Orchestra
Jaime Martín (conductor)
Kirill Gerstein (piano) RTÉ lyric fm, Friday 12th May, 7pm-10pm   © RTÉ 2024. RTÉ.ie is the website of Raidió Teilifís Éireann, Ireland's National Public Service Media. RTÉ is not responsible for the content of external internet sites.
 Images Courtesy of Getty Images.
