Menu UPDATE, 9:21p.m. | Mayor Q @QuintonLucasKC I appreciate the response of our Kansas City crews, particularly the women and men of the Kansas City Fire Department who first spotted, addressed the issue, and ensured individuals were out of harms way.  UPDATE, 9:11 p.m. | @meganrabundis Enormous amounts of water rushed through three downtown blocks—-water that elevated cars, pulled up huge slabs of concrete, wedging debris and rocks underneath cars. KCMO says the water was turned off after 75 minutes UPDATE, 8:20 p.m. | From KC Streetcar - RIDER ALERT #kcstreetcar service has resumed. Thank you to @KCMOwater @KCMOFireDept @kcpolice & @KansasCity for your quick response. Huge thanks to the streetcar operations & maintenance team for keeping our riders safe & clearing the trackways so quickl UPDATE, 8:17 p.m. | From KC Streetcar -  @KCMOwater is on the scene making repairs. Water flow on Main St has subsided & clean up has begun. #BrushyMcBrushface is clearing the #kcstreetcar tracks on Main St btwn 17th - 19th St. Service will be restored soon UPDATE, 8:14 p.m. | From the City of Kansas City - Thanks to several responding City agencies, water pressure is now stabilized throughout the city. We will continue to provide updates. UPDATE, 8:05 p.m. | City officials have tweeted they believe water system pressure has "stabilized." UPDATE, 8 P.M. | The water that had been rushing down Walnut Street has been shut off. Several vehicles were damaged by the rushing water. UPDATE, 7:53 P.M. | Kansas City Fire Department crews spotted the water flowing as they finished another call in the area, according to a department spokesperson. Mayor Quinton Lucas said bottled water is available for people in the downtown KCMO area. 200,000 Kansas Citians could be impacted the water main break, Mayor Lucas said in a news conference near the site of the break. Repairs could take one to two days, according to City Manager Brian Platt. Lucas pointed out the city has worked to upgrade its infrastructure and he shares the disappointment with residents after tonight's calamity. Water Department crews will have to dig a large hole to get to the broken pipe. They will have to removed the damaged pipe and then install new pipe. UPDATE, 7:40 P.M. | Couple from Minnesota told KSHB 41's Megan Abundis they were eating at Tom's Town when a waitress told them they were closed because they didn't have any water.The couple tried other nearby restaurants, but those also were without water service. UPDATE, 7:30 p.m. | The City of Kansas City, Missouri, says crews are on the scene and working to provide updates. Please be aware that KC Water crews are responding to a water main break impacting much of the Crossroads District. Please avoid the area if you can. We will continue to provide updates throughout the evening. UPDATE, 7:27 p.m. | The KCMO Water Department reports a 30-inch main broke tonight. Low water pressure and no water service are already a problem. Crews are on the scene beginning repairs. UPDATE, 7:18 p.m. | From the KC Streetcar Twitter feed: @KCMOwater is on the scene and the water valve has been shut off. Water is starting to recede from the area & clean up will soon begin. Once #BrushyMcBrushface clears the trackways of silt & debris, #kcstreetcar service will resume. UPDATE, 7:15 p.m. | The Kansas City, Missouri, Water Department issued an e-mail notification to its users around 7:10 p.m. Friday that customers may experience low water pressure in an area from the Missouri River south to 63rd Street. EARLIER | A water main break in the Crossroads Arts District just south of downtown Kansas City, Missouri, is causing disruptions to travel. The Kansas City Streetcar tweeted around 6:50 p.m. Friday night that the service has been suspended due to “excessive flooding in the area.” The break appears to be along W. 17th Street between Main Street and Walnut Street. Some apartment dwellers and at least 1 restaurant reported no water service. This is a developing story and will be updated. — Report a typo