Ohio State freshman linebacker Gabe Powers has lost his black stripe.David Petkiewicz, cleveland.com COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Gabe Powers has become the latest freshman to lose his black stripe as Ohio State continues to prepare for the College Football Playoff. The Ohio native was the No. 101 player and No. 8 linebacker in the 2022 class as one of the early members of the Buckeyes recruiting class. He spent an entire year as a commit doing so at a time when he was widely considered as a five-star recruit before eventually graduating just outside the top 100. Powers spent the 2022 season developing in the background of a room with more scholarship players than it has spots on the field for him. He projects out at either spot in Jim Knowles’ scheme, though his size — 6-foot-4, 228 pounds — could make him a candidate to play the Jack position later down the line. With Powers’ black stripe now gone, every new linebacker to the program has now lost his black stripe. Freshman C.J. Hicks and transfer Chip Trayanum — who’s since been moved to running back — both did so in fall camp. Other positions with multiple to have everyone lose their black stripe are defensive line, cornerback and safety. He is the 19th player this season to lose the black stripe on his helmet, a ritual the coaches use to designate when a player becomes an “official” Buckeye. He is the 17th player from the 2022 class to lose his black stripe. To see our full black stripe tracker, click here. Recommended Buckeyes stories Ohio State football targets a transfer portal tight end with Big Ten experience Ohio State heads into Signing Day awaiting the decisions of two valuable 5-star recruits: Buckeyes Recruiting Can Ohio State football’s Jordan Hancock regain his spring form by New Year’s Eve against Georgia? If you or a loved one has questions and needs to talk to a professional about gambling, call the Ohio Problem Gambling Helpline at 1-800-589-9966 or the National Council on Program Gambling Helpline (NCPG) at 1-800-522-4700. With the arrival of DraftKings Ohio Sportsbook, in-state bettors can start betting on Jan. 1. Ohioans can also take advantage of pre-launch offers at BetMGM Ohio and  FanDuel Ohio now. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices