Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? Almost everything today runs on some sort of internet, with our files being online in the cloud or accessing our entertainment through streaming platforms, and for those who work from home, the internet is essential. That’s why it’s so important to have a solid internet connectivity plan, and luckily, there are a lot of ISPs that not only offer high speed but also some discounts here and there to help make it a bit easier to switch over. If you enjoy streaming movies, live sports, and TV shows or don’t want to feel like you live out in the woods, then keep reading. So whether you want to cut the cord with cable, improve your online gaming experience, or just upgrade your sluggish internet service to a faster one, this up-to-date roundup of the best high-speed internet deals and bundles is the place to start. Thankfully, the ubiquity of high-speed internet means you can get the bandwidth you need at cheaper prices than ever before. As fiber-optic networks roll out across the country, gigabit internet is also more accessible. You should also check out these wireless router deals to save even more money on equipment rental fees. Verizon Fios AT&T Spectrum Xfinity Optimum Verizon Fios Verizon’s high-speed internet service has a lot to offer, with speeds starting at 300 Mbps for $35/month, and comes with a Vix Premium for 12 months. The best value is arguably the $65/month Fios Gigabit plan, which includes 940 Mbps internet and a free router rental, and includes either an NFL Sunday ticket from Youtube or $400 credit on certain Samsung Home Appliances at Home Depot. You can also add extra channels, such as a Disney+ subscription for an added fee, for example. Of course, if you want the fastest from Verizon, then you can grab the $85/month bundle for 2.3 Gbps speeds and the same sort of customized package with the Gigabit plan as part of Verizon Fios new customer deals.  AT&T AT&T is a solid option if you’re looking to bundle internet with TV. High-speed Internet 100 plans (up to 100 Mbps) start at an introductory $55 per month, or you can opt for AT&T Internet + DirecTV Stream Entertainment bundle for $125 per month with unlimited cloud DVR. New customers who bundle TV and internet can also get a reward card worth up to $150 and AT&T will even pay the cancellation fee.  Spectrum Spectrum internet plans start at $50 per month with speeds from 300 Mbps up to 1 Gbps which isn’t a mind-blowing deal by itself, but the ISP is offering free modem rentals as well as free antivirus software with your plan. Basic speeds start at 300 Mbps, too. Furthermore, if you’re locked into a contract with another ISP you’re unhappy with, Spectrum is offering up to $500 to buy it out for you. Internet plus TV bundles also start at just $115 per month, which is one of the better deals going for a package of this kind.  Plans start at $20 per month for the Backup Internet plan with autopay for customers who bundle with a Go5G Next, Go5G Plus, or Magenta Max wireless phone plan. Plus, it comes with Netflix and Apple TV+. If you’re looking for unlimited plans, then those start at $50 per month with autopay enabled. Of course, T-Mobile is a great option for home internet thanks to its reliable speeds, but it’s also an incredible option overall because there are some fantastic deals going on. For example, you can earn $200 back when you switch to T-Mobile Home Internet from another provider. To get that, just sign up now to get a $50 virtual prepaid Mastercard back for one month of service. Plus, you’ll get the 5G WiFi Gateway at no added cost and with free shipping. There’s a price lock guarantee, so T-Mobile won’t raise their monthly rates on you, and no annual contracts, so you’re not locked into a deal.  Xfinity Xfinity is a solid no-frills choice if your needs are moderate. It has a 300Mbps package for just $35/month which is pretty fast, and there is an internet-only bundle that some folks may be eligible for that is going for just $10/month. You can also grab Xfinity’s StreamerSaver bundle for $15/month which gives you Peacock, Apple TV+, and Netflix.  Cox Basic internet plans from Cox run the gamut from $50 per month for 100 Mbps download speeds up to $90 per month for speeds of up to 500 Mbps, with two tiers in between these two. Cox also has its high-speed “Gigablast” internet plan, which starts at $110 per month, giving you even faster download speeds of up to 940 Mbps. TV and Internet bundles are available starting with 100 Mbps speeds and with 140+ channels at $165 per month.  Windstream Windstream plans start at introductory pricing of $40 per month for the basic Kinetic package of 200 Mbps, but you can enjoy speeds of up to 1 Gigabit for $40/month for the first three months, or 2GB for $100 a month, although be aware that availability depends on what area you are based in.  Optimum Optimum, which used to be Suddenlink, offers 300 Mbps Internet for $40 per month with autopay and 1 Gig internet goes for $65 per month with autopay. Customers also get a one year unlimited mobile line as part of the subscription, as well as some extra perks if you subscribe to one of the higher packages.  Looking for more great stuff? Head over to our curated Deals Hub. If you're looking for some of the best monitors on the market, then you may want to take a look at what Samsung has to offer since it tends to top a lot of lists in various categories. For example, Samsung's Odyssey lineup is one of the best gaming monitors out there, and it even has some really incredible ultra-wide monitors you can grab. Of course, even if you aren't a gamer, Samsung has something for you, especially if you're running one of Samsung's phones, also some of the best phones on the market, which have integration to certain types of monitor, like the M7 Smart Monitor. Either way, whether you're looking for something to pair with a gaming PC deal or just want something basic, there are a lot of excellent Samsung monitor deals. If you're not quite sure what monitor to buy, check out our computer monitor buying guide to get a better sense of what you need. And, if you don't find it among Samsung monitors, you can always check some other great monitor deals and OLED monitor deals as well.
Samsung 22-inch T350 Full HD monitor -- $100, was $120 With so many excellent desktop computer deals you can take advantage of, you'll likely also want to grab yourself a solid monitor deal. Luckily, the monitor market has boomed in the past few years, so you not only have a ton of options, but you can even find some really fancy stuff for pretty solid prices. For example, you can find large ultrawide monitors for less than $400, and if you just need a basic monitor to pair with a laptop, well you can get one for as low as $120. We are also seeing a lot of the tech that exists on TVs come to monitors, such as ones with OLED panels or that have HDR, although the latter is not quite the same as it is on a TV. Either way now is the best time to pick a monitor up since even the best monitors have some sort of deal on them, including some standout Samsung monitor deals. These will pair well with gaming PC deals, especially the 4K monitors and ultrawide monitors near the bottom of this list.
Best monitor deals If you like how thin and portable the MacBook Air is but you don't necessarily want to buy into the Apple ecosystem, or specifically need Windows, then you'll be happy to know that Microsoft's Surface laptops are a good alternative. In fact, there are a lot of versions for you to pick from, including a very small and portable Surface Go, or the slightly higher-end Surface Studio that is almost like an all-in-one computer. So, while we wait for the Surface Pro 10 and Surface Laptop 6, we've gone out and collected some of our favorite Surface deals for you below. Although, if you don't quite find what you're looking for, be sure to check these laptop deals and 2-in-1 laptop deals, and maybe even these MacBook deals.
Microsoft Surface Go 3 -- $574, was $630 Functioning as a 2-in-1 laptop that can switch between tablet mode and laptop mode, the Microsoft Surface Go 3 won't have trouble dealing with basic tasks as it's equipped with the Intel Pentium Gold 6500Y processor and 8GB of RAM. The 10.5-inch touchscreen with 1920 x 1080 resolution is bright and colorful, and its 128GB SSD is more than enough for your documents. The Microsoft Surface Go 3 ships with Windows 11 Home in Mode, so you can start using it as soon as you unbox it. The device also promises up to 11 hours of battery life before requiring a recharge. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.