The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. An Xfinity outage has impacted 15,000 customers in the Sacramento area, according to the internet, television and phone service provider's website.  Multiple people have reached out to KCRA 3 and said that the outage has been going on since Saturday night. A Comcast spokeswoman said two incidents in the Citrus Heights area Saturday evening contributed to the holiday weekend outage, a car crash and vandalism. Businesses had to close or make adjustments because of the outage. "We just got frustrated with what's going on here," said Mandeep Singh. "Nothing to do, so we have to wait." The Carmichael Chevron has been waiting nearly 24 hours. Singh is the gas station manager at Manzanita Avenue and Winding Way  and said the trouble started Saturday night around seven.  First with the gas pumps. "Employees here noticed getting slow down first and after 10 to 15 minutes everything shut down," Singh said. "Same problem with the ATMs and all the cash registers." The epicenter of the internet interruption started on Antelope Road and Daly Avenue near Citrus Heights. The California Highway Patrol said at 8 p.m. Saturday, an 18-year-old speeding driver hit a transformer and severed a SMUD utility pole, which was carrying Xfinity transmission wires. and then uprooted a Comcast utility box. "The pole impacted by the car took down the services that were on that pole," said Joan Hammel with Comcast.  Hammel said that's not all. About a half a mile away, around the same time, vandals destroyed some Xfinity wires. "In that case, it was a fiber cut that went with that act of vandalism," she said. "Those two incidents combined took out the services to most of Citrus Heights." Hammel said it's all hands on deck. They brought in their own crews and contractors who worked through the night and into Sunday. She said both incidents were out of their control. "We do understand the frustration and we are deeply sorry for that, but we are on it and we are going to get out there just as quickly as we can and get everybody restored." Not soon enough for Singh at Chevron, who said Labor Day weekend is usually very busy. "We lost a lot of customers because these days  everybody depends on the cards, Apple Pay, Google Pay," he said. Hammel said they are working with law enforcement on finding new ways to keep the network safe. She said there's been an uptick in vandalism. Hearst Television participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.