On September 1, 2023, Bienville Orthopaedic Specialists LLC (“BOS”) filed a notice of data breach with the Attorney General of Maine after discovering that an unauthorized party was able to access and acquire certain information from BOS’ IT network. In this notice, BOS explains that the incident resulted in an unauthorized party being able to access consumers’ sensitive information, which includes their names, Social Security numbers, medical information, health insurance information, usernames and passwords, financial account information, and driver’s license numbers. Upon completing its investigation, BOS began sending out data breach notification letters to all individuals whose information was affected by the recent data security incident.  If you received a data breach notification from Bienville Orthopaedic Specialists LLC, it is essential you understand what is at risk and what you can do about it. As we’ve mentioned previously, data breaches resulting in your SSN being leaked are the most concerning because hackers can easily use this information to commit identity theft and other frauds. A data breach lawyer can help you learn more about how to protect yourself from becoming a victim of fraud or identity theft, as well as discuss your legal options following the Bienville Orthopaedic Specialists data breach. For more information, please see our recent piece on the topic here. The Bienville Orthopaedic Specialists data breach was only recently announced, and more information is expected in the near future. However, BOS’ filing with the Attorney General of Maine provides some important information on what led up to the breach. According to this source, on March 5, 2023, Bienville Orthopaedic Specialists learned that it was the victim of a cyberattack. In response, BOS secured its network and then launched an investigation into the incident in hopes of learning what, if any, consumer information was compromised as a result. The BOS investigation confirmed that there was unauthorized access to certain computer systems between February 3, 2023, and March 5, 2023. It was also determined that the unauthorized party was able to remove some of this data on March 4, 2023. After learning that sensitive consumer data was accessible to an unauthorized party, Bienville Orthopaedic Specialists reviewed the compromised files to determine what information was leaked and which consumers were impacted. Bienville Orthopaedic Specialists completed this process on July 31, 2023. While the breached information varies depending on the individual, it may include your name, Social Security number, medical information, health insurance information, username and password, financial account information, and driver’s license number. On September 1, 2023, Bienville Orthopaedic Specialists sent out data breach letters to anyone who was affected by the recent data security incident. These letters should provide victims with a list of what information belonging to them was compromised. Founded in 1981, Bienville Orthopaedic Specialists LLC is an orthopaedic care provider based out of Biloxi, Mississippi. BOS physicians specialize in hand & wrist, shoulder & elbow, spine, joint replacements, sports medicine, as well as non-operative treatment and care. BOS currently maintains a staff of 18 physicians who have admitting privileges at five area hospitals. Bienville Orthopaedic Specialists employs more than 232 people and generates approximately $36 million in annual revenue. See more » DISCLAIMER: Because of the generality of this update, the information provided herein may not be applicable in all situations and should not be acted upon without specific legal advice based on particular situations.
                    Attorney Advertising. © 
                    Console and Associates, P.C. 
                    
 Refine your interests » Back to Top Explore 2024 Readers' Choice Awards Copyright ©  JD Supra, LLC