The bus company said the changes are for summer Arriva has announced some changes to services during the summer. The bus company said some of the frequency in services in Merseyside have been revised to reflect the changes to demand during the summer months. The changes apply to services from Monday to Friday and also on a Saturday. On it website, Arriva said the changes will come into force on Monday, July 24. It added there will also be some service changes on July 23. READ MORE: Suspect named as car abandoned in middle of The Strand after crash These include timetable changes, new services and extensions. Arriva said frequencies will return to normal from Monday, September 4. Take a look below for all the changes: We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info Service 10BMonday to Friday daytime frequency revised to run every 12 minutes. Service 12Monday to Saturday daytime frequency revised to run every 20 minutes, combines with service 13 to provide 10 minute frequency. Service 13Monday to Saturday daytime frequency revised to run every 20 minutes, combines with service 12 to provide 10 minute frequency. Service 15Monday to Friday daytime frequency revised to run every 12 minutes. Service 26Monday to Friday daytime frequency revised to run every 12 minutes, combines with service 27 to provide 6 minute frequency. Service 27Monday to Friday daytime frequency revised to run every 12 minutes, combines with service 26 to provide 6 minute frequency. Service 52Monday to Friday daytime frequency revised to run every 12 minutes. Service 60Monday to Saturday timetable change - no change to current frequencies. Service 61/61AMonday to Saturday timetable change - no change to current frequencies. Service 62Monday to Friday daytime frequency revised to run every 30 minutes. Service 68Monday to Friday daytime frequency revised to run every 30 minutes. Service 75Monday to Friday daytime frequency revised to run every 15 minutes. Service 81 and 81AMonday to Saturday timetable change - no change to current frequencies. Service 86Monday to Saturday daytime frequency revised to run every 20 minutes, combines with service 86A to provide 10 minute frequency. Service 86AMonday to Saturday daytime frequency revised to run every 20 minutes, combines with service 86 to provide 10 minute frequency. Additionally the following services changes will also take place on July 23: Service 47Minor timetable changes Saturday and Sunday. Service 300Minor timetable changes Monday to Sunday. Service 310Evening and Sunday journeys will be extended from Maghull to operate through to Ormskirk and Skelmersdale (and return). Find out more here Service 313NEW service operating Monday to Saturday evening and Sunday daytime from Skelmersdale Concourse to Birch Green and Ashurst. Find out more here Current Monday to Saturday daytime service provided by Preston Bus (Skelmersdale to Burscough) is unchanged. Services 375/385Minor timetable changes and the following extra journeys will be introduced