By Sarah Vine For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  17:03 EDT, 27 May 2023   |  Updated:  06:47 EDT, 30 May 2023      868 View  comments  Call me old-fashioned, but if a male colleague told me that the dress I was wearing ‘really suited’ my figure, I’d be absolutely delighted. I might think it a little fruity – but what’s wrong with that? So long as the person doesn’t overstep the mark or appear threatening, it’s just a compliment. What’s not to like? Everything, apparently. In fact, telling a woman she looks nice in a dress is now such a sin, such an unutterable act of rampant, predatory sexism, it can get a man cancelled. And it has. The man in question is one of the country’s most prominent business leaders, John Allan, one-time president of the CBI (Confederation of British Industry) and current chair of supermarket chain Tesco and housebuilder Barratt.  Both have demanded he stand down following allegations about his personal conduct which, they claim, risks ‘becoming a distraction’.But the fact remains: it doesn’t take much now – just a few anonymous allegations, a bit of mud-slinging, some malicious gossip – to destroy a reputation. The fact remains: it doesn’t take much now – just a few anonymous allegations, a bit of mud-slinging, some malicious gossip – to destroy a reputation. Pictured: Tesco chairman John Allan What can this man – a devoted grandfather, husband and someone described by Karen Guerra, a former colleague and now a non-executive director at British American Tobacco, as ‘the most polite, respectful and equal-minded man I have ever had the privilege of working with’ – possibly have done to deserve such harsh treatment? Well, apart from telling a woman she looked nice in a dress, he is supposed to have touched another woman’s bottom at a CBI event (which he vehemently denies), told a second she also looked nice in a dress at a CBI event and patted a third, again on the bottom, at a Tesco AGM. As far as the two at the CBI event are concerned, Allan says he was not even at the night in question. As for the Tesco AGM, Allan argues, Tesco ‘have contacted every woman – including past employees – who attended and examined CCTV footage’ and there have been no complaints, despite an anonymous whistleblowing line being provided. That’s it. Four allegations which are not only anonymous and debatable but also – were they to turn out to be true – not that big a deal. If that’s what constitutes harassment these days, then there’s probably not a woman alive without grounds for complaint. It’s ridiculous – but also a sign of the times.  It speaks to the kind of cancel culture that this week saw Baroness Falkner, chair of the ECHR, accused of bullying and harassment by individuals opposed to her stance on trans issues (she has backed legal reforms guarding the rights of biological women in sport and single sex spaces). Thanks in no small part to the Mail, that travesty has now been exposed and the witch-hunt against her suspended.  But the fact remains: it doesn’t take much now – just a few anonymous allegations, a bit of mud-slinging, some malicious gossip – to destroy a reputation.  And the more successful they are, the more they become a target. It makes you wonder why anyone would bother doing anything useful or interesting with their life at all. The presumption of innocence is a vital element of justice. But it’s also what governs our interactions as human beings. If a stranger accuses a friend of something, our first instinct is not to trust the stranger, but the friend.  At least, it should be. That’s my approach. But since the advent of social media, that principle has been slowly but steadily eroded. It’s the equivalent of the village gossip, dripping poison into everyone’s ears, playing everyone off against each other – only on steroids. People panic, act like lemmings. They listen to the views of strangers instead of trusting those they know. It’s now very easy for opportunistic individuals with malicious intentions to make life very unpleasant for someone they don’t like. You can understand your average person being swayed in the wrong direction. But you would expect more of grown-up organisations such as Tesco and Barratt.  But instead of adopting a fair and robust approach, they panic, rush to protect their precious reputations – and hang people like Allan out to dry. The result is a growing culture of fear and paranoia, where the ordinary interactions between men and women, employers and employees, become fraught with danger. As Allan points out, male colleagues are now reluctant to get in the same lift as a lone woman, just in case. Is this really the world we want to live in? And is this what women themselves want? A generation of blokes too terrified to pay us a compliment or share a lift with us? The truth is, most women actually quite like men. And (whisper it) we also quite like it when they notice us. We don’t mind the odd compliment or advance in the workplace, so long as we can set boundaries. Sometimes, maybe, we don’t want to set boundaries. And provided all parties are consenting adults, there’s nothing wrong with that. Let’s not allow the stupid culture wars currently laying waste to society take away even that last simple pleasure.  There are plenty of real predators out there: we should focus on them instead of sending men like Allan, guilty of little more that perhaps a minor misjudgment, to the gallows. A few years ago, the MoS led the charge on demanding an end to the cruel and unfair tyranny of people having to sell their home to pay for dementia care.  Under Boris Johnson, it seemed something might finally be done to ensure some kind of safeguard against this injustice; but so far nothing. If anything, the issue seems to have been kicked into the long grass.  That’s clearly because the Government doesn’t want to commit to extra spending before the election.  If they lose, it’s Labour’s problem; if they win, they’ll worry about it then. Still vulnerable people can’t get the care they need. Makes my blood boil.  Transgender cyclist Emily Bridges accused British Cycling of ‘genocide and violence’ after the sporting body finally announced a ban on athletes who have gone through male puberty from taking part in female races.  I can see that it’s a blow if you’ve got used to defeating biological women thanks to your natural male advantage. Still, genocide and violence? I hardly think so.  More like justice, at last. Transgender cyclist Emily Bridges accused British Cycling of ‘genocide and violence’ after the sporting body finally announced a ban on athletes who have gone through male puberty from taking part in female races I felt sick for poor Kate Garraway when I read last week that she was facing a huge tax bill – potentially more than £700,000 – as a result of having to close her husband’s business after he was struck down by Covid. Derek Draper’s company was forced into liquidation last year after he suffered catastrophic complications from the virus. Garraway, left, now cares for him round the clock, as well as working non-stop and looking after their children. The pressure on her is unthinkable. I have no idea how she copes or how she continues to do her work with such consummate professionalism.  And now this: the taxman breathing down her neck for a sum of money that frankly would bankrupt anyone and which, given the situation with Derek, she may not even have been aware of. I hope HMRC gives her a break – before the stress of it all breaks her. I felt sick for poor Kate Garraway (pictured) when I read last week that she was facing a huge tax bill – potentially more than £700,000 – as a result of having to close her husband’s business after he was struck down by Covid There was a time when universities were places of higher learning, staffed by individuals passionate about their subjects and driven by vocation.  Now it seems they are just money-making machines which care little for the young people who saddle themselves with thousands of pounds of debt to obtain an education that my generation was gifted for free. What else can one conclude when you read that industrial action by lecturers means that some students will not have their final exams marked in time for graduation?  Quite apart from the sheer callousness of that decision it means many will miss out on training schemes or job offers.  At a time when teenagers are sweating over their exams, it makes you wonder why anyone bothers applying to university in the first place. British airports have become a joke. The latest disaster, aimed perfectly to coincide with half-term, is a nationwide shutdown of passport e-gates, operated by – you guessed it – UK Border Force, who are always going on strike over pay and conditions.  What about the conditions of the poor families stuck in sweltering corridors thanks to their incompetence?  Or is it the case that, as paying customers, they don’t count?  British airports have become a joke. The latest disaster, aimed perfectly to coincide with half-term, is a nationwide shutdown of passport e-gates, operated by – you guessed it – UK Border Force, who are always going on strike over pay and conditions. Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group