The pediatric orthopedic service is a team of dedicated specialists who provide compassionate treatment for the full spectrum of pediatric orthopedic conditions. We care for children of all ages and understand the unique issues and challenges involved when caring for children. Our care and treatment covers a wide range of clinical conditions that affect children as they grow. Jack Moser was only 5 years old when he was run over by a recreational vehicle and seriously injured. Two years later, Jack has overcome serious challenges and is living an extraordinary life thanks to his care team at University of Utah Health and Intermountain Primary Children's Hospital. 
 For high school student athletes, injuries of any kind during football practice or games occur at a higher rate than any other sport. While many of these injuries aren’t serious...

 For high school student athletes, injuries of any kind during football practice or games occur at a higher rate than any other sport. While many of these injuries aren’t serious... Read More 
 It's normal for children and adults to have a small difference between the length of their legs, but at what point is it considered a problem?

 It's normal for children and adults to have a small difference between the length of their legs, but at what point is it considered a problem? Read More 
 While there are many benefits of organized sport participation, there are also pitfalls in early sports specialization, too. Before your child becomes immersed in these activities, it is important to...

 While there are many benefits of organized sport participation, there are also pitfalls in early sports specialization, too. Before your child becomes immersed in these activities, it is important to... Read More 
 Broken bones, sprains, and abrasions are common among active children. But a growth plate fracture or injury should be taken more seriously as it can result in problems later if...

 Broken bones, sprains, and abrasions are common among active children. But a growth plate fracture or injury should be taken more seriously as it can result in problems later if... Read More 
 It’s the most wonderful time of year—especially for young athletes who are eager to strap on skates and skis at the sight of first snow. Here are a few tips...

 It’s the most wonderful time of year—especially for young athletes who are eager to strap on skates and skis at the sight of first snow. Here are a few tips... Read More 



 
    590 Wakara Way
    Salt Lake City,    Utah
    84108
   801-587-7109 Scheduling: 801-213-9500
En Español: 801-646-5914
 Copyright © 2024 University of Utah Health