Kalamazoo: Stryker has announced that its Q Guidance System with Cranial Guidance Software has received 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The Q Guidance System is an image-based planning and intraoperative guidance system designed to support cranial surgeries. Recently launched in September 2022, the Q Guidance System for spinal applications is currently available on the market. The Q Guidance System with Cranial Guidance Software is indicated for any medical condition in which the use of computer-assisted planning and surgery may be appropriate and can be used for intraoperative guidance where a reference to a rigid anatomical structure can be identified. It tracks navigated instruments and displays the position and orientation of the instruments in patient images. "The Cranial Guidance Software includes automatic, algorithmic processing and comprehensive guidance data that aim to elevate confidence and surgical ability," the company stated. Read also: Pfizer ropes in Meenakshi Nevatia as MD, Additional Director “The FDA clearance of Stryker’s Q Guidance System with Cranial Guidance Software is a key milestone, which will help lead the transformation of cranial navigation and surgery,” said Robbie Robinson, president of Stryker’s Spine division. “Our robust pipeline of iterative launches reinforces our commitment to making industry-leading investments focused on providing advanced navigation products and differentiated technologies that our surgeon customers have come to expect.” Read also: Medical device maker Stryker to buy Vocera Communications for 2.97 Billion USD The Cranial Guidance Software is powered by Stryker’s Q Guidance System and can be used with a range of instruments and accessories for navigated cranial procedures. New for brain biopsies, the software provides a dedicated workflow to support the accurate alignment of the Precision Targeting System with a pre-operatively planned approach.   The company offers products and services in Medical and Surgical, Neurotechnology, Orthopaedics and Spine. Read also: Stryker opens Neurovascular lab to accelerate stroke-related innovation in Asia Pacific Ruchika Sharma joined Medical Dialogue as an Correspondent for the Business Section in 2019. She covers all the updates in the Pharmaceutical field, Policy, Insurance, Business Healthcare, Medical News, Health News, Pharma News, Healthcare and Investment. She has completed her B.Com from Delhi University and then pursued postgraduation in M.Com. She can be contacted at editorial@medicaldialogues.in Contact no. 011-43720751 Editorial Prediabetes in India: Sugary Iceberg and Place of Metformin to Mitigate it Prediabetes in India: Navigating the Sugary Crisis with DCGI-Approved Metformin LENS trial a first of its kind large scale trial shows striking 27% reduction in diabetic... The Role of Aspirin in Reducing ASCVD Mortality Among Adults with High Lp(a) Concentrations API- ICP issue practical guidelines for doctors for management of Hypertension in patients with Type... Journal Club  Today The Role of Probiotics in Prenatal Health: Study Sheds Light on Benefits for Moms and Babies Health News Today Health Bulletin 17/ August/ 2024