Centennial Subaru Love Promise employee volunteers joined the Save Red Rock organization at Blue Diamond village for an Earth Day social and educational event on April 22. The event promoted water conservation and ways to maintain and protect the environment. Centennial Subaru Love Promise employee volunteers joined the Save Red Rock organization at Blue Diamond village for an Earth Day social and educational event on April 22. The event promoted water conservation and ways to maintain and protect the environment. Subaru LAX Zone Training Manager Lance Williams was available to demonstrate and explain the features of Subaru’s Solterra EV that was on display. Additionally, in recognition of Save Red Rock’s dedication to preserving and protecting the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area, Centennial Subaru presented the organization with a $2,500 donation. Love Promise employee volunteers followed up on April 23 by participating in a Lovell Canyon trash cleanup. “We are endlessly appreciative of the team at Centennial Subaru for their love of the Earth and their support of Save Red Rock,” organization President Heather Fisher said. “Their $2,500 Earth weekend donation goes a long way for our nonprofit volunteer organization to educate and execute existing and future conservation projects.” Save Red Rock is a 501(c)(3) organization with a mission to preserve, protect and enhance the natural, cultural, recreational and scenic resources in and around the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area to ensure natural resource sustainability and promote responsible recreational enjoyment for all user groups now and for future generations. “Save Red Rock is doing an amazing job in educating the public on the importance of maintaining and protecting Red Rock,” Centennial Subaru General Manager Ryon Walters said. “What they are doing is just a natural fit for our Love Promise Subaru Loves the Earth campaign.” Subaru and its retailers believe in making the world a better place, and Subaru Love Promise is Subaru’s vision of respecting all people. This is the corporation’s commitment to show love and respect to its customers and to work to make a positive impact in the world. Subaru Love Promise consists of pillars for corporate social responsibility that includes: Subaru Loves Pets, Subaru Loves the Earth, Subaru Loves Learning, Subaru Loves to Help, Subaru Loves to Care and Subaru Share the Love event. As part of the Share Love event, held around the end-of-the year holidays, the retailer will donate $500 in the name of a vehicle buyer to a local charity and four national charities of their choice. 
 About the dealer Las Vegas Centennial Subaru is located at 6350 Centennial Center Blvd. Its parent company is Ascent Automotive Group, a platform comprised of various dealerships located across America with a focus on next-level customer service and care. AAG is also the parent company of Lexus of Las Vegas and Lexus of Henderson.  
 On July 31, 14-year-old Roman Pandullo is not asking for the latest video game or trendy sneakers. Instead, he has a birthday wish to help the animals at the Henderson Animal Shelter for his seventh year in a row. In a heartening display of support for the local arts scene, Findlay Automotive has announced a donation of $5,000 to the esteemed A Public Fit Theater Company. This generous contribution will aid the theater company in continuing its mission of producing high-quality theatrical performances while showcasing the talents of local artists. Tragically, there are over 400,000 victims of sexual assault in the U.S. each year. In response to this alarming statistic, Findlay Automotive Group has made a donation to Signs of Hope, an organization dedicated to aiding victims of sexual violence and human trafficking. Imagine you had a child with a rare disease and treatment was far from home. On top of major medical bills, you would have to major travel expenses. This is where Miracle Flights serves as “the cure for the distance.” Cancer is a disease that has touched the lives of nearly everyone, claiming 1 in 6 deaths worldwide. In a city known for its glitz and glamour, it’s sobering to realize that a significant portion of its population struggles with hunger every day. In an unwavering display of community support, Findlay Automotive Group reaffirms its dedication to philanthropy, underscoring its values as a family-owned business with deep roots in Nevada. Today, Findlay consists of 35 locations across 5 western states and more than 2,500 employees. Findlay is committed to uplifting local communities where they operate. Jaguar Las Vegas is partnering with Nevada SPCA to host an upcoming pet adoption event called St. Pawtrick’s Day: Giving Luck to Homeless Pets. Don Hamrick of Chapman Las Vegas is one of a select group of 49 dealer nominees from across the country who will be honored at the 107th annual National Automobile Dealers Association Show on Saturday in Las Vegas. 3. Towbin Auto Group is proud to announce that Towbin Dodge Ram in Henderson was ranked the number one Dodge dealer in the World for all of 2023! 
Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
 Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP