Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     While perusing local sales listings, an Xbox fan has discovered a strange Xbox 360 lamp that seems to function as advertised despite its peculiarities. Since the Xbox 360 was released in 2005, it has been used for a handful of things beyond the intended purpose of playing Xbox titles, but one fan has seemingly turned the console into a conversation-starting piece of furniture.
                         A Reddit user has stumbled upon an Xbox 360 lamp listed in their area by a highly-rated vendor for a reasonable price while browsing Facebook Marketplace. Similar to finding amazing deals on retro games at a garage sale, gamers can often discover incredible hauls on Facebook Marketplace as people sell off their collections to others that may have more appreciation or a use for them. Although the Xbox 360 is often sold alongside a controller, games, or its appropriate cables, this 360 lamp may only include the power cord necessary for providing electricity to the light bulb on top.
      RELATED: Minecraft Fan Builds a Giant Replica of a Nintendo GameCube
                     Reddit user DLZ05 recently shared a screenshot of a Facebook Marketplace listing for the aforementioned Xbox 360 lamp that shows the console successfully illuminating a room with a hint of yellow using a small bulb. The light bulb of this lamp is located off-center on the top of the console where the Xbox 360 hard drive would normally be inserted to expand on the base model's initial storage capacity. Based on its appearance, the white Xbox 360 is seemingly one of the launch day Xbox models, making it among the oldest versions of the Microsoft console, and judging from the photo it has seen better days.
                         The image shared by DLZ05 lists the Xbox 360 lamp for 15 pounds. The Facebook Marketplace seller has garnered nearly five stars based on 85 reviews which may lend some credibility to the listing and how well the product will function. Though the Xbox 360 lamp is being hailed as being "upcycled," it's currently unclear if it still has any of the internal components that may be useful for players that need parts to repair their Xbox consoles or if it has been entirely gutted to accommodate for the additional cable running through the machine.
                         Because this Xbox 360 has seemingly been drilled into in order to power the light bulb on top, and it isn't listed as a functioning machine, it's unlikely that the console can play games.
      MORE: All the Achievements and Trophies You Have to Unlock on Christmas Day
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Shoppers looking for a great deal on a gaming mouse can find the popular Logitech G502 X Plus on Amazon at the year-low price of $116.79. One Captain America: Brave New World star reacts to Robert Downey Jr.'s MCU return as a supervillain. The new timeline(s) of Mortal Kombat 1 saw a lot of characters reintroduced, including one of the series' newer characters, Geras. Looking to build a melee vault hunter in Borderlands 3? Consider getting the Face-Punch shotgun to boost your melee damage. Naruto x Boruto Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections is very similar to its predecessors but has some changes that players need to adapt to. Hunt: Showdown 1896 announces major upcoming changes aimed at addressing player feedback and improving the overall gaming experience. Cult of the Lamb players can modify a Fleece's appearance while maintaining its abilities - here's how.