Microsoft has revealed that the long-running Xbox 360 store is finally closing its doors next year. 
Published: August 17, 2023 9:33 AM /
 
By: Joseph Allen
 Microsoft has announced that the Xbox 360 store is to close its doors for good next year. According to a post on the official Xbox site, the Xbox 360 store will close down on July 29th, after which point you won't be able to buy Xbox 360 content from the store anymore. This includes Xbox 360 games, DLC for those games, and "other entertainment content" from that store, as well as from the Xbox 360 Marketplace website. Relatedly, the Microsoft Movies & TV app will stop working on that date as well, so you won't be able to watch TV or movies on your Xbox 360 either. Content from that app can, however, still be viewed on PC (assuming you've got Windows 10 or 11), as well as newer Xbox consoles. It's worth clarifying that this won't affect any Xbox 360 content you've already bought; you can continue to download and watch said content on your Xbox consoles after the cutoff date. Microsoft says its rationale for making this decision is that "technology has evolved" and "expectations from players have shifted". The company says it wants to make Xbox Series X|S "the best place to play now and in the future", which presumably means shifting focus away from the Xbox 360. As well as playing your 360 games offline, you'll also still be able to enjoy them online, as long as the publisher supports the servers. Of course, it's worth noting that in many cases, publishers no longer support Xbox 360 servers for games, as is the case for games like Metal Gear Solid V, as well as Epic's Rock Band titles and Microsoft's own Halo servers. It's also worth noting that this doesn't affect Xbox 360 backwards compatible games, which Microsoft says you'll still be able to buy. You can check out Microsoft's FAQ section for this announcement right here. Have a tip, or want to point out something we missed? Leave a Comment or e-mail us at tips@techraptor.net Joe has been writing for TechRaptor for several years, and in those years has learned a lot about the gaming industry and its foibles. He’s originally an… More about Joseph News Guides Reviews Opinions Features Previews Interviews News Guides Reviews Features Previews Interviews TechRaptor is a games media website that covers topics around video games and tabletop games for gamers.  Whether it is news, reviews, features, or guides – we're your source for high quality game coverage since 2013. Copyright © 2013-2024 TechRaptor LLC - All Rights Reserved