Latest Vectorworks Update Furthers Commitment to Providing Designers with Innovative Solutions That Save Time and Accelerate Collaboration Capabilities. COLUMBIA, Md. (PRWEB) March 14, 2023   Global design and BIM software provider Vectorworks, Inc. has released its latest service pack for the Vectorworks 2023 product line, granting users access to next-gen technologies and setting the foundation for further development in future releases. Service Pack 4 also includes new features and capabilities that provide powerful performance improvements and critical user experience enhancements. "This Service Pack continues the tradition of delivering key improvements for quality and performance, as well as increasing advantageous connections for customers," said Vectorworks Senior Director of Rendering and Research Dave Donley. "New features in this release enable exciting workflows not seen before, and we are confident that some truly amazing designs will result. This continuous evolution keeps our users at the leading edge of technology, enabling them to be efficient and unrestricted in their design process." Tap into the Latest Technology to Save Time and Streamline Collaboration Through a collaboration with NVIDIA, Vectorworks 2023 Service Pack 4 delivers a direct connection to NVIDIA Omniverse, a platform for developing and operating metaverse applications, via an integrated Omniverse Connector. The new plug-in connects Vectorworks 3D models straight to the Universal Scene Description (USD)-based Omniverse platform. No longer needing to rely on incompatible file formats to import into the platform, Omniverse and Vectorworks users can save valuable time by eliminating steps for the import/export process with USD-based interoperability. The new Connector also serves as a critical catalyst for further advancement, expanding Vectorworks users' opportunities to contribute to and collaborate on the same 3D project at the same time, all while using their favorite design tools. Users can drive their collaborative efforts even further with newly added USD import and export capabilities. Supporting 3D geometry, texture and metadata, USD is the emerging standard in design and collaboration. Already used by Apple and NVIDIA, the cutting-edge file format can now be tapped by Vectorworks users to gain access to a world of exciting applications and technologies, as well as to work more efficiently with fellow designers and consultants.  Easily Share Work with Sheet Layer Viewport Imaging Optimizations Upgrades to Sheet Layer Viewports create a more responsive user interface, speeding up the documentation process and increasing performance and accuracy when viewing, rendering and navigating sheet layers. Low-resolution previews of sheet layer viewport contents are created automatically with the option to snap easily with others' viewports. This reduces file size, making it easier for users to share their work with clients and collaborators.  Improve Workflows and Accuracy with the Hardscape Drape Mode To address the evolving needs of architects and landscape architects, newly added functionality allows users to conform hardscape objects in their site models. Hardscape objects in any configuration can now excavate the site model surface and accurately calculate the cut and fill volumes. Additionally, a new configuration mode allows users to "drape" hardscape objects to automatically conform to the surface of a site model, adding flexibility for different types of hardscape installations.  Gain Control, Flexibility and Time with Vectorworks Cloud Services  Key improvements to Vectorworks Cloud Services allow users to stay focused on tasks and seamlessly share their design visions with Cloud Presentations. Taking advantage of the processing power of Vectorworks Cloud Services saves time when processing Solar Animation Exports. Historically, exporting a solar animation limited the ability to perform other tasks in Vectorworks. This new option sends animations to Vectorworks Cloud Services for processing, letting it do the heavy lifting in the background while the user remains concentrated on their design.  Cloud Presentations have flexible layouts that offer more creative freedom and customizable options so designers can showcase exactly what they need. No longer constrained by predefined layouts, users can now place images, text and media anywhere on a presentation slide and select from system fonts to create compelling presentations for clients.    Streamline Change Management Processes with Cable Route Selection Significant updates to Cable Editing Tools help address the need to deal with multiple signal streams for ConnectCAD users. Building on the recent Cable Route Planning improvements, the updates enable audio and video installation professionals to easily select different cable route options for various main and backup signals. This enhancement brings new options to the "edit cabling" dialog menu, giving visual indicators of all available cable routes and discerning information like diameter, total length and more.  This Service Pack is available as a downloadable update for all U.S. English-based versions of Vectorworks 2023, including Vectorworks Architect, Landmark, Spotlight, Fundamentals, Braceworks, ConnectCAD and Vision. To install, select "Check for Updates" from the Vectorworks menu (Mac) or the Help menu (Windows). Contact tech@vectorworks.net with any technical questions.  Get a 7-day free trial of Vectorworks Design Suite to experience the technology firsthand. About Vectorworks, Inc. Vectorworks, Inc. is an award-winning design and BIM software provider serving the architecture, landscape architecture and entertainment industries in 85 countries. Built with designers in mind since 1985, Vectorworks software offers you the freedom to follow your imagination wherever it leads you. Globally, more than 685,000 users are creating, connecting and influencing the next generation of design with Vectorworks on Mac and Windows. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in the UK, Canada and Australia, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group. Learn how you can design without limits at vectorworks.net or follow @Vectorworks  For the original version on PRWeb visit: https://www.prweb.com/releases/vectorworks_2023_service_pack_4_delivers_next_gen_technology_to_designers/prweb19224686.htm © 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.