Delta Air Lines and American Express have some excellent welcome offers on their range of cobranded credit cards. Remember that there were major changes made to these cards in early February — namely, higher annual fees, a handful of new perks to offset them and restrictions on lounge access. Let's dive into each of these offers and see which might be a good fit for you. Here's an overview of the offers at first glance: *Bonus value is based on TPG's August 2024 valuations and is not provided or reviewed by the issuer. Delta offers three personal cards for your consideration. Which card is right for you depends on how frequently you fly with Delta and how much you're willing to pay for an annual fee. Let's take a look at what differentiates each of the Delta SkyMiles personal cards. If you want to take advantage of a welcome bonus, but aren't a frequent Delta flyer, the Delta SkyMiles Gold is your best option. Welcome offer: Earn 40,000 bonus miles after spending $2,000 in purchases in the first six months of card membership. Annual fee: $0 introductory annual fee for the first year, then $150 (see rates and fees) Earning rate: Earn 2 miles per dollar on eligible Delta purchases and at restaurants and U.S. supermarkets and 1 mile per dollar on all other purchases. The Delta Gold Amex is a solid card for travelers who occasionally fly with Delta. Eligible cardmembers will get: Enrollment is required for select benefits; terms apply. To learn more, read our full review of the Delta SkyMiles Gold. Apply here: Delta SkyMiles Gold American Express Card If you fly frequently with Delta but can't justify the pricier Delta SkyMiles Reserve, the Delta SkyMiles Platinum is worth considering. Welcome offer: Earn 50,000 bonus miles after spending $3,000 in purchases in the first six months of card membership. Annual fee: $350 (see rates and fees) Earning rate: Earn 3 miles per dollar on eligible Delta purchases and at hotels (when booking directly with the hotel), 2 miles per dollar at restaurants and U.S. supermarkets and 1 mile per dollar on all other purchases. The card is pretty impressive. Eligible cardmembers will get: Enrollment is required for select benefits; terms apply. Overall, this is a great card option if you fly Delta semiregularly and are looking for a way to earn miles on purchases and reach elite status. However, even if you aren't going for status, the companion voucher alone can make the annual fee for this card worth it. To learn more, read our full review of the Delta SkyMiles Platinum. Apply here: Delta SkyMiles Platinum American Express Card Delta's most expensive consumer credit card also comes with many benefits. The Delta SkyMiles Reserve is ideal for hardcore Delta fans and frequent flyers. Welcome offer: Earn 60,000 bonus miles after spending $5,000 in purchases in the first six months of card membership. Annual fee: $650 (see rates and fees) Earning rate: Earn 3 miles per dollar on eligible Delta purchases and 1 mile per dollar on all other purchases. The Delta SkyMiles Reserve is the top-tier Delta Amex card available and thus comes with a high annual fee. With this card, you'll get a slew of benefits, including: Enrollment is required for select benefits; terms apply. For loyal Delta flyers who enjoy visiting the Sky Club, this card can pay for itself with lounge access, spending boosts and other benefits. However, the Platinum may be the better choice for the semi-loyal Delta traveler. To learn more, read our full review of the Delta SkyMiles Reserve. Apply here: Delta SkyMiles Reserve American Express Card If you own a small business (or have a side hustle where you pay business expenses), one of these offers may be a great addition to your work wallet. With three options to choose from, it's important to understand which business card best suits your needs. Let's dive into each of the Delta SkyMiles business cards. The Delta SkyMiles Gold Business is ideal for smaller businesses or business owners who aren't Delta loyalists. Welcome offer: Earn 55,000 bonus miles after spending $4,000 in purchases in the first six months of card membership. Annual fee: $0 introductory annual fee for the first year, then $150 (see rates and fees) Earning rate: Earn 2 miles per dollar on eligible Delta purchases, 2 miles per dollar on U.S. shipping (up to $50,000 in eligible purchases per category per year, then 1 mile per dollar spent) and U.S. advertising in select media (up to $50,000 in eligible purchases per category per year, then 1 mile per dollar spent) and 1 mile per dollar on all other eligible purchases. Other card details: Enrollment is required for select benefits; terms apply. To learn more, read our full review of the Delta SkyMiles Gold Business. Apply here: Delta SkyMiles Gold Business American Express Card Business owners who are looking for a good mid-tier airline business card should consider the Delta SkyMiles Platinum Business for its earnings potential and benefits. Welcome offer: Earn 65,000 bonus miles after spending $6,000 in purchases in the first six months of card membership. Annual fee: $350 (see rates and fees) Earning rate: Earn 3 miles per dollar on eligible Delta purchases and eligible purchases made directly with hotels, 1.5 miles per dollar on eligible transit, U.S. shipping and on purchases over $5,000 (up to $100,000 spent per calendar year, then 1 mile per dollar) and 1 mile per dollar on all other purchases. Other card benefits: Enrollment is required for select benefits; terms apply. To learn more, read our full review of the Delta SkyMiles Platinum Business. Apply here: Delta SkyMiles Platinum Business American Express Card As the most expensive business card Delta offers, the Delta SkyMiles Reserve Business comes packed with great perks for Delta loyalists. Welcome offer: Earn 75,000 bonus miles after spending $10,000 in purchases in the first six months of card membership. Annual fee: $650 (see rates and fees) Earning rate: Earn 3 miles per dollar on Delta purchases, 1.5 miles per dollar on eligible transit, U.S. shipping, U.S. office supplies and all purchases after spending $150,000 per calendar year and 1 mile per dollar on all other purchases. Other card details: Enrollment is required for select benefits; terms apply. To learn more, read our full review of the Delta SkyMiles Reserve Business. Apply here: Delta SkyMiles Reserve Business American Express Card These cards also mirror the consumer versions in many ways. The major ongoing differences are the spending categories, which are more business-oriented than the personal variations of the cards, and the fact that business cards won't appear on your credit report. Of course, choosing between a business and a consumer card will depend on whether you have an eligible business — and whether you're looking to maximize miles on business or consumer spending. Related: Do I need a business to get a business credit card? The good news is that you can't go wrong by applying for any of these offers. In short: With a full lineup of Delta cards, you may wonder how to pick the best offer for your needs. While it might be tempting to go after the one with the highest offer, you should also consider its long-term value in your wallet. For example, you may enjoy Delta's inflight experience but don't typically fly with the airline enough in a normal travel year to justify a card with a higher annual fee. Or, if you're primarily a solo traveler, you may not be able to consistently use the annual companion voucher that comes with the Platinum and Reserve versions of the card. In this case, you may opt for the Delta SkyMiles Gold to help you earn miles and enjoy some elitelike perks that can save you time and money when flying Delta. However, someone who is almost always flying Delta because they live near a Delta hub, such as Atlanta, New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport or Seattle, might easily justify a higher annual fee because they'll use the benefits of the higher-tier cards more regularly. Families and couples who know they can use the annual companion certificate with the Platinum or Reserve versions of the card can also easily come out ahead with those cards, depending on their exact usage. Related: Choosing the best credit cards for Delta flyers Delta SkyMiles isn't generally the most valuable currency — partly because of unannounced program devaluations over the years. However, that doesn't mean you can't find value in the SkyMiles program. Many TPGers actually prefer flying Delta over any other U.S. carrier. Remember that American Express has a once-per-card-per-lifetime rule in place regarding welcome offers. If you've had one of these cards in the past, you likely can't earn a welcome offer on the same card again. This is why timing your Amex card applications is so important: You only get one shot to earn a welcome offer for each of them, so you'll want to make it count. Apply here: Delta SkyMiles GoldApply here: Delta SkyMiles PlatinumApply here: Delta SkyMiles ReserveApply here: Delta SkyMiles Gold BusinessApply here: Delta SkyMiles Platinum BusinessApply here: Delta SkyMiles Reserve Business Related: How to maximize the statement credits on the Delta Amex cards For rates and fees of the Delta Gold Amex, click here.For rates and fees of the Delta Platinum Amex, click here.For rates and fees of the Delta SkyMiles Reserve Amex, click here.For rates and fees of the Delta Gold Business Amex, click here.For rates and fees of the Delta Platinum Business Amex, click here.For rates and fees of the Delta SkyMiles Reserve Business Amex, click here. The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality. When you choose to apply (and are approved) for a new credit card through our site, we may receive compensation from our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information.