E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			Trending:		 Subaru enters Grasso’s Garage this week with its 2023 Subaru Legacy Touring XT. Wrapped in Cosmic Blue Pearl, the Legacy rides on a legacy of a long lasting tradition in the Subaru fleet. Known for a family 4-door sedan and an affordable one, the Subaru Legacy has an array of utilization for an array of consumers.Powering the 2023 Subaru Legacy, you guessed it, the Boxer-style engine. A 2.4 liter turbocharged 4-cylinder, producing 260 horsepower and 277 lb-ft of torque, the Legacy Touring Xt is a heck of a 4-door sedan. We notice a High-torque CVT transmission as well, which could be its biggest flaw. Known for high transmission noise, the CVT is a cheaply designed transmission and known most for its presence in snow-mobiles or off-road recreation equipment. Although in most of the Subaru family, it does offer a decent performance; which is good.LED headlights, medium brown leather interior, sunroof, SiriusXM radio and a 11.6 inch STARLINK infotainment system with navigation are just a few of the standard features on the Legacy Touring XT. This top model in the fleet is a good appearing vehicle and is ultra-comfortable all for the mid $30k range.. Sight lines are good, ride height is nice and having all-wheel drive makes the Legacy a really nice competitor in the mid-size economy sedan category. While storage and space are not confined at all, 4 passengers fit nicely in the Legacy and offer a ton of usage. What also was really nice was the fuel economy and capacity. 18.5 gallons and over 26 miles per gallon, we averaged close to 500 miles on a tank of fuel; now that is impressive!Not just for families, but commuters, couples and affordable transportation, the Subaru Legacy is really a crowd pleaser. As we see Subaru’s in parking lots everywhere in the Northeast, the trend is real and Subaru is here to stay. The Legacy is no different. From exploring the great outdoors on the weekends, to a family sedan and commuter during the week, for the price, I don’t see a better option. Great Job Subaru.Grasso’s Garage is here for you! Are you in the market for a new car? I would be happy to provide my honest input. All you have to do is email me: marc.grasso@bostonherald.com.2023 Subaru LegacyMSRP: $37,695MPG: 23 city / 31 highway / 26.2 combinedAs Tested: $38,715

 Powering the 2023 Subaru Legacy, you guessed it, the Boxer-style engine. A 2.4 liter turbocharged 4-cylinder, producing 260 horsepower and 277 lb-ft of torque, the Legacy Touring Xt is a heck of a 4-door sedan. We notice a High-torque CVT transmission as well, which could be its biggest flaw. Known for high transmission noise, the CVT is a cheaply designed transmission and known most for its presence in snow-mobiles or off-road recreation equipment. Although in most of the Subaru family, it does offer a decent performance; which is good. LED headlights, medium brown leather interior, sunroof, SiriusXM radio and a 11.6 inch STARLINK infotainment system with navigation are just a few of the standard features on the Legacy Touring XT. This top model in the fleet is a good appearing vehicle and is ultra-comfortable all for the mid $30k range.. Sight lines are good, ride height is nice and having all-wheel drive makes the Legacy a really nice competitor in the mid-size economy sedan category. While storage and space are not confined at all, 4 passengers fit nicely in the Legacy and offer a ton of usage. What also was really nice was the fuel economy and capacity. 18.5 gallons and over 26 miles per gallon, we averaged close to 500 miles on a tank of fuel; now that is impressive! Not just for families, but commuters, couples and affordable transportation, the Subaru Legacy is really a crowd pleaser. As we see Subaru’s in parking lots everywhere in the Northeast, the trend is real and Subaru is here to stay. The Legacy is no different. From exploring the great outdoors on the weekends, to a family sedan and commuter during the week, for the price, I don’t see a better option. Great Job Subaru. Grasso’s Garage is here for you! Are you in the market for a new car? I would be happy to provide my honest input. All you have to do is email me: marc.grasso@bostonherald.com. MSRP: $37,695 MPG: 23 city / 31 highway / 26.2 combined As Tested: $38,715 Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group