Centennial Subaru is the corporate sponsor and exhibitor at this year’s Diamond Kid 12th annual Junior Triathlon and Kids Races, taking place Sept. 16 from 8 to 11 a.m. at the Blue Diamond Pool and Park. The Blue Diamond community is located off of state Route 159. Centennial Subaru is the corporate sponsor and exhibitor at this year’s Diamond Kid 12th annual Junior Triathlon and Kids Races, taking place Sept. 16 from 8 to 11 a.m. at the Blue Diamond Pool and Park. The Blue Diamond community is located off of state Route 159. Centennial Subaru’s $6,000 sponsorship will benefit Save Red Rock. The organization’s mission is to preserve, protect and enhance the natural, cultural, recreational and scenic resources in and around the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area to ensure sustainability and promote responsible recreational enjoyment for all user groups now and for future generations. Centennial Subaru will have a booth and SUV vehicle at the triathlon. Event organizers are providing a bounce house for kids, bake sale and snow cone booths and refreshment stands. Featured activities include the following: Junior Sprint Triathlon, ages 5-12, 50-yard swim, 2-mile bike ride and ½-mile run. Junior Long Triathlon, ages 9-17, 200-yard swim, 4-mile bike ride and 1-mile run. Parent-Assist Triathlon, ages 5-10 plus one parent or guardian, 25-50-yard swim, 1 to 2 laps bike ride and ½-mile run. Fun Run and Strider Ride, ages 2-10, ½-mile run or strider ride with or without parent. Diaper Dash, ages 0-2. “A lot of the kids who participated in these triathlons are athletes now. They are on college swim and bike teams,” Heather Fisher, president of Save Red Rock, said. “These races encourage kids to be athletes and become motivated and dedicated. They learn to set goals, and gives them a feeling of accomplishment.” Fisher added that all of the athletes will be wearing professional timing chips to clock their times. For more information, go to DiamondKid.com. 
 About the dealer Centennial Subaru is located at 6350 Centennial Center Blvd. and can be reached at 702-909-1654. The dealership is part of the Ascent Automotive Group, a platform comprised of various retailers located across America with a focus on next-level customer service and care. AAG also is the parent company of Lexus of Las Vegas and Lexus of Henderson.  
 On July 31, 14-year-old Roman Pandullo is not asking for the latest video game or trendy sneakers. Instead, he has a birthday wish to help the animals at the Henderson Animal Shelter for his seventh year in a row. In a heartening display of support for the local arts scene, Findlay Automotive has announced a donation of $5,000 to the esteemed A Public Fit Theater Company. This generous contribution will aid the theater company in continuing its mission of producing high-quality theatrical performances while showcasing the talents of local artists. Tragically, there are over 400,000 victims of sexual assault in the U.S. each year. In response to this alarming statistic, Findlay Automotive Group has made a donation to Signs of Hope, an organization dedicated to aiding victims of sexual violence and human trafficking. Imagine you had a child with a rare disease and treatment was far from home. On top of major medical bills, you would have to major travel expenses. This is where Miracle Flights serves as “the cure for the distance.” Cancer is a disease that has touched the lives of nearly everyone, claiming 1 in 6 deaths worldwide. In a city known for its glitz and glamour, it’s sobering to realize that a significant portion of its population struggles with hunger every day. In an unwavering display of community support, Findlay Automotive Group reaffirms its dedication to philanthropy, underscoring its values as a family-owned business with deep roots in Nevada. Today, Findlay consists of 35 locations across 5 western states and more than 2,500 employees. Findlay is committed to uplifting local communities where they operate. Jaguar Las Vegas is partnering with Nevada SPCA to host an upcoming pet adoption event called St. Pawtrick’s Day: Giving Luck to Homeless Pets. Don Hamrick of Chapman Las Vegas is one of a select group of 49 dealer nominees from across the country who will be honored at the 107th annual National Automobile Dealers Association Show on Saturday in Las Vegas. 3. Towbin Auto Group is proud to announce that Towbin Dodge Ram in Henderson was ranked the number one Dodge dealer in the World for all of 2023! 
Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
 Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP