This year will go on record as having the greatest number of recalls in the U.S. across a number of industries. Over one (1) billion products ranging from cars and electronics to food and medicine have been recalled in 2022, according to USA Today, and the year isn’t even over. Research suggests that many of these recalls were the result of supply chain disruptions in the wake of the global pandemic, but it’s probably going to take a while to parse out the data and figure out why so many new cars were at risk of catching on fire, or losing a wheel, or stalling while on the highway in 2022. Data from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration counted over 1,000 automotive (or auto-related) recalls with Ford, Volkswagen and Daimler Trucks having the most number of recalls at 67, 45 and 42, respectively. You can see much of that data at the U.S. agency’s website. Here’s a list of some of the automotive recalls we covered since the beginning of 2022. This list is not exhaustive by any means, but it includes many of the high-profile recalls we saw: 2 / 39 Hey — Bugatti Chiron Pur Sport owners, put down your hoagies and whittling knives and ice tongs, because I have important news! Your car is getting recalled because the rear tires are probably all cracked and dangerous! There are nine people in America who are affected by this recall, but I urge the other 51 owners out there to yank off the filthy tarp from your Pur Sports and see how bad those rear tires are, because according to the NHTSA, those shitty tires can “lead to a loss of vehicle control, increasing the risk of a crash.” Man, what a heap. Continue reading here. 3 / 39 Modern automotive technology has made so many previously impossible things commonplace, from in-dash navigation to pickup trucks that get 40 mpg to cars helping you to stay in lanes and so much more. They’ve also made incredible new ways to fail, like getting in your car and finding that all your dash instruments are upside down, something that sounds like it would be gearhead prank your grandfather’s friends would play on him in his old Hudson. Well, thanks to modern tech, Hyundai has pulled this off electronically. Continue reading here. 4 / 39 Tesla says 817,143 Teslas may have a seat belt chime problem...That is about a third of the number of cars Tesla has built, ever. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said in documents that certain 2021 and 2022 Model Ss and Xs would be recalled, as well as “all” Model 3s and Model Ys.  Continue reading here. 5 / 39 That’s right, folks. Park your car outside — that is, if your car is one of the nearly 485,000 Hyundai and Kia are saying can catch fire at any moment, even if they’re turned off. This is the latest recall from the twin Korean companies that have had a long list of fire and engine failure problems over the past six year. Continue reading here. 6 / 39 Car makers issue recalls for defects they find in the production process, often quickly fixing any mistakes so owners can get back out on the road. But after bodging up its last recall, Volkswagen Group has announced a second recall for more than 32,000 Porsche and Audi cars. Continue reading here. 7 / 39 If you ever wondered why only Tesla put external speakers on their cars, now you know why. Turns out, the company’s “Boombox” feature is a safety hazard! The company is recalling 578,607 vehicles in the U.S. because pedestrians may not be able to hear the required-by-law Pedestrian Warning System, according to Reuters. Continue reading here. 8 / 39 Get your marshmallows, folks. We’ve got another car BBQ recall on our hands. Stellantis is recalling 19,808 Chrysler Pacifica plug-in hybrid minivans — telling their owners to stop recharging them after 12 cars caught fire, according to the Detroit Free Press. Continue reading here. 9 / 39 The GMC Hummer EV is officially a real car — and not because it’s gotten into the hands of thousands of customers. The reason the Hummer EV is now a real car is because it had its first recall! Time to celebrate, friends. Carscoops reports that information posted by the NHTSA shows General Motors is recalling 10 2022 Hummer EVs because of defective tail lights. Basically, a software bug can either cause one or both of the taillights to be stuck on or off, which obviously defeats the purpose of a taillight. Continue reading here. 10 / 39 General Motors is recalling 681,509 of its compact SUVs built on the Theta platform. The 2014 and 2015 model year Chevrolet Equinox and GMC Terrain have a fault where the ball joints in the windshield wipers can rust through. The wipers can fail if their ball joints rust, an obvious safety issue for owners. Ford’s second recall affects 391,836 of its vehicles from the past two model years. The F-150 is only the 2021 model in the recall. From the 2022 model year, F-150, F-250, F-350, F-450, F-550, Maverick, Expedition as well as the Lincoln Navigator have all been recalled.  Continue reading here. 11 / 39 Hyundai and Kia are facing another recall, and this time it isn’t due to engine fires. That’s mostly because the two vehicles being recalled don’t have engines. That’s right, the Hyundai Ioniq 5 and Kia EV6 are being recalled because of an issue with the parking pawl software. It has been dubbed the “Vehicle Rollaway from Software Error” recall. Continue reading here. 12 / 39 Lucid has recalled every single one of its 2022 Air sedans for improperly secured instrument cluster display wiring harnesses that could prevent the panel from functioning properly. Should that happen, the screen won’t be able to convey valuable information, like how fast you’re going or whether the turn signals are on, putting the car in breach of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards. And so, recalled it must be. Continue reading here. 13 / 39 Ford is issuing yet another recall. This time it’s affecting its popular Mustang Mach-E electric crossover. Automotive News reports that Ford is recalling Mach-E’s over a battery connector issue. In a bulletin issued to dealers by the automaker, the issue involves the overheating of the vehicle’s high voltage battery connectors. The overheating could cause a glitch which could cause the Mach-E to lose power.  Continue reading here. 14 / 39 When it comes to Ford Mustang recalls, it would appear that it never rains but pours. Shortly after recalling the electric Mustang Mach-E over battery circuit issues, the blue oval has been forced to announce similar measures for the gas-powered Mustang thanks to some faulty sensors. The recall announcement went out to vehicle owners yesterday (June 13) and covers models produced between 2019 and 2020 that are fitted with a five-liter engine and manual transmission. In total, Ford says the recall affects 25,032 cars. Continue reading here. 15 / 39 The F-150 Lightning gets a TPMS recall...Ford is recalling 2,886 Lightnings across the U.S. and Canada due to issues with the tire pressure monitoring system. Continue reading here. 16 / 39 So, despite what some folks would have you think, most automotive recalls aren’t that big of a deal. They’re the inevitable result of having thousands of people working on a design with many thousands of parts and then asking thousands of other people and robots to build it. Of course, when a recall is performed, and then that recall causes another recall, that’s kind of a different story. Unfortunately for owners of Hyundai’s 2017 and 2018 Ioniq Hybrid and PHEV, that’s the situation they find themselves in, though it would appear that the issues at work here are enough to light a fire under Hyundai’s ass (you’ll get why that’s funny in a minute). The recall specifically stems from a bad relay in the car’s Power Relay Assembly that was initially recalled because it had poor connections, which could cause increased resistance and, therefore, a bunch of heat. Continue reading here. 17 / 39 Volkswagen and Audi are recalling 1,216 models from the 2016 model year over concerns that the airbags could explode, sending shrapnel into the cabin and injuring vehicle occupants. This recall specifically affects the 2016 Audi A3 Cabriolet, A3 E-Tron, A3 Sedan, R8, S3 Sedan, TT Coupe, TT Roadster, Volkswagen E-Golf, Golf, Golf GTI, Golf R and Golf Sportwagen models.  Continue reading here. 18 / 39 Hyundai and Kia are recalling 280,000 SUVs in the United States due to a potential fire risk. The cause of the issue on the 2020-2022 Hyundai Palisade and 2020-2022 Kia Telluride has been traced to trailer hitch wiring. Because of the potential danger, vehicle owners have been advised to outside and away from homes and other structures until repaired. Hopefully, this information will keep any possible SUV blazes contained to driveways and streets. Continue reading here. 19 / 39 All of 247 Hyundai Elantras — 205 Elantras N from model year 2002 and 42 regular Elantras from model years 2002-2003 — were recalled recently for an unusual defect: a part that may detach after airbag deployment. The part is the Hyundai emblem on the steering wheel. Continue reading here. 20 / 39 The recalls at Ford keep coming, and the latest once again affects owners of the Expedition and Lincoln Navigator. In July, the automaker expanded an existing recall for 2021 models for a fire risk originating from the circuit board in the battery junction box that was prone to shorting. But that only affected about 66,000 SUVs. This week, it’s added about 198,000 Expeditions and Navigators, model years 2015 through 2017, for a completely separate risk of fire. Continue reading here. 21 / 39 The skid control electronic control unit is believed to be the culprit behind parking brake issues in the 2022 Toyota Tundra, Lexus NX250 and NX350. About 85,000 pickups and SUVs are covered in this recall, in which Toyota says affected vehicles’ electronic parking brakes may not engage or disengage properly. As a result, there’s a risk of rollaway if the driver attempts to trigger the brake, but a software glitch prevents it from happening. Continue reading here. 22 / 39 The 2023 Kia Sportage may be very new to the market, but it’s already making a name for itself as a Kia… because it’s being recalled for a fire risk. This time, the alternator’s positive terminal nut may loosen, according to the NHTSA. If it comes loose it can cause a number of problems. One of them is pretty mundane — the engine can stall. That’s the ideal outcome, because the other is much worse. Continue reading here. 23 / 39 Right around the time Nissan recalled 360,000 Pathfinders for defective hood latches in June, the Japanese automaker also issued a separate alert for its pickups. That campaign covered 180,000 Frontier and Titan models manufactured between late 2019 and summer 2022 for risk of roll away. Nissan has just added another 23,000 trucks to that tally, as even recently manufactured 2023-model year vehicles have been deemed susceptible to the same fault. Continue reading here. 24 / 39 Tesla is recalling over 1 million vehicles in the United States because of an issue with the window automatic reversal system. Reuters reports the system may not work correctly when it detects an obstruction, so it can increase the risk of injury. That being said, Reuters says Tesla is “not aware of any warranty claims, field reports, crashes, injuries, or deaths related to the recall.” Continue reading here. 25 / 39 Approximately 60 percent of the Cadillac Lyriq’s dash is occupied by screen, by my unscientific estimation. Should the 33-inch display go dark, then, it’s a rather significant problem. General Motors has acknowledged such an issue with the luxury brand’s electric SUV this week. It’s a software glitch, that can be triggered by opening a door during the car’s boot-up or shut down animation while it is parked, according to GM Authority. That could result in a blank screen, which can only be rectified by power cycling the vehicle. Continue reading here. 26 / 39 The Toyota bZ4X is going back on sale now that Toyota has figured out how to keep its wheels from falling off. Toyota will resume production of the fully-electric crossover on Thursday, now adding washers to its wheel hub bolts. Toyota will then resume sales on October 26 in Japan, with bZ4X sales in the U.S. following shortly afterward, as Automotive News reports. Two months after the debut of the Toyota bZ4X, the Japanese auto giant issued a recall of its EV crossover because of a production defect could lead to the car’s wheels falling off. The recall traced to the high torque of the bZ4X’s electric motor and its effect on the EV’s wheel hub bolts. Continue reading here. 27 / 39 Rivian makes some truly fantastic automobiles. The company behind those cars, however has taken hit after hit after hit this year — many of them self-inflicted. Most recently, Rivian recalled over 12,200 cars (from a company that’s only delivered a bit over 13,000), and the stock market is none too pleased. Continue reading here. 28 / 39 Fiat Chrysler is recalling thousands of diesel-powered Jeep Wranglers, Jeep Gladiators and Ram 1500 pickup trucks due to faulty fuel pumps. The recall affects relatively new Jeeps and Rams equipped with 3.0-liter turbocharged V6 diesel engines, which are in danger of stalling as a result of their high-pressure fuel pumps failing prematurely and without warning. Continue reading here. 29 / 39 Certain models of the 2022 Lamborghini Urus are being recalled in the U.S. and Canada due to a potential defect in the infotainment system that renders the display and rear-view camera inoperable. Documents from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration say the issue stems from a potentially faulty voltage regulator in the infotainment system. Some of the voltage regulators that Lamborghini supplier Aptiv used during assembly of the main control units allow a voltage input that’s too high. Continue reading here. 30 / 39 General Motors is recalling over 338,000 of its full-size SUVs because of a software glitch with the computer that controls the vehicles’ daytime running lights. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration says that the DRLs may not deactivate when the headlights are switched on. The situation could have the effect of creating extra glare for oncoming traffic that could prove to be hazardous. On top of that, it just doesn’t comply with federal regulations. So, if you’re wondering why headlights seem to be getting brighter, this may be a reason why. (I kid… sort of.) Continue reading here. 31 / 39 The law has required every new car to feature a backup camera going back to 2018 and yet, many carmakers appear to still have a hard time ensuring they work properly. Ford has experienced such issues before, and it’s dealing with them again — this time with the Bronco. 47,036 examples of the popular SUV — model years 2021 and 2022 — have been recalled for glitches affecting the camera and Sync infotainment system after the vehicle’s been reversed, then shifted back into a forward gear while in four-wheel-drive-low (“4-Low”) mode. Continue reading here.  32 / 39 Tesla is recalling over 321,000 vehicles in the U.S. because of a taillight issue that could intermittently cause them not to illuminate. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration says the recall covers some 2023 Model 3s and 2020-2023 Model Ys. The company says it was made aware of the issue following three customer complaints made in late October of this year. An investigation found that in some cases, the taillights may not work due to an issue that may cause false fault detection during the vehicle’s wake up process.  Continue reading here. 33 / 39 If one word were to sum up 2022 in the car world, I think it might be recall. So far this year, automakers from Ford to Mercedes have been forced to redesign and repair models that have long since left the forecourt. Now, it’s Honda’s turn, again. The Japanese automaker has been forced to recall more than 117,000 Ridgeline pickup trucks because of faulty backup cameras, according to Consumer Reports. Honda found that opening and closing the tailgate in certain Ridgeline trucks could break a wiring harness, which would cause the rearview camera to fail. Continue reading here. 34 / 39 Audi is recalling over 50,000 midsize sedans and wagons due to a potential risk of power loss in the event of liquid spills in the back seat. A gateway control module under the back seat of the 2019-2022 Audi A6 and A7 could cut power to the engine if a spill in the rear seeps into the electronics, and the unexpected power loss creates a crash risk, according to Consumer Reports. The recall affects a total of 50,883 Audi sedan and wagon models, including the 2019-2022 Audi A6 and A7, the 2020-2022 Audi S6, S7 and A6 Allroad, and the 2021-2022 Audi RS6 Avant and RS7.  Continue reading here. 35 / 39 If you own a 2021 through 2023 Jeep Wrangler 4XE, you might want to take it to the dealer as soon as possible. A recall has been issued by Jeep and the NHTSA over a software issue that can cause the engine to suddenly shut off while driving. The issue, clearly, could result in a crash, two of which have already happened. Continue reading here. 36 / 39 If you have a 2019 to 2022 Subaru Ascent, be careful. Subaru has announced a recall that affects more than a quarter million Ascents due to a risk that they may catch on fire. Owners of the affected vehicles will be contacted within 60 days, but in the meantime, you can enter your VIN on the NHTSA’s website to check if your Ascent is part of the recall. Continue reading here. 37 / 39 Stellantis is recalling just about 1.4 million Ram pickups around the world because the truck’s tailgates may not properly latch and could open while driving. It could lead to whatever you have in your bed falling out onto the road and possibly becoming a hazard to other drivers. That’s less than ideal for most people. According to an acknowledgment letter to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Ram will be recalling over a million 2019-2022 Ram 1500, 2500, and 3500 pickup trucks. Continue reading here. 38 / 39 It’s a big week for big recalls, apparently. After Ram was forced to call back 1.4 million pickup trucks for defective tailgates that could fly open while driving, General Motors has swooped in with a recall of its own, issuing a recall for more than 740,000 Cadillac, Buick, Chevy and GMC models with potentially faulty running lights that don’t shut off. Continue reading here.  39 / 39