Get daily business news from the region delivered straight to your inbox The startups, part of Hub71’s first cohort of the year, originate from the UAE, US, New Zealand, Egypt, the Netherlands and the UK Hub71, Abu Dhabi’s global tech ecosystem, has welcomed its first cohort of the year comprising 15 startups. These companies, operating in key areas aligned with Abu Dhabi’s strategic ambitions, include healthtech, fintech and edtech firms. The addition of the latest cohort has increased the size of Hub71’s ecosystem to more than 240 startups. In the latest cohort, 67 per cent of the selected startups are headquartered outside the UAE, reinforcing the increasing the status of Abu Dhabi as a global innovation and business hub. The 15 startups originate from the UAE, US, New Zealand, Egypt, the Netherlands, and the UK. Among the startups joining Hub71 are two healthtech startups making a significant impact in healthcare, Exsurgo, and Ovasave. Exsurgo raised $10.5m (Dhs38.6m) and delivers non-pharmaceutical treatments for neurological conditions using neuroscience and data analytics. Meanwhile, Ovasave leverages innovative solutions to provide women with seamless access to fertility and egg-freezing services through a vetted network. The cohort also includes fintech startups such as Subsbase, supported by investors including Global Ventures and Plug and Play, who are simplifying recurring payments for businesses and Inovat, which offers a digital VAT refund solution, enabling travelers to save over 20 per cent on shopping without paperwork or airport queues. Hub71 received a 70 per cent increase in applications to join the startup community compared to the previous cohort, including a significant increase in high-quality early-stage startups looking at setting up in Abu Dhabi. Ahmad Ali Alwan, deputy CEO of Hub71, said: “Each startup has undergone a rigorous selection process, having been selected based on their unique capabilities and potential to grow as a global tech company out of Abu Dhabi. Our first cohort of 2023 is comprised of companies that have showcased a competitive edge in building differentiated tech platforms and products. By attracting and scaling startups with solutions that make a difference in people’s lives, we aim to make an impact on Abu Dhabi’s economy and society and continue bolstering its position as a leading global innovation hub.” © 2021 MOTIVATE MEDIA GROUP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.