
        Updated Oct 11, 2023
                 | Same topic: Most Updated Car Concept
 Subaru announced its lineup for the 2023 Japan Mobility Show (formerly known as the Tokyo Motor Show). One of these will come in the form of an electric vehicle (EV) called the Subaru Sport Mobility concept.  Subaru Sport Mobility concept The Japanese automaker didn’t reveal much about the concept. We can see the silhouette, though, which suggests the mystery car could be a two-door sports car. After all, the brand said that the concept “evokes the evolution of the Subaru Sport values.” The only details Subaru wants us to know about the concept for now are the sports car shape, illuminated brand logo, the prominent fender flares, and the thin headlights reminiscent of the SVX from the 90s. There is also illumination behind the rearview mirror, hinting at the use of the brand’s award-winning EyeSight Driver Assist Technology. What we know is that Subaru plans to launch an eight-EV lineup in the next five years. The new concept could be one of the future Subaru EVs – which should be exciting for those who long for spirited driving. While Subaru currently has the Solterra only, the automaker will reportedly launch a three-row SUV with Toyota in the US.  Subaru SVX While the Subaru Solterra hasn’t arrived in the Philippine lineup, the crossover EV already made its ASEAN debut in Singapore earlier this year. Subaru will reveal the Sport Mobility EV concept at the said auto show happening from October 25 to November 5 (doors open to the public on October 27) at the Tokyo Big Sight in Japan. The concept will be joined by the Levorg Layback Limited EX, Solterra ET-HS, a special edition of the Forester, and Crosstrek. Fellow Japanese automaker Suzuki will also new EV concepts of its own at the auto show. These include the eVX crossover concept, the eWX wagon concept, and the e Every concept mini commercial van. Don’t miss the latest car events at Philkotse.com. Subaru Philippines is offering seven new models in the local market. The Subaru price list ranges from Php 1,908,000 to Php 3,780,000. All seven models are passenger vehicles. Included in the Subaru lineup are Subaru XV, Subaru Evoltis,  Subaru Forester, BRZ coupe, WRX wagon,  Outback, and WRX sedan.  In addition to the monthly Subaru car price list, Philkotse.com offers the best promotions from all dealers in the Philippines. These include prepaid and paid programs, as well as the lowest monthly contribution that car buyers can benefit from. Author Rex Sanchez grew up in Saudi Arabia where he saw and got into the automotive scene. He started his career for an aviation company in the said region, writing about turbines and rotors which are later distributed for educational purposes. And now, he joined Philkotse.com as a staff writer. Currently, he is the youngest on the team and is more than ready to grow in the field. Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/rexsanchez09 Rex Sanchez grew up in Saudi Arabia where he saw and got into the automotive scene. He started his career for an aviation company in the said region, writing about turbines and rotors which are later distributed for educational purposes. And now, he joined Philkotse.com as a staff writer. Currently, he is the youngest on the team and is more than ready to grow in the field. Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/rexsanchez09 12/F AIC Burgundy Tower, ADB Avenue, Ortigas Center, Pasig City, Metro Manila, Philippines  09481334353 (SMART) - 09260673939 (GLOBE) support@philkotse.com