Global deployment aims to improve demand forecasting operations, optimise inventory and increase operational efficiency Kinaxis® Inc., the leading provider of supply chain management solutions, today announced that SUBARU CORPORATION (SUBARU) has expanded its work with Kinaxis to improve demand forecasting operations, optimise inventory and increase operational efficiency. The company’s U.S. subsidiary is already using Kinaxis for accessory and service parts planning for its automotive business and has optimised demand planning and inventory to ensure adequate product supply. SUBARU’s Japan headquarters selected Kinaxis for its operational and implementation experience, superior functionality and feasibility for business innovation and improved transparency throughout the supply chain. The automotive industry is undergoing a period of change based on Connected, Autonomous, Shared and Electric (CASE) and is required to respond to new areas that have not been part of traditional car manufacturing. While it is essential to follow the rapidly changing business environment, existing supply chain management systems are becoming increasingly complex. SUBARU is using Kinaxis’ RapidResponse platform to further enhance its supply chain planning operations for accessories and service parts for its automotive business. Kazutaka Saito, senior general manager of SUBARU’s Parts & Accessories Division said, “We hope to achieve an efficient supply of service parts that will meet our customers’ needs while keeping inventory levels under control.” Claire Rychlewski, global executive vice president of sales at Kinaxis said, “We are excited to continue to support SUBARU’s global supply chain as the automotive industry undergoes a period of significant change. End-to-end supply chain visibility is critical to address all the uncertainties in the marketplace, and we look forward to helping SUBARU achieve its supply chain goals.” [1] As a driving support system that achieves various functions using only a stereo camera (according to SUBARU’s research)