Tue, Aug 20, 2024 | Safar 16, 1446 Published: Fri 23 Jun 2023, 9:02 PM Delivering non-drug treatments for neurological conditions using neuroscience and data analytics, mentorship and job matching platform, and a digital VAT refund solution for tourists with saving of 20 per cent are among the 15 innovative startups joining Hub71 this year. Abu Dhabi’s global tech ecosystem has welcomed its first cohort of 2023 with startups operating in priority sectors, including HealthTech, FinTech, and EdTech. Hub71 received a 70 per cent increase in applications from startups compared to the previous cohort. Up to 67 per cent of the selected startups are headquartered outside the UAE, demonstrating the increasing global appeal of Abu Dhabi as a robust startup innovation hub where tech entrepreneurs can access capital, a growing community, and a business-friendly environment. “Each startup has undergone a rigorous selection process, having been selected based on their unique capabilities and potential to grow as a global tech company out of Abu Dhabi,” Ahmad Ali Alwan, Deputy CEO of Hub71, said. The 15 startups originate from the UAE, the US, New Zealand, Egypt, the Netherlands, and the UK. The addition of the latest batch increases the size of Hub71’s vibrant community to more than 240 startups. “Our first cohort of 2023 comprises companies that have showcased a competitive edge in building differentiated tech platforms and products. By attracting and scaling startups with solutions that make a difference in people’s lives, we aim to make an impact on Abu Dhabi’s economy and society and continue bolstering its position as a leading global innovation hub,” Alwan added. Selected 15 startups are: ALSO READ: Get news and views from the world of golf delivered to your inbox every Wednesday.  uae The winds will cause blowing dust and sand, reducing horizontal visibility uae uae The met cautioned against a decline in horizontal visibility which may drop to less than 3000 metres at times over internal areas uae uae While some continue in their traditional careers, others have since left their job to 'fully commit' to the business  uae uae Making visitors work with promise of a permanent job could see companies fined up to Dh1 million uae uae According to a survey, nearly one-fourth – 24 per cent –  of UAE employers have turned to alternative compensation strategies to attract and retain top talent uae uae Some of the young preachers said they were inspired by their family uae uae On Saturday, flights between Salalah and Muscat experienced delays, and SLL was temporarily closed uae uae Most students across the country will go back to school after an almost two month-long vacation on August 26 uae