Personal Finance Credit Monitoring Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing  Follow Select  The deadline to submit individual tax returns to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is April 15, 2024 (or April 17 if you live in Maine or Massachusetts). While tax season may not be your favorite time of the year, you can make the process faster by filing your tax return using a tax software program. Services like TurboTax and H&R Block walk users through the process so they can maximize deductions and increase their refund. Many of the best tax filing software companies offer both free and paid plans that allow you to select the option that best suits your needs — whether this is the first time you've needed to file or you've been paying taxes for years. CNBC Select reviewed over a dozen top tax filing software options, evaluating them on a range of features, including cost, user experience, expert tax assistance and Better Business Bureau rating, to determine which ones are best. (See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best tax software.) Costs may vary depending on the plan selected - click "Learn More" for details TurboTax Free Edition. ~37% of taxpayers qualify. Form 1040 + limited credits only. Yes Available with some pricing and filing options Click here for TurboTax offer details and disclosures. Terms apply. Who's this for? TurboTax offers a range of features and tools that can help make filing taxes as simple as it can get. The software guides you through each step with straightforward questions, and you get access to explainers, videos and extra tips. You can also pay to add live assistance — or let a professional handle filing for you altogether. Standout features: TurboTax guarantees a maximum refund, 100% accuracy and audit support for your tax return. The software allows you to easily upload tax documents, and you can opt to file with the TurboTax app. Additionally, TurboTax offers tax refund advances. [ Jump to more details ] Costs may vary depending on the plan selected (Free Online, Deluxe, Premium, or Self-Employed) - click "Learn More" for details Yes (for simple returns only) Yes Available with some pricing and filing options Terms apply. Who's this for? H&R Block makes the filing process relatively simple, especially if you're filing on your own. Its free version offers more free forms than TurboTax and the paid plans are also slightly more affordable. That said, you can also pay for a professional to review your return. Standout features: H&R Block provides access to AI Tax Assist with all plans. The company also guarantees a maximum refund, 100% accuracy, transparent pricing and process, as well as free audit assistance and mid-year care check-in. You can opt to file taxes online, with tax software or in person. H&R Block also offers tax refund advances. [ Jump to more details ] $0 federal and state Yes Yes No Terms apply. Who's this for? Cash App Taxes is worth looking into if your goal is to not spend money on filing your taxes this year. In most tax situations, you can use it to file your state and federal returns for free. Note that unless your return is simple, you need to be fairly comfortable doing your taxes yourself. Since Cash App Taxes is free, you won't have access to professional tax advice. It also doesn't support certain situations, such as multistate returns or foreign income. Standout features: Cash App Taxes guarantees a maximum refund and 100% accuracy. The company also includes free audit defense with every return. [ Jump to more details ] Use Code: CNBC20 Costs may vary depending on the plan selected. Yes Yes Yes, certain plans *20% off your federal tax return. Offer is valid on federal tax returns e-filed by April 15, 2024, at 11:59 p.m. ET. Only valid for new or first time TaxSlayer users only. Promotion code must be entered at checkout. Offer is not applicable to state tax returns or additional products. Offer is valid for one-time use only and cannot be combined with any other coupons, promotions, discounts, or offers. Offer is nontransferable, cannot be sold or otherwise bartered, and is not applicable to previous purchases or returns. Who's this for? TaxSlayer prices its packages based on your tax situation and the level of support you want. That means if you're a confident filer or have a simple tax situation, you can save some money with TaxSlayer by skipping features like chat support. Standout features: TaxSlayer provides a maximum refund and a 100% accuracy guarantee. You can also file your taxes on the go through the mobile app. Additionally, TaxSlayer offers the option to deduct the cost of its services from your federal refund, which allows you to skip paying when you file. [ Jump to more details ] Costs may vary depending on the plan selected - click "Learn More" for details Yes No, the mobile app was discontinued Yes, costs extra Terms apply. Who's this for? TaxAct is a good pick for those who have a complicated tax situation and want to prioritize their return's accuracy. While every provider on our list guarantees 100% accuracy, TaxAct takes it to the next level. If your return isn't accurate, or you don't get your maximum refund, the company will refund your software costs and pay any difference in your lower refund or higher tax liability, as well as cover any legal or audit costs up to $100,000. Standout features: TaxAct allows you to file online or download tax preparation software to use on your desktop. Plus, you can get help from a tax expert for a flat fee with TaxAct® Xpert Assist — a feature you can add to any of the provider's plans. [ Jump to more details ] TurboTax is a leading software package for tax preparation in the U.S., offered by Intuit. It offers a variety of plans and backs its services with several guarantees. Among other Intuit products are an AI financial assistant, Credit Karma, an accounting software Quickbooks and an email marketing service Mailchimp. Pricing The prices are current as of writing and may reflect the promotions advertised on the provider's website. Free version Yes — for qualified filers in covered situations, including: Live support Yes — additional fees may apply Learn more: TurboTax's software is easy and well-designed but could be expensive for complex tax situations [ Return to summary ] H&R Block is a tax preparation company operating in the U.S., as well as Canada and Australia. Depending on the plan, customers can get live support online, over the phone or at over 11,000 tax offices nationwide. It also offers financial products, such as a debit card, a savings account and a banking app. Pricing The prices are current as of writing and may reflect the promotions advertised on H&R Block's website. Free version Yes — for covered tax situations and forms. Examples include: Live support Yes — additional fees may apply Learn more: H&R Block offers DIY and expert tax filing options at affordable prices — here's what you need to know [ Return to summary ] Cash App Taxes, formerly Credit Karma Tax, is a free online tax preparation service. Cash App also offers a mobile payment service that allows users to send, receive and invest money, among many other features. Pricing Cash App Taxes is 100% free. Free version Yes — for all covered situations. Note that certain scenarios aren't covered, and state returns are only available for 40 states and the District of Columbia. Live support You can contact Cash App support, but tax pro advice isn't available. [ Return to summary ] TaxSlayer is a privately owned tech company headquartered in Augusta, Georgia. It offers cloud-based tax preparation software, including a mobile app. It is IRS-approved and backs its services with several guarantees. TaxSlayer is a member of the Free File Alliance, offering free tax services to eligible taxpayers in partnership with the IRS. Pricing Free version Yes — for W-2 income, student loan interest and education expenses Live support [ Return to summary ] TaxAct is a tax preparation software company based in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, offering services to individual filers and businesses. TaxAct is a member of the Free File Alliance and claims to be the first online software provider to offer free tax filing. Pricing Free version Yes — for the following tax situations: Live support Available to add for a flat fee of $59.99. [ Return to summary ] Different tax filing options have different costs. Most tax preparation software comes with a free version, along with the option to upgrade to a paid plan. The tax prep services we reviewed either have no cost for free tax filing or charge as low as $11.05 for federal filing plus $4.95 per state. However, the costs can add up fast with the more complex deluxe, premium and self-employed plans — the most expensive is $170 for federal returns, plus $50 per state. If you want to add live tax support, the surcharge can be $35 to $100, plus state fees. There's also a DIY service provided by the IRS called IRS Free File where you can file your taxes at no cost. IRS Free File partners with online tax prep companies to help filers do free federal returns. Once you have your tax documents ready, go to IRS.gov and click on "IRS Free File." From there, you can prepare and file your federal income tax online using either guided tax preparation (which redirects you to an IRS partner site) or Free File Fillable Forms. If your tax return is more complicated and you don't want to DIY using online software, you may want to think about hiring an expert like a CPA to file your taxes for you (which of course comes at its own cost). Keep in mind that some tax prep software offers an add-on benefit of live customer support with phone support and even full tax preparation, available for both individual tax filers and business owners. Costs generally range anywhere from $59 to upwards of $230. Don't miss: Free vs. paid tax services: When to plan on paying for an upgrade A simple tax return is the most basic type of tax return you can file, and many tax software programs let you file this return for free. A simple return generally includes W-2 income, limited interest and dividend income (i.e. investment income), standard deductions and unemployment income. Some free plans also include the earned income tax credit (TurboTax Free Edition*, H&R Block, Cash App Taxes, and TaxAct), child tax credits (TurboTax Free Edition, H&R Block, Cash App and TaxAct) and student loan interest tax deductions (H&R Block, Cash App, TaxAct and TaxSlayer). * (according to TurboTax, about 37% of taxpayers qualify for this edition and it's available for Form 1040 + limited credits only) If your finances are more complicated and you don't qualify for a simple tax return, you'll need to file a complex one and most tax software programs will charge you fees to file. Complex tax situations typically include anyone with freelance income (1099 tax forms or Schedule C forms for self-employed filers), small business owners (who would want to deduct business expenses) and landlords (who would want to deduct rental property expenses from their rental income), as well as anyone with investment income, or earnings from investments and stock sales. The tax program you use will notify you if you can't file a free simple tax return and instead need to upgrade and pay to file a more complex return. And even if you can file a simple tax return, you may want to pay for the next-tier plan to benefit from more tax deductions. When you file your taxes, you can choose to lower your taxable income by either taking the standard deduction or by itemizing deductions. The standard deduction is a preset amount that depends on your filing status, while itemized deductions are expenses you paid in the prior year that can reduce your taxable income. Itemized deductions may include mortgage interest, real estate taxes, property taxes, disaster losses, state and local income or sales taxes, charitable donations and partial medical and dental expenses, according to the IRS website. In most cases, higher-income earners who have large, deductible expenses in the year prior will get a lower tax bill from itemizing versus taking the standard deduction. For example, owning rental property comes with tax-deductible perks that may exceed what a filer would otherwise receive through the standard deduction. The tax deadline this year is April 15, 2024. Due to state holidays, the deadline is slightly later for residents of Massachusetts and Maine — April 17. If you miss the April 15 deadline, you still need to file your taxes and should do so as soon as possible. You'll incur a penalty if you file late and owe taxes, which only gets pricier the longer you wait. You won't incur a penalty if you don't owe and instead have a tax refund coming. You can pay taxes with a credit card, but providers typically charge a processing fee associated with doing so that may outweigh any benefits. Besides the convenience factor, paying with a credit card allows you to earn cash back or other rewards, meet spending requirements for welcome bonus offers and potentially buy some extra time on tax payments by taking advantage of a 0% APR period. However, the processing fees and potential interest charges for late credit card payments can end up being greater than the value of the rewards. At CNBC Select, our mission is to provide our readers with high-quality service journalism and comprehensive consumer advice so they can make informed decisions with their money. Every tax software review is based on rigorous reporting by our team of expert writers and editors with extensive knowledge of tax software products. While CNBC Select earns a commission from affiliate partners on many offers and links, we create all our content without input from our commercial team or any outside third parties, and we pride ourselves on our journalistic standards and ethics. See our methodology for more information on how we choose the best tax software options. Money matters —  so make the most of it. Get expert tips, strategies, news and everything else you need to maximize your money, right to your inbox. Sign up here. To determine which tax software offers the best way to file your taxes online, CNBC Select analyzed over a dozen filing programs. We compared each program on a range of features, including: Cost was one of the most important factors. While many of these services offer free versions, many people have complicated finances that require them to pay to file their taxes. We evaluated the price per plan and weighed the features you receive, like the ability to maximize deductions and credits. The more bang for your buck, the higher a service ranked. Whether you're new to filing taxes or a seasoned pro, user experience is crucial to filling out and submitting your return quickly and with little frustration. The services we chose had to be relatively user-friendly. The ability to speak with a tax expert or support representative was a big plus. Four out of five of the best tax software offered some form of support. And if a service supported consumers with a generous accuracy and maximum refund guarantee, it was ranked higher. We also considered the Better Business Bureau rating associated with the software. BBB ratings help determine whether a business is operating responsibly and if it helps to resolve customer complaints promptly. Customer reviews were also taken into consideration. After reviewing the above features, we sorted our recommendations by best for user experience, DIY filing, free tax software, most affordable and best accuracy guarantee. The federal and state filing fees for the software programs mentioned above are subject to change without notice. Many programs don't charge you until you file, so there's a chance the fees can change from the time you start your return until you submit it. Catch up on CNBC Select's in-depth coverage of credit cards, banking and money, and follow us on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to stay up to date. * Cash App Taxes - TurboTax Free Edition: $0 Federal + $0 State + $0 To File offer is available for simple tax returns only with TurboTax Free Edition. A simple tax return is Form 1040 only (without any additional schedules). © 2024 SELECT | All rights reserved. The use of this website means that you accept the confidentiality regulations and the conditions of service.