Skip to content or footer
 A rare green comet, last seen in Earth’s skies 50,000 years ago, is revisiting our solar system and may become visible to the naked eye in our northern skies this week. Observers with binoculars and small telescopes are already starting to see it. The comet – formally identified as C/2022 E3 (ZTF) but commonly called the "green comet" – won't be as bright as other famous comets such as Halley's or Hale-Bopp. "The brightness of comets is notoriously unpredictable, but by (Feb. 1) C/2022 E3 (ZTF) could become only just visible to the eye in dark night skies," NASA said in its blog. There's no guarantee, but the best chance of seeing it with your own eyes is a clear dark sky before dawn without the light pollution of cities. Otherwise, the comet "will more likely look like a smudge in the sky, like someone has dipped their finger in chalk dust and dabbed it on a blackboard," the BBC said. The comet is a once-in-a-lifetime event generating excitement among astronomers and amateur skywatchers for its unique color and because it's a long-period comet, one that takes more than 200 years to orbit the sun. (Short-period comets take less than 200 years.) Observers at the Palomar Observatory in California discovered it on March 3, 2022, inside the orbit of Jupiter nearly 400 million miles from the sun. Since then it has traveled sunward and reached perihelion, its closest orbital point to the sun, on Jan. 12. It will come closest to Earth between Wednesday and Thursday, passing at a distance of about 26 million miles. By comparison, the moon is about 239,000 miles from Earth. Green comets are rare, but we've seen them at times. One of them was Comet ISON, which visited Earth in 2013. ISON and C/2022 E3 (ZTF) are believed to have originated in the distant Oort Cloud, a giant bubble of space debris containing billons of icy objects, some of them larger than mountains. The cloud is so far away its distance is measured in astronomical units, or AUs. One AU is 93 million miles, the distance from the Earth to the sun. The edge of the Oort Cloud is estimated at 2,000 to 5,000 AUs from the sun. If the 50,000-year visitation is accurate, the comet was last here in the Upper Paleolithic Age, when homo sapiens began replacing other human species such as Neanderthals and Denisovans. Comets are cosmic snowballs with ice, frozen gases, rocks and dust that range in size from a few miles to tens of miles in diameter. Comets are frozen but warm up as they approach the sun and start spewing gases and dust particles, which creates a large glow around the head, called a coma, and forms a tail millions of miles long. C/2022 E3 (ZTF)'s color comes from its molecular composition. It has dicarbon molecules, chemical compounds with two bonded carbon atoms, and cyanogen. Both of these glow green when exposed to sunlight. It can be challenging to predict when and if comets will become brighter as they approach Earth. We don't know yet if the green comet will be visible to the unaided eye. Even if C/2022 E3 (ZTF) doesn't become bright enough to be seen without help, it can still be seen during the last days of January and the first few days of February with binoculars and small telescopes. Viewers in the Northern Hemisphere have the best chance of seeing the comet in pre-dawn hours. The International Astronomical Union names comets with a code that looks complicated at first, but breaks down like this: C=Length of time to orbit sun The "C" in the code prefix doesn't stand for "comet." Instead, it identifies the comet as a non-periodic one that takes more than 200 years to orbit the sun. Other prefixes include: Year of discovery Next is the year in which the comet was first seen. Month it was found The letter/number combination indicates the month of discovery. Accordingly, "E3" identifies C/2022 E3 (ZTF) as the third comet discovered in the first half of March 2022. (Who discovered the comet) Finally, the comet's discoverer is listed in parenthesis. The Zwicky Transient Facility at the Palomar Observatory near San Diego, which discovered C/2022 E3 (ZTF), uses a powerful camera to scan and record the northern sky every two days. The images are compared to collect data on stars, comets, asteroids and other celestial objects. ________ SOURCE USA TODAY Network reporting and research; Associated Press; NASA; Jet Propulsion Laboratory; space.com; earthsky.org; universetoday.com; International Astronomical Union; Las Cumbres Observatory; minorplanetcenter.net; theskylive.com © 2024 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Satellite Information Network, LLC.