A powerful telescope focused on the sun has returned otherworldly, high-quality photos showing the surface of our solar system's star. The telescope, operated by the National Science Foundation, captured images of sunspots and quiet regions. The scope, known as the Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope, uses a high-quality imaging device to capture the photos, according to a May 19 news release announcing the photos. The Inouye Solar Telescope, on the island of Maui, Hawaii, is the most powerful solar telescope in the world, according to the foundation. The foundation called the photos "unprecedented" and said the details visible in the images would help solar scientists "better understand the Sun's magnetic field," as well as give information about the possible causes of solar storms, which is what happens when the sun releases large amounts of energy in the form of solar flares. The photographed sunspots show dark and cool regions on the sun's photosphere, or surface. These are formed by strong magnetic fields, the National Science Foundation said, and can vary in size but are often equal or larger than the size of the Earth. Photos of the sunspots show bright dots, known as umbral dots, surrounded by bright strands known as "penumbral filaments." In the umbra, the magnetic field is the strongest. Other photos show quiet regions of the sun. One photo shows convection cells, which are rising plumes of incredibly hot plasma. The cells are surrounded by lanes of cooler plasma flowing downwards, creating a bright orange and yellow pattern in the photograph. Another incredible image shows what the National Science Foundation called a "light bridge," which crosses a sunspot's umbra from end to end. The bridges are "believed to be the signature of the start of a decaying sunspot," meaning that area will eventually break apart. The image taken by the telescope shows the light bridge in "remarkable detail," the foundation said. The telescope also photographed the chromosphere, the atmospheric level above the photosphere. There, images show dark tendrils "originating from locations of small-scale magnetic field accumulations," the foundation said. The photos captured this month are just the start of the telescope's mission, the National Science Foundation said. The scope is in its "Operations Commissioning Phase," where it is slowly brought up to full capability. Multiple researchers were invited to use the scope during this phase, after they submitted proposals for specific goals. The images captured are just some of the data collected by those researchers, the foundation said. More information will be released by the Inouye Solar Telescope's Data Center in the future. "As the Inouye Solar Telescope continues to explore the Sun, we expect more new and exciting results from the scientific community – including spectacular views of our solar system's most influential celestial body," the foundation said. How the U.S. is dealing with backlog of migrant sponsorships What are the sticking points in debt ceiling talks? Surgeon general shares tips to keep social media safe for kids New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. The Broncos had to be thrilled with what they saw from Bo Nix. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  De-aging has been more common, as filmmakers try to simulate a younger Harrison Ford in “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” a younger Will Smith in “Gemini Man,” or a younger Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in “The Irishman.” There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Every once in a while, we’ll get a single anecdote that succinctly reflects a much bigger story in the economy. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. These ingenious gadgets and gizmos on Amazon will save you time, energy and money. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Researchers discovered a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in AMD chips that has been there for decades. It’s called a ‘Sinkclose’ flaw. It's position preview week at Yahoo Fantasy and the pod and there may be no other position discussed, debated and passionately watched in fantasy more than the wide receiver position. Matt Harmon is back in the host chair and joined by Dalton Del Don to break down every angle of the WR position in 2024. Harmon and Del Don attempt to identify the potential league winners, sleepers and fades at the WR position this season. Yabusele, who previously spent two seasons with the Boston Celtics, averaged 14 points per game during France's Olympic silver medal run.