A rare green comet, which has been streaking across the night sky as it approaches Earth for the first time since the Stone Age, briefly grew a bizarre third tail. This "anti-tail" appeared to streak in the wrong direction, seemingly breaking the rules of physics. The comet — named C/2022 E3 (ZTF) but more commonly referred to as the "green comet" thanks to a chemical reaction that emits a greenish glow around the cosmic cannonball — was first discovered in March 2022 heading towards Earth from the Oort Cloud, a collection of icy objects in the outer solar system. Normally, comets like this have two tails: One made from dust, which is blown off the comet by solar wind; and one made of gas from within the comet that sublimates, or transitions, directly from solid to gas. But on Jan. 21, several astrophotographers, including Ruslan Merzlyakov in Denmark and Alessandro Carrozzi in Italy, snapped pictures of the green comet with a third tail that was pointed towards the sun instead of away from it. Related: How to see the green comet C/2022 E3 (ZTF) visible in the night sky now as it approaches Earth This bizarre third tail is known as an "anti-tail," and although it is made up from the same stuff as the comet's other tails, it is not actually part of the comet. Instead, it's an optical illusion caused by Earth moving through the comet's orbital plane, according to Spaceweather.com. A comet's twin tails are often clearly visible — the dust tail reflects sunlight, while the gas within the other tail becomes ionized, giving it a faint glow.  The released gas eventually cools and becomes invisible, but the leftover dust is left to drift in the wake of the comet's trajectory around the sun, or orbital plane. When Earth crosses through a comet's orbital plane, some of this dust is reilluminated by the sun and appears as a bright streak, which can appear to shoot out of the comet in the opposite direction to its other tails, depending on the comet's trajectory and orientation. But in reality, this is just an optical illusion, and there is no extra tail. This illusion is similar to how the Milky Way appears as a bright band across the night sky because we are looking at the galaxy's plane side-on. But instead of looking across our galaxy's plane, we are looking across the comet's plane around the sun, according to Universe Today.  Other notable comets that have been observed with an anti-tail include Comet Kohoutek in 1973, Comet Hale–Bopp in 1997 and Comet PanSTARRS in 2013. RELATED STORIES: — Comet C/2022 E3 (ZTF) shines bright while closest to the sun in gorgeous photo — A comet not seen in 50,000 years is coming. Here's what you need to know — Amazing photos of the green comet C/2022 E3 (ZTF) This is not the first time that the green comet's tails have made headlines. On Jan. 12, the green comet was clearly visible in the night sky as it reached its perihelion, or closest point to the sun, which caused its small atmosphere, or coma, to glow brighter than normal. On Jan. 17, one of the comet's tails briefly separated mid-stream as it was blasted by extreme solar winds from a coronal mass ejection. If you've missed the comet so far, don't worry; it will become visible to the naked eye again in late January as it approaches its closest point to Earth on Feb. 1. Experts calculate that the last time the comet flew this close to Earth was around 50,000 years ago, when Homo sapiens were still sharing the planet with Neanderthals. Originally published on LiveScience.com. Follow us @Spacedotcom, or on Facebook and Instagram. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game.