e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters e-Edition 
			Trending:		 By Daniel N. BakerWhen the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) was founded at the University of Colorado Boulder in 1948, no one had yet broken the surly bonds of Earth and ventured into outer space. But the space age was dawning, and LASP was ready to launch. Scientists and engineers working in what was then called the Upper Air Laboratory set out to study the Sun from above Earth’s atmosphere by designing and building instruments mounted on captured World War II rockets.In 1953, the university conducted the first successful launch of a rocket for science when researchers observed the Sun’s ultraviolet radiation from above Earth’s atmosphere. These early steps were some of Colorado’s first forays into the exploration of space. Today, the state boasts a $15 billion aerospace and defense economy, the largest per capita in the nation.The future of this economy will only be possible with continued support for vigorous investment in space research and development. It is crucial that our political leaders — on the national, state and local levels — continue to support investment in the space and Earth sciences.LASP is now celebrating its 75th anniversary — the Diamond Jubilee Year, which offers us the opportunity to look not only to the past but to the future. There has never been a more exciting time of space discovery than the era that we are living in today. Space science is answering long-standing questions about the origins and the future of our universe, and continuing to provide inspiration for future generations of scientists.Transforming our understanding of the cosmosIn the span of the lab’s history — roughly one human lifetime — technology has advanced further and faster than at any other time in history, extending humanity’s reach farther into the cosmos than many could ever have imagined in 1948.Unmanned spacecraft have flown to all eight planets in the solar system, plus Pluto. Many missions have approached the sun and a host of planetary moons. Two of those spacecraft (the Voyagers) have left our solar system and continue their journey into interstellar space. Humans landed on the Moon, where they will soon return, and are planning to venture to and set foot upon another planet. Thousands of satellites now orbit our planet monitoring its oceans, atmosphere and land, providing essential information to scientists as humanity faces the threats of global climate change.

Many of these important missions have carried scientific instruments built by LASP. We are the only academic research institute in the world to have sent an instrument to every planet in our solar system and beyond.An economic engineNearly all of the advances and achievements described here were driven by the nation’s space program. This very much grew out of the federal government’s investment over the past three-quarters of a century. LASP’s nearly $1 billion portfolio of research and engineering programs includes partnerships with NASA, NOAA, NSF, NIST and the National Solar Observatory. The University of Colorado Boulder receives more space research funding than any other U.S. public university.LASP employs more than 750 people, including 185 CU Boulder graduate and undergraduate students, as well as over two dozen tenure-track faculty who are co-rostered in five academic departments.The university has been for decades the research hub for Colorado’s 400 aerospace companies and suppliers employing more than 188,000 people in space-related jobs.The next 75 yearsIn the next few years, LASP-involved missions will travel to yet more exciting destinations. NASA’s Europa Clipper mission, due to launch in 2024, will venture to an icy moon of Jupiter with a liquid ocean beneath its frozen surface that holds more water than Earth — and, with it, the possibility of finding alien life. Other missions will study the Sun, continuing to collect data on solar irradiance, one of the most important measurements scientists can make in the study of our changing climate. LASP missions will visit other planets in our solar system and will also visit minor bodies that reveal much about our origins here on Earth. We will also explore exoplanets around other stars.If the next 75 years are as transformational as the last 75 have been, it is hard to say where humanity will find itself in the year 2098, at the dawn of the 22nd Century. But innovation and investment in the space sciences will continue to be the key to unlocking the mysteries of our universe that have captivated humanity for centuries. Only together can we achieve generational goals and realize the true potential of the final frontier.Daniel N. Baker, Ph.D., is the director of LASP and a distinguished professor of planetary and space physics at the University of Colorado Boulder. When the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) was founded at the University of Colorado Boulder in 1948, no one had yet broken the surly bonds of Earth and ventured into outer space. But the space age was dawning, and LASP was ready to launch. Scientists and engineers working in what was then called the Upper Air Laboratory set out to study the Sun from above Earth’s atmosphere by designing and building instruments mounted on captured World War II rockets. In 1953, the university conducted the first successful launch of a rocket for science when researchers observed the Sun’s ultraviolet radiation from above Earth’s atmosphere.  These early steps were some of Colorado’s first forays into the exploration of space. Today, the state boasts a $15 billion aerospace and defense economy, the largest per capita in the nation. The future of this economy will only be possible with continued support for vigorous investment in space research and development. It is crucial that our political leaders — on the national, state and local levels — continue to support investment in the space and Earth sciences. LASP is now celebrating its 75th anniversary — the Diamond Jubilee Year, which offers us the opportunity to look not only to the past but to the future. There has never been a more exciting time of space discovery than the era that we are living in today. Space science is answering long-standing questions about the origins and the future of our universe, and continuing to provide inspiration for future generations of scientists. In the span of the lab’s history — roughly one human lifetime — technology has advanced further and faster than at any other time in history, extending humanity’s reach farther into the cosmos than many could ever have imagined in 1948. Unmanned spacecraft have flown to all eight planets in the solar system, plus Pluto. Many missions have approached the sun and a host of planetary moons. Two of those spacecraft (the Voyagers) have left our solar system and continue their journey into interstellar space. Humans landed on the Moon, where they will soon return, and are planning to venture to and set foot upon another planet. Thousands of satellites now orbit our planet monitoring its oceans, atmosphere and land, providing essential information to scientists as humanity faces the threats of global climate change. Many of these important missions have carried scientific instruments built by LASP. We are the only academic research institute in the world to have sent an instrument to every planet in our solar system and beyond. Nearly all of the advances and achievements described here were driven by the nation’s space program. This very much grew out of the federal government’s investment over the past three-quarters of a century.  LASP’s nearly $1 billion portfolio of research and engineering programs includes partnerships with NASA, NOAA, NSF, NIST and the National Solar Observatory. The University of Colorado Boulder receives more space research funding than any other U.S. public university. LASP employs more than 750 people, including 185 CU Boulder graduate and undergraduate students, as well as over two dozen tenure-track faculty who are co-rostered in five academic departments. The university has been for decades the research hub for Colorado’s 400 aerospace companies and suppliers employing more than 188,000 people in space-related jobs. In the next few years, LASP-involved missions will travel to yet more exciting destinations. NASA’s Europa Clipper mission, due to launch in 2024, will venture to an icy moon of Jupiter with a liquid ocean beneath its frozen surface that holds more water than Earth — and, with it, the possibility of finding alien life. Other missions will study the Sun, continuing to collect data on solar irradiance, one of the most important measurements scientists can make in the study of our changing climate. LASP missions will visit other planets in our solar system and will also visit minor bodies that reveal much about our origins here on Earth. We will also explore exoplanets around other stars. If the next 75 years are as transformational as the last 75 have been, it is hard to say where humanity will find itself in the year 2098, at the dawn of the 22nd Century. But innovation and investment in the space sciences will continue to be the key to unlocking the mysteries of our universe that have captivated humanity for centuries. Only together can we achieve generational goals and realize the true potential of the final frontier. Daniel N. Baker, Ph.D., is the director of LASP and a distinguished professor of planetary and space physics at the University of Colorado Boulder. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group