Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly. Truist Financial Corp. has reached a settlement with United Services Automobile Association concerning a high-profile patent lawsuit over mobile check-deposit technology. Both disclosed their proposed agreement Thursday in a legal filing in the Eastern District of Texas. The companies did not disclose financial terms and asked the court for 30 days to finalize the settlement. Truist said in a statement it was pleased to have the matter resolved. USAA Vice President Nathan McKinley said it “remains willing to enter into mutually beneficial licensing arrangements with all banks and credit unions.” USAA has been here before. The company was awarded more than a combined $518 million from lawsuit settlements filed against Wells Fargo & Co. and PNC Financial Services Group over related mobile-banking patents. According to a media report, Wells Fargo and USAA later settled for an undisclosed amount while PNC has appealed the verdict. USAA, based in San Antonio, filed its lawsuit against Truist in July 2022, claiming that the bank and legacy SunTrust Banks improperly used its mobile check-deposit technology in how they service members of the U.S. military and their families. “In its decades of serving the military community, USAA has worked to innovate in serving the needs of its members, including a lifestyle that can make getting to a bank branch difficult, particularly if they are out to sea or deployed outside the United States,” USAA said in its complaint. USAA accused Truist of using the technology “without permission ... and for its own commercial gain.” In its complaint, USAA said that it launched an application in 2009 branded as Deposit Mobile, which is used worldwide on devices such as iPhones, iPads and Android-based mobile devices. “For the first time in banking history, USAA’s patented systems allowed customers to deposit checks anytime, anywhere by taking photographs with consumer electronics that consumers actually own or can easily acquire, such as a mobile phone’s digital camera.” Even though USAA claimed Truist was aware of the high-profile lawsuits against Wells Fargo and PNC, it claimed the financial institution “deliberately continued to infringe in a wanton, malicious and egregious manner, with reckless disregard for USAA’s patent rights.” Truist said in its response that it “specifically denies liability as to USAA, or that USAA has suffered any legally cognizable damage for which Truist is responsible.” rcraver@wsjournal.com 336-727-7376 @rcraverWSJ Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly.   After hacking incident, United Healthcare comfirmed it paid Building renovations are under way at the former Old Salem Tavern property, with the new version projected to open by year’s end and serving l… The eyeglass retailer already has a store in Greensboro.  Truist Financial Corp. has been ordered to pay a combined $8.5 million in fines related to two federal regulators’ investigations into certain… As of Wednesday, collegiate sports recruiting and financial research group On3.com listed UNC men's basketball player R.J. Davis as 26th for N… Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.