Searching for your content... Phone 
 877-269-7890 from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
 
Contact Cision
 
 877-269-7890

from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
 News provided by Sep 11, 2023, 05:00 ET Share this article Standardized products and high-volume manufacturing on pace to deliver two satellites a day, improving constellation performance at reduced cost and time to market, changing the game for operators PARIS, Sept. 11, 2023 /CNW/ - MDA Ltd. (TSX: MDA), a leading provider of advanced technology and services to the rapidly expanding global space industry, today revealed at the World Satellite Business Week conference initial details about its new software-defined digital satellite product line as the market continues to transform from analog to digital software-defined satellites. "The satellite industry comes together at World Satellite Business Week to define the new technologies that will determine the next generation of global satellite connectivity and business, and that discussion has never been more dynamic than it is right now," said Nathan de Ruiter, Managing Director of Euroconsult Canada. "We are at the very beginning of a long-term transition from analog to digital satellite technology that in the decade ahead will drive new business models, revenue streams and competitive advantages for operators, manufacturers, and commercial end-users alike. Companies like MDA who are making smart and strategic investments in new satellite innovation and infrastructure are at the forefront of that transition."   The technology transition from analog to digital satellite solutions offers significant benefits to satellite operators looking to improve performance while at the same time driving time, cost and complexity out of their LEO constellation networks. "As we considered next-generation technologies for Telesat Lightspeed we revisited MDA's digital solution and it was a game changer. It is much more efficient than the analog solutions we had been considering previously, and capable of delivering roughly three times the number of beams," said Dan Goldberg, President and CEO of Telesat. "MDA has continued to invest in their digital satellite technology, resulting in our ability to decrease our satellite bus size without compromising our service performance, resiliency or overall usable capacity in our network."  Telesat has selected MDA as the prime satellite contractor for Telesat Lightspeed, the operator's revolutionary LEO constellation. MDA is developing a fully integrated portfolio of modular digital products and components for space-based communication solutions, with Telesat as the anchor customer. "Next generation satellite technology is the catalyst for industry transformation – from analog to digital, programs to products and one-offs to hundreds," said Mike Greenley, CEO of MDA. "Our MDA Satellite Systems team is strategically focused on developing the digital satellite products and the advanced manufacturing capability and capacity to help lead that change with and for our customers." To support increasing customer demand as the industry transitions from analog to digital satellite technologies, MDA is bringing to market a new software-defined digital satellite product line, providing critical new solutions to satellite operators and prime manufacturers. The fully integrated portfolio includes a complete range of modular digital products and components for space-based communication solutions coupled with advanced high-volume manufacturing capable of producing two satellites a day – dramatically reducing production costs and schedule. Key features of MDA's software-defined satellite product portfolio include: According to market research firm NSR (an Analysys Mason company), software-defined satellite (SDS) orders have seen a steady rise over the past couple of years. Driven by technological improvements offered by satellite manufacturers on new platforms using software that gives satellite operators control of mission planning, payload operations, and better capacity management, SDS is narrowing the gap between satellite and terrestrial networks. NSR forecasts nearly 26,000 partially or fully flexible SDS satellites will be ordered over the next decade with the entire satellite manufacturing and launch industry working to accommodate the growing trend for high-volume production, lower costs, and standardized offerings.  For more information or to book a meeting at WSBW, please contact Giovanni D'Aliesio, Director of Business Development at MDA ([email protected], +1-514-546-4511) ABOUT MDA Serving the world from its Canadian home and global offices, MDA (TSX:MDA) is an international space mission partner and a robotics, satellite systems and geointelligence pioneer with a 50-year story of firsts on and above the Earth. With over 2,800 employees across Canada, the US and the UK, MDA is leading the charge towards viable Moon colonies, enhanced Earth observation, communication in a hyper-connected world, and more. With a track record of making space ambitions come true, MDA enables highly skilled people to continually push boundaries, tackle big challenges, and imagine solutions that inspire and endure to change the world for the better, on the ground and in the stars. Learn more by visiting mda.space. ADDITIONAL LINKS Telesat Lightspeed Constellation Announcement   Globalstar Constellation Announcement SOCIAL MEDIA LinkedIn:      linkedin.com/company/mdaspace Twitter:         twitter.com/MDA_space Instagram:    instagram.com/MDA_space Facebook:    facebook.com/MDAspace YouTube:     youtube.com/c/mdaspace SOURCE MDA Space MEDIA CONTACT: Amy MacLeod, Vice President, Corporate Communications, 613-796-6937, [email protected]; INVESTOR CONTACT: Shereen Zahawi, Senior Director, Investor Relations, 647-401-3230, [email protected] ABOUT MDA SPACE Building the space between proven and possible, MDA Space (TSX:MDA) is a trusted mission partner to the global space industry. A robotics, satellite systems and geointelligence pioneer with a 55-year+ story of world firsts and more than 450 missions, MDA... Also from this source 
MDA SPACE REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2024 RESULTS 
 
MDA SPACE TO HOLD ITS SECOND QUARTER 2024 EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL ON AUGUST 8, 2024 
 
MDA SPACE ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENT OF KARL SMITH TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE APPOINTMENT OF INTERIM CFO 
