Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us and terms apply to offers listed (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate products and services to help you make smart decisions with your money. If you care about your ecological footprint and want to choose a financial institution that helps you support your values, you might want to consider an environmentally friendly bank. An eco-friendly bank with ethical banking practices clearly states its initiatives on its mission statement, policies, and culture. The best eco-friendly banks have strong bank accounts with low fees in addition to helping the planet. Below, you'll find our top picks for the best eco-friendly banks and banking platforms based on what type of account you'd like to open.  Eco-friendly banks offer eco-friendly financial products and, in some way, support causes working against the climate crisis. Frequently, eco-friendly banks put their money toward green causes while avoiding investing in areas that are bad for the environment, such as fossil fuels. Good eco-friendly banks are transparent about how they help the environment, so you know what you're getting when you put your money in the bank. The best environmentally friendly banks and credit unions will have clear and concrete examples of how banking with them helps fight the climate crisis. They will also offer bank accounts with strong rates and perks, alongside easy accessibility. Ideally, the financial institution will also offer many different types of bank accounts, such as money market accounts, checking accounts, savings accounts, and CDs. Here are the best environmentally friendly banks and credit unions as picked by Business Insider editors in 2024. no monthly service fee 0.90% to 0.95% $100 The Amalgamated Bank Give-Back Checking Account is a solid high-yield checking account with zero monthly service fees. It stands out from other checking accounts because Amalgamated Bank matches the equivalent of half the interest you earn on the account and lets you donate that amount to a charity that's partnered with the institution.  While the Amalgamated Bank Give-Back Checking Account doesn't charge monthly service fees, you'll want to be mindful of the bank account's other fees. The account has a $34 overdraft fee. And if you're looking for a bank that avoids ATM fees, you might want to look elsewhere. If you withdraw money from an out-of-network ATM, Amalgamated Bank will also charge you $2.50 per transaction.  Your banking experience also may depend on where you live. Amalgamated Bank has branches in New York City and San Francisco, but if you don't live in these cities you'll have to be comfortable with an online-only banking experience. Green practices/policies: As a Fossil Free certified institution, Amalgamated Bank has pledged not to invest in fossil fuels projects. According to the bank's website, 24% of its lending is solely focused on climate protection and property-assessed clean energy financing.  Amalgamated Bank is also B Corp certified since 2017, which means that it has met the B Lab's standards for social and environmental performance, transparency, and accountability. Certification(s): Certified B Corp, GA BV Member, Green America certified, Fossil Free certified Amalgamated Bank Review no monthly service fee 1.75% to 3.50% None You might like Atmos Financial if you want to support climate justice and earn a competitive interest rate on a high-yield savings account at the same time — it's one of the best eco banks out there. The Atmos Financial Climate-Positive Savings Account pays 3.50% APY if you make monthly donations of at least $1 to an eco-friendly non-profit organization. The Atmos Financial Climate-Positive Savings Account is a great high-yield savings account because it doesn't have minimum balance requirements or monthly maintenance fees. You may also earn a competitive interest rate if you choose to make monthly donations of at least $1 to a non-profit organization that's partnered with Atmos Financial.  Atmos Financial is an online fintech platform, not a bank. Its banking services are provided by Five Star Bank, though. Green practices/policies: As a Fossil Free certified financial institution, Atmos Financial has pledged it will not invest in projects that are harmful to the environment, such as fossil fuel projects or fast fashion companies. When you open the Atmos Financial Climate-Positive Savings Account, Atmos calculates the carbon impact of your account balance, which you'll be able to see on the platform's mobile app. Certification(s): 1% for the Planet, Fossil Free certified, B Corp certification Atmos Financial Review 5.34% $500 The Climate First Bank 6 Month No Penalty CD is a good choice if you want to open a no-penalty CD while supporting an eco-friendly bank. When you put money in a CD, you generally can't touch it until your term length is up. No-penalty CDs let you withdraw your money after you open the CD, but they generally don't offer interest rates as high as the best CDs. The Climate First Bank 6 Month No Penalty CD offers a competitive interest rate of 5.34% APY, which is as high as some of the best 6-month CDs currently offered. There are also no limits on how many times you can withdraw money; many no-penalty CDs only let you withdraw once or twice for the entire term length. If you want to bank in-person, keep in mind that Climate First Bank only has branches in Florida. If you don't live in Florida but do want to bank in-person, Climate First Bank might not be the right bank for you. Green practices/policies: Climate First Bank donated over $200,000 to nonprofit partners in 2023 through 1% for the planet. It's also financed solar energy systems and reduced solar costs. Certification(s): Certified B Corp, 1% for the Planet, Fossil Free certified, GA BV member no monthly service fee 0.15% $5 While the Clean Energy Credit Union Savings Account pays a low interest rate, Clean Energy Credit Union has a high-yield checking account that might be ideal if you're searching for a solid interest rate. Clean Energy Credit Union also has low minimum opening deposits and doesn't charge monthly service fees.  Credit unions require you to be a member to open a bank account. To be eligible for membership at Clean Energy Credit Union, you must meet one of the following requirements: To join Clean Energy Credit Union, you have to open up a savings account with at least $5. If you would prefer to only open a checking account, you might consider banking with a different institution. Your banking experience may also depend on where you live. Clean Energy Credit Union doesn't have any physical branches, but it is still part of the Co-op Shared Branch network. You'll have to use this search tool to see if there are any locations in your area. Green practices/policies: As a Fossil Free certified financial institution, Clean Energy Credit Union has pledged it will not invest in fossil fuel projects. Clean Energy Credit Union also offers a variety of loans that can be used for green energy projects. For example, you apply for a clean energy vehicle loan, green home improvement loan, or electric bike loan. Certification(s): Fossil Free certified, Green America certified Clean Energy Credit Union Review $5 monthly service fee 4.25% $25 The Spring Bank Savings Account pays a high interest rate as long as you have at least $100 in your account. Spring Bank also has low minimum opening deposits and monthly service fees. Even though it's a local bank, you'll have free access to Citibank ATMs and MoneyPass ATMs. Spring Bank has two branches in the New York City area. If you don't live near a branch, you may still open an account online, but you'll still need to live in New York. Green practices/policies: According to the bank's website, Spring Bank offset over 192,000 kg of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2019. Spring Bank is also B Corp certified since 2016, which means that it has met the B Lab's standards for social and environmental performance, transparency, and accountability. Certification(s): Certified B Corp, CDFI Spring Bank Review We include ratings from the Better Business Bureau to evaluate how financial institutions address customer issues and handle transparency. We include these scores as part of our rating methodology; if a bank does not have a BBB score, that information factors into our calculations. Clean Energy Credit Union hasn't been reviewed by the BBB yet. Keep in mind that a great BBB rating doesn't necessarily mean you'll have a smooth relationship with a bank. Reach out to current customers or read online customer reviews to get a well-rounded perspective of a bank. Atmos Financial has a B+ rating from the BBB because of how long it's been open. Atmos Financial's partner bank, Five Star Bank, has an A- rating because it has several unresolved customer complaints. Climate First Bank has an A rating from the BBB because it has only been operating for a short time. Clean Energy Credit Union does not have a BBB page. Spring Bank received a B- rating from the BBB because it has not responded to a customer complaint. Atmos Financial has been involved in one recent controversy. In January 2024, the FDIC put out a cease and desist letter for Atmos Financial. The cease and desist letter claims that Atmos Financial made misleading statements about being FDIC-insured. Atmos Financial is not a bank. Its partner bank, Five Star Bank, is FDIC-insured. The biggest benefit of working with an eco-friendly bank is being able to use sustainable banking solutions. Eco-friendly banks can make a real difference in the environment by investing in eco-friendly projects and companies. They can also help lessen the environmental impact of banking. Since banks make money off of the funds you keep in your bank accounts, using an eco-friendly bank means you don't have to worry about what your bank accounts are contributing to. Some eco-friendly banks also offer perks to people who bank with them. For example, they might offer solar panel loans at lower rates than other banks. CDFIs might also offer mortgages and general loans at lower rates too, or offer banking services like second-chance bank accounts to people who might otherwise not have access to banking due to a negative bank account history. There are several ways for the top green banks to show how they're eco-friendly. One way is through certifications. Below is an overview of all the certifications and designations mentioned in our guide: If you have a specific cause you'd like to support, make sure to check a bank's certifications and impact statements to see what work, if any, they've put toward that cause. But it's also important to choose an eco-friendly bank that fits your banking needs, too. The same criteria that you'd apply to standard banks apply here, too. Try to open accounts that offer no monthly service fees or easily-waivable monthly service fees, and look for accounts that offer high interest rates. If possible, consider accounts that help you avoid bank fees by having large ATM networks or not charging overdraft fees, for instance. Environmentally friendly banks, also commonly referred to as sustainable banks or green banks, are financial institutions or online banks with policies and initiatives involving sustainability and environmental action. Many big banks invest billions in fossil fuel projects and companies. Most environmentally friendly banks will partner with non-profit organizations focused on combating climate change. Many will also seek a green certification or designation. The following US institutions have received a Fossil Free Certification, which means that these financial institutions will not lend to fossil fuel companies or projects: Amalgamated Bank, Atmos Financial, Beneficial State Bank, Clean Energy Credit Union, Climate First Bank, Self-Help Credit Union, and Virginia Community Capital.  Eco-friendly banks are as financially stable as any other bank. Most of them are either FDIC- or NCUA-insured in case of bank failure, but it's unlikely they'll fail in the first place. Eco-friendly banks frequently choose to invest their funds in eco-friendly ways. This could include not investing funds in fossil fuel companies or investing in environmentally-friendly projects or nonprofits. Generally, you can switch to eco-friendly banks as easily as you could switch to other banks.  Eco-friendly banks offer many of the same accounts that regular banks offer. You can expect to see checking accounts, savings accounts, and investment accounts at eco-friendly banks, although not every bank will offer all of these types of accounts. To learn more about what makes a good bank or credit union and how to choose the best fit, four experts weighed in: To see if a bank is environmentally friendly, look at the bank's mission statement and policies. Several banks will specify that they do not lend to companies or projects involving fossil fuels. Also check whether a bank has any green certifications. Beyond that, choose the best bank using the following criteria: Fees. Many banks charge monthly maintenance fees on their accounts, but they can typically be waived. Make sure you know of any fees, and whether you can qualify to waive them by keeping a minimum balance in your account or by other criteria. Customer service. Especially for an online-only bank, you should know how to contact customer service and when they're available. Safety and accessibility. The bank should be insured by the FDIC (or the NCUA for credit unions). You should feel confident in its security measures online, while still comfortable with how easy it is to access and transfer your money.  Priorities. If you want to earn money on your savings, for example, you'll need a high-yield savings account. Your priorities will likely change over time, so you want a bank you can stick with through changes in circumstance, income, or goals. Methodology: How Did We Choose the Best Eco-Friendly Banks? At Business Insider, our goal is to create useful content that helps you make good decisions about your money. We recognize every person has distinct preferences, so we provide ample options to help you find the most suitable financial product or account. We research extensively to make sure you know the standout features and limitations of a financial institution. First, we researched to find financial institutions with green initiatives and green certifications. We looked at each bank's mission statement, policies, and culture to see how the bank tackled sustainability and climate change. We also assessed the requirements that needed to be met to receive green certifications and designations. Then, we reviewed each institution to find the most-well rounded banking options. We compared minimum opening deposits, monthly services, and interest rates (for savings accounts). We also took into consideration if a bank product had special features — like environmental impact scores or donation opportunities. For our list, we chose institutions that had clearly outlined green initiatives and strong bank accounts with minimal bank fees. Most of our top picks are also available throughout the U.S. See our bank account methodology to learn more about how we rate bank accounts. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards.Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available.**Enrollment required. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards. Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available. **Enrollment required. Jump to