iGaming content provider Pragmatic Play has extended its partnership with gaming operator Superbet to encompass its Live Casino offering in Romania. This expansion aims to offer a greater range of gaming options to the Romanian audience and strengthen Pragmatic Play's position in the market. As part of the expanded deal, Superbet will gain access to Pragmatic Play's complete portfolio of Live Casino content, including gameshow titles like Sweet Bonanza CandyLand and Snakes & Ladders Live, along with dedicated Roulette with Customizable Branding and three Blackjack tables. These additions complement the supplier's Slot and Bingo products, already available on the platform. Pragmatic Play's Live Casino Customizable Branding empowers operators with bespoke customization options and dedicated branded environments. Leveraging cutting-edge technologies, this product promises complete control to operators, allowing them to shape the game's visual appearance and overall experience according to their preferences.  "Pragmatic Play is one of the most well-known providers out there, so we're excited to be going live with even more of its incredible games. Our players always come back to Pragmatic Play releases due to their replayability and engaging gameplay, so we hope to see similar results as a result of this expanded partnership," Nicholas Yu, Head of Gaming and Live Casino at Superbet, said. Pragmatic Play continued its global expansion plans as of late through new partnerships with Apuestas Royal in Latin America and Peppermill Casino in Belgium, showcasing its growing presence in diverse markets across the world. “We've seen incredible success with Superbet thus far and we're delighted to be adding some of our best Live Casino content to the platform. Players in Romania continue to embrace Pragmatic Play games, and we are thrilled to be launching custom branded Roulette and Blackjack tables tailor-made especially for Superbet and its players to enjoy," Irina Cornides, Chief Operating Officer at Pragmatic Play, said.Last week, Pragmatic Play expanded its deal with Betsson Group as the operator takes Spanish-language Roulette live with one of its brands, Betsafe. The companies note that Betsafe is gearing up to expand further into Latin America, with the deal expected to enable Betsson to leverage the reach of Pragmatic Play, whose titles have garnered "immense popularity" in the region.