Login “Ryoiki Tenkai: Muryokusho.” Numerous anime shows have come and go, but the ultimate question still remains unanswered — who is the strongest anime character ever? There are multiple aspects to consider when weighing the strength of anime characters. We came up with three core criteria for the strongest anime characters: Here are five anime characters that fit these criteria. 5. Satoru Gojo (Jujutsu Kaisen)4. All Might (My Hero Academia)3. Uchiha Itachi (Naruto)2. Goku (Dragon Ball series)1. Saitama (One Punch Man) Satoru Gojo powers: Overwhelming amounts of cursed energy, fast reflexes,  powerful cursed techniques Despite being a relatively new anime character, Jujutsu Kaisen’s Satoru Gojo makes it to the fifth spot on this list. Gojo is undeniably the strongest anime character in the Jujutsu Kaisen universe. Just how strong is Gojo? His birth is believed to have altered the balance of the world as stated in chapter 96 of Jujutsu Kaisen’s manga. One of his family’s techniques, the Six Eyes, lets him see cursed energy in detail. Gojo wears a blindfold to tone down the intensity of this ability. He also knows how to use Limitless, another technique that Satoru inherited from the Gojo clan. Together with these two techniques and a firm command of manipulating cursed energy, Satoru Gojo is one of the strongest characters in the series who could potentially take down Sukuna, the main antagonist. Aside from his strength, Gojo is also recognized for his handsomeness and charisma. All Might powers: One For All quirk At his peak, All Might was the strongest hero in the world. His quirk, One For All, allowed him to obtain insane superhuman strength, speed, durability, and stamina. The most admirable thing about All Might is his willpower to continue fighting villains even though he has suffered multiple injuries, and was in an extreme amount of pain. All Might has always maintained his unbreakable facade, never letting anyone see his struggles. “Mo daijobu,” All Might would always say, which translates to “It’s all right. I am here.” All Might is considered the “Symbol of Peace” in My Hero Academia, always keeping a smile on his face no matter what happens. All Might’s resilience is one of the traits that Deku, My Hero Academia’s protagonist, admires about him. Uchiha Itachi powers: Impressive speed and reflexes, possesses high IQ He’s fast, he’s relentless, and most importantly he’s got the smarts — we’re talking about Uchiha Itachi! Even at such a young age, Itachi has already accomplished so much. Itachi was always ahead at the Academy. Itachi also became the captain of the village’s assassination unit, Anbu, while he was still a teen. Itachi was also able to defeat Hatake Kakashi and Orochimaru throughout the series. Sure, the protagonist Naruto is strong (and has plot armor), but Itachi possesses the complete package, which makes him one of the strongest anime characters in the series. Itachi’s love for his brother, Uchiha Sasuke, ultimately led to his demise despite showing a lot of promise and power. Goku powers: Superhuman strength, powerful transformations (Super Saiyan, Great Ape) Dragon Ball’s Goku is the most powerful Saiyan in the series. He loves to train and push himself to the limit, and eventually gained superhuman strength in the process. Goku strives to improve his strength by mastering different techniques and transformations in the anime throughout the years. From Goku’s simple Super Saiyan form, the series also introduced the Mastered Ultra Instinct form. The Mastered Ultra Instinct transformation gives Goku silver hair, accompanied by a sparkling blue and magenta aura. This gives Goku insane amounts of power, far more than he has ever had in his previous forms. With these techniques and transformations, Goku is without a doubt one of the strongest anime characters the world (and the universe) has ever seen. Artist GoldenKranic360 designed a chart showing all the transformations in the Dragon Ball franchise so far. View all Saiyan forms here. Saitama powers: Superhuman strength Who can save the day and fight deadly monsters and bosses while keeping a poker face? Only the One Punch Man Saitama can! Living up to his superhero name, Saitama takes down the bad guys with just a single punch. He can destroy and one-shot anything and everything, including a humongous meteor from outer space. When it comes to strength, Saitama excels at everything — stamina, endurance, and power. Despite being an overpowered superhero, he was initially just “a hero for fun” as explained by Saitama himself during the anime’s first episode. His perspective eventually changed as the series went on, where he joined the Hero Association so that citizens could take him more seriously. Saitama’s ultimate objective as a hero is to seek out powerful monsters and villains to fight to put an end to his existential crisis. Want to become the strongest anime character just like Saitama? Follow his exercise routine and you will eventually get there. Saitama’s exercise routine consists of four simple workouts focused on building strength. The One Punch Man himself did this routine every day for three years: Can Saitama beat all the other characters in this list? Yes, he can effortlessly do so with just a single punch. READ MORE: 5 esports pros who are completely obsessed with anime Sign up for a free ONE Esports account and start engaging with other fans! You'll also receive a monthly newsletter and other goodies!