Hollywood Ben Affleck won’t stop raving about his wife’s beauty and diet. The 50-year-old actor recently opened up about how he and his wife eat when they are at home. While appearing on ‘The Drew Barrymore Show,’ host Drew Barrymore asked the actor if the couple has a ‘cheat’ drawer in the house with their favorite foods. Affleck replied with some information about Lopez that might shock some. “Let me tell you something that’s gonna upset you,” Affleck divulged. “Jennifer just eats whatever she wants. Whatever she wants. She eats cookies, ice cream, everything.” Barrymore looked visibly shocked, and then went on to ask if Lopez is able to do so because she works out often. To which Affleck assuringly replied, “She works out.” He continued, “I work out too but I don’t magically appear to be 20 years old, you know what I mean, with perfect skin and the whole thing.” “There’s no taking away from the work ethic. The work ethic is real, the discipline is real, but also the superhuman thing is real. She’s the most gorgeous woman in the world, she looks spectacular,” Affleck explained #AirMovie's @BenAffleck reveals an upsetting fact about @JLo. pic.twitter.com/KXmu7Yx2Ny Earlier this month, Lopez opened up about her diet and lifestyle to PEOPLE, sharing that keeping a daily routine helps her. “For me, [a] healthy lifestyle is about self-care,” said the Shotgun Wedding actress. “Working out regularly with some consistency, taking care of your skin…” Lopez explained that it all starts with the necessities, getting enough sleep and water and focusing on “taking care of your mind, your body, your soul.” “Those always work. They’re the fundamentals of any sport or anything that you do,” she explained. CELEBRITIES CELEBRITIES “I always feel like, OK, if I’m feeling too tired, what am I neglecting? Am I neglecting my sleep? Am I not working out consistently? Have I let that go? Do I need to get back on that? Whatever it is, or am I not drinking enough water? Why do I feel this way? If something’s off, just check the basics, and for me that that always works,” she added. “We have to kind of remember that if we’re not right, nothing goes right,” Lopez said. ENTERTAINMENT MUSIC HOLLYWOOD DAZN Enjoy live and on-demand online sports on DAZN. Activate your account NBA Pass League Now you can watch the entire NBA season or your favorite teams on streaming.