G20 Summit 2023: India made a significant achievement with the inclusion of African Union (AU) in the G20 during day 1 of the high-profile summit on Saturday. In his first reaction to the decision, AU chairperson Azali Assoumani on Sunday expressed his satisfaction and credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the move.  



  “To my great satisfaction, admission of African Union was approved during the G20 Summit Delhi. PM Modi and other members endorsed the accession of the African Union to this major economic decision-making body,” said Assoumani during a press conference on the sidelines of the summit. He also said that it was an honour to represent the African Union in the G20 Summit held in New Delhi and take part in the “fruitful debate” in the two days. Describing his emotions when PM Modi offered him to take the seat as a permanent representative of G20, Assoumani told news agency ANI that he was “about to cry”. “It was a great emotion for me. Because actually, we thought that there was going to be a debate and then a decision would be taken but at the very beginning of the Summit it was announced that we were a member,” he said. Additionally, the AU chairperson said that India is a superpower in terms of inhabitance and that it was ahead of China now. “India is the 5th superpower in the world so there is enough room for India in Africa. We also know that India is so powerful that it went to space. So we just need to coordinate...India is superpower in terms of inhabitance, India is ahead of China now,” he mentioned. Assoumani’s statement is significant as China remains Africa’s largest trading partner, which is a challenge for Indian investment in the continent. During his opening remarks in the high-profile G20 Summit in New Delhi, PM Modi welcomed Comoros President and AU chairman Azali Assoumani to take his seat as a permanent member of the G20 forum. External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar escorted Assoumani to his seat. Assoumani has been the chairperson of AU since February 2023. It is the first expansion of the influential bloc since its inception in 1999. Ahead of the G20 Summit, PM Modi said that Africa was a "top priority" for India and wrote to world leaders in June to welcome the AU in the G20 forum. The proposal was formally included in the draft communique for the summit during the third G20 Sherpas meeting in Karnataka, in July. The African Union (AU) is a African continental body comprising of 55 countries - including Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, Guinea, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Kenya, Madasgascar, Mauritius, Rwanda, Seychelles, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Nigeria, Uganda, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Zimbabwe, Angola, Bostwana and others. The motive of the pan-African organisation is to promote the unity and solidarity of African nations to defend sovereignity of the states, eradicate colonialism and promote cooperation on international and regional policies among the member-states. It was officially launched in 2002 in Durban, South Africa, as a successor to the Organisation of African Unity (OAU). (with agency inputs) ALSO READ | ‘Actions of few don’t represent entire...’ What Canadian PM Justin Trudeau said on pro-Khalistani protests  Top News ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Live Score: Central Delhi Kings post challenging total on board  Related World News PM Modi to visit Ukraine and Poland this week, his first trip to war-torn country Pakistan, with no 5G network, experiencing slow internet speed but IT minister blames VPN for outage New York Mayor mixes up India with 'Pakistan' thrice during Indian Independence Day celebrations Zelenskyy claims 'Ukraine achieving goals in Kursk', Russia says 'not ready for peace talks but...' Snipers take part in 'Mitra Shakti' joint exercise between militaries of India, Sri Lanka | VIDEO Latest News WATCH: Local Cong leader suffers heart attack, collapses on stage while briefing media in Karnataka  Fact Check: No, viral video is not of Kolkata rape-murder victim's final moments | Know its truth  England name playing XI for first Test against Sri Lanka, announce new vice-captain   ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash  © 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.   Snipers from India and Sri Lanka take centre stage at Joint Military Exercise 'Mitra Shakti'    Kamala Harris implies Trump a 'coward' during Pennsylvania campaign appearance     Vedang Raina Says His Dating Life Has Taken A 'Back Seat’     Kolkata Rape Murder Case: Union Min Suresh Gopi says "Let's end this draconian life system"    US Election 2024: Trump hurls 'socialist lunatic' jibe at Kamala Harris, calls her 'easy opponent’    ED raids multiple states in 'illegal' broadcast of T20 cricket world cup matches, seizes cash   'Completely wrong': Union Minister Chirag Paswan opposes Modi govt's push for lateral entry   NIA arrests key arms supplier from Punjab in VHP leader Vikas Bagga murder case   Centre issues order to increase security by 25% in all govt hospitals, Marshals to be deployed     3 children dead, 37 admitted to hospital after suspected food poisoning in Andhra Pradesh   PM Modi to visit Ukraine and Poland this week, his first trip to war-torn country    Pakistan, with no 5G network, experiencing slow internet speed but IT minister blames VPN for outage   New York Mayor mixes up India with 'Pakistan' thrice during Indian Independence Day celebrations   Zelenskyy claims 'Ukraine achieving goals in Kursk', Russia says 'not ready for peace talks but...'   Snipers take part in 'Mitra Shakti' joint exercise between militaries of India, Sri Lanka | VIDEO    The Buckingham Murders: Kareena Kapoor treats fans with new poster along with teaser release date   Sara Ali Khan misses Taimur on Raksha Bandhan as she celebrates festival with brothers Ibrahim, Jeh    Kalki 2898 AD to Angry Young Men: Films, web series releasing this week on OTT    IC 814 The Kandahar Hijack trailer: Netflix series to tell story of India's longest plane hijack   Rajinikanth's Vettaiyan locks release date, film to clash with Suriya's Kanguva | Deets inside   CDK vs NDS, DPL 2024 Live Score: Central Delhi Kings post challenging total on board    England name playing XI for first Test against Sri Lanka, announce new vice-captain    GMR Group sponsors inaugural edition of Delhi Premier League in bid to promote budding talent   Vinesh Phogat celebrates Raksha Bandhan with brother Harvinder Phogat, video goes viral | WATCH   PAK vs BAN Live Streaming: When and where to watch Pakistan vs Bangladesh Test series on TV and onli   Zomato to remove AI-generated food images after customer backlash   Instagram testing new vertical feed for profiles: Know more about the upcoming changes   BSNL introduces affordable recharge plan with 5-month validity: Details here   Google introduces AI-powered Search Results in India for English and Hindi users   Elon Musk’s X faces AI deepfake crisis as Grok 2 chatbot fuels concerns   DDA launches housing schemes: 40,000 discounted flats on offer, prices start at Rs 11.5 lakh    Domestic air traffic increases to 7.3 per cent to 1.29 crore on annual basis in July   Sensex opens green, climbs 243 points, Nifty above 24,600   Foxconn chief defends married women hiring practices in India, aims to set up battery energy unit   Raksha Bandhan bank holidays: Banks to remain closed in these states on Monday | Check full list  