Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     It has been 12 years since Cole MacGrath's last canonical appearance in an Infamous game, and since then other protagonists have come to fill in the void. While Delsin Rowe and Abigail Walker (aka "Fetch") each brought a unique spin with their powers, Cole's affinity for electricity makes the Infamous franchise unique.
                         Cole's electrical powers were brought about by the explosion of a Ray Sphere - a device capable of granting superpowers to those with a special Conduit gene. Electrokinesis is unique in that not many other Conduits or superheroes outside the Infamous franchise use it, but it still has the potential to be one of the most powerful abilities out there. Sucker Punch realized this and expertly crafted worlds in which Cole can stretch his powers to the fullest.
      RELATED: 7 Best Games Developed By Sucker Punch, Ranked
  Infamous and Infamous 2 take place in Empire City and New Marais, respectively. Empire City is more like New York with large buildings and grided layout, whereas New Marais takes inspiration from New Orleans' blend of natural and man-made structures. While these two locations are drastically different, both of them are teaming with electricity.
                         Cole is like a living battery, and thus needs to feed off other electrical sources like telephone poles, billboards, and railway tracks. He can still fire standard bolts of electricity and heal himself to a certain degree using his body's bioelectricity, but he needs more juice to use stronger powers like his Electrocution Grenade or Electric Rockets. In this way, Cole's relationship with the cities he operates in is symbiotic given the citizens rely on Cole to protect them as much as he relies on their energy.
                         While a city's infrastructure and layout can help Cole, there are times when they prove to be a hindrance as well. New Marais' Flood Town prevents Cole from accessing first floor areas because they're flooded and he cannot stay in bodies of water for long due to the electricity in his body short-circuiting. Aside from this, areas without electricity force Cole to manage his reserves and quickly get back to the grid as soon as possible. This reminds Cole of the limitations of his powers, making him carefully plan out his moves.
                         While Delsin and Fetch's powers in Infamous: Second Son and Infamous: First Light have fewer weaknesses, they aren't as versatile or enticing as Cole's Electrokinesis. Smoke, Neon, Video, and Concrete are more situational and require Delsin or Fetch to be near certain objects. Smoke is best used near smoke stacks and broken cars, for example, whereas Neon works best at night when players can see the many signs around Seattle.
                         Delsin's core ability of Power Absorption shows that the other powers do pretty much the same thing. Players can lob projectiles at foes and dash in an invincible state for a set amount of time, and by contrast, Cole's Electrokinesis powers provide him with multiple ways to dispatch enemies. He can snipe them down with a Precision Bolt or use Electromagnetic Shockwave to push enemies and objects away, leaving them open to a counterattack. Delsin's powers feel like Cole's moveset needlessly divided into four categories.
                         By giving Cole one base power, Sucker Punch was able to fine-tune Cole's abilities and build entire cities around them. Every electrical device serves as an opportunity for players to charge Cole, and each structure is built around using Electrokinesis as a method of transportation. It is because Electrokinesis is so versatile and attuned to the game world that it has become the Infamous franchise's most iconic superpower.
      Infamous is available on PS3.
      MORE: InFamous Should Be Sony's Next Remake Project
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. An Elden Ring player discovers a hidden path from the Frenzied Flame Proscription to the Deeproot Depths after playing for over 1000 hours. Pokemon GO is adding a Generation 8 Pokemon to the game that will change how some battles play out. Niantic releases a short teaser trailer for Pokemon GO, strongly hinting at a new feature arriving into the game when the next season launches. Geoff Keighley teases something that captures the attention of Dying Light fans leading up to Gamescom's imminent Opening Night Live event. Linked Horizon released their final album to celebrate the ending of Attack on Titan, but a peculiar notice in "Soyogi Fractal" may imply otherwise. A newcomer is soaring up through the charts on Steam right now, and it has not even been officially announced yet. Sega and Limited Run Games are releasing a special Collector's Edition for Sonic X Shadow Generations, complete with plenty of extra goodies.