
By Katie Flannery, Jeff Keleher
 Updated on Nov 14, 2023 4:14 AM EST 17 minute read We may earn revenue from the products available on this page and participate in affiliate programs. Learn More › Carpeting throughout the home can create a warm and inviting atmosphere, but it can also harbor allergens, dust, and bacteria. Vacuuming often will help, but a homeowner will need a deeper clean to eliminate stains, dirt, and irritants like pet dander. A professional carpet cleaning service will sanitize carpets and ensure a greater level of cleanliness. While some homeowners like to tackle a carpet cleaning project on their own to get rid of a few stains or when a pet makes a mess, carpet cleaning services can address any problems and do the job correctly. Getting carpets professionally cleaned helps extend the life and the look of the carpeting. The expert cleaning tools and equipment ensure deeper sanitization and moisture removal than DIY at-home carpet cleaners. Professionals recommend that carpeting be cleaned once a year and sometimes more if there are pets or small children in the home. If carpeting is discolored, matted, stained, has an offensive odor, or feels rough to the touch, it’s time for a professional cleaning. Choosing to get a carpet professionally cleaned will save the time and effort of DIY. Consider our recommendations for the best carpet cleaning companies before searching online for “carpet cleaners near me.” Before hiring a carpet cleaning company, there are a few factors to consider. These can include their service area, scheduling, preparation, pre-cleaning inspection, cleaning methods, eco-friendliness, pricing, any additional services they may offer, and customer service. Before a homeowner books a carpet cleaning service, they will want to ensure a company is in their area. Many top carpet cleaning companies have a national presence, but others may only serve select regions. It’s a good idea for homeowners to compare nationwide carpet companies and local cleaners to find the best-rated carpet cleaning services in their particular area. Some companies allow homeowners to get an estimate and schedule cleaning services directly on their websites. Other companies will require a homeowner to make a phone call. When scheduling, homeowners will want to get an estimate on the service and determine how the service is priced. Prospective customers may also want to ask about specific cleaning solutions used, particularly if they want to be sure that cleaners only use the best carpet stain removers and other cleaning products. Carpet cleaning companies typically ask that the homeowner move any fragile or valuable belongings before the cleaning technicians arrive. Preparing the area by thoroughly vacuuming and removing personal items and as much furniture as possible will expedite the cleaning process. Some companies may ask questions regarding the area to be cleaned. This can include information about stains on the rug and what caused them, since the cleaning technician has the experience and knowledge to treat stains with specialized procedures. For instance, cleaning crews can come prepared with the best carpet cleaners for pets if they know ahead of time that the carpets need to be treated to remove stains, odors, and pet hair. Pets should be removed from the house or contained within a safe and secure area since the home’s front door will be open to accommodate the cleaning equipment. This is also a good opportunity for homeowners to ask about other logistical considerations—how long it takes for carpet to dry after cleaning, for instance—so they fully understand the cleaning process. Carpet cleaning companies use a few different cleaning methods and types of equipment. Some of these methods will work better on certain types of carpeting than others, and some homeowners choose a company based on the cleaning method they prefer. Here are the most common carpet cleaning methods. The harsh chemicals used in carpet cleaning may harm the environment when rinsed down a drain, released into storm sewers, or into the ground. The toxic chemicals can harm humans, wildlife, and aquatic health. Chemical cleaners can also impact the air quality in your home and can lead to respiratory issues, especially for sensitive populations. More eco-friendly or green cleaning solutions include biodegradable and nontoxic options that are safe for household members and pets. Many eco-friendly cleaning solutions also use less water than traditional carpet cleaning methods. Using less water means it will take less time for carpets to dry than using a conventional steam carpet cleaner and reduces the chance that harmful cleaning chemicals will jeopardize the groundwater supply. Carpet cleaning costs are typically based on the services required, whether it’s for a residential or commercial area, available parking for the cleaning vehicle, the carpet type, how heavily soiled the carpet is, geographic location, and the cleaning method used. Residential carpet cleaners tend to be less expensive than commercial cleaners, and most cleaning companies will price their services per room, and some will charge by square foot. Because rates will vary from one company to another, it’s a good idea to shop around and compare prices to find carpet cleaning deals. Customers will also want to factor in the price of any additional services in addition to carpet cleaning. For instance, upholstery cleaning costs $172 on average, so customers will need to account for that additional expense if they want their furniture cleaned as well. Many carpet cleaning companies offer additional services such as cleaning upholstery, air ducts, tile, grout, cars, RVs, and dryer vents. They might also provide mold mitigation, water damage restoration, smoke and fire damage restoration, and disinfectant services. Not all companies offer each of these services, so homeowners should check with the individual companies if they’re interested in additional services. The best professional carpet cleaners will work with their customers if they’re unhappy with the result. Some offer to come back to the home to spot clean and/or reclean the entire area. Homeowners will want to make sure that companies are easy to get in touch with and have an active customer service department. We considered factors such as service area, additional services, cleaning methods, customer service, and eco-friendly options to determine the best carpet cleaning companies. We also thoroughly researched the companies by assessing customer reviews and experiences, evaluating their sites, and getting quotes. Before searching for “rug cleaning near me” or “carpet cleaning companies in my area,” homeowners will want to review these recommendations. Why It Made the Cut: With one of the most recognizable names in the carpet cleaning industry, Stanley Steemer has been removing 94 percent of allergens from carpets for over 70 years. With a nationwide network of locations, Stanley Steemer uses its own version of the hot water extraction method and proprietary cleaning equipment. It removes an average of 94 percent of common allergens found in the average household. Its cleaning solution is labeled as an EPA Safer Choice product, ensuring it’s safe for household members and the environment. The company’s hot water extraction method removes dirt, debris, allergens, and odors without leaving any residue behind. Depending on the room temperature, humidity levels, and time of year, it typically takes between 8 and 24 hours for the carpet to dry. This cleaning process is generally accepted as the most thorough and effective carpet cleaning method. There is a risk of mildew if the floor is not thoroughly dried, but this shouldn’t be much of a concern when a professional is handling the cleaning. Additional services are also available, so if a homeowner needs upholstery, hardwood, stone, area rug, tile and grout, or car cleaning services, they can schedule those as well. It’s easy to get an online quote and schedule a carpet cleaning appointment. Stanley Steemer doesn’t use subcontractors, and all of its technicians are given background checks, highly trained, and offered opportunities for continuing education. If a homeowner is not happy with the result of the carpet cleaning, Stanley Steemer is determined to make it right by sending a technician back to the house to spot clean or even clean the entire area again.   Why It Made the Cut: Oxi Fresh Carpet Cleaning offers an approximately 1-hour dry time for its eco-friendly encapsulation cleaning method. With two counter-rotating brushes that can reach deep into the carpet fibers to lift out the encapsulated debris, Oxi Fresh Carpet Cleaning offers eco-friendly carpet cleaning for the home. Technicians use a pre-spray to treat heavily soiled areas and then apply the blend of the company’s EPA Safer Choice encapsulator and Oxi Cleaning solution. This combination uses less water than traditional carpet cleaning methods and takes considerably less time to dry. Customers can expect their carpets to be completely dry within 1 to 2 hours of treatment. While some may criticize that the encapsulation cleaning method doesn’t clean heavily soiled carpets as well as other cleaning methods, many are satisfied with the process for their home. Oxi Fresh Carpet Cleaning also offers rug, upholstery, tile, and wood floor cleaning. Scheduling an appointment can be done over the phone or online.   Why It Made the Cut: The two-step cleaning process from Sears Carpet & Air Duct Cleaning effectively removes allergens and pet odors. Dirt, debris, and allergens like pet dander and pollen get trapped in carpets over time and trigger allergy flare-ups. It’s recommended that those who suffer from allergies clean their rugs and carpets at least once a year. Sears Carpet & Air Duct Cleaning provides a two-step cleaning method that uses a heated enzyme cleaning solution to loosen dirt, allergens, and pet odors deep within the fibers and then uses the heat extraction method and a pH-balancing rinse to ensure no cleaning solution is left behind. Carpets can take 8 and 24 hours to dry with this method, but the company’s unique system is unbeatable for those with allergies or homes with stubborn pet odors. For instance, it offers an optional carpet protector that makes the cleaning process last longer and restores the carpet’s protective coating. Appointments can be made both over the phone and online for carpet, upholstery, tile, air duct, and dryer-vent cleaning, as well as water removal services.   With 24/7 emergency services, ServPro provides cleanup for fire, smoke, and water damage, as well as mold removal. If a homeowner has experienced a household emergency like fire or flooding, ServPro can help. In business for over 50 years, this nationwide company with more than 2,000 locations has the experience and knowledge to clean and restore carpet and upholstery. ServPro uses various cleaning methods that include bonnet cleaning, hot water extraction, rotary jet extraction, and dry cleaning, depending on the cleaning situation. However, bonnet cleaning is generally not as effective as deep cleaning and will only provide a surface clean and may drive dirt deeper into the fibers. ServPro’s strengths lie in its water, fire, and smoke remediation services, particularly in cases of emergency. Not all carpet cleaning companies offer emergency support, so being available 24/7 is a huge point in ServPro’s favor. To schedule an appointment, a homeowner can enter their ZIP code on the website to find the nearest location and then set up cleaning or remediation services over the phone.   Why It Made the Cut: All Green Carpet Clean offers organic, eco-friendly carpet cleaning services with both hot water extraction and dry cleaning methods. All Green Carpet Clean uses organic carpet shampoo in its hot water extraction method, making it a great option for homeowners looking for environmentally friendly carpet shampoo companies. The hot water activates the shampoo while specialized equipment brushes the carpet to extract dirt and debris. The cleaning equipment passes over the carpet twice to ensure all the cleaning solution and water are rinsed out and removed from the fibers. All Green’s dry-cleaning method uses a Chem-Dry solution that relies on microscopic bubbles to loosen and remove dirt and grime. While the service area for All Green Carpet Clean is limited, and the company’s website is somewhat user-unfriendly, it’s a worthy service to check out for homeowners who live within the coverage area. One benefit of dry cleaning is that it takes less time to dry than other cleaning methods. An antimicrobial agent is applied after the cleaning process, which ensures mold, yeast, mildew, bacteria, and potential allergens will not live and grow in the carpeting. This extra treatment is recommended for allergy sufferers and people with sensitive respiratory systems.   The award for Best Overall goes to Stanley Steemer based on its service area, additional services, proprietary cleaning equipment, user-friendly website, and reputation. With its environmentally friendly encapsulation cleaning method and fast drying time, Oxi Fresh Carpet Cleaning is our Eco-Friendly Pick and another top-rated carpet cleaning company for homeowners to consider. To determine the best carpet cleaning companies, we examined each company’s quality, eco-friendliness, service area, customer service, and locations. We prioritized those companies that offer tried-and-true cleaning methods and additional services. We paid particular attention to those that use eco-friendly products and provide specialized services. Each of the cleaning companies on our list has satisfied customers, an excellent reputation, and provides a much-need service. Professional carpet cleaning is a crucial part of taking care of the carpeting in a home. Still, there are a few things that a homeowner should consider before making a cleaning appointment. Researching and finding a licensed local cleaning company that has well-trained employees, professional equipment, and costs that fit into a homeowner’s budget is a significant part of the process. Understanding cleaning methods and what will work the best for a home is also essential. A homeowner should ask potential cleaning companies about their methods, cleaning solutions, pricing, specialized add-ons, and their policies if a customer isn’t happy with the results. It’s a good idea to talk to the cleaning technician regarding how stains will be treated and point out heavily soiled areas. Most companies don’t offer a guarantee regarding stain removal because some are too deeply set to get out of the fibers. Regardless, tell the carpet cleaner right away that some spots are still in the carpet so they can help you get the results you want. Once a homeowner finds the right carpet cleaning company, they can develop a relationship to keep the carpet looking great. Some homeowners may prefer to tackle stains on their own, but if they don’t have the tools needed to clean carpeting and remove heavy stains, they may need to rent equipment from one of the best carpet cleaner rental companies. Those who want to clean their carpet on a regular basis may find that it makes sense to buy one of the best carpet cleaners. Because of the added cost of buying or renting equipment, homeowners may want to carefully compare professional carpet cleaning businesses and rental companies to determine what approach makes the most sense. According to HomeAdvisor, the cost of professional carpet cleaning can range between $123 and $240, with the national average at $180. The exact prices depend on the area that needs to be cleaned, how a company determines its pricing (per room or square foot), the cleaning method, carpet type, stain removal, additional add-ons, and whether the company charges extra for furniture removal. To find out the most accurate pricing for the services they’re interested in, homeowners should contact the carpet cleaning company for clarification. Professional carpet cleaning can eliminate irritating allergens and make the space more comfortable. If there are small children or pets in a home, a deep clean can get rid of stains and odors. There are additional benefits of hiring one of the best carpet cleaning companies: Deciding on the best carpet cleaning companies while staying within a budget can be a bit of a challenge. Here are some frequently asked questions about carpet cleaning companies to help guide decisions. While not expected, it is a nice gesture to tip if a carpet cleaner goes out of their way and does a great job. If a cleaner is careful about moving heavy furniture and provides excellent service, tipping $10 or $20 per person is a good amount. Make sure to check with the company to ensure employees can accept tips. The typical carpet cleaning cost runs from $123 to $240, with the national average at $180. Some companies, like Stanley Steemer, provide car upholstery cleaning, but not every company offers that service. Be sure to double-check with the cleaning company. The process of cleaning the carpet will eliminate odors, and some companies may offer additional deodorization services. Some cleaning companies use the hot water extraction method which uses hot water and a cleaning solution (some will offer an organic, eco-friendly option) to clean the carpet. Dry-cleaning methods use powders, and bonnet cleaners use a scrub pad that cleans the carpet’s surface with a liquid solution. Some companies offer multiple cleaning options, and others just provide one specialized method. If a homeowner prefers a particular cleaning method, they should hire a company that provides that method. For example, pet owners may want to specifically look at the best carpet cleaning companies for pet stains since they may use more efficient cleaning methods for these types of stains. Absolutely. When hiring the best carpet cleaning service, it’s always wise to schedule an appointment in advance. Waiting until the last minute can make it difficult to set up a cleaning with in-demand companies. Usually, carpet cleaning companies will work with a customer who is not happy with the end result of the cleaning. Some will come back to spot clean or clean the entire area a second time. A homeowner should check with the company they hire about money-back guarantees or the company’s refund policy. Carpet cleaning companies don’t offer general housecleaning, so check out which cleaning companies in your area offer regular housecleaning. Sources: HomeAdvisor Contributing Writer Katie Flannery is a writer and editor for BobVila.com. Since September 2020, she has been offering readers advice about general home improvement, kitchen renovation, service and product costs, and repairs. With over 20 years of professional writing experience, she’s successfully generated hundreds of news articles, blog posts, interviews, concert reviews, album reviews, press releases, proposals, essays, and academic papers. We’re committed to testing and reviewing products so you can make an informed decision. Advertising does not influence our product reviews and it never will. We always focus our coverage on standout products and never hesitate to mention their flaws and quirks. By using our affiliate links, you’re supporting our work and helping us continue to provide expert analysis. Find out more about our product evaluation process. 
By Katie Flannery, Catherine Hiles
 
By Jeff Keleher, Sophie Kaemmerlé
 
By Tony Carrick
 
By Glenda Taylor, Sabrina Serani, Catherine Hiles
 
By Timothy Dale, Jeff Keleher
 
By Amber Guetebier, Sabrina Serani, Catherine Hiles
 
By Catherine Hiles
 
By Nicole Fallon-Peek, Catherine Hiles
 
By Andreana Lefton
 
By Lisa Conant, Brittany Varano, Amber Guetebier
 
By Jasmine Harding
 
By Carol Benton, Katie Barton
 
By Jasmine Harding, Glenda Taylor
 
By Timothy Dale
 
By Savannah Sher, Debbie Wolfe, Amanda Lauren
 
By Jasmine Harding
 Subscribe to our newsletters for the best tips, tricks, and ideas to transform your home and yard. By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Articles may contain affiliate links which enable us to share in the revenue of any purchases made. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service. © 2024 Recurrent. All rights reserved. 