The term of “matrons” is outdated if you attended the University of the South (Sewanee) prior to 1981-1892 when the title of the ladies entrusted to the supervision of students was changed to “Head Resident.” Unfortunately neither terms are used and a reliable source states that “it looks like they were being phased out by the end of 2016.” Before 1968 when the Board of Trustees admitted the first female (gals, lasses, her, them, etc.) students in the institution originally created in 1858 was an all male (guys, dudes, him, etc.)  that got started when the former Tennessee Consolidated Coal Co. donated a few thousand acres of pristine mountainous terrain to beat competition from Beerheba Springs in Grundy County to build the institution which in 2023 has expanded in size to 13,000 beautiful plots of Mother Earth. The importance of matrons in the history of the University can not be overstated. They provided a constant source of stability (most of the time) to a group of young men and women who originally were isolated on the Domain during the cold, foggy, and often rainy winter months. Dangerous dirt roads or railroad transportation to Cowan and then a seven-mile hike to the summit were the original routes to the little village of Sewanee. Occasionally a ride to the adjoining community of Monteagle on the short line coal train “the Mountain Goat” could reduce the walk but accommodations in the “caboose” were not always available and riding on top of a coal car in bad weather was not very convenient. In this scenario came the dormitory matrons who fulfilled several roles in the young students’ lives that started around 1925 when the construction of each new dormitories included a small apartment to be occupied by widows, spinsters, former residents, and strong supporters of the community. They provided a “stabilizing force” to instill some discipline amongst the young men, a comforting voice when needed, a piece of cake (and occasional sharing of liquid refreshment), and a rare but loving show of authority. The 2008 publication “Sewanee Perspectives” reporting on the first 150 years of the University contains a sixty four (64) page chapter “150 Years of Women at Sewanee” (Celester Ray) that includes many references to the ladies in charge of both the boarding houses and student dorms on the Domain. The changing of the title from “matron” to “head resident” occurred around the early 1980s. The student newspaper “The Sewanee Purple” on February 16, 2007 contained an article by a student editor (Skipper McInerney) who penned an informative paper, “Sewanee Dorm Matrons May Be Cooler Than Your Real Mother”, based on his sit down interviews with 5 then current matrons. He summarized their roles at Sewanee as being women that “served as untapped resources of knowledge, insider information, and most importantly, compassion.” He summarized the requirements of being a matron house resident: 1)     An ability to forego a peaceful night’s sleep; 2)     An appreciation for youth; 3)     A thick skin, and; 4)     Most of all, a sense of humor. The Purple reported in its December 12, 2012 edition that a reception was held honoring the three remaining Head Residents/Matrons (Susan Peek, Bunny Morgan, and Jeannine Robinson) as the program was being phased out of the University’s future plans. The importance of the position in the modern era is subject to debate as Sewanee moves forward in its 165th year in 2023. One viewpoint expressed in the chapter on women in Sewanee Perspective may apply more to pre-2012 students on the Domain but its message of supervision of college students is timeless as stated in 2008: “These women fostered a singular character life in their halls and some students became very loyal to them, maintaining with one throughout their time at Sewanee and returning to introduce fiancées, wives, and children to their former matrons. The personality and activities of the hall proprietor was a source of conversation for students and a part of the stories they told about Sewanee on departure.” The University of the South (Sewanee) has changed a lot in its history from both positive and negative perspectives. Whether the elimination of the Matrons/House Residents program is in the best interest of students (and University) is also subject to discussion. * * * You can reach Jerry Summers at jsummers@summersfirm.com The Chattery, 1800 Rossville Ave., Suite 108, invites the community to come together for a special cleanup day on this Saturday, following a recent fire that affected their classroom space. Two ...  more All princes and princesses from the ages of two to 10 years old are invited to attend the Annual Fairytale Fall Ball on Sunday, Sept. 22. Ticket holders will have the chance to interact with ...  more Chattanooga Parks and Outdoors announces the Second Annual Chatt Town Cool Down, coming to downtown Chattanooga this Friday and Saturday. 
 
"This thrilling end-of-summer event promises a weekend ...  more