John Hoenig joins LPA Design Studios as managing director of structural engineering. [Photo: LPA Design Studios] Dallas-based LPA Design Studios has added industry veteran John Hoenig as managing director of structural engineering, guiding structural design across civic, education, science and technology, healthcare, and commercial projects. Hoenig will lead LPA’s structural engineering efforts throughout Texas, working within the firm’s integrated design practice, which is setting new standards for high-performance buildings, the company said. “John’s collaborative approach to structural engineering is a great match with our integrated design practice,” LPA Director of Structural Engineering Bryan Seamer said in a statement. “He fits perfectly with what LPA does best: working across design disciplines to achieve sustainable, resilient, restorative design on every project, every budget, every scale.” Hoenig brings more than two decades of structural work to his new role at LPA. The firm said that Hoenig is known for tackling unique and complex structural challenges across a wide range of project types. He led the structural design of many notable projects in Texas, including the AT&T Discovery District, the LEED Platinum-certified Student Services Building at the University of Texas at Dallas, and Dallas Independent School District’s Zan Wesley Holmes Jr. Middle School. Hoenig has authored articles in Structural Engineer Magazine and Modern Steel Construction, and he has presented at the Texas Society of Architects conference. LPA said his design work has earned awards from the Urban Land Institute, Engineering News-Record and the American Institute of Architects at the state and national level, as well as R&D Magazine’s Lab of the Year Award. “I was drawn to LPA because of the firm’s deep commitment to integrated design,” Hoenig said in a statement. “It’s an approach where every design discipline takes ownership of every project from the very beginning, and no efficiency or design opportunity is left on the table.” LPA said that Hoenig joins a Dallas studio that is expanding its portfolio of projects in multiple markets, including commercial, education, workplace, and life science. It said that Hoenig will work on a variety of projects with his new LPA team, including a new office for a Texas biotech company, a 15,000-square-foot administration building addition, and a net zero energy recreation center. LPA said that its structural engineering practice is nationally recognized for providing elegant, cost-effective solutions to the most challenging design problems. The firm has been honored with many of the structural engineering industry’s top honors, including four national awards from the National Council of Structural Engineers Associations. Earlier this year, LPA joined the SE 2050 Commitment, an initiative to reduce and ultimately eliminate embodied carbon in structural systems by 2050.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   LPA Design Studios has hired D. Alex John, Jr. as an associate principal and design director of the firm’s growing Dallas commercial studio. A veteran Dallas design leader, John will lead design teams on a wide range of projects, including commercial, science and technology, civic and cultural, residential, and mixed-use developments. “I feel like you need a firm that has a little bit of that Wild West spirit.” John was drawn to LPA Design Studios by the firm's leadership team and their emphasis on collaboration across disciplines and practices. LPA's innovative design approach, which prioritizes creating healthier, more efficient, and… Thursday night at AD EX—the Architecture and Design Exchange in downtown Dallas—the Dallas Chapter of the American Institute of Architects announced the 14 winners of its 2023 Built, Unbuilt, and Student Design Awards. See all the amazing work. In February, the Dallas Museum of Art launched a “Reimagining the Dallas Museum of Art International Design Competition" for a major expansion that will add flexible gallery spaces, reorganized entrances and circulation, and a reapportioned interior.  The museum received 154 design submissions from all over the world. On Thursday, the DMA announced that it has selected six finalists. The Lucchese x Chris Stapleton collection culminates a collaboration that started five years ago with the 7-time Grammy winner's "product ideation." See how the idea got ideated—and how two Lucchese execs in the Dallas Design DIstrict had a hand in it. The Madrid-based competition winners describe their winning proposal to reimagine the Dallas Museum of Art "as a reflection of the original building, transforming the relationship between art, landscape, and community into a balance of memory and innovation." North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.