John Hoenig joins LPA Design Studios as managing director of structural engineering. [Photo: LPA Design Studios] Dallas-based LPA Design Studios has added industry veteran John Hoenig as managing director of structural engineering, guiding structural design across civic, education, science and technology, healthcare, and commercial projects. Hoenig will lead LPA’s structural engineering efforts throughout Texas, working within the firm’s integrated design practice, which is setting new standards for high-performance buildings, the company said.... LPA Design Studios has hired D. Alex John, Jr. as an associate principal and design director of the firm’s growing Dallas commercial studio. A veteran Dallas design leader, John will lead design teams on a wide range of projects, including commercial, science and technology, civic and cultural, residential, and mixed-use developments.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.