Surface Laptop Studio 2 is Microsoft's most powerful Surface PC yet, and it's available very soon. 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Microsoft is about ready to ship a new second-generation Surface Laptop Studio 2, which will feature the latest Intel processors, more powerful graphics cards, an updated selection of ports, and much more. The Surface Laptop 2 was announced alongside a small handful of other Surface PCs at a special event taking place that took place on September 21. Below, you'll find absolutely everything you need to know about the upcoming Surface Laptop Studio 2, including its release date. Let's get into it.  The Surface Laptop Studio 2 was announced at the September 21 special event in New York. Pre-orders for the new laptop are already live, and it will begin shipping to buyers on October 3.  Prices start at $1,999, which will net you a configuration with a 13th Gen Intel Core i7, 16GB of RAM, 512GB of storage, but no dedicated GPU. On the entry level, you'll be getting Intel Xe integrated graphics.  Prices for an NVIDIA GPU begin at $2,399 for the RTX 4050 and steps up to $3,299 if you want an RTX 4060.   Surface Laptop Studio 2 | From $1,999.99 at Microsoft The new Surface Laptop Studio 2 is Microsoft's most powerful Surface yet, with an Intel 13th-Gen H-series processor, up to 64GB RAM, and NVIDIA RTX 40 series graphics to choose from.   Here's what hardware you can find inside the various different configurations of the Surface Laptop Studio 2.  All the latest news, reviews, and guides for Windows and Xbox diehards. The Surface Laptop Studio 2 maintains the same design as the original, right down to the platinum colorway. The only external changes are related to the selection of ports, which expand beyond the dual Thunderbolt 4 USB-C ports found on the original Surface Laptop Studio. On the left side, you'll find a new USB-A port alongside the two USB-C ports, and on the right will be a new microSD card reader, next to the magnetic Surface Connect port and 3.5mm headphone jack.  The Surface Laptop Studio 2 is also now constructed from Aluminum, versus the Magnesium alloy from the original model. It's a little heavier and thicker, too, with improved durability thanks to the Aluminum.  Regarding new features, the Surface Laptop Studio 2 includes an upgraded haptic touchpad (likely from Sensel) that can provide more granular levels of haptic feedback. The display is also brighter with support for HDR content while maintaining the same 14.4-inch screen size.  The Surface Laptop Studio 2 will also support Windows Studio Effects, a feature previously exclusive to ARM devices with a dedicated NPU. The addition of an NPU on  the new Laptop Studio 2 unlocks the feature for the first time on an Intel powered Surface.  The Surface Laptop Studio 2 may look mostly the same on the outside, but it's actually a fairly significant upgrade over its predecessor. With the latest from Intel and NVIDIA inside, it's also finally a Surface device that can properly game.  However, if you're looking to save a few bucks, the original Surface Laptop Studio can be found for much less right now! Zac Bowden is a Senior Editor at Windows Central. Bringing you exclusive coverage into the world of Windows on PCs, tablets, phones, and more. Also an avid collector of rare Microsoft prototype devices! Keep in touch on Twitter and Threads Windows Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 