Affiliate links for the products on this page are from partners that compensate us and terms apply to offers listed (see our advertiser disclosure with our list of partners for more details). However, our opinions are our own. See how we rate banking products to write unbiased product reviews. If you like to bank on-the-go, you'll probably want a bank with a strong mobile banking app. With a banking app, you should be able to do basic things you'd normally at a bank — deposit checks, speak with a representative, and see your account balances. Many banks and credit unions offer mobile and online banking, but only some of them rate high in mobile app customer satisfaction. Get paid up to 2 days early with direct deposits no monthly service fee None $0 Chime has one of the best checking accounts out there, but it doesn't offer joint accounts or pay the best savings rate. Its strongest feature is that it's great for people who might not qualify to open accounts elsewhere — it doesn't check your credit score or banking history when you apply for a checking account, savings account, or credit card. It also provides several credit-building tools. These are our top picks for mobile banking apps. If you're also interested in another useful apps, consider going through our best budgeting apps guide. The best banking apps have easy-to-use interfaces that make it easy to manage your account. With just a few taps, you should be able to view your account balances, deposit checks, and contact customer support. With some apps, you can also do things like see your balance without logging in or track your credit score. We have top picks from both brick-and-mortar and online financial institutions, so you have different possibilities to explore. no monthly service fee 0.10% to 0.25% $0 N/A Through the Ally mobile app you can set up savings or spending buckets that let you save for separate goals, like an "Emergency fund" and "Travel Account." You can also use the Surprise Savings feature to evaluate how much you can afford to save in your checking account, then automatically transfers extra money into savings up to three times per week. Ally offers 24/7 live customer support, both over the phone and via chat. You can also find nearby ATM locations while using the app. Some of our other top picks also have better average scores in the Google Play store. Ally Bank Review Earn $200 bonus for new customers who open a new eligible personal checking account online with qualifying activities (offer expires September 30, 2024) $12 monthly service fee None $100 $200 Bank of America is an excellent national banking option for avid mobile users. The brick-and-mortar bank ranks second in banking mobile app satisfaction, according to the 2024 J.D. Power U.S. Bank Mobile App Satisfaction Study. The mobile app has numerous security features. For example, the app has a security meter that visually represents how to increase the level of protection in your account. You can also receive mobile app alerts for your account balance, or order to replace your debit card if it is lost. Keep in mind Bank of America checking and savings accounts have monthly service fees unless you meet certain requirements. If you want bank accounts that do not charge any monthly service fees the best online banks may be more appealing for you. Bank of America Review No minimums, no fees, no worries. no monthly service fee See website for details $0 Capital One is a strong bank overall. You'll earn competitive interest rates on online savings accounts and CDs. The Capital One mobile app is rated the highest in mobile app customer satisfaction among national banks, according to 2024 J.D. Power U.S. Bank Mobile App Satisfaction Study. You can use the bank's app to deposit checks, track your credit score, or monitor your bank account. If you're also set on earning a high interest rate on a bank account, bear in mind that other online banks may have more competitive savings or CD rates right now. Capital One 360 Review Earn 0.45% Annual Percentage Yield (APY). $0 minimum deposit. FDIC Insured. no monthly service fee 0.45% $0 Charles Schwab Bank is one of the best banks for international travelers, because it doesn't charge foreign transaction fees. It also refunds all fees charged by ATMs worldwide. But if you want to earn high interest rates, you're better off looking elsewhere. Charles Schwab lets you invest, save, and spend in the same app. You can use the app to deposit checks or make lists to help monitor market trends. Some of our other top picks have better Google Play ratings. You must also invest with Charles Schwab to open a checking account. Charles Schwab Review Earn $300 bonus when you open an account and make direct deposits totaling $500 or more within 90 days of coupon enrollment (offer expires on 10/16/2024) $12 monthly service fee None $0 $300 There are several Chase checking accounts, and Chase Total Checking® is the bank's most popular choice. It offers several ways to waive the monthly fee, and you may qualify for a $300 bank account bonus. But if you want perks like early direct deposit or waived out-of-network ATM fees, one of Chase's other options could be a better fit. Through the Chase mobile app, you can manage your bank accounts, investments, and credit card/card points. You may track your credit score or deposit checks. The Chase mobile app allows you to set up automatic savings transfers and create folders for separate savings goals, like "Vacation Fund" or "College Savings." The mobile app is rated highly in customer satisfaction among national banks, according to the 2024 J.D. Power U.S. Bank Mobile App Satisfaction Study. While Chase offers strong mobile banking, you'll need to be mindful of monthly service fees. Most of the accounts have ways to waive fees, but if you would prefer a fee-free bank account you might prefer another bank. Chase Bank Review Earn $100 bonus when you make qualifying direct deposits totaling at least $500 within 90 days of account opening (offer expires 8/31/24) None None $25 $100 M&T Bank is a solid option if you live near a branch and prefer in-person banking to online banking. It also offers CDs with fixed and variable rates. M&T Bank ranks No. 1 in customer satisfaction for a regional bank, according to the 2024 J.D. Power U.S. Bank Mobile App Satisfaction Study. M&T mobile banking let you track spending and make budgets with M&T Money Smart. You'll also have access to many standard banking features. For example, you'll be able to view your account balances, make mobile check deposits, use Zelle, and manage any debit or credit cards. The bank has over 700 branches in the U.S. but its locations are primarily on the East Coast. M&T Bank Review no monthly service fee 2.25% $0 N/A Synchrony Bank's money market account stands out because it has paper checks and an ATM card, which give you easy access to your savings. But the interest rate is just so-so. You can your credit cards and bank accounts in the same app. Synchrony also has mobile check deposit and offers tips to help you learn about personal finance and managing your money. Synchrony doesn't have a checking account. Synchrony Bank Review Top-rated mobile banking apps are easy to navigate. You should be able to view your current account balance on your bank accounts and cards either right when logging in or through a widget feature. A strong mobile app will also let you manage your accounts and reach out to customer support with just a few taps. The app's interface should be organized, with tabs or a table of contents that clearly outlines where everything in the app is. Most mobile banking apps have multi-factor authentication. You can set up this feature by checking your app's settings. Mobile banking apps also have encryption so you can securely send money between bank accounts and to external bank accounts from other financial institutions. If you lose a debit or credit card, many mobile apps allow you to lock your card so it cannot be used. Budgeting and savings tools are another perk for many mobile banking apps. Some banks, like Ally, have the features incorporated in the bank accounts. For example, some savings account have buckets so you can set individual savings goals. Other banks offer tools to help see the bigger picture of your budgeting and spending. You might be able to create a monthly budget or get analysis of your monthly spending and cash flow. Many mobile banking apps will allow you to contact customer support straight through the app. You'll be able to send a secure message and a representative will reach out to you promptly. Some banks even have 24/7 customer service. When you're switching banks or opening a new bank account, a bank's mobile app can be important factor that can help you distinguish whether a bank is the right fit for you. When you're evaluating a mobile app, it's important to see what features are available and which aren't. For example, not every bank app has a mobile check deposit feature. It helps to figure out which features you prioritize most in your mobile banking experience. You can use that to narrow down some banking options. Then, think about your overall banking experience — which bank accounts and services you want — to help you find the best bank for you. To increase your mobile banking apps safety, make sure you review all the app's security features so you are familiar with how they work. If possible, use multi-factor authentication so that you can verify your login identity when you're signing into your account. Reviewing your bank account balance is also important so you can detect any instances of fraud. Bank account fraud can happen if someone gets your account or card information and uses it to make unauthorized purchases. It's important to notify your bank immediately when fraud happens, so that the bank can conduct an investigation. Timeliness can also impact how much money you may be liable for when an unauthorized transaction takes place. The best features to look for in a mobile app include user-friendly app structure, strong security features for cards and accounts, money management and budgeting tools and a secure message method to contact to customer support. Yes, it is safe to use a mobile app for banking as long as the financial institution you're using is trustworthy. Your money is still FDIC- or NCUA-insured no matter where you bank from, and reputable banks have security protocols that apply to mobile banking too. Yes, you can use multiple mobile banking apps if you bank with several different financial institutions. Most banking apps are free when you have an account with the bank. But keep in mind that the accounts themselves could come with some fees. Some banks charge monthly service fees, unless you qualify to waive them. You could also pay fees for overdraft fees, ATM fees, or foreign transaction fees. You can ensure your data is secure on a mobile app by using multi-factor authentication and setting a strong password. To make sure your accounts and cards are secure, also regularly review your mobile app so you can quickly respond to any instances of fraud. At the very least, you should be able to use your banking app to check your account balances, transfer money between your own bank accounts, deposit paper checks with the app's camera, and find customer service contact information. The top banking apps have even more robust features, such as showing all of your financial information in one place, 24/7 live chat, or automatic savings tools. We chose Ally, Bank of America, and Capital One 360 as having the best mobile banking apps, among other financial institutions. We consulted banking and financial planning experts to inform these picks and provide their advice on finding the best mobile banking app for your needs. Here's what they had to say about mobile banking apps. (Some text may be lightly edited for clarity.) What should I look for in a mobile banking app? Mykail James, MBA, certified financial education instructor, BoujieBudgets.com: "What kind of push notifications do they offer? Do they offer push notifications for when you swipe your card or if money is deposited into your account? Also, what's the customer support like? Do they have a 24/7 phone number available? Emails? Do they have a chat box?" Sophia Acevedo, banking editor, Business Insider: "I think it's important for a mobile banking app to have mobile check deposit and features that help you understand your spending. Maybe there's a feature that can help you save for specific goals or track your cash flow." What makes a strong mobile banking app? Sophia Acevedo: "I think strong mobile app should be as straightforward as possible. You should be able to easily navigate the app and utilize the features without running into any technical difficulties." Mykail James, MBA, CFEI: "One thing that I love for banks to do is when they offer a virtual debit card or credit card. Sometimes I don't always have a physical card with me. " To choose our favorite banking apps, we only looked at apps with at least 5,000 reviews in both the Apple and Google Play stores. Then we narrowed it down to apps with strong average ratings in both stores. We selected apps for banks that are available in a large chunk of the United States. This could mean that a bank has branches in multiple states, or that it operates online. Our top picks have competitive products that set them apart from other institutions. For example, a bank may pay high interest rates, have tools to help you save money, or offer early direct deposit. Where applicable, we also looked at customer satisfaction ratings on J.D. Power surveys. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards.Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available.**Enrollment required. Editorial Note: Any opinions, analyses, reviews, or recommendations expressed in this article are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by any card issuer. Read our editorial standards. Please note: While the offers mentioned above are accurate at the time of publication, they're subject to change at any time and may have changed, or may no longer be available. **Enrollment required. Jump to