While we’re focusing on sustainability year-round, it shouldn’t be a shocker that everything from refillable beauty products to sustainable fashion brands comes to the forefront during Earth Day. Nowadays, consumers are becoming more and more conscious about what they add to their carts and where their hard-earned dollars are going. According to a 2022 study from McKinsey & Company, the research group expressed willingness to pay 15% more for sustainable options, more so for urban millennial women with moderate to high incomes. Speaking of Urban, renowned multinational lifestyle brand Urban Outfitters has had sustainability ingrained in its mission, particularly with the advent of its Urban Renewal line in 1983. And, you don’t have to pay skyrocket-high prices to clutch a sustainable piece for your wardrobe or room. “Urban Renewal represents and expresses our commitment to sustainability, circularity and reducing our impact on the environment,” per the brand’s impact page. “Urban Renewal was created to focus on repurposed, remade and one-of-a-kind vintage goods and it’s a mission we continue to nurture today.” Ahead, New York Post Shopping pulled our 15 favorite pieces from the brand’s collection to highlight more conscious options for you to add to your shopping cart.  “Urban Renewal is an evolving door of styles across apparel, accessories and home,” Melanie Kasey, Urban Renewal merchandise manager at Urban Outfitters, exclusively told the New York Post. “From a roll of leftover fabric given a new life to upcycled pieces with handcrafted dye and graphic treatments, every piece is remade and reimagined into something unique and on trend.” Even better, when reworking second hand items and sourcing vintage, each piece is truly different from the next. “It allows our customers to gain access to special one-of-a-kind pieces that add a unique and authentic outfitting layer to pair back to their favorite Urban Outfitters staples,” Kasey adds. Just this year, Urban Renewal has reached eco-conscious milestones, including: To read up on all of Urban Outfitters’ efforts, read its first-ever URBN Impact Report, highlighting the brand’s ambitious plans to apply its creative thinking and entrepreneurial mindset to industry challenges and environmental and social responsibility alike. Click to jump to a particular category: Levi’s? Sustainable? Less than $75? Everything about the Urban Renewal Remade Levi’s Slouchy Basic Denim Short appeals to us, from its easy-breezy fit to traditional (yet subtle) raw-edge hem. Not to mention, the bottoms come in a classic catalog of classic cotton colors to choose from. Denim is all the rage at Urban Outfitters, especially with its Vintage Denim Shortall on the market for less than $75. In fact, Urban Renewal has recirculated more than 50,000 pairs of secondhand denim to bring this all-in-one, warm-weather fit to its site. Plus, its bib front and utility-style pockets are nifty touches. Regardless of the temperature, we love cozying up in a quality crewneck. Shop the sustainable Remade Heart Tie-Dye Crew Neck Sweatshirt that comes in a few shade variations to suit your style. What’s more, it brings the phrase ‘cool, calm and collected’ to a whole new level.  We can’t believe the Made in LA Eco Linen Tie Shoulder Ruched Babydoll Dress has been upcycled — and we’re so glad it has, because it has us feeling that much better about adding this cute number to our carts. Oh, and linen is having a moment of its own, so this easy-breezy dress will have you twirling all summertime long. Cargo pants are one thing, but this beautiful wash is another. Add the Vintage Made in the USA Camo Pant to your cart for bottoms that are just as snazzy as they are comfortable. With an allover pattern and relaxed silhouette, what’s not to love? The collab of the century has occurred: Urban Outfitters and Carhartt. As one of our reader’s favorite brands, Carhartt appeals to the outdoor lover and, with Urban Renewal in full swing, you can feel great that this divine piece of outerwear was upcycled. For less than $150, it’s an option that’ll serve your wardrobe well. Timeless and eco-friendly, the Remade Overdyed Mesh Tee is just shy of $40, looks great and is oh-so-breathable. Namely, its fitted design still holds true to that crew-style vibe, which we adore for the summertime months. Your finest thrift store has come to life online, thanks to Urban Renewal. Shop the Vintage Ralph Lauren Long Sleeve Polo Shirt for a one-of-a-kind option that’s just shy of $50. It’s relaxed fit coupled with a chill preppy vibe has us wanting to double-tap it right now. Yes, Urban Renewal has resurfaced the popular jacket from The North Face, breathing into it new life for less than $100. If you’re shopping for an affordable gift idea that you know he’ll love, this cozy outerwear piece is your best bet. Utilitarian-style fashion is all the rage, and we’re not upset about it one bit. At Urban Outfitters, the Vintage Dickies Oversized Work Shirt is a wonderful option for heading to the office in casual comfort (or, to an evening date night). With a great pair of shorts and a tee, you’re golden. How perfect is the Happy Earth Bed Blanket for Earth Day? With nature-inspired, botanical-charm, it’s a surefire statement throw piece for any bedroom or living space. Plus, it features a tufted map motif with happy faces and peace icons printed inside each continent. How wordly, chic and eco-friendly! Yes, Urban Outfitters has reached exquisite heights by transforming a sofa into astonishing, renewed wonder. The One-of-a-Kind Kantha Sofa hits the nail on the head: it’s truly one-of-a-kind, much ado to its three-seat design, patterned fabric and allover stitching detail. An accent chair? Made of denim? Sign us up, please. As would be featured in your favorite home decor magazine, the One-of-a-Kind Recycled Denim Chair is yours for the taking. For less than $1,000, it’s an investment piece to splurge on. And, because it’s sustainable, you’ll feel good each time you lounge on it. Nothing screams Earth Day more than a green window panel. To add some earthy tones to your bedroom or living space, you can’t go wrong with the Overdyed Window Panel. Less than $75 is a fair price to pay for quality treatments, too. Don’t lie to us — you know you’re interested in body pillows. After all, who doesn’t want a life-size pillow to snuggle with after a long day? The XL Deadstock Boucle Body Pillow fits the bill and is one of Urban Outfitters’ 80,000+ remnant styles that was upcycled — all so you can catch more ZZZs in cozy, sustainable fashion. Check out the New York Post Shopping section for more content.