Source: Thaddaeus McAdams/ExclusiveAccess.net
 Source: Thaddaeus McAdams/ExclusiveAccess.net Rolling Loud Miami was another shenanigan-filled spectacle bursting with viral moments like A$AP Rocky‘s suspected shots at Travis Scott, Yung Miami‘s 10-year-old son throwing money at dancers, cranium-crushing crunkstar Duke Deuce slamming a fan through a table mid-performance, Lil Uzi Vert‘s planet-rocking set, and more. Billed as the biggest Hip-Hop festival in the world, there’s something for everyone including fans outside of the festivities who were treated to FREE block parties powered by the CheckN app.  


					Related Stories
				





 

New Couple??? Travis Scott Seemingly Pops Out With 50 Cent’s Ex Cuban Link, Rick Ross Pokes Fun At 50






 

‘It’s Miami’: Rapper Travis Scott Arrested Following Yacht Disturbance






 

Chaos At Cannes: Tyga, Travis Scott & Cher’s Cougar Cub Alexander ‘AE’ Edwards Engage In ‘Sicko Mode’ Melee At Film Festival





 Hosted by Swae Lee, Bryson Tiller, and Rolling Loud live stream personality Yes Julz, the 2-night event was the place to be for good vibes, free performances, and networking opportunities in the bustling city. Fans flocked to Miami’s Wynwood district for the experience that was free to anyone who downloaded the app with an added incentive of VIP Express Access by “checking” with its parters Miami Pro League, remix Footwear, and Ksubi. Source: Thaddaeus McAdams/ExclusiveAccess.net According to a press release, “CheckN tells users where all the people are–friends and strangers alike (think “Waze” for people). In addition to being able to see where the crowds are, CheckN takes the guess work out of going out by helping you find the coolest events happening in real time. Source: Thaddaeus McAdams/ExclusiveAccess.net Once at a venue, the app allows you to browse the profiles of everyone else in attendance and connect with people–as well as receive exclusive offers from your favorite celebrities and venues. Source: Thaddaeus McAdams/ExclusiveAccess.net App Partners include John Wall (Investor), Yes Julz (CMO Investor), Don Gold (former UFC EVP head of S&E investor), and more.” Check out more selects below: 
									Welcome To The Bey-lympics! Beyoncé Slays Olympics With All-American Glam In Red, White, And Blue 								 
									BOSSIP Horoscopes: Week Of July 21								 
									Oui Love To See It: Ciara, Teyana Taylor, Venus And Serena Williams & More Slay The Runway At Vogue World: Paris								 
									Cardi B & Meagan Good Attend 2024 Hollywood Unlocked Impact Awards As Jonathan Majors Emotionally Accepts 'Perseverance' Honor								 
									Best Dressed Daddy: A$AP Rocky Stars With Baby Boys, RZA And Riot, In Bottega Veneta Father's Day Campaign								 
									Marshalls Good Stuff Social Club Empowers Women Across Atlanta With Lauren Speed-Hamilton								 
									Daddy Drip Drizzy: Drake Shows Off Hot Soccer Dad Outfit At Son's Game								 
									BOSSIP Horoscopes: Week Of June 2								 Bossip Comment Policy
	Please read our Comment Policy before commenting.