Global site navigation Local editions PAY ATTENTION: Stay informed, not misinformed - Digital Citizenship & Online Etiquette Workshop - FREE Watch on Facebook Live or Zoom Aug 31, 12pm - REGISTER Top Moroccan-American rapper, French Montana, has caused a social media buzz after sharing photos and videos from his visit to Makoko slum waters in Lagos, Nigeria. Just recently, the music star paid a visit to the country alongside US singer, Swae Lee, to shoot a music video for their song with Nigerian singer, Lojay, titled Wish U Well. Read also West Ham Sign Kudus: English Club Celebrates Kudus, Plays Terminator In Video Some parts of the video were shot in popular Lagos slum waters, Makoko, and French Montana shared snaps from his visit online. In one of his Instagram posts, French Montana was seen taking a boat ride through Makoko, and many young children gathered around as they excitedly praised him. PAY ATTENTION: Join Legit.ng Telegram channel! Never miss important updates! The Moroccan-American rapper was also in awe of the way of life in Makoko as he recorded videos from the canoe he was riding. In his caption, he wrote: See the post below:  French Montana also shared other videos of himself in Nigeria with hyenas. He explained that he had always wanted to meet the Hyena Boys, describing it as a once-in-a-lifetime experience. See his videos below:  French Montana’s “Wish U Well” featuring Swae Lee is the Moroccan-American rapper’s second single released in August.  Read also Davido performs at the 50th PFA Awards in the UK, Nigerians react: "He is so worldwide" The three-time Grammy-nominated, Diamond-certified music star also released Good Summer on August 11. Building upon the success of their previous collaboration, the production of "Wish U Well" is a masterful blend of nostalgia and innovation. Echoing the afrobeat influences that contributed to the global success of their 2017 original hit "Unforgettable," French Montana and Swae Lee’s new single carries forward a similar infectious, irresistible rhythm while venturing into new transcendent territory.  Shortly after French Montana shared video clips from his visit to Makoko, it raised a series of mixed reactions from netizens. While many Nigerians welcomed the singer, other netizens complained that he was showcasing a slum instead of other beautiful parts of the country. Read some of their comments below: _lov_issabella: Read also “The family is happy”: Delta Senator Ned Nwoko breaks silence on Steve Harvey’s divorce rumour iam_oyakhilome: ilegar2die4: bluntkerr: Bondgrounded: jessicastabbitofficial_666: deribb: Moroccan-American singer, French Montana, is one of the latest international stars to visit Nigeria in recent times.  The music star caused a buzz after he took to Instagram to thank Davido for making him have a good time in Nigeria.  On his Instagram stories, the 38-year-old rapper was seen with some of Davido’s entourage, and he proceeded to thank the DMW boss for his help with security details and more. Source: Legit.ng 

                Taiwo Owolawi                                    (Entertainment Editor)
                            
Taiwo Owolawi is an entertainment and lifestyle journalist with four years of work experience at Legit.ng. She graduated from Osun State University with a degree in English and International Studies in 2016. She has also moved on to pursue courses in Public Relations and Copywriting. Taiwo emerged as Legit.ng's Best Entertainment Editor in 2022. Contact: taiwo.owolawi@corp.legit.ng.
 Recommended for you 



 



 



 



 



 Check more articles for you