 Travis Scott has a penchant for luxury, and he recently took to social media to show off a huge purchase he made.  The “Sicko Mode” hitmaker shared in Instagram stories a Louis Vuitton trunk that displayed rainbow LVs. Scott reportedly purchased it through Joopiter auction last year for $121,250. The entire sale from Pharrell’s auction house, which included 47 items, raised $5.25 million in its first run in November. Travis Scott ups his briefcase game with Pharrell’s $120K Louis Vuitton trunk https://t.co/52WCdDsvQr pic.twitter.com/rQ44eoY1Sm — HipHopDX (@HipHopDX) July 12, 2023  The rapper is clearly a fan of the producer, as he was seen not too long ago sporting items from Pharrell’s debut Louis Vuitton collection. The spring 2024 menswear collection has clearly resonated with fashion lovers, as the runway show received 775 million views on the French luxury fashion house’s owned platforms.  It is going to be a busy year for Scott, as he is due to release his highly anticipated work Utopia—his first studio album in nearly five years. He has announced a livestream of the launch of his new effort at the Pyramids of Giza in Egypt, CNN reported. Tickets for the event happening July 28 are already sold out, despite the rapper releasing little information about what will actually take place. Click here to read the full article.   He has teased some ideas about what fans can expect from the album, saying in a February 2021 i-D interview, “I want to make a f***ing new sound.” While speaking to the crowd at Wireless Festival on July 8, he also related it to his first studio album and his first mixtape.  “Every time I listen to [Utopia], it just takes me back to the Rodeo days and the Owl Pharaoh days,” Scott said, according to GQ. “It just takes me back to the mother****ing days where we used to just flip sh** upside-mother****ing-down!”  It has also been reported that his new music release may contain collaborations with The Weeknd, Young Thug, Westside Gunn, and Swae Lee. Judging by the anticipation for the album, it is almost surely to experience heavy streams from hip hop fans. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.