At Kokomo Tuesday, Feb. 28 Harrison 54, Lafayette Jeff 39: Ben Henderson (H) 17 points, 4 assists; Christopher Lucas (H) 11 points; Ah'Keem Wilson and Devion Penny (LJ) 12 points each More:Harrison basketball uses big run to end Lafayette Jeff's season Marion 57, Logansport 42: Jamerion Fouce and Jaymen Townsend (M) 18 points each Friday, March 3 Kokomo 68, Harrison 63 (OT): Flory Bidunga (K) 26 points, 19 rebounds Marion 89, McCutcheon 51: Landon Waeltz (M) 18 points; Sam Swank (M) 15 points Saturday, March 4 Kokomo 85, Marion 51: Shayne Spear (K) 24 points, 9 assists; Flory Bidunga (K) 20 points, 16 rebounds At Frankfort Tuesday, Feb. 28 Western 61, West Lafayette 53: Mitchell Dean (W) 28 points, 19 rebounds; Benny Speaker (WL) 19 points; Ben Werth (WL) 10 points Wednesday, March 1 Benton Central 53, Frankfort 40: Hunter Sisson (BC) 24 points, 11 rebounds; Cayden Hardebeck (BC) 11 points; Jayce Strode (F) 27 points More:IHSAA sectional: Benton Central basketball gets second-half lift to top Frankfort Rensselaer 70, North Montgomery 48: Tristen Wuethrich (R) 20 points; Colby Chapman (R) 18 points; Corbin Mathew (R) 11 points; Tommy Boyles (R) 10 points. Friday, March 3 Twin Lakes 45, Western 43: Jamison Ousley (TL) 15 points; Gavin Businger (TL) 11 points Rensselaer 47, Benton Central 44: Corbin Mathew (R) game-winning 3 at the buzzer Saturday, March 4 Twin Lakes 61, Rensselaer 59: Luke Deno (TL) 20 points, Gavin Businger (TL) 17 points; Jamison Ousley (TL) 16 points, game-winner with 1.9 seconds left More:Late shot lifts 10-14 Twin Lakes to improbable sectional championship At Danville Tuesday, Feb. 28 Crawfordsville 57, Monrovia 40: Cale Coursey (C) 15 points, 10 rebounds Danville 68, Western Boone 61: Caden Collins (D) 13 points, 4 assists; Kaden Bennington (WB) 21 points Friday, March 3 Tri-West 57, Crawfordsville 39: Max Robertson (TW) 24 points Danville 60, Lebanon 49 Saturday, March 4 Danville 56, Tri-West 44 At Whiting Tuesday, Feb. 28 Gary 21st 93, Whiting 57 Wednesday, March 1 Bowman Academy 91, Lighthouse CPA 62 Illiniana Christian 59, North Newton 54 Saturday, March 4 Gary 21st 68, Andrean 60 Illiana Christian 60, Bowman Academy 57 Monday, March 6 Gary 21st (19-5) vs. Illiana Christian (19-5), 7 p.m. At Delphi Tuesday, Feb, 28 Clinton Prairie 42, Central Catholic 37: Jake McGraw (CP) 21 points More:Clinton Prairie basketball breaks through to beat Central Catholic Carroll 80, Seeger 56: Owen Duff (C) 22 points; Jake Skinner and Chris Huerta (C) 15 points each; Ayden Winchester (S) 15 points Friday, March 3 Clinton Prairie 57, Delphi 40: Jake McGraw (CP) 22 points; Layne Horlacher (CP) 10 points Carroll 64, Covington 38 Saturday, March 4 Carroll 50, Clinton Prairie 36 More:Carroll takes first step in postseason journey with repeat sectional title At West Central Tuesday, Feb. 28 Frontier 44, Caston 40 West Central 59, South Newton 36: Bryce Nannenga (WC) 19 points; Connor Marlatt (WC) 18 points Saturday, March 4 Tri-County 56, Frontier 54 North White 54, West Central 53 Tri-County 43, North White 40 (OT) At Fountain Central Tuesday, Feb. 28 Fountain Central 58, Attica 8: Isaac Gaylor (FC) 26 points Faith Christian 70, Clinton Central 67: Connor Todhunter (Faith) 20 points; Joe Peter (Faith) 14 points Saturday, March 4 Fountain Central 58, North Vermillion 44: Owen Acton (FC) 16 points Rossville 56, Faith Christian 49: Austin Bray (R) 26 points Fountain Central 44, Rossville 40: Isaac Gayler (FC) 14 points; Will Harmon (FC) 12 points This article originally appeared on Lafayette Journal & Courier: IHSAA sectional: Lafayette area scores and standouts U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says that Israel has accepted a proposal to bridge differences holding up a cease-fire and hostage release in Gaza.  Blinken on Tuesday was on his ninth urgent mission to the Middle East since the war in Gaza began more than 10 months ago. India's Supreme Court ordered on Tuesday the setting up of a national task force of doctors to make recommendations on safety at their workplace, days after the rape and murder of a 31-year-old trainee doctor sparked nationwide protests.  The court also asked the federal police to submit a report on Thursday on the status of its investigation into the Aug. 9 murder of the trainee doctor at a state-run hospital in the eastern city of Kolkata.  Doctors across the country have held protests and refused to see non-emergency patients following the crime as part of their action demanding a safer workplace and a swift criminal probe. If 2024 already looks like an annus horribilis for big tech in the EU, the months ahead could prove a winter of discontent as the bloc wields a fortified new legal armoury to bring online titans to heel.The EU's moves are all thanks to two laws, the DSA -- which forces companies to police online content -- and its sister competition law, the Digital Markets Act (DMA) -- which gives big tech a list of what they can and can't do in business. The number of women going through pregnancy without prenatal care is growing — even though the overall number of babies born in the U.S. is falling, a CDC report finds. Former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton used her convention speech to rally behind Vice President Kamala Harris to break the proverbial glass ceiling. Specialist Italian divers on Tuesday launched a fresh search for six people, including UK tech tycoon Mike Lynch and his teenage daughter, missing since their yacht capsized off Sicily.Lynch's wife Angela Bacares was among 15 people rescued, but the businessman and his 18-year-old daughter Hannah were missing, Salvo Cocina, head of the Civil Protection Agency in Sicily, told AFP.
Firefighter divers trained to work in tight spaces were flown in from Rome and Sardinia late Monday, but a first sear Taiwan conducted missile drills simulating the interception of enemy fighters and munitions at a sensitive test site Tuesday, as the island seeks to step up "combat effectiveness" against an increasingly assertive China.Beijing claims self-ruled Taiwan as part of its territory and has stepped up military pressure by sending drones, fighter jets and naval vessels around the island. It was the hero's send-off he had hoped to defer for another four years but when it came, any lingering bitterness seemed forgotten for a cathartic hour as Joe Biden basked in the adulation of his party faithful.  An emotional Biden took the stage, embracing his daughter Ashley, who had introduced him, and wiping his eyes with a tissue as Democrats broke into raucous chants of "We love Joe" and "Thank you Joe" that continued for around four minutes. The video emphasizes the prosecutor vs. criminal narrative that the Kamala Harris campaign has leaned into after Trump’s felony convictions. Night three of the Republican National Convention included former President Donald Trump’s choice for vice president, Sen. JD Vance of Ohio, and other speakers who made false and misleading claims throughout the night. Indonesia and Australia on Tuesday finalized a new bilateral defense treaty that will enhance the neighboring nations' ability to operate their militaries in each other's territory.  The agreement was reached as Indonesian president-elect Prabowo Subianto, who also serves as defense minister, met with Australian officials at the country's Parliament earlier Tuesday.  The bilateral relationship is becoming increasingly important to Australians in face of growing tensions with China. An emotional US President Joe Biden passed the torch to Democratic nominee Kamala Harris with a hug on Monday, saying he gave everything for his country in a bittersweet farewell speech at the party's convention in Chicago.- 'Gave my best' -
And Harris had earlier made a surprise appearance -- Democratic nominees don't normally speak until the final day of the convention -- to heap lavish tribute on her boss. Top US diplomat Antony Blinken was due to travel to Egypt on Tuesday for talks on a Gaza ceasefire after saying Israel had accepted a US "bridging proposal" for a deal and urging Hamas to do the same.Blinken said Monday he had "a very constructive meeting" with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who "confirmed to me that Israel accepts the bridging proposal".  Where the convention is held, who is expected to speak, how to watch, and other questions about the Democratic National Convention. Race to define Harris runs through Chicago Read Clinton’s full speech rallying support for Kamala Harris to break the proverbial glass ceiling. "Something is happening in America” The financial impact of the cyberattack and its impact on financial results had not yet been quantified, Schlatter said last week.  At that time, it also warned that full-year results would be significantly lower than the previous year due to a drop in orders and delayed commissioning of customer projects in its welding unit. Two bouts of flooding from storms in July has hampered businesses and destinations in an economically depressed section of northern Vermont, with some still closed as they continue to repair damage and others urging visitors, who were deterred by the weather, to make the trip.  Businesses and destinations are picking up the pieces, with some still closed in nearby Lyndonville, while others want to get the word out that they are very much open.  “I can’t stress enough that we are open and our community is welcoming people,” said Abby Long, executive director of Kingdom Trails. This school year, Illinois will become just the fifth state in the nation to prohibit corporal punishment in all schools.  Legislation that Gov. JB Pritzker signed into law this month bans physical punishment in private schools while reiterating a prohibition on the practice in public schools implemented 30 years ago.  When the ban takes effect in January, Illinois will join New Jersey, Iowa, Maryland and New York in prohibiting paddling, spanking or hitting in every school.