JESUS REVOLUTION Moviemakers Detail New Movie ORDINARY ANGELS By Movieguide® Contributor The moviemakers behind JESUS REVOLUTION have announced their next movie: ORDINARY ANGELS. ORDINARY ANGELS will tell the “incredible true story of a struggling hairdresser who single-handedly rallies an entire community to help a widowed father save the life of his critically ill young daughter,” said the Kingdom Story Company. In the winter of 1994, the town of Louisville was shut down when a catastrophic winter storm dumped two feet of snow when only two inches were predicted. The storm killed two people; ORDINARY ANGELS tells the story of how a child’s life was saved. The movie will star Hilary Swank (MILLION DOLLAR BABY, LOGAN LUCKY) and Alan Ritchson (REACHER, THE HUNGER GAMES: CATCHING FIRE) and will be directed by Jon Gunn (THE CASE FOR CHRIST). “The story of Sharon Stevens and the Schmitt family is a powerful reminder that helping others is how we heal ourselves,” Gunn said. “I can’t think of a message I’d rather share with the world right now, and I’m honored to be telling it with such a fearless and talented cast.” Swank was drawn to the movie “because it’s such a powerful reminder that angels reside everywhere among us,” she said. “And the faith, hope, grit and positivity are all powerful fuels for miracles.” She was also touched by it on a personal level because the movie centers around organ donation. Swank stepped away from acting between 2015 and 2018 to act as a full-time caretaker for her father while he recovered from a lung transplant. “It’s also the story about the power of organ donation – something incredibly near and dear to my heart,” she said. “I couldn’t be more thrilled to be a part of this story and message.” Meanwhile, Ritchson was drawn to the movie because of his tendency to look on the bright side of things. “I’m an optimist,” he said. “I believe the best in people. I believe that sometimes we just need to be reminded of the power of what we can do together. This is why I was drawn to ORDINARY ANGELS.” The Kingdom Story Company, the company behind JESUS REVOLUTION, produced the movie. It will be released through Lionsgate. The movie is set to release the theaters on October 13th. Movieguide® previously reported on ORDINARY ANGLES: Jon Erwin, Andrew Erwin, and Kevin Downes will produce the project through their Kingdom Story Company. Previous Kingdom Story productions include AMERICAN UNDERDOG and THE JESUS MUSIC.  “Kingdom Story Company endeavors to bring inspiring true stories to life on screen. Ordinary Angels spotlights one family’s seemingly insurmountable struggles and the everyday people who helped them in remarkable ways,” Downes said. “Hilary Swank and Alan Ritchson bring to life this heroic example of how one person can change a family and how that changes a community and gives rise, quite literally, to life and to hope.” Movieguide® is a 501c3 non-profit. We are only able to make a difference because of your generous support. DONATE TODAY!