Newton freshman Mack Sims (2) hit a grand slam in the fifth inning against PCM on Monday. That pushed the Cardinals' lead to 11-4 and the home team went on to win by that score. (Photo by Gary Hanson) (Pendilton Whaley) The Newton softball team started fast and didn’t slow down during an 11-4 non-conference win over PCM on Monday night. The Cardinals led 3-0 after one inning and 5-1 after three before Mack Sims belted a grand slam to put the game away in the fifth. The victory snapped Newton’s five-game losing streak. “We got a much-needed win,” Newton head softball coach Kory Leiker said. “It was nice to see the team come out hitting the ball and making plays. Overall, it was a good night and we need to carry it into our regional game against Oskaloosa.” Newton sophomore Chloe Swank, right, races the ball to the third-base bag on a throw from PCM senior Riley Johannes during the team's non-conference matchup on Monday. The Cardinals won the game 11-4. (Photo by Gary Hanson) (Pendilton Whaley) Sims, Hailey Sumpter and Peyton Durr each had two hits to lead the Cardinal offense. Sims’ grand slam came in the fifth. She leads the Cardinals with 32 runs and 56 total bases this summer. “It was a pretty tight game until Mack launched a grand slam and from there we closed the door,” Leiker said. Sumpter added one walk and one RBI and she was hit by one pitch and Durr contributed three RBIs and pushed her season total to a team-best 25. Katelyn Lambert collected one hit, three runs and two walks and she was hit by one pitch. Lambert leads Newton (14-17) with a .349 batting average and she’s been hit by a team-most six pitches. Newton out-hit the Mustangs 11-5 and won the game despite committing four errors. PCM had two errors. Chloe Swank, Ava Williams, Morgan Frehse and Paige Benson each had one hit. Newton sophomore Katelyn Lambert catches a fly ball in left field during the Cardinals' 11-4 win over PCM on Monday. (Photo by Gary Hanson) (Pendilton Whaley) Williams doubled and had two RBIs, Benson scored two runs and Swank collected one RBI. Kadance Ahn and Sloan Brodersen each walked once and scored one run, BrookLynn Britton scored two runs and Mackenzie Cupples was plated once. Sumpter (12-12) spun all seven innings and allowed four runs — three earned — on four hits, two walks and two hit batters. She struck out seven. “Hailey threw a nice game tonight and the defense turned a 4-6-3 double play,” Leiker said. “Our bunts were good, too.” Joslin Briles led the Mustangs (16-10) with three hits. She clocked her team-best fourth homer of the season, laced her seventh double and drove in three runs. She moved into a tie for the team lead with 23 RBIs. Lillian Humpal and Paige Steenhoek each had one hit, Addison Steenhoek walked twice and Addi Hudnut and Skylar Burns scored one run each. PCM senior Joslin Briles (20) belted her fourth home run of the season against Newton on Monday. The host Cardinals downed PCM 11-4. (Photo by Gary Hanson) (Pendilton Whaley) Humpal was hit by a pitch and had one RBI, Paige Steenhoek scored one run and Riley Johannes was hit by a pitch. Paige Steenhoek leads the Mustangs with 31 hits and 24 runs this summer. Ella Schendel (0-1) started in the circle and allowed five earned runs on five hits and two walks in three innings. She struck out one. Tori Lindsay surrendered six runs — four earned — on three hits, three walks and one hit batter in 1 1/3 innings. She struck out one. Ila Keuning tossed 1 2/3 innings and allowed no earned runs on one hit and one hit batter. She struck out two. The Cardinals open Class 4A Region 4 play against Oskaloosa at 7 p.m. on Thursday in Newton. The Mustangs begin 3A Region 2 action against West Marshall at 7 p.m. on Thursday in Monroe. Oskaloosa (12-23) won the season series against Newton, 2-1. PCM swept West Marshall (13-15) in their season series. Newton junior Kadance Ahn, center, records an out at second base as PCM freshman Lillian Humpal slides into the base. The Cardinals downed the Mustangs 11-4. (Photo by Gary Hanson) (Pendilton Whaley) Copyright © 2023 Newton Daily News. All rights reserved. Published in Newton, Iowa, USA, by Shaw Media. Copyright © 2023 Newton Daily News. All rights reserved. Published in Newton, Iowa, USA, by Shaw Media.