The Duluth Harbor North Pierhead Light, located at the westernmost tip of Lake Superior, is on the National Register of Historic Places.National Park Service A small Great Lakes lighthouse has been given to a nonprofit that plans to open it up for public tours – although it only “fits about four people,” officials said. The federal government awarded the 43-foot historic Duluth Harbor North Pierhead Light on Lake Superior to Rethos, a historic preservation nonprofit based in St. Paul, Minn., MPR News reports. The lighthouse, built in 1910, is on the National Register of Historic Places. It sits at the end of the Duluth, Minn., shipping canal’s north breakwater. In 2021, the U.S. Coast Guard announced it no longer needed the lighthouse and it was listed by the U.S. General Services Agency for free to governments, nonprofits and educational institutions, MLive previously reported.  RELATED: Historic Lake Superior lighthouse available at no cost to right owner “It seemed kind of crazy to me that we would take over a lighthouse, but it also seemed pretty spectacular to be able to take over a lighthouse, especially one in Duluth on Lake Superior where we could tell that really great story of Duluth,” Rethos executive director Heidi Swank told MPR News. After some work, the organization plans to open the lighthouse for tours next summer, although, “it really will fit like four people,” Swank said. READ MORE: ‘Vibrant’ Hilton hotel opens near Traverse City This Lake Michigan beach town is celebrating its 150th birthday all year long 154-year-old lighthouse with ‘commanding view’ of Mackinac Bridge to be restored 14-mile trail connecting 2 Northern Michigan towns to open new section If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices