Hilary Swank has candidly shared her happiness and excitement to be pregnant with twins in a sweet Christmas post. Swank, 48, is expecting her first children with husband Philip Schneider, with the Oscar-winner first announcing the pregnancy in October. On Instagram on Monday, Swank shared a photo of herself posing in front of a Christmas tree while wearing holiday-themed pyjamas and cradling her pregnant stomach. “We couldn’t wish for a more incredible miracle. So grateful for these two gifts of a lifetime!!” the Fatale star wrote. “Merry Christmas Everyone!! Wishing you all miracles in your own lives in whatever forms they take.” The sentimental post prompted an outpouring of well-wishes from Swank’s followers and peers, with many sharing congratulatory messages. “So happy for you!!! Cutest little elves,” Selma Blair wrote, while Julianne Hough commented: “So happy for you.” Debra Messing also commented on the post, with the fellow actor writing: “Mama!!!” while Lindsay Lohan added: “Merry Christmas!”      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Hilary Swank (@hilaryswank)      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Hilary Swank (@hilaryswank) Swank revealed that she and Schneider were to become first-time parents during an appearance on Good Morning America in October. At the time, Swank said that becoming a mother had been something she wanted for “a long time”. “This is something that I’ve been wanting for a long time and my next thing is I’m gonna be a mom,” she said. “And not just of one, but of two. I can’t believe it.” The actor and Schneider exchanged vows in August 2018 after beginning their relationship in 2016. According to Swank, although she has always wanted to become a mother, she wanted to wait until she was at the “right” place in her career and relationship.      View this post on Instagram       A post shared by Hilary Swank (@hilaryswank) “I was having a career and just not having the right relationship until five years ago now, four years ago now, and just you know all the elements needed to come together and be right,” she told Extra. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. It's officially 'Convictions Week' on the pod as we provide our most definitive takes of draft season. Matt Harmon is joined by Yahoo Fantasy's resident hater Dan Titus to identify potential busts in each round of your draft. While both make it clear they don't think the guys they pick will have awful seasons, they do offer reasons why each of their picks won't meet the expectations of their current ADP. The two also end the show by answering your questions in the fantasy mailbag. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Almost all rates have dropped since the weekend, and rates should keep decreasing. Lock in your rate today. Neris was 14 appearances away from securing $9 million for next season with the Cubs. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Three-time All-Pro Gerald McCoy and two-time Super Bowl champ Kyle Van Noy join forces for the premiere episode of their new podcast — where two legendary defensive players, one still in the game, and one who recently got out of it — chat about the ins and outs of life in the NFL.