NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK: Despite being one of the stars who prefer to keep their personal life private, Emmy Rossum gave fans a glimpse of her newborn baby boy via her Instagram story on Sunday, May 28. It showed Rossum holding her one-month-old son, her second child with husband Sam Esmail, as she fed him a bottle of milk.  The 'Shameless' star was seen makeup-free, using a filter, and showing off natural curls. She also shared a picture of her two-year-old daughter in the next story.  READ MORE 'Go F**k Yourself': Emmy Rossum slams troll who mocked Hilary Swank for being pregnant at 48 'Angelyne' on Peacock: 5 things you didn't know about Emmy Rossum  Rossum, who kept the news of her first and recent pregnancy secret, surprised fans with the sudden announcement of her son's birth. She wrote on April 6, 2023, “On a foggy Wednesday morning, our son was born.” Fans were quick to bombard her comment section. One wrote, "The fact none of us knew she was pregnant again she’s so good at hiding it congratulations Emmy." Another wrote, " Another wrote, "I admire how private you are with everything life must be peaceful for you and your family. Congrats!" One more commented, "The best Wednesday ever."    The rare picture of the newborn comes after the actress shared the difficulty of new motherhood with her 'You’re Not You' co-star Hilary Swank, who welcomed twins in April of this year with husband Philip Schneider. Swank wrote, “Did you know that laughing also helps increase breast milk supply? My 3 A.M. pumping chats with @Emmy taught me that firsthand," reports Hello!   In May 2022, on 'Live With Kelly and Ryan', Rossum spoke about how childbirth was her worst nightmare. "[This is] just about my worst nightmare. I gave birth almost a year ago today in New York and went into labor and took an Uber to the hospital," she said, as per US Weekly. Explaining her thoughts at the time, she continued, "My worst nightmare would be, I had this [mental] picture of my holding on [to the handle above the door] in the car with the baby coming out in the Uber."    She added, "When you’re in labor and they’re driving to the hospital — I ended up getting a lovely and very conscientious Uber driver, which is not what you want when you’re in labor. I want to go. If it’s an orange [light], just take that as a green and go. We were driving and we were a couple of minutes away from the hospital and I was fully in contractions and I didn’t realize I was actually nine centimeters dilated at that point, so real close. I was basically 10 minutes away from having a child.”  She also spoke about being raised by a single mother and how it affected her. “I had a single mom. I have a single mom. This isn’t a secret. Growing up in a school — and a world — filled with mostly two parent units was difficult for me. Father’s Day still is difficult for me. I’m not really sure how to celebrate. In the weeks leading up to it, I sense it coming like a wave approaching. Sometimes I try to ignore it. … Sometimes, I take my mom to brunch and get her a present, to show her how much I value her. She really was both a mother and a father for me. I don’t like her to know that it still causes me pain — 30 years later — lest she feel somehow that she wasn’t enough. She was always enough. She is enough. She wasn’t perfect, no one is, but for me she was the best mom ever.” This article contains remarks made on the Internet by individual people and organizations. MEAWW cannot confirm them independently and does not support claims or opinions being made online.