For premium support please call: For premium support please call: The great streaming purge continues. Hulu is set to remove a half-dozen titles from its service, including recently cancelled ABC freshman dramas Alaska Daily (starring Hilary Swank) and The Company You Keep (starring Milo Ventimiglia) — both of which will vanish on Saturday, July 1. More from TVLine Brec Bassinger Campaigns for Hulu's ACOTAR Series - Who Should She Play? Sterling K. Brown on What to Expect in His Hulu Thriller With This Is Us Creator Dan Fogelman: 'It's Not Randall' Futurama Feels Refreshingly Unchanged in First Trailer for Hulu Revival Per Deadline, additional library titles set for removal include NBC’s Blindspot, TBS’ Angie Tribeca and The Detour, and TNT’s The Last Ship. Moving forward, the streamer is expected to drop series cancelled after one season, as well as any one-off specials — all part of a corporate-wide strategy to cut streaming costs that was first disclosed in May. “As we grow the business in terms of the global footprint, we realized that we made a lot of content that is not necessarily driving sub growth,” Disney CEO Robert Iger said at the time. “We’re getting much more surgical about what it is we make.” What’s New on Streaming   View List   Disney+ and Hulu previously announced the removal of dozens of originals, including Disney+’s Big Shot, The Mighty Ducks: Game Changers and Willow, and Hulu’s Dollface and Y: The Last Man. (For a complete list, click here.) Are you disappointed to see any of the above-mentioned library titles leave Hulu? Sound off in Comments. Best of TVLine 'Missing' Shows, Found! The Latest on Wheel of Time, Hacks, Transplant, Halo, Our Flag Means Death and 30+ Others Summer TV Calendar: Your Guide to 85+ Season and Series Premieres Yellowjackets Mysteries: An Up-to-Date List of the Showtime Series' Biggest Questions (and Answers?) Get more from TVLine.com: Follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Newsletter Click here to read the full article.  Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement