Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter MacLaine is set to receive the James Schamus Ally Award while Lysette will be feted with the Trailblazer Award at NeueHouse Hollywood on Oct. 22.  
							By 

	Chris Gardner
 
Outfest has found the headliners for its upcoming Legacy Awards: Shirley MacLaine and Trace Lysette.  
	The pair will be feted at the organization’s gala fundraiser which will be held at NeueHouse Hollywood on Oct. 22. MacLaine will receive the James Schamus Ally Award while Lysette will take home the Trailblazer Award during the Genesis Motor America-presented event. 

 
	The Schamus trophy was created to recognize “an ally’s efforts to foster LGBTQ+ moving images and to promote the communities’ stories to a broader audience.” Lysette’s honor is given to someone who has contributed to the history of the community, shedding light on the core of the LGBTQ+ identity and experience.

	











	
	
		
					Related Stories		
	












	
	Movies
			



	
		
					Jay Kanter, Agent for Marlon Brando, Grace Kelly and Marilyn Monroe, Dies at 97		
			














	
	TV
			



	
		
					Bill Hayes, Star of 'Days of Our Lives,' Dies at 98		
			






 
	“Shirley’s illustrious career has not only enthralled generations but her unwavering allegiance to the LGBTQ+ community has been a beacon of hope. Trace, with her groundbreaking performances, is courageously highlighting the essence of the trans journey,” said Outfest executive director Damien S. Navarro. “Their contributions are testament to the power of artistry in driving meaningful change.”

 
	Janelle Monáe, Billy Porter, Tom Hanks, Judith Light, Rita Moreno, Lee Daniels, Hillary Swank, Sean Hayes, Laverne Cox, Michaela Jaé Rodriguez, Bruce Cohen and Lisa Cholodenko have received trophies at the Outfest Legacy Awards in years past.  
	During a decades long career, MacLaine has starred in more than 50 feature films. She won an Oscar for 1984’s Terms of Endearment and has received seven Golden Globes including a Cecil B. DeMille honor for lifetime achievement. She most recently starred on the small screen opposite Steve Martin, Martin Short and Selena Gomez on Hulu’s Only Murders in the Building. She’s a longtime advocate for civil rights and liberties, women’s rights and spiritual understanding. 
	As for Lysette, she will receive the prize after garnering critical acclaim for her starring turn opposite Patricia Clarkson in Monica for director Andrea Pallaoro. She plays the title character, a transgender woman who reunites and uneasily reconciles with her estranged family as they care for their ailing mother (Clarkson). Lysette broke out with a part on the award-winning Amazon series Transparent. She has since starred in Hustlers, Pose, Quantum Leap, David Makes Man, Blunt Talk, Drunk History, Law & Order: Special Victims Unit and Venus as a Boy. 

	








 Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter Send us a tip using our anonymous form.