Disclaimer: The opinions expressed by our writers are their own and do not represent the views of U.Today. The financial and market information provided on U.Today is intended for informational purposes only. U.Today is not liable for any financial losses incurred while trading cryptocurrencies. Conduct your own research by contacting financial experts before making any investment decisions. We believe that all content is accurate as of the date of publication, but certain offers mentioned may no longer be available. Shiba Inu (SHIB) has now been added to the list of verifiable assets on Binance. SHIB was added to the Binance proof-of-reserves (PoR) system alongside three other tokens: Polkadot (DOT), Chiliz (CHZ) and Solana (SOL).  This brings the total number of verifiable assets to 13 on Binance. The crypto exchange says it plans to add more tokens to the PoR system in the weeks ahead. Binance ntroduced zk-SNARKs to its Proof of Reserves (PoR) Verification System. Four new tokens have been added to the system: SHIB, DOT, CHZ and SOL, bringing the total number of verifiable assets to 13 popular tokens on Binance. https://t.co/E8IzfdwjuB Simply defined, "proof of reserves (PoR)" refers to the assets Binance holds in custody for users. It is proof that Binance has the funds to cover its users' assets 1:1, as well as some reserves. Aside from the addition of new assets, Binance has also announced an upgrade to its proof-of-reserves (PoR) verification system as it introduces the first version of zk-SNARKs implementation. In November 2022, Binance launched its proof-of-reserves system, which utilizes Merkle tree cryptography to let users verify their holdings. Binance has now upgraded its solution by implementing zk-SNARKs, a type of zero-knowledge proof to provide transparency on user funds. Accordingly, it states that the verification system's code will likewise be published as open source. Users can now verify that the total net balance of each account is nonnegative and that all user assets are included in the total net balance of user assets stated by Binance. Swapzone, a noncustodial crypto exchange aggregator, now supports the Shiba Inu trifecta: Shiba Inu (SHIB), Bone ShibaSwap (BONE), and Doge Killer (LEASH). 
Related



Tue, 11/22/2022 - 11:27

Shiba Inu Trifecta Now Supported by This Noncustodial Wallet: Details
Tomiwabold Olajide


 Huobi, a Seychelles-based exchange, listed BONE on its official cryptocurrency page this week, indicating that it intends to offer the asset. Tomiwabold is a cryptocurrency analyst and an experienced technical analyst. He pays close attention to cryptocurrency research, conducting comprehensive price analysis and exchanging predictions of estimated market trends. Tomiwabold earned his degree at the University of Lagos. Disclaimer: The opinions expressed here are not investment advice; they are provided for informational purposes only. The opinions expressed by our writers are their own and do not represent the views of U.Today. Every investment and all trading involves risk, so you should always perform your own research prior to making decisions. U.Today is not liable for any financial losses incurred while trading cryptocurrencies. We do not recommend investing money you cannot afford to lose.