 We independently evaluate all of our recommendations. If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.
 Alex is a banker-turned-bitcoiner who ditched the bond trading desk for working remotely from all corners of the world, creating engaging and educational content for Bitcoin startups and crypto media publications.  After working as a Corporate Bond Trader at Royal Bank of Scotland and a Fixed Income Salesperson at Australia & New Zealand Bank, Alex has been able to bring his deep knowledge of the capital markets into the brave new world of crypto finance. Erika Rasure is globally-recognized as a leading consumer economics subject matter expert, researcher, and educator. She is a financial therapist and transformational coach, with a special interest in helping women learn how to invest. 
After comprehensively reviewing 28 cryptocurrency exchanges in more than 20 weighted categories, our top picks for the best cryptocurrency exchanges include Kraken, Coinbase, and Crypto.com. To find you the best options, we researched key criteria such as security, offerings, availability, fees, financial options, features, and mobile capabilities.
 
Cryptocurrency exchanges operate similarly to other central exchanges, such as traditional online brokerages. With the price of Bitcoin touching new all-time highs of over $73,000 in March 2024, the best crypto exchanges offer you all the tools needed to research, trade, and invest in Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies such as Shiba Inu or Dogecoin. In addition to providing a platform to securely buy and sell digital currencies and tokens, many crypto exchanges offer additional crypto investment features, such as staking, lending, and digital asset custody.
 Investing in cryptocurrencies, Decentralized Finance (DeFi), and other Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) is highly risky and speculative, and the markets can be extremely volatile. Consult with a qualified professional before making any financial decisions. This article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies nor can the accuracy or timeliness of the information be guaranteed.  Kraken 
Kraken’s professional-grade trading platform, Kraken Pro, is our pick for the best low-fee exchange because it charges some of the lowest fees in the crypto asset exchange landscape. It’s also our top choice for experienced traders, as it offers advanced order types and supports margin and futures trading.
 Large number of supported cryptocurrencies Low fees Highly liquid exchange Not available in all U.S. states Limited account funding options 
Established in 2011 and headquartered in San Francisco, Kraken is one of the most reputable cryptocurrency exchanges in the world. The San Francisco-based exchange enables investors to buy, sell, and store over 200 cryptocurrencies while charging low fees on its professional-grade trading platform, Kraken Pro. 
 
This feature-rich crypto exchange established itself as the go-to platform for professional investors in the early days of the crypto asset market, and it’s maintained its reputation as a reliable and professional trading venue. 
 
Kraken offers two platforms, its main trading platform and its professional platform, Kraken Pro. The exchange’s Pro dashboard provides highly customizable chart analysis tools, detailed insight into the order books, 13 order types, and high-speed execution. In addition to spot trading, Kraken users can also trade cryptocurrency using margin and execute crypto derivatives trading strategies. 
 
Cryptocurrency investors who use the instant buy feature will find a markup for the service. The fee will vary depending on the funding method, market conditions, order size, and asset type. When ready to execute the trade, investors will find the fee included in the pricing.
 
Kraken and Kraken Pro both offer a tiered fee structure that allows high-volume traders to save on trading fees. For traders with 30-day volumes of less than $10,000, Kraken Pro’s maker fees start at 0.25% and taker fees start at 0.40%. However, maker fees can drop as low as 0%, and taker fees can drop as low as 0.10% (for traders with 30-day rolling volumes of over $10 million). Moreover, Kraken has limited funding options, with wire transfers being the primary payment method for Kraken users. ACH transfers are not supported.
 Coinbase 
Coinbase is our pick for best crypto exchange for beginners because it offers a large number of supported cryptocurrencies, strong security, and advanced trading options, all on an easy-to-use platform.
 Large number of cryptocurrencies and trading pairs Offers both beginner-friendly and advanced trading platforms Highly liquid exchange Lack of high-quality customer service Coinbase's default wallet is a custodial account, with no control over your private keys 
Coinbase was founded in 2012 to enable people to buy, sell, and store Bitcoin. Fast-forward to today, Coinbase is a publicly traded cryptocurrency exchange geographically decentralized with no headquarters and available in 100+ countries. It stands out for providing a user-friendly trading experience, robust security, and a range of advanced features for experienced traders.
 
Because of its large number of supported assets (5,500+) and easy-to-use platform, Coinbase has become the go-to exchange for many first-time crypto buyers. The platform has the look and feel of an online banking app, which most people are using already, making the transition to crypto investing simple.
 
Coinbase also insures the digital funds it holds on behalf of users and stores U.S. dollar balances in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)-insured bank accounts to prevent a loss of user funds in the case of a security breach. Trading accounts can be funded with a wide range of payment methods, including wire transfer and ACH transfer.
 
What’s more, Coinbase also offers crypto storage options. The first is a custodial option for new investors: storing your coins on the Coinbase.com exchange. The second is a non-custodial wallet (Coinbase Wallet) for experienced crypto users. When storing your crypto on Coinbase.com, Coinbase holds the private keys and effectively stores funds on behalf of Coinbase.com users. With Coinbase Wallet, the user has complete control over their funds as they hold the wallet’s private keys.
 
While Coinbase is a suitable digital asset exchange for both new and advanced crypto investors, trading fees can be relatively high, ranging from 0% to 0.60%, depending on trade volume. In addition, Coinbase’s user feedback is relatively poor. For instance, several Trustpilot users mention problems with customer support. Additionally, there are numerous stories of unexpected account closures that have tainted the exchange’s image.
 
Moreover, Coinbase has been charged by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for allegedly operating as an unregistered securities exchange. SEC Chair Gary Gensler claims that “Coinbase, despite being subject to the securities laws, commingled and unlawfully offered exchange, broker-dealer, and clearinghouse functions.” 
 
Coinbase has been in communication with the SEC for years in an attempt to ascertain how to comply with regulations to prevent fines. Unfortunately, without success, resulting in the current charges for the U.S.-based company.  
 
Despite the exchange’s drawbacks and the current charges by the SEC, Coinbase is still worth considering due to its ease of use.
  Crypto.com 
We chose Crypto.com as the best mobile crypto exchange app because it provides an extensive digital asset trading and investing ecosystem you can access easily from your smartphone.
 Supports more than 350 cryptocurrencies Provides a range of cryptocurrency products Poor customer support 
After launching in 2016 and being founded in Hong Kong, Crypto.com has established itself as one of the leading global crypto exchanges. It’s now available in 90 countries worldwide, and it supports over 350 cryptocurrencies.
 
In addition to offering a large number of supported assets, Crypto.com provides a vast digital asset ecosystem composed of its own blockchain, Crypto.org Chain; a native token called CRO; a crypto visa card; yield-generating crypto products; and more.
 
What stands out the most, however, is the Crypto.com mobile app. While many crypto exchange mobile apps provide a watered-down version of the exchange’s web-based platform, Crypto.com put a strong focus on building an app that offers a wide range of products and features so users can benefit from this exchange’s ecosystem on the go. Mobile app users can buy, sell, trade, and earn interest on their crypto, as well as pay with crypto.
 
While Crypto.com offers an impressive amount of products and features, customer support is lacking. Additionally, unless you trade at higher volumes, you will end up paying trading fees of up to 0.075%.
 
If you are looking for an excellent mobile crypto trading experience, Crypto.com is arguably the best option thanks to its range of products and features, as well as its large number of supported assets.
 Gemini 
We have picked Gemini as the crypto exchange with the best security because it has robust security protocols, insures user funds, and is SOC 2-certified.
 Available to users in all 50 U.S. states Highly liquid exchange Insures funds held in hot wallet Strong security framework High fees on many trades Supports fewer cryptocurrencies than many competitor exchanges 
Launched in 2014 in New York City by Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, Gemini stands out for putting a strong emphasis on security and compliance. The New York-based exchange has hot wallet insurance to make sure user funds remain safe in the case of a security breach.
 
Gemini also encourages users to utilize two-factor authentication to secure their accounts and provides the option to review and approve devices used to log onto the trading account. Another standout security feature of Gemini is that it is SOC 2-certified, which means that third-party auditors have verified the company’s security and compliance frameworks.
 
Built with advanced traders in mind, Gemini provides a professional-grade trading dashboard and supports over 70 digital currencies and tokens. Gemini also offers a cryptocurrency reward card and allows users to pay for goods and services with crypto.
 
Gemini's main platform and active trader platform use different fee structures. The primary platform charges fixed amounts for smaller trades and a very high 1.49% on trades above $200. The active trader platform charges maker and taker fees up to 0.4%, with reductions as your volume grows. These are also on the high side. However, paying the comparatively high fee may be a small price to pay for Gemini’s highly robust security.
 
Traders and investors who prefer to trade on a highly secure platform will appreciate what Gemini has to offer.
 BitMart 
BitMart is our top pick in the best for altcoins category because it allows users in 180+ countries to buy and sell over 1,500 cryptocurrencies. 
 Supports a very large number of cryptocurrencies Provides crypto earning opportunities Offers a simple buy/sell cryptocurrency feature Experienced a large-scale hack in 2021 Poor feedback from customers 
Founded in 2017, BitMart is a global cryptocurrency exchange that’s available in over 180 countries. It allows users to buy, sell, and store over 1,500 digital currencies and tokens. 
 
Incorporated in the Cayman Islands, BitMart has established itself as a leading trading venue for small and mid-cap cryptocurrencies. BitMart offers more assets and trading pairs than its market-leading peers, so Investors looking to add newly launched or obscure crypto assets to their portfolios will likely find what they are looking for on this exchange. 
 
Additionally, BitMart customers can use the exchange’s Earn feature to receive interest on crypto assets held with the exchange. However, BitMart Savings is not available to investors residing in the United States. Moreover, experienced crypto traders can trade perpetual swaps on over 100 cryptocurrencies on BitMart with up to 100x leverage. Users can also access trading fee discounts when holding the exchange’s native token, BMX.
 
While BitMart has a lot to offer for experienced crypto traders, the exchange has received some poor customer feedback over the years. For instance, several complaints from users reported withdrawal issues, poor customer support, and a lack of transparency. However, there are at least some positive reviews as well.
 
Moreover, BitMart suffered a security breach in December 2021 that resulted in the loss of $196 million in user funds. While BitMart has promised to reimburse users, the hack has made a substantial dent in the exchange’s reputation. 
 
Despite these drawbacks, crypto enthusiasts interested in trading a wide range of lesser-known cryptocurrencies will find what they are looking for on BitMart.
  Square Cash 
We chose Cash App as our top pick among Bitcoin-only exchanges as it allows you to seamlessly and securely buy, sell, and store Bitcoin from your smartphone.
 Easy-to-use interface Withdraw to wallets Supports the Bitcoin Lightning Network Only supports Bitcoin Custodial wallet Various limits on deposits, sales, etc. 
Launched in 2013 by Block, Inc. (formerly Square, Inc.), and headquartered in San Fransico, Cash App allows individuals in the United States and the United Kingdom to send, spend, bank, and invest. It’s essentially a mobile banking app geared towards peer-to-peer payments, but it also has an investment component. Users can invest in stocks, ETFs, and Bitcoin through Cash App. Unlike its peers, such as Robinhood and Venmo, Cash App also lets users withdraw their Bitcoin to third-party wallets, which makes it stand out from its competition.
 
In early 2022, Cash App’s CEO Jack Dorsey announced that the company has started to roll out support for the Bitcoin Lightning Network to enable near-instant Bitcoin transfers at almost no cost. 
 
The main drawback of using Cash App to buy and store Bitcoin is that the in-app wallet is custodial, which means the company holds your virtual currency on your behalf. While custodial wallets can be convenient, they are also regarded as less secure than non-custodial wallets. However, since you can withdraw your Bitcoin from Cash App, you can move your cryptocurrency into a personal wallet to which you hold the private keys.
 
Cash App’s Bitcoin trading fees vary and are only shown when you are asked to confirm your buy or sell crypto transaction. When you trade Bitcoin, Cash App uses the mid-price and adds a spread fee.
  Bisq 
Bisq is our pick for best decentralized exchange because it allows users anywhere in the world to securely and privately buy and sell Bitcoin and a range of other cryptocurrencies.
 Available globally Offers a high degree of privacy, no ID verification required 50+ different payment options Transaction speed can be slow Trading volumes can be low Not designed for active trading 
Launched in 2014 and headquartered in Barcelona, Catalonia. Bisq is an open-source cryptocurrency trading software that enables individuals from across the globe to trade a range of digital currencies and tokens in a peer-to-peer manner. It currently does not disclose how many cryptocurrencies it supports.
 
This decentralized exchange does not require users to complete a Know Your Customer (KYC) identity verification process, nor is the trading software limited to users in specific jurisdictions. On Bisq, users can buy and sell Bitcoin and other types of crypto using various payment methods, including bank wire transfers, ACH transfers, and cash deposits. 
 
While Bisq is popular among early cryptocurrency adopters as it stays true to many of the values that Bitcoin was built on, such as decentralization, privacy, and sovereignty, the exchange is not very beginner-friendly. The escrow mechanism used in the peer-to-peer trading process may be challenging for new users while the comparatively slow trade execution could deter first-time users and active traders. Additionally, the exchange is more targeted at making smaller trades as trading volumes are lower than on centralized global exchanges. 
 
However, for experienced crypto investors who prefer to trade on a decentralized, KYC-free platform, Bisq offers everything you need to buy and sell cryptocurrency.
 Unlike traditional brokerage firms, cryptocurrency exchanges are not members of the Securities Investor Protection Corp. (SIPC). Therefore, unless user terms specify otherwise, investors with cryptocurrency assets commingled on a custodial cryptocurrency exchange could potentially lose their funds as unsecured creditors. 
Choosing the right crypto exchange that meets your needs as an investor is an essential aspect of investing in crypto assets. Whether you require deep liquidity, low trading fees, a high number of tradable assets, or a user-friendly mobile trading experience, the good news is there is an exchange for you that will fit the bill. 
 
If you're looking to trade on a highly secure, regulated crypto exchange that offers a large number of supported cryptocurrencies, Gemini is your go-to choice. If, instead, you're looking to trade a wide range of new and small-cap crypto tokens, BitMart is arguably the best choice. Conversely, if you're only interested in investing in Bitcoin, CashApp is probably the most convenient option. Experienced traders looking to deploy advancing crypto derivatives trading strategies will find a home with Kraken, while privacy-conscious crypto investors will enjoy the added layer of privacy that the decentralized exchange Bisq offers. 
 Investopedia collected vital data points from several cryptocurrency exchanges and apps to identify the most essential factors to crypto investors. We used this data to review each exchange for fees, available cryptocurrencies, and other features to provide an unbiased, comprehensive review to ensure our readers make the right decision on the cryptocurrency exchange of their choice.  
If you are looking to purchase cryptocurrencies, signing up for a crypto exchange can be your best option to get started. 
 
While buying a few hundred dollars worth of Bitcoin from a local Bitcoin ATM may be convenient, it makes more sense to use an exchange if you are looking to invest a larger amount or you’re interested in buying a range of cryptocurrencies.
 
Crypto exchanges are the safest and most legal way to obtain cryptocurrency. But those aren't the only reasons using an exchange is most suitable:
 
When choosing a crypto exchange that meets your needs, there are several factors to consider. The most important things to look at are:
 
Opening an account on a cryptocurrency exchange works similarly to signing up for an online brokerage account. Investors will need to provide personal and financial information to open an account successfully.
 
Below are the general steps that investors can expect to follow:
 
User verification can take anywhere from a few minutes to several days, depending on the exchange and the verification level required. Exchanges often offer tiered verification levels, with lower tiers requiring less information. Lower verification tiers, however, usually come with lower deposit and withdrawal limits. 
 
Investopedia collected and analyzed key data points from several crypto exchanges to identify the most important factors for readers choosing the best crypto exchange company. We used this data to review each company for fees, available cryptocurrency, minimum deposit, and other features to provide an unbiased, comprehensive review to ensure our readers make the right decision for their financial needs. Investopedia launched in 1999 and has been helping readers find the best crypto exchange since 2020.
 A cryptocurrency exchange is an online marketplace where users buy, sell, and trade cryptocurrency. Crypto exchanges work similarly to online brokerages, as users can deposit fiat currency (such as U.S. dollars) and use those funds to purchase cryptocurrency. Users can also trade their cryptocurrency for other cryptocurrencies, and some exchanges allow users to earn interest on assets held within the exchange account. When choosing a cryptocurrency exchange, there are several things to consider, including security, fees, and cryptocurrencies offered. It is also important to understand how your cryptocurrency is stored and whether you can take custody of that cryptocurrency by transferring it to your own digital wallet. Consider whether you prefer a centralized exchange, which will closely align with financial regulations from governmental authorities (such as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission), or a decentralized exchange. Decentralized exchanges are unregulated online exchanges with no centralized governing authority; they offer transparent transactions and fees as well as direct peer-to-peer exchange of cryptocurrency. Most centralized exchanges allow you to deposit funds via your bank account, credit card, or debit card to purchase cryptocurrency. You can then exchange those funds for the cryptocurrency of your choosing. While some offer only simple market orders, other exchanges will allow you to set more advanced order types, including limit and stop orders. Once you purchase crypto through an exchange, the exchange typically holds it in a custodial wallet. Most exchanges store assets in offline “cold storage” for safekeeping. If you want to take custody of the cryptocurrency yourself, most exchanges allow you to transfer it to your “hot” or “cold” wallet, along with the private keys for that cryptocurrency. When buying and selling crypto, standard safety features like two-factor authentication should be the baseline. More robust measures, like identity verification, SOC-2 certification, and user insurance, add further protection against theft and fraud. We like Gemini as an exchange with enhanced safety and security measures. All cryptocurrency exchanges charge some type of transaction fee that investors will need to pay to trade with their exchange. These fees differ depending on many factors, such as the exchange, the cryptocurrency being traded, and the tiered level of the investors themselves.  The most common fees crypto investors should expect are: Investors interested in cryptocurrency, regardless of their experience level, will want an exchange that isn’t overly complicated. With the fall of FTX, the SEC lawsuit against Binance, and other ongoing regulatory issues within the cryptocurrency industry, the last thing investors need is a crypto exchange that is difficult and confusing to operate.  Coinbase is our choice for the best cryptocurrency exchange for beginners. The site offers an appealing user experience and is easy to navigate on the desktop and mobile app, which investors will appreciate. It offers a large number of supported cryptocurrencies, strong security, and advanced trading capabilities, all on an easy-to-use platform. The exchange is also more than adequate for sophisticated investors who require advanced features, such as a robust number of supported crypto assets and the option to utilize a non-custodial wallet. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) oversees and regulates cryptocurrency exchanges. Since the collapse of FTX in 2022, the SEC has taken a hard stance against Cryptocurrency exchanges to prevent fraud and other security violations. Many cryptocurrency exchanges have already faced numerous regulatory issues surrounding the industry. For instance, Binance, one of the largest exchanges in the crypto sector, is actively facing a lawsuit filed by the SEC for violating many security laws within the United States. Regulatory investigations by the SEC can cause many issues for investors with their respective cryptocurrency exchanges, such as account freezes and the inability to trade with the company. It’s important to note that investors should conduct their due diligence in choosing a crypto exchange to ensure they are compliant with government regulations. We researched and reviewed several crypto exchanges to find the best platforms you see listed above. While we write individual reviews for most companies, we do not always write reviews for companies we would not recommend. Below are the companies we researched, along with links to individual company reviews to help you learn more before making a decision: Bitrue, Coinbase, CEX.IO, Bittrex, CoinZoom, Huobi Global, bitFlyer, BitMEX, itBit, Bitfinex, eToro Crypto, Uphold, Deribit, OKX, Bitstamp, KuCoin, Poloniex, Binance, Coinmama 
Our team reviewed 28 cryptocurrency exchanges and collected over 1000 data points before selecting our top choices. The top picks were selected based on more than 20 weighted criteria, including trading fees (weighted 20%), withdrawal fees (15%), and whether an exchange offers cold storage of crypto assets (weighted 10%). For further information about our selection criteria and process, our complete methodology is available.
 
Learn more about crypto exchanges and apps:
 Investopedia / Julie Bang  CoinDesk. "Bitcoin." Coinbase. "About Coinbase." Coinbase. “Supported Networks and Assets.” Coinbase. "How is Coinbase Insured." Coinbase. "Wallet." Coinbase. "Exchange Fees." Trustpilot. "Coinbase Reviews." Bitcoin.com News. "Coinbase and Its Troubling History of Customer Account Closures." SEC.gov "SEC Charges Coinbase for Operating as an Unregistered Securities Exchange, Broker, and Clearing Agency." Crypto.com. "Crypto.com App." Crypto.com. "Crypto.com Exchange Reduces Trading Fees by up to 80%." Gemini. "Digital Assets Insurance." Gemini. "Security." Gemini.com "Exchange." Gemini. "Web Fee Schedule." Gemini. "ActiveTrader Fee Schedule." BitMart, "BitMart Savings." Trustpilot. "BitMart." Coindesk. "BitMart CEO Says Stolen Private Key Behind $196M Hack."  Bitcoin Magazine. "Jack Dorsey’s Cash App Integrates Bitcoin’s Lightning Network." U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. "Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)." Coinbase. "Exchange Fees." Coinbase. "Explore The Cryptoeconomy." Coinbase. "Buy Crypto." Gemini. "Fees." BitMart. "Trading Fees." BitMart. "Simplex Fees & Limits." Cash App. "Bitcoin Pricing." Bisq. "Trading Fees." Bisq. "Account Limits." Investopedia. "The Collapse of FTX: What Went Wrong With the Crypto Exchange." Investopedia. "The SEC Sues Binance and Founder Changpeng Zhao."