WOO is up by 10% in the last 24 hours, the best performer amongst the top 100 cryptocurrencies by market cap so far today. The Woo Network announced that it had burned more than 700 million WOO tokens so far. The total crypto market cap is now close to the $860 billion mark. The Woo Network announced a few hours ago that it had burned 705 million WOO tokens, accounting for over 24% of the total supply. Over the first half of 2023, WOO Network said it would roll out a series of improvements to WOO tokenomics. The first part will focus on addressing existing issues while making the WOO token distribution more transparent. 
 A new era for the $WOO token As a first step in a series of improvements, WOO Network has burned 705M $WOO tokens – over 24% of the total supply.  Here’s a breakdown of how we are propelling $WOO into a position of strength in the market (1/4) 👉https://t.co/TNHJ6fia49 pic.twitter.com/H7CcditgfO — WOO X (@_WOO_X) January 10, 2023  This latest cryptocurrency news has seen WOO rally over the last few hours. WOO is the best-performing cryptocurrency amongst the top 100 coins and tokens by market cap today. At press time, the price of Woo Network stands at $0.1664. The rally comes as the broader continues its positive performance. The total cryptocurrency market cap now stands at $857 billion. The WOO/USDT 4-hour chart is bullish, as WOO has been performing excellently over the last few days. The technical indicators show that WOO is outperforming the broader crypto market. WOO/USDT Chart By TradingView    The MACD line is deep within the positive zone, indicating a strong bullish nature for WOO. The 14-day relative strength index of 64 also shows that WOO could enter the overbought region if the rally continues. If the bullish trend is maintained, WOO could rally past the $0.1788 resistance level before the end of the day. However, it would find it hard to overcome the second major resistance level at $0.1953. The bears might regain control of the market, and this could see WOO trade below the $0.1527 support level in the near term.   
 Paybis is a cryptocurrency exchange platform that allows users to buy major cryptocurrencies using fiat currencies. With a focus on over 40 different fiat currencies, including EUR, USD, CAD, and JPY, users can transact via credit or debit cards, bank transfers, Skrill, or Neteller. While Paybis facilitates fiat-to-crypto transactions, its crypto selection is limited to coins like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Dogecoin, and Binance Coin. Start Your Cryptocurrency Journey Today. Huobi Global has a variety of features that make it an ideal place to buy and sell digital asset. Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Keep updated with our round the clock and in-depth cryptocurrency news Please be aware that some of the links on this site will direct you to the websites of third parties, some of whom are marketing affiliates and/or business partners of this site and/or its owners, operators and affiliates. We may receive financial compensation from these third parties. Notwithstanding any such relationship, no responsibility is accepted for the conduct of any third party nor the content or functionality of their websites or applications. A hyperlink to or positive reference to or review of a broker or exchange should not be understood to be an endorsement of that broker or exchange’s products or services. Risk Warning: Investing in digital currencies, stocks, shares and other securities, commodities, currencies and other derivative investment products (e.g. contracts for difference (“CFDs”) is speculative and carries a high level of risk. Each investment is unique and involves unique risks. CFDs and other derivatives are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. You should consider whether you understand how an investment works and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Cryptocurrencies can fluctuate widely in prices and are, therefore, not appropriate for all investors. Trading cryptocurrencies is not supervised by any EU regulatory framework. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Your capital is at risk. When trading in stocks your capital is at risk. Past performance is not an indication of future results. Trading history presented is less than 5 years old unless otherwise stated and may not suffice as a basis for investment decisions. Prices may go down as well as up, prices can fluctuate widely, you may be exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and you may lose all of or more than the amount you invest. Investing is not suitable for everyone; ensure that you have fully understood the risks and legalities involved. If you are unsure, seek independent financial, legal, tax and/or accounting advice. This website does not provide investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice. Some links are affiliate links. For more information please read our full risk warning and disclaimer.
