In time for Memorial Day weekend, country music sensation Morgan Wallen and Ryl Tea, the functional tea brand offering healthy, ready-to-drink teas, debut a flavor curated by the superstar from East Tennessee: Ryl Sweet Tea. An antioxidant-rich, all-natural, zero sugar and low-calorie refreshment, Ryl Sweet Tea will shake up the summer beverage scene with a healthy alternative to the Southern classic. Featuring a black tea base, this ready-to-drink refreshment is packed with 200mg of tea polyphenols for an antioxidant boost and is sweetened with Monk Fruit, Stevia Leaf Extract and Allulose, ensuring guilt-free pleasure in every sip. The product has been in development for six months, working closely alongside Wallen - an investor and ambassador for the New Jersey based company - to ensure it meets the highest standards of taste, health and authenticity. Since its launch in January 2023, Ryl Tea has focused on delivering functional wellness in tandem with exquisite taste. The brand’s proprietary Ryl Polyphenol Technology ensures every can of Ryl Tea has a consistent 200mg of tea polyphenols in it, optimizing antioxidant delivery to provide consumers with a beverage that is as good for their bodies as it is for their taste buds. Each beverage is encased in 100% recyclable packaging. Wallen’s Ryl Sweet Tea is currently available at www.drinkryl.com. Retail pricing starts at $27.99 per 12-pack. This early access opportunity ensures that everyone can experience the newest and most anticipated drink of the summer. You must have JavaScript enabled to enjoy a limited number of articles over the next 30 days. 
	Sponsored Content is a special paid section where industry companies provide high quality, objective, non-commercial content around topics of interest to the Prepared Foods audience. All Sponsored Content is supplied by the advertising company and any opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily reflect the views of Prepared Foods or its parent company, BNP Media. Interested in participating in our Sponsored Content section? Contact your local rep!
 The Winter Fancy Food Show is where specialty food makers go to exhibit their newest and best products and where buyers go to find their next bestsellers. Get ready to be a part of something bigger and experience the breakthroughs that are shaping the future. The chase ends at Expo West, and we can't wait to see you there, empowering your future in the world of natural and organic products. CHECK OUT OUR NEW POWER TRENDS Copyright ©2024. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing