Biodiversity Education Advocacy topics What are you looking for? 

										22 May 2023 | English									 Press release – May 22nd, 2023   Our network of Earth Markets continues to expand, now numbering 90 worldwide — and the latest farmers’ market which follows Slow Food principles will be inaugurated in Negros Island, the Philippines, on May 27th. The Earth Markets project aims to give people access to short supply chain products which are local, seasonal and made with respect for the environment and workers’ rights. The Negros Island Slow Food Earth Market is situated along the Highway in Silay City, Negros Occidental (Casa A. Gamboa, 5 Rizal St., Brgy. 5),  just across from the city’s Shell Gas Station. The idea to create an Earth Market in Negros Island surfaced in March 2021, when a pop-up Earth Market was held at Casa A. Gamboa, and the Negros Island Earth Market was the initiative of the Slow Food Community Promoting and Preserving Traditional Food of Negros Island. Congressman Francisco Benitez of the third district of Negros Occidental and the local office of the Department of Agriculture visited the market and was impressed by his findings. Many farmers were delighted at being able to access the market and find new customers for their products, and so the idea was to make this initiative stable and regular. Since its inception, the development process has been coordinated in collaboration with Silay City, the office of the Provincial Governor and the Provincial Tourism office the Negros Department of Agriculture and the Department of Tourism Region 6. “Promoting and preserving our traditional food is of the utmost importance if we are to cultivate and continue Filipino culture to our future generations. We believe that the best way to do this is to talk to our main protagonists – the small farmers,” says Reena Gamboa, a spokesperson for the Slow Food Community of Negros. “It’s through them that we can all learn what is endemic to our community, and the Earth Market will allow the community to deal straight with the farmers and to pay them the fair price they’re due.  By doing so, we valorize our local food sources and appreciate its importance – not only for our physical health but also for our Filipino soul.” The Slow Food Community has been active in mapping food sources/ingredients and dishes in District 3 (of Negros Occidental province) of which Silay is a part. It will continue its advocacy work to raise awareness about the fragile gastronomic heritage of the island to protect and sustain it, and it will offer farmers a platform to explain how they grow and prepare their products (many of which from the local Ark of Taste). Other activities, such as taste workshops, will attract people to taste the local cuisine. Expected clients are housewives, government officials, restaurant owners, chefs and supporters, most of whom come from the neighboring towns of Bago, Bacolod, Talisay, Silay, Eb. Magalona and Victorias. The market will feature 28 producers to begin with, who will be selling their locally produced, traditional products — including fruits and vegetables, mushrooms, eggs, dairy, honey, rice, coconut oil, vinegar and coffee — directly to consumers. Plastics will not be allowed as packaging for vegetables and other food items. The full list of producers will be promoted on the Slow Food Negros Facebook and Instagram channels. Silay City is located in Negros Occidental and is known for its well-preserved old houses and wide variety of native delicacies. It was one of the first towns founded in Negros Occidental, dating from 1760, during Spanish colonization. At the time it was recognized as one of the major cities in the North, and many people from the neighboring province of Iloilo came to settle here in the 1800s, transforming the town into a vibrant and progressive city. The area’s active artistic community and myriad touristic offerings have earned Silay City the nickname the “Paris of Negros”. Silay City’s gastronomic delicacies are still homemade by families who continue to use recipes handed down from generation to generation.  The most iconic dishes are lumpia, empanada, panara, pionono, piaya, lubid lubid, and butongbutong, and fresh seafood and vegetables are served in coastal restaurants. Silay covers an extensive and diverse territory, from the sea with its rich biodiversity to the mountainous area of the North Negros Natural Park. The latter is a protected area encompassing centuries-old forests, rich in flora and fauna.   The Negros Island Slow Food Earth Market is financed by Congressman Franciso Benitez of the 3rd district of Negros Occidental.   Inauguration Program of Events   9:30 am  – What is the Ark of Taste? Learn about this online catalogue, managed by Slow Food International, which documents all the food sources and dishes in danger of disappearing. One of them is the Bago River Eel or Alimusan. Learn how it is cooked and taste it for yourself at their stall on May 27, 2023.   10:30 am – Foraging 101 Do you know how many nutritious greens grow wild on our island? Don’t take those “weeds” for granted! Learn how to turn these into recipes at home.   2:30 pm – Don’t forget our culinary heritage! Listen to a talk on Food Heritage and Biodiversity by John Sherwin Felix of LOKALPEDIA.   4:00 pm – Talk on Food Authenticity and Traceability: A Scientific Approach. By Dr. Mel Garcia of La Salle Food and Water Institute. Learn about the traceability system being devised to protect consumers from fraud and mislabeled, adulterated and substandard products.   For more information, contact  Reena Gamboa, Earth Market Coordinator [email protected] +63 9399106377   Slow Food International Press Office Paola Nano – [email protected] (+39) 329 8321285 Alessia Pautasso – [email protected] (+39) 342 8641029   Slow Food is a worldwide network of local communities founded in 1989 in order to counteract the disappearance of local food traditions and the spread of fast food culture. Since then, Slow Food has grown to become a global movement that involves millions of people in more than 160 countries and works so that we can all have access to good, clean and fair food.   Justice Is the Foundation of Food Sovereignty Relais & Châteaux chefs join forces with Slow Food to ‘Plant the Future’ Food is the link between nature and culture. Hence food biodiversity and cultural DIVERSITY matter Ursula von der Leyen: Slow Food Calls for her Immediate Recommitment to Sustainable Food and Farming Ursula von der Leyen: Slow Food Calls for her Immediate Recommitment to Sustainable Food and Farming Terra Madre Salone del Gusto 2024, Slow Food’s flagship event, mobilizes communities worldwide around agroecology Slow Food Calls on Newly Elected MEPs for Bold Food System Change Learn how you can restore ecosystems, communities and your own health with our RegenerAction Toolkit. For more information and to share your ideas [email protected] Piazza XX Settembre 12042 Bra (Cn), Italy Find where we are © Slow Food Foundation  |  C.F. 91019770048  |  Privacy Policy  |   Cookie Policy Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of Slow Food only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or CINEA. Neither the European Union nor CINEA can be held responsible for them. Stai utilizzando un browser obsoleto. Il seguente sito NON è ottimizzato per Internet Explorer. A fatal exception IE has occurred at C0DE:L05TUD10 in 0xC0DEBA5E. oppure clicca il pulsante qui sotto: