The NETFILE and ReFILE services are open for electronic filing from February 19, 2024 at 6:00 a.m. (Eastern time), until January 24, 2025. You can electronically file your 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023 initial T1 personal income tax and benefit return using NETFILE and you can file your amended T1 return for 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 using ReFILE. For the 2023 tax year, prior to filing your tax return electronically with NETFILE, you will be asked to enter an Access code after your name, date of birth, and social insurance number. Your eight-character Access code is made up of numbers and letters and is located on the right side of your Notice of Assessment for the previous tax year. While this Access code is not mandatory, if you do not enter your Access code, you will not be able to use any information from your 2023 tax return when confirming your identity with the Canada Revenue Agency. You will have to rely on other information for authentication purposes. This code does not apply to you if you are filing your tax return for the first time. Select the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) certified tax software from the lists below. You will be re-directed to the software developer's web page, where you can access software products that use the CRA's NETFILE web service. All certified tax software are approved for the year(s) indicated in the table, and include the ReFILE, Auto-fill my return, and Express NOA services. Several include the T1135 service. Some free tax software offer a pay-what-you-want model. Select the link below to view a list of available software. Some paid tax software provide free offerings. Free offerings are based on individual tax situations or income levels. Find out from the software developer what free offerings are available for their product. Tax software must be certified by NETFILE every year. Check the software list above to confirm that your software is certified for the year you need. If you are using uncertified software or an older version of the software, you may need to update or download a certified version from the developer. Information on how to update your software is available on the developer's website or from within the software itself. You may file up to 20 returns per computer or online account using NETFILE-certified tax software in Canada for each tax year. Tax software companies must respect this limit to be certified for NETFILE. The Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) does not look at the privacy policies of software developers. It is your responsibility to research these policies before buying or using a software product or web application.  Use of the software, and any omission or error in the information provided, is the responsibility of the user and the software developer. The CRA cannot be held responsible if programming errors affect the calculation of income tax and benefits payable. The CRA respects the Official Languages Act and the relevant Treasury Board policies, and it is committed to making sure all information and services on this site are available in English and French. However, users should be aware that some information from external sources that do not have to follow the Official Languages Act is offered only as a convenience and is available only in the language in which it was provided to the CRA.