A man thought he could get himself a free meal in Cobb County, but he was charged with murder instead. Police say Brian Garfield Fort and some friends ran up a $100 tab at The Juicy Crab along the East-West Connector and walked out without paying. Channel 2 Cobb County Bureau Chief Michele Newell got exclusive body camera video of the moments an officer responded to the dine and dash call. The officer found Fort’s cell phone left in one of the restaurant’s booths. They didn’t need to get into the phone to figure out who it belonged to because the photo on his lock screen was a selfie. Investigators later learned that Fort was wanted on a murder charge. [DOWNLOAD: Free WSB-TV News app for alerts as news breaks “Great job by this Cobb County police officer, and we couldn’t be more proud of the work they did to capture this dangerous suspect,” officer Aaron Wilson said. “All he had to do was come here, file a report and go to the next call; this case would’ve been sent to an investigative detective.” An employee at The Juicy Crab got a picture of Fort’s license plate and shared it with police. “They find several names that are associated with this vehicle, run those names through GCIC, they get the picture from the driver’s license, they match the picture to the guy’s phone, here’s the guy,” Wilson explained. “They run that name through, and what happens? They get a GCIC hit for a murder warrant outside of DeKalb County. Within hours, a license plate reader got a hit on Fort’s car in Brookhaven and he was taken into custody. “Several officers [go from] call to call to call where they are backed up with reports, so what this officer did was above and beyond what a normal officer would likely have done,” Wilson said. TRENDING STORIES: His friends said this metro Atlanta man killed himself. Then, they all touched the gun Atlanta songwriter, music industry entrepreneur sentenced to life in prison in girlfriend’s death 19-year-old man found guilty on six counts of child sex crimes Police told Newell that Fort and killed a man in Decatur earlier this year. He was also arrested in Gwinnett County last year for walking around the outside of a high school with a shotgun during a football game. Fort is currently being held in the DeKalb County Jail on charges of murder, theft by receiving stolen property and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon. [SIGN UP: WSB-TV Daily Headlines Newsletter] IN OTHER NEWS: New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While blue moons might not be as rare as their name implies, the next super blue moon won’t be seen until 2037. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public.