Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Baltimore Sun eNewspaper 
			Trending:		 Maryland Zoo Mike Cranfield was the Maryland Zoo's director of animal health who became head of The Gorilla Doctors. GARO LACHINIAN Wilbur E. 'Bill' Cunningham was a Baltimore City Council member during Burns and Schmoke administrations. Jerry Jackson / Baltimore Sun Jacqueline "Jackie" Copeland was the former executive director of the Reginald F. Lewis Museum and a longtime, passionate advocate for the arts. Karl Merton Ferron/The Baltimore Sun Brooks Robinson was the legendary Hall of Fame third baseman for the Baltimore Orioles. Check with Baltimore Sun Photo Francis Paul "Frank" Bramble Sr. headed two of Maryland's largest banks. ROBINSON/Check with Baltimore Sun Photo Dr. Donlin Martin "Don" Long was the first head of Johns Hopkins Medicine's neurosurgery department and was a pioneer in pain management. Kathy Willens/AP Howard Safir was a former New York City police commissioner who advised Baltimore and Annapolis mayors on crime-fighting issues (AP Photo/Kathy Willens, File) Algerina Perna David P. Miller II was the first head of the Maryland Environmental Trust and was a founder of the Harford Land Trust. MONICA LOPOSSAY/Baltimore Sun Ken Jackson was the baritone voice on Baltimore radio stations for nearly 60 years. Staff photo by Brian Krista, Baltimore Sun Media Group Sherman Howell was a longtime civil rights activist who championed causes in a budding Columbia.  Delmar A. Stewart was a longtime Baltimore Symphony Orchestra violist and luthier. Barbara Haddock Taylor/Baltimore Sun Lawrence Lacks Sr. was the longest living son of Henrietta Lacks and a locomotive engineer. Amy Davis/Baltimore Sun Maxie Baughan was a 9-time Pro Bowl linebacker, Colts defensive coordinator and Ravens assistant coach. /HANDOUT William A. Dorsey was the first African American administrative clerk of the Baltimore District Court. Layne Murdoch/WireImage for Warner Home Video Baltimore native and MICA grad David Jacobs turned soap operas into prime-time gold by creating 'Dallas' and 'Knots Landing.' (Photo by Layne Murdoch/WireImage for Warner Home Video) Kim Hairston/Baltimore Sun Willie Chambers was one of Baltimore's longest-serving pastors. Baltimore Sun Harvey M. 'Bud' Meyerhoff was the chair of the Holocaust Memorial Council and a philanthropist. Gene Sweeney Jr. Tom Albright was the first athletic director at Southern High as well as the Southern High boys basketball coach for 39 years. handout Dr. Jack McKay Zimmerman was the chief of surgery at Church and Home Hospital who brought hospice care to Baltimore.  Dr. Yener S. Erozan was a longtime Johns Hopkins professor who specialized in study of diseases at cell level. LLOYD FOX Robert J. Nowlin Sr. was a blind Pen Lucy activist who refused to be intimidated by drug dealers even after his home and his wife's car were shot up.  Norman Elwood Johnson Jr. was a retired Baltimore District Court judge known for his courtroom patience.  Dr. Brian D. Briscoe was a pioneering Baltimore Veterans Administration Medical Center radiologist. BALTIMORE SUN Tara Heiss was the lightning-quick point guard and Women's Basketball Hall of Famer who in 1978 led Maryland to within a win of a national title.  Felicia Camille Hill-Briggs was a medical scientist who was an expert in diabetic health. Lloyd Fox / Baltimore Sun Charles Eliot "Chick" Silberstein was an orthopedic surgeon who had been the Baltimore Orioles team physician.  Leroy L. "Larkin" Niemyer Jr. was a Westinghouse Electric Corp. engineer who helped direct the building of the lunar camera that Apollo 11 astronauts took to the moon in 1969. handout Curtis L. "Curt" Meinert was the founding director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Clinical Trials. Baltimore Sun staff/Baltimore Sun Dick Hall was an Orioles Hall of Fame reliever with impeccable control who helped Baltimore win two World Series. Kenneth K. Lam/Baltimore Sun Norman R. Stone Jr., was an Eastern Baltimore County Democrat who established a longevity record in the Maryland General Assembly. Sun photo by John Makely Jay L. Baker was a City Hall photographer who became the first African American official state photographer. Ann Wearmouth Beth Lynn McGee was the director of science and agricultural policy for the Chesapeake Bay Foundation and a longtime scientist. Photo Courtesy of Alexandra Velleggia McCabe Nazzareno 'Naz' Frank Velleggia was a co-owner of one of the oldest restaurants in Baltimore's Little Italy.  William G. "Hotzie" Hotz Sr. was a Baltimore Sun photographer and Navy veteran.  Bishop Leroy H. Cannady Sr. was the founder of the Refuge Way of the Cross Church of Christ in Baltimore. Handout James J. 'Jim' Hennessey was a prolific Baltimore artist and longtime MICA faculty member. handout James M. Griffin was the president of Baltimore chapter of CORE, entrepreneur and school board member.  Dr. Robert Irving Levy was a pioneering nephrologist, World War II Navy veteran and classical pianist. CHILDRESS/Check with Baltimore Sun Photo James G. 'Jim' Busick Jr. was a longtime Gilman School tennis coach whose players won 10 championships. Handout/HANDOUT Dr. Donald L. Price was a Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine professor and Alzheimer's researcher. Handout / HANDOUT Dr. Darryl Carter was a retired surgical pathologist who had been on the faculty of the Yale University School of Medicine and was an adjunct professor at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.  Omari Todd was a Teach for America Baltimore executive who recruited educators for area schools. Handout / HANDOUT Dr. Darryl Carter was a retired surgical pathologist at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Dan Rodricks Avery Aisenstark was the former director of Baltimore City's Department of Legislative Reference. Anthony Ryan Makai Sean Cummings was a former Baltimore City College lacrosse player who went on to serve in the U.S. Air Force after graduation. Algerina Perna / XX William S. "Ratch" Ratchford II was a former longtime director of the General Assembly's Department of Fiscal Services with a well-earned reputation for keeping governors and their budget directors honest. Posted by hjones49, Community Contributor Dr. Guy McKhann was a retired Johns Hopkins brain scientist who created criteria for diagnosing Alzheimer's disease. CARLOS OSORIO / Associated Press George R. 'Bob' Ruhl III was the former president of George R. Ruhl & Son Inc., a baking supply business established in 1789 that is one of the oldest family-owned businesses in Greater Baltimore. Amy Davis/Baltimore Sun Casper R. Taylor, Jr. was a former Speaker of the House who presided over nine General Assembly sessions.  Dr. Alan W. Partin was a prostate surgeon who had been director of The Brady Urological Institute, urologist-in-chief at Johns Hopkins Medicine and who had developed the Partin Tables that predicted the prognosis of prostate cancer.  Charles E. "Ted" Herget Jr.was a board chair of Stevenson University and insurance executive. Christopher B. Corder Ron Evans was an Old Mill track and field coach who won 20 state championships. Baltimore Sun photo by Jed Kirschbaum Charles Grayson Gilbert was 5 years old when he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and became a miracle survivor and the subject of an acclaimed Baltimore Sun photograph. Handout / HANDOUT Alison J. Dray-Novey was a Notre Dame University of Maryland history professor and author. CHUCK LIDDY / Associated Press Billy Hahn was a former Maryland men's basketball point guard and longtime assistant coach. (AP PHOTO/ Chuck Liddy) Pamela Wood Roy McGrath was a Governor Hogan aide who evaded trial last month and died after being found by authorities. Karl Merton Ferron / Baltimore Sun The Rev. Dr. Alfred C.D. Vaughn was an influential figure in both the religious and civic life of Baltimore and he was the longtime pastor of Sharon Baptist Church in Baltimore. Rich Polk/Getty Images North America/TNS Lance Reddick was a Baltimore native and character actor who specialized in intense, icy and possibly sinister authority figures on TV and film, including "The Wire," "Fringe" and the "John Wick" franchise.  Dr. Robert K. Brooner was an internationally recognized expert in addiction treatment and research.  Diane Johnson was the former chief nursing officer of Sinai Hospital. Baltimore Sun Fred D. Miller was a former Baltimore Colts tackle who was part of formidable defensive line in 2 Super Bowls. Chuck Burton/AP Jerry Richardson was a former Baltimore Colts wide receiver who founded and owned Carolina Panthers. (AP Photo/Chuck Burton, File) AP Photo/Jason Hirschfeld / AP Photo/Jason Hirschfeld Elizabeth C. "Betty" Wells was an Emmy Award-winning courtroom artist whose work was published in The Sun. ANDR F. CHUNG / STAFF Carolyn E. Fugett, whose belief in education, hard work and religion exerted a powerful influence over her six children, including a son, Reginald F. Lewis, an entrepreneur and notable Wall Street figure whose foundation endowed the $34 million Baltimore museum devoted to African American history and culture that bears his name. Karl Merton Ferron / XX/Baltimore Sun Woodrow "Woody" Anderson Williams Jr. coached the powerhouse Lake Clifton boys basketball teams in the 1970s and 1980s. Kim Hairston / XX Freddie Lee Hendricks was a legendary Baltimore track coach who led the Mergenthaler Vocational Technical High School team to nearly 20 state, city and regional championships.  Michael J. Kelly was a former dean of the University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law.  Dr. Louis E. Grenzer Sr. was a retired Baltimore cardiologist who wrote a study guide for the cardiology board exam. Michael Ciesielski, Johns Hopkins Medicine Dr. Barbara Migeon was a pioneer in genetic science, a longtime professor at Johns Hopkins University and an advocate for women in science. Baltimore Sun Fannie Gaston-Johansson was a nursing trailblazer and the first Black woman to become a tenured Hopkins professor. MARK BUGNASKI / XX Otis Warren Jr. was the first Black person to construct an office building in downtown Baltimore. Handout Dr. Ross Carl Sugar once walked from New York City to Toronto to raise money for charity. Handout Dr. Ross Carl Sugar once walked from New York City to Toronto to raise money for charity. Mike Cranfield was the Maryland Zoo's director of animal health who became head of The Gorilla Doctors. Dr. Ross Carl Sugar, a pain management physician, died of Parkinson’s disease complications Sept. 18 at his Stevenson home. He was 63.Born in Baltimore, he was the son of Jack Sugar, a physicist, and Judy Blumberg, an editor for a union newsletter.He grew up in Garrett Park in Montgomery County and was a graduate of the old Charles W. Woodward High School in Rockville, where he played tennis and was a doubles champion. He earned a bachelor’s degree in mathematics at Duke University.He met his future wife, Julie Rappold, at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, where they were software engineers. They married in 1990 at the Engineering Society of Baltimore on West Mount Vernon Place.When he was 34, he made a career change and earned a degree at the Medical College of Virginia, now Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine.“Ross was my best friend in medical school and was a natural teacher,” Dr. Neal Carl, a family physician in Richmond, Virginia, said. “While we were students in medical school, he was considered one of the bright students in our class. He was a leader and while competitive, his unique personality allowed him to share his knowledge with others. We all appreciated it.”He did a residency in physical medicine and rehabilitation at Johns Hopkins and Sinai hospitals before completing a fellowship in pain management with Georgia Pain Physicians in Atlanta.He was the 2002 winner of the Earl C. Elkins Award given by the American Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.

He practiced at Sinai Hospital and later joined Baltimore Neurosurgery and Spine Center. He later was on staff at Northwest Hospital Center in Randallstown.“Ross came into medicine after another career and brought an enviable passion for medicine,” Dr. Scott E. Brown, medical director of the Sinai Rehabilitation Center, said. “He was brilliant, creative and compassionate. He was always striving to do the best for his patients. He named our program for pain management: Function Plus.”He was the co-author of a reference book, “Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Pocketpedia.”“His patients admired and adored him and recognized his caring and compassionate nature,” his daughter, Kirsten Sugar, said. “He had a no shortcuts approach to patient care and pain management.”His wife Julie said, “He often said, ‘Pain patients had a story to tell.’ He wanted to hear that story and he spent a lot of time listening.”Dr. Sugar played the guitar and violin, enjoyed golfing, tennis, running, skiing, and hiking. He and his wife traveled the world and restored old houses in Federal Hill, Oliver Beach and Towson, among other places.In retirement, Dr. Sugar took up drumming, drawing and songwriting. He boxed with his sister and edited scientific papers. He also wrote a horror screenplay.He was an outdoor enthusiast who cycled and climbed mountains. He once walked from New York City to Toronto to raise money for Parkinson’s research.“He was a true aficionado of classic rock and classical music,” his son, Nevin Sugar, said. “He had an ability to identify songs and artists. He was not afraid to shed a tear over a powerful chord or a moving lyric.”“He also had a knack for explaining complex things in understandable terms,” Doug Burdin, a friend, said. “He was a charming and gentle soul, who had a talent for making others feel like they were the most interesting person in the room. He was open-minded and had an insatiable curiosity.”Survivors include his wife of 33 years, Julie Rappold Sugar, a systems engineer; a daughter, Kirsten Sugar of New York City; a son, Nevin Sugar of Turkey; and two sisters, Eve Clancy of Gaithersburg and Erica Sugar of Annapolis.Services are private. Born in Baltimore, he was the son of Jack Sugar, a physicist, and Judy Blumberg, an editor for a union newsletter. He grew up in Garrett Park in Montgomery County and was a graduate of the old Charles W. Woodward High School in Rockville, where he played tennis and was a doubles champion. He earned a bachelor’s degree in mathematics at Duke University. He met his future wife, Julie Rappold, at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, where they were software engineers. They married in 1990 at the Engineering Society of Baltimore on West Mount Vernon Place. When he was 34, he made a career change and earned a degree at the Medical College of Virginia, now Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine. “Ross was my best friend in medical school and was a natural teacher,” Dr. Neal Carl, a family physician in Richmond, Virginia, said. “While we were students in medical school, he was considered one of the bright students in our class. He was a leader and while competitive, his unique personality allowed him to share his knowledge with others. We all appreciated it.” He did a residency in physical medicine and rehabilitation at Johns Hopkins and Sinai hospitals before completing a fellowship in pain management with Georgia Pain Physicians in Atlanta. He was the 2002 winner of the Earl C. Elkins Award given by the American Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. He practiced at Sinai Hospital and later joined Baltimore Neurosurgery and Spine Center. He later was on staff at Northwest Hospital Center in Randallstown. “Ross came into medicine after another career and brought an enviable passion for medicine,” Dr. Scott E. Brown, medical director of the Sinai Rehabilitation Center, said. “He was brilliant, creative and compassionate. He was always striving to do the best for his patients. He named our program for pain management: Function Plus.” He was the co-author of a reference book, “Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Pocketpedia.” “His patients admired and adored him and recognized his caring and compassionate nature,” his daughter, Kirsten Sugar, said. “He had a no shortcuts approach to patient care and pain management.” His wife Julie said, “He often said, ‘Pain patients had a story to tell.’ He wanted to hear that story and he spent a lot of time listening.” Dr. Sugar played the guitar and violin, enjoyed golfing, tennis, running, skiing, and hiking. He and his wife traveled the world and restored old houses in Federal Hill, Oliver Beach and Towson, among other places. In retirement, Dr. Sugar took up drumming, drawing and songwriting. He boxed with his sister and edited scientific papers. He also wrote a horror screenplay. He was an outdoor enthusiast who cycled and climbed mountains. He once walked from New York City to Toronto to raise money for Parkinson’s research. “He was a true aficionado of classic rock and classical music,” his son, Nevin Sugar, said. “He had an ability to identify songs and artists. He was not afraid to shed a tear over a powerful chord or a moving lyric.” “He also had a knack for explaining complex things in understandable terms,” Doug Burdin, a friend, said. “He was a charming and gentle soul, who had a talent for making others feel like they were the most interesting person in the room. He was open-minded and had an insatiable curiosity.” Survivors include his wife of 33 years, Julie Rappold Sugar, a systems engineer; a daughter, Kirsten Sugar of New York City; a son, Nevin Sugar of Turkey; and two sisters, Eve Clancy of Gaithersburg and Erica Sugar of Annapolis. Services are private. Copyright © 2024 Baltimore Sun