



Sign in or Subscribe 
See Offers



  Account Subscription: ACTIVE Questions about your account? Our customer service team can be reached at circulation@metln.org during business hours at (207) 791-6000. You are able to gift 5 more articles this month. Anyone can access the link you share with no account required.  Learn more. With a Press Herald subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. It looks like you do not have any active subscriptions. To get one, go to the subscriptions page. With a Press Herald subscription, you can gift 5 articles each month. Allan Armstrong Swenson, 89 years, a longtime resident of Kennebunk, peacefully passed away on Friday April 14, 2023, at his home. Allan was born in Passaic, New Jersey, on Dec. 26, 1933, the son of Harold Swenson and his wife, Amy (Dugdale) Swenson. He graduated with honors from Clifton High School in Clifton, New Jersey, in 1951 where he served as editor of the school newspaper and yearbook. He received his bachelor of arts degree Phi Beta Kappa in journalism from Rutgers University in 1955. On Dec. 23, 1955, he married Sheila Jane Kerr Haglund who accompanied him on his assignment as an Army Intelligence Officer with the 525 Military Intelligence Group and XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Swenson spent most of his life as a multimedia writer that included more than 25 years as a nationally-syndicated newspaper columnist, author of 58-plus books for national publishers and a radio-TV personality. He was a veteran member of the Overseas Press Club, affiliated with the National Press. Swenson was recruited into Army Intelligence while Cadet Colonel of the Army ROTC at Rutgers University. He also was involved in other intelligence activities for the government as an Army Reserve Officer, and became a life member of the Association for Intelligence Officers. From this background, Swenson wrote his “Guide to the CIA” and “Guide to National Security.” As a captain in Army Intelligence and Security, he helped found both the New England and Maine Chapters of the Association for Intelligence Officers. Following active Army duty from, Swenson became a multimedia writer in New York City, initially working for the Phil Alampi shows. He was both a copywriter and an account executive for the Albert Sidney Noble ad agency and Dancer-Fitzgerald-Sample, a leading national advertising agency. Concurrently, Swenson became a nationally-syndicated newspaper columnist for 25-plus years and was the NEA-United Media garden authority columnist, appearing in more than 200 papers nationwide. He also was a longtime member of the Garden Writers Association. Swenson formed his own Public Relations Agency in NYC in the 1960s, Armstrong Associates, Inc., serving American Cyanamid, Topper Toys, Eastern Airlines, Shell Chemical and other major firms, while continuing as a nationally-syndicated columnist and radio/TV personality. He wrote farm and garden news for WCBS Radio for nine years, and briefly had his own program on the Mutual Radio Network, appearing on more than 400 stations.Advertisement An avid outdoorsman, Swenson founded Camp America and created its innovative, nationwide Fly In-Camp Out program. With key outfitters in major cities, his organization enabled families to fly from their home areas, rent van campers to full-size motor homes and explore outdoor America coast to coast. He sold the organization to Winnebago Industries, the manufacturer of the motor homes featured by Camp America. Based on his ongoing, popular gardening columns, Swenson became an author and wrote more than 50 books published by Ballentine, Doubleday, Random House, McMillan, McKay, Penguin and other national publishers. His series of Plants of the Bible, Flowers of the Bible, Herbs of the Bible and Foods Jesus Ate led to his periodic appearance on network TV programs including the Today Show and the 700 Club. He also wrote the Inflation Fighter’s Victory Garden, Inflation Fighters Preserving Guide, Plan Your Own Landscape, Landscape You Can Eat, and dozens of specialty garden books, plus the L.L. Bean Canoeing Handbook. For young readers, Swenson wrote a book series under his pen name for children’s books, Virginia Langley. After moving to Maine in 1974, Swenson was asked to create and build a Book Division for the Guy Gannett Publishing Company, publishers of the Press Herald and Sunday Telegram. As editor-in-chief, he recruited dozens of authors including Bill Caldwell, Marjorie Standish and many others. During a 10-year period, Swenson published more than 80 Maine topic books by Maine authors. Over the years, Swenson appeared on various network TV shows about his books, including the syndicated Good Day Show, originating in Boston where he became known as TV’s “Doctor Plant.” He then created his own Gardener’s Notebook TV series for syndication. Rather than retire when he reached 70 years old, Swenson began a new career becoming a popular speaker on cruise ships of Royal Caribbean, Celebrity, Norwegian, Azamara and Princess Cruise Lines around the world. With his wife Sheila, they gave their colorful programs on cruise ships and also popular slide shows and programs about their travels to residents at senior centers and retirement facilities in southern Maine and New Hampshire.Advertisement Swenson was invited by Her Majesty Queen Margrethe II of Denmark to the Leif Ericson Millennium in 2000 in Greenland. He focused on a new hobby of Viking history and wrote hundreds of articles about Norse history for a wide range of Scandinavian-America publications. For his writings about Nordic heritage, the Queen awarded him the prestigious Leif Ericson Medal Swenson was predeceased by his wife of 63 years, Sheila Jane Kerr Haglund Swenson, and his son, Boyd Allan Swenson. He is survived by sons, Peter, Drew and his partner Martha; Meade and his wife Ann Marie, his daughter-in-law-Lori Swenson and by his grandchildren, Alyssa, Casen, Erik, Katie, Parker and Trevor. The family wishes to thank the wonderful caregivers at Cape Memory Care and Beacon Hospice. Visiting hours will be held from 4-6 p.m., Friday, June 2, at Bibber Memorial Chapel 67 Summer St., Kennebunk. A memorial service will be held at 11 a.m., Saturday, June 3, at the Church on the Cape, 3 Langsford Road, Kennebunkport, followed by urn interment at Hope Cemetery, Kennebunk. To leave a message of condolence, please visit Allan’s Book of Memories at www.bibberfuneral.com. Arrangements are entrusted to Bibber Memorial Chapel, 67 Summer St., Kennebunk. Comments are not available on this story. Send questions/comments to the editors. 

			« Previous		
 

			Next »
		
