FOOTBALL fans hilariously claimed Erling Haaland suffered a "software glitch" as Manchester City booked their place in the Champions League semi-finals. Pep Guardiola's side drew 1-1 with Bayern Munich at the Allianz Arena on Wednesday evening, clinching a 4-1 aggregate victory. And Haaland, who missed a first-half penalty, helped himself to his 48th goal of the season after the break following Dayot Upamecano's crucial slip. But the pair were involved in an incident earlier on in the game when Haaland was brought down by the French defender as he went through on goal. Upamecano was shown a red card by Clement Turpin for denying a clear goalscoring opportunity. However, the offside flag then went up - a decision which was confirmed by VAR. And Turpin then wiped out Upamecano's dismissal as his blushes were temporarily spared. But before the red card had been rescinded, the cameras caught Haaland celebrating in a rather bizarre manner. He swiftly pumped his fist in an aggressive way while rapidly turning his head. And fans jokingly claimed Haaland - who has often been compared to a robot for his freakish goalscoring ability - had suffered a "glitch". HOW TO GET FREE BETS ON FOOTBALL Reacting on social media, one person said: "Software update required." Another added: "What if it's hardware glitch." A third replied: "Error 404. Update required 😂😭." And a fourth responded: "Hahaha downloaded software updates mid-game." Haaland's 48 goals in 41 games could fire Man City to a treble this season. They sit four points behind Arsenal in the Premier League table, but have a game in hand and face the Gunners at the Etihad on Wednesday. In the Champions League, they will face holders Real Madrid in the semi-finals. But before that they take on Championship side Sheffield United in the FA Cup semi-finals at Wembley on Saturday. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/