DANVILLE, CA — Finding the right swim program in college can be harder than mastering the butterfly stroke. Just ask Drew Arney, a senior at San Ramon Valley High School currently in the process. While he was in the midst of considering programs at over 50 schools, Arney found the time to share what he learned by writing “How To Swim In College: The Ultimate Resource For High School Athletes That Want To Swim In A College”, which is now available for purchase on Amazon.  “The whole swimming in college thing is kind of secret - all the people like to gatekeep this information, and not on purpose, but it’s hard to find information about the subject,” Arney, 17, told Patch. “So when I decided to write this book I thought there’s probably a lot of other kids out there like me that are a little unsure if they can do this, and I want to be a resource for them so that they can gather all the stuff I learned and use it to their advantage.”  Just five weeks ago, Arney began the process of assembling all the information he wishes he’d known at the start of the process. He also spoke to coaches, friends, and swimmers familiar with the process. Now, the book is available to order as a paperback or in Kindle form, and contains some of Arney’s most cherished advice, including: The book also contains information on the college swim scene, swim times required to compete in college, an overview of the admissions and recruitment process, email templates, the names and emails of over 100 coaches, social media accounts for over 100 major college swim programs, and more.  Arney has been swimming for the past ten years. In that time, he’s won third place in the 50-meter freestyle at the Far Western Championships, second place in the 50-yard freestyle at the EBAL Championships, and was awarded High School All-American Honors in the 200-yard free relay alongside his teammates, among other accomplishments. He plans to choose a college in the spring, and said he hopes to find a school that places equal emphasis on academics and athletics.  “What I recommend for all athletes is you need to pick the school that’s right for what you want to do,” he said. Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.