 Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards congratulates the LSU baseball team during the celebration of the 2023 National Championship team on Wednesday, June 28, 2023 at Alex Box Stadium in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Louisiana's effort to expand broadband access in rural areas advanced on Thursday with the groundbreaking of the state's biggest high-speed internet project yet. The project will bring cable internet to 9,140 households and 535 small businesses in Avoyelles Parish, according to Gov. John Bel Edwards' office — the largest investment to date under the state's Granting Unserved Municipalities Broadband Opportunities program, dubbed GUMBO. Set for completion in summer 2024, the Avoyelles project will cost just over $20 million. Federal Treasury Department grants will fund about $9.7 million of that cost, while the rest will be covered by Swyft Telecom, the cable internet provider that is completing the work, said Veneeth Iyengar, executive director for the state's broadband growth effort.  Officials touted the speed of the internet rollout, which they say is unusual for federally funded initiatives. Come next summer, "any one of those households and businesses pick up the phone, they call Swyft, and Swyft will provide, very quickly, high-speed affordable internet," Iyengar said in an interview after he and Edwards announced the project in Bunkie.  Louisiana’s broadband problem is a microcosm of one seen across the rural United States. Fast internet tends to be less accessible in the expansive and sparsely populated central and northern parts of Louisiana, areas that are rapidly hemorrhaging jobs and residents. Internet providers have historically seen less incentive in those places to shell out money needed to install fiber cables — the gold-standard of broadband connectivity. But at a time when so many everyday tasks have moved online amid the COVID-19 pandemic, even residents in poverty-stricken areas of cities like Baton Rouge find themselves off the broadband grid. Funded by a windfall of coronavirus relief, Louisiana made an ambitious pledge to bring broadband access in its many poorly serviced areas in just a few years. State officials have been traveling from town to town, talking with local leaders about how to best meet communities’ broadband needs across three areas: Things like access, affordability, and knowing how to best use digital tools. After the groundbreaking in Bunkie, Edwards returned to Baton Rouge for an event promoting the Affordable Connectivity Program, an initiative launched in 2021 that is aimed at paying lower-income families' internet costs. The $14.2 billion federal broadband benefit is funded by the COVID-era Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill and gives eligible households a discount of up to $30 per month — or up to $75 per month for households on qualifying Tribal lands — plus a one-time $100 discount toward a laptop, desktop computer, or tablet. About 904,200 Louisiana households are eligible for the ACP; but only 461,200 have enrolled, according to Edwards' office.  The program recognizes that internet connectivity "is a basic infrastructure need as well as a critical avenue to education and skills training,” said Commissioner of Higher Education Dr. Kim Hunter Reed. The two ceremonies came days after the Biden White House announced it had earmarked about $1.35 billion to expand broadband access in Louisiana. That cash will be distributed to specific projects mostly over the next two years. All told, the state will receive more than $1.87 billion in federal cash for broadband expansion over the next five years under grants from the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, the Federal Communications Commission, U.S. Treasury and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration. The GUMBO program, which supported the project announced in Avoyelles on Thursday, aims to help private providers bring broadband service to unserved areas of the state. Any local government in Louisiana can partner with a private provider and apply for GUMBO grants. James Finn covers state politics in Baton Rouge for The Advocate | The Times-Picayune. Email him at jfinn@theadvocate.com or follow him on Twitter @rjamesfinn. Broadband project starts, LCMC can integrate hospitals and Washington Elementary future undecided.    News Tips:nolanewstips@theadvocate.com Other questions:subscriberservices@theadvocate.com Need help?  Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: