Ryan Reynolds, partial owner of Mint Mobile, said T-Mobile's acquisition of the company "only enhances our ability to deliver for our customers." (Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP BELLEVUE, Wash. – T-Mobile, the third-largest cell phone carrier in the U.S., has agreed to purchase Mint Mobile, partially owned by actor Ryan Reynolds, for as much as $1.35 billion, the company announced in a release. BELLEVUE, Wash. – T-Mobile, the third-largest cell phone carrier in the U.S., has agreed to purchase Mint Mobile, partially owned by actor Ryan Reynolds, for as much as $1.35 billion, the company announced in a release. The definitive agreement between T-Mobile and Ka’ena Corp., the parent company for Mint, includes the acquisition of Ka’ena’s digital, marketing, sales and service operations. The acquisition also includes Ka’ena subsidiaries Ultra Mobile and Plum. The purchase will be made though a combination of stock (61 percent) and cash (39 percent) payments, and the final price will be determined by Ka’ena’s performance during certain periods both before and after closing, according to T-Mobile. “Mint has built an incredibly successful digital direct-to-consumer business that continues to deliver for customers on the Un-carrier’s leading 5G network, and now we are excited to use our scale and owners’ economics to help supercharge it – and Ultra Mobile – into the future,” T-Mobile CEO Mike Sievert said in a statement. “Over the long-term, we’ll also benefit from applying the marketing formula Mint has become famous for across more parts of T-Mobile. We think customers are really going to win with a more competitive and expansive Mint and Ultra.” Mint Founders David Glickman and Rizwan Kassim will remain onboard at T-Mobile following the deal’s close, according to the release, and Reynolds will continue in his role with the company as well. “Mint Mobile is the best deal in wireless and today’s news only enhances our ability to delivery for our customers,” Reynolds said in the statement. “We are so happy T-Mobile beat out an aggressive last-minute bid from my mom Tammy Reynolds as we believe the excellence of their 5G network will provide a better strategic fit than my mom’s slightly-above-average mahjong skills. I am so proud of the entire Mint team and so excited for what’s the come.” If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices