grandeduc - Fotolia One of the first smart cities in the US powered by real-world connected infrastructure and 5G, Peachtree Corners, has boosted its ability to ensure devices within its footprint stay connected after electric vehicle (EV) charging solutions provider Siemens joined the smart city consortium to bring 5G electrification expertise with charging stations and infrastructure using T-Mobile’s 5G network. Part of the Curiosity Lab ecosystem and based at the heart of what is known as “Silicon Orchard” in the Metro Atlanta region, Peachtree Corners comprises a municipality that is home to more than 45,000 residents, 45,000 jobs and an innovation hub claimed to house some of the world’s most disruptive technology companies. Peachtree Corners makes claim to being the first US smart city to be powered by 5G and city-owned connected infrastructure, and the first to have deployed a full cellular vehicle-to-everything (C-V2X) system within its “city street of the future”. With its infrastructure, the city is said to serve as a model for how government and private industry can collaborate to create a better future for society and business. From the world’s first deployment of teleoperated e-scooters to fully autonomous shuttles being used by residents, and from a solar roadway to the largest electric vehicle fast-charging hub in the region, Peachtree Corners aims to develop future internet of things (IoT) and sustainable technologies. With both the Siemens eMobility R&D hub and the North American headquarters for Siemens Electrical Products located in Peachtree Corners, Siemens is the city’s largest employer and is actively supporting the community, with six EV chargers already deployed. These chargers are said to contribute to Peachtree Corners having the largest EV charging hub outside of Metro Atlanta. Deploying the advanced charging stations will allow the smart city to continuously evaluate Siemens 5G charging infrastructure as community members use the chargers.   “We’re thrilled to be supporting Peachtree Corners and joining the Curiosity Lab ecosystem alongside so many great partners whose goals are to bring EV infrastructure to the forefront of cities across the country,” said John DeBoer, head of Siemens eMobility North America. “With our community charging their vehicles each day right where we live and work, this will be a great way to continuously evaluate our charging infrastructure as we collectively seek an electrified future.” Brian Johnson, city manager of Peachtree Corners, said: “As one of the leading smart cities in the United States, we are always looking towards the future. The electrification of America is well on its way, and here in Peachtree Corners we are proud to be embracing this technology further with Siemens joining our Curiosity Lab ecosystem. “As a global leader in this space, we are honoured to have had Siemens’ continuous support for our city’s adoption of this technology. Expanding their charging infrastructure at Curiosity Lab only strengthens that ongoing support. Together with Siemens, T-Mobile’s 5G and our real-world environment, we will be able to continue to improve EV infrastructure for a positive impact towards the future of the electrification of America.”  The next U.S. president will set the tone on tech issues such as AI regulation, data privacy and climate tech. This guide breaks ... A challenge companies are facing while preparing for compliance with climate risk reporting rules is a lack of consistency among ... Key leadership decisions like poor architecture to rushed processes can lead to technical debt that will affect a company ... Data is one of the most important assets in any organization. To truly protect it, you need a DDR strategy. Here's what you need ... Does your organization need every cloud security platform and service currently in use? Tool consolidation can reduce the chances... Following several high-profile attacks across the globe on MFA-less accounts, Microsoft will make the security measure mandatory ... Cisco cuts its workforce by 7% and forms one unit for networking, security and collaboration to energize AI and security sales. ... OWC transfers data using highly directional light in free space. While OWC delivers high-speed data transfers, it is susceptible ... Network architects face challenges when considering a network upgrade, but enterprises can keep problems to a minimum by ... AMD plans to acquire AI systems designer and manufacturer ZT Systems for $5 billion. AMD CEO Lisa Su said hyperscalers want more ... Data center modernization offers a competitive advantage to organizations, along with maximizing hyperscale infrastructure. ... Configuration files are vital for system deployment and management. Consider improving file management with proper planning, ... Pairing retrieval-augmented generation with an LLM helps improve prompts and outputs, democratizing data access and making ... Vector databases excel in different areas of vector searches, including sophisticated text and visual options. Choose the ... Generative AI creates new opportunities for how organizations use data. Strong data governance is necessary to build trust in the... All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2000 - 2024, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
