Verizon and T-Mobile have been consistently expanding their 5G networks which have allowed them to offer wireless home internet in more and more cities. Now Verizon’s 5G Home Internet is available for over 30 million people in the US with T-Mobile’s offering available to over 50 million. Here’s how to check your 5G home internet availability, we’ll also look at free trials, performance details, and more. Interestingly, while Verizon and T-Mobile have launched and consistently expanded their 5G Home Internet offerings over the last two years, AT&T still hasn’t jumped into the space. And with other carriers either not having the needed 5G capacity or using Verizon, T-Mobile, or AT&T’s network, that’s left Big Red and the Un-carrier as the two main 5G Home Internet choices. Verizon and T-Mobile are making their wireless 5G home internet appealing with almost the exact same perks and features (although Verizon leads with faster speeds and T-Mobile has greater availability). If you have a Magenta Max phone plan with T-Mobile, its 5G Internet goes for $30/month and T-Mobile includes a 15-day free trial. If you have an eligible 5G phone plan with Verizon, its 5G Internet goes for $35-45/month and there’s a 30-day satisfaction guarantee. Also, if you’re eligible for the Affordable Connectivity Program, you can get the service for free. As mentioned above, Verizon has the edge when it comes to 5G home performance with speeds up to 1 Gbps with its “5G Home Plus” plan. However, T-Mobile leads for availability, covering about 70% more homes at 50+ million vs the 30+ million that Verizon does. Regarding what kind of home setups will work best with 5G home internet, both carriers say their wireless internet works great for everything from gaming to video calls, streaming, and more. However, one thing to keep in mind, for households with many devices – especially when used at the same time – a fixed broadband setup will likely offer the best performance. But since both providers offer free trials, there’s no risk in giving 5G home internet a shot for either your primary or backup network. FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. Check out 9to5Mac on YouTube for more Apple news: A collection of tutorials, tips, and tricks from… T-Mobile is the 3rd largest U.S. wireless carrie… Michael is an editor for 9to5Mac. Since joining in 2016 he has written more than 3,000 articles including breaking news, reviews, and detailed comparisons and tutorials. 
										Really useful USB-C + USB-A charger for home/work and travel.									 
										My slim wallet of choice for iPhone 12									 Manage push notifications