Shifting a bit from the traditional showcase of India’s military prowess and cultural diversity at the Republic Day parade, this year witnessed a focus on the biodiversity of India in the stunning Republic Day tableaux. Bedecked with colourful flowers, the Central Public Works Department’s (CPWD) tableau at the Republic Day parade depicted biodiversity conservation, including the reintroduction of cheetah in India 70 years after the spotted feline went extinct from the country.
The theme of the CPWD tableau on Biodiversity attracted the main focus as it talked about the nature that we need to protect.
The front of the tableau showcased the Cheetah as a part of a project to revive the population of animals which became extinct in India during 1952. The tableau also depicted various living organisms which are either endangered or extinct.
The trailer of the tableau depicted species facing threat of extinction including ryle island tortoise, honey bees, butterflies, whooping crane, red squirrel, hornbill and ladybugs. The back-end top of the trailer showed a caterpillar.
The rear end of the tableau had the national bird, the dancing peacock, which plays an important role in regulating the ecosystem balance. The entire tableau was crafted with vibrant coloured natural flowers which reflect the eye pleasing experience of nature.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi had released the first batch of eight cheetahs - five females and three males - from Namibia into a quarantine enclosure at the Kuno National Park on his 72nd birthday on September 17 last year. Shifting a bit from the traditional showcase of India’s military prowess and cultural diversity at the Republic Day parade, this year witnessed a focus on the biodiversity of India in the stunning Republic Day tableaux. Bedecked with colourful flowers, the Central Public Works Department’s (CPWD) tableau at the Republic Day parade depicted biodiversity conservation, including the reintroduction of cheetah in India 70 years after the spotted feline went extinct from the country. The theme of the CPWD tableau on Biodiversity attracted the main focus as it talked about the nature that we need to protect. The front of the tableau showcased the Cheetah as a part of a project to revive the population of animals which became extinct in India during 1952. The tableau also depicted various living organisms which are either endangered or extinct. The trailer of the tableau depicted species facing threat of extinction including ryle island tortoise, honey bees, butterflies, whooping crane, red squirrel, hornbill and ladybugs. The back-end top of the trailer showed a caterpillar. The rear end of the tableau had the national bird, the dancing peacock, which plays an important role in regulating the ecosystem balance. The entire tableau was crafted with vibrant coloured natural flowers which reflect the eye pleasing experience of nature. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had released the first batch of eight cheetahs - five females and three males - from Namibia into a quarantine enclosure at the Kuno National Park on his 72nd birthday on September 17 last year. 

