Cobra Kai season six is officially with us. Well, part of it anyway. Part one of the finale season debuted on Netflix on July 18. While it's going to be tough to say goodbye to these beloved Karate Kid characters after so many seasons on the streaming platform, it's comforting to know that the dojos' swansong will be spread over three parts meaning we get to savour the final chapter. In even better news, co-creator Hayden Schlossberg has confirmed this sixth season will be the show's longest yet, with 15 episodes in total and a bumper run time for the finale. Here's everything you need to know about what lies ahead for Cobra Kai season six, billed as a "three-part event". Not including oboe solos. As mentioned above, Cobra Kai season six will be split into three parts with the first five episodes available to stream now on Netflix. The remaining episodes will also drop in five-episode batches with part two arriving on November 28, while the final five episodes will hit Netflix in 2025 – with an exact release date yet to be revealed. Those wishing to bulk-watch the releases in one sitting may wish to think again as co-creator and co-showrunner Jon Hurwitz took to X/Twitter to give some guidance on how best to enjoy Cobra Kai's final outing(s).  "My advice is to stop thinking of season six as one final season and instead view it as three distinct mini seasons," Hurwitz wrote in response to a fan who was concerned that waiting for all episodes to land would inevitably lead to spoilers. Hurwitz continued: "Each batch was written knowing the release plan, so the experience was designed to be enjoyed in five episode chunks. "Waiting for all 15 episodes to come out will not enhance your viewing experience." When part one arrived, so did our favourite characters and they really ramped up the tension. We expect to see the following cast members step back to the mat for more iconic moments in season six parts two and three: • Ralph Macchio as Daniel LaRusso• William Zabka as Johnny Lawrence• Yuji Okumoto as Chozen• Tanner Buchanan as Robby • Xolo Maridueña as Miguel• Peyton List as Tory• Mary Mouser as Sam • Jacob Bertrand as Eli/Hawk• Gianni DeCenzo as Demetri• Oona O'Brien as Devon• Dallas Dupree Young as Kenny• Martin Kove as John Kreese• Alicia Hannah-Kim as Kim Da-Eun• Courtney Henggeler as Amanda LaRusso• Vanessa Rubio as Carmen The dojos may have come together but that doesn't mean things are wax-on-wax-off smooth. In fact, that insane Tori twist at the end is the only part of their problem (but admittedly a large one). Tori's grief over her mother's death caused friction between Danny and Johnny once again with neither being able to agree over whether Tori should compete for captaincy for the Sekai Taikai. In the heat of the moment and under the strain of her emotions, Tori quit Miyagi-do, aligning herself with Cobra Kai now lead by the indestructible Kreese and Kim-Da-Eun. (Seriously, will Kreese ever stay gone?) Tori is a powerful fighter but one whose anger and grief might fuel her to make the wrong moves at the competition and possibly go one-step too far if someone isn't there to rein her in. However, as we said, that is just the most obvious symptom of Miyagi-do's problems. Daniel and Johnny have once again fallen out but are determined to work together for the sake of the kids but can they? Johnny's money worries are making him tense and finding balance has not been such a smooth path for him. Meanwhile Daniel is struggling with the weight of knowing that Mr Miyagi had a secret, but not able to make sense of the pieces. This new knowledge threatens to unmake the man he held up on a pedastal, whose learnings Daniel has based his life and dojo around. Will he be able to cope once the truth is out? Needless to say, it's not putting either sensei in an amicable headspace. Best buds Eli and Demetri are also at odds with one another when Eli revealed that he's not sure about going to MIT college with Demetri, and old tensions appear to be flaring between Robby and Miguel. Can Miyagi-do sort their issues out in time to win the Sekai Taikai or will all this in-house fighting cause them to suffer a catastrophic defeat? Roll on part two so we can find out. Fans may not get a trailer for part two of Cobra Kai, we're afraid. When it comes to a Netflix split-release, we don't always get a new trailer, but if there is one it'll likely be much closer to its release, we estimate late October/early November. We'll keep you updated. Cobra Kai seasons 1-5 and season 6 part 1 are available to watch now on Netflix.  You Might Also Like PS5 consoles for sale – PlayStation 5 stock and restocks: Where to buy PS5 today? IS MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE 7 THE BEST IN THE SERIES? OUR REVIEW AEW game is a modern mix of No Mercy and SmackDown Penny Lancaster shared a heartfelt update following her husband Rod Stewart's incredibly candid health admission. Get the details... After the pair confirmed the model’s due date was early August, Hailey Bieber appears to have hinted she has given birth to her first child with husband Justin Bieber. Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have been on their tour of Colombia. Former Suits star Meghan was seen speaking at a summit and many remarked that she wore a clip-in ponytail in her hair. The 38-year-old showed off the weight loss transformation with her “new besties” The Emmy-winning 'Donahue' talk show host and media personality died following a long illness, his family said Fans have taken to social media to share their devastation as a hit show has been cancelled She and Lenny had a daddy-daughter fashion moment in Saint Laurent. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex's final day in South America included salsa dancing during a visit to a youth organization Not the bearded dragon... Please take me to the universe where Old Yeller lives. McLoughlin is credited as a co-writer on the track, which is featured on Lambert's upcoming album 'Postcards from Texas' While Friends was considered progressive for its time, the ‘90s classic sitcom faced its fair share of network pushback. Co-creators David Crane and Marta Kauffman recalled that they once had to stand up to an NBC executive who wanted to change Monica Geller’s (Courteney Cox) pilot plot, which featured her sleeping with someone on a … While speaking at the Edinburgh International Film Festival on Saturday, Brian Cox, prolific film actor and star of HBO’s “Succession,” said the state of cinema is “in a very bad way,” pointing the finger at blockbuster powerhouses like Marvel and DC. “What’s happened is that television is doing what cinema used to do,” Cox said when … Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex wore her best look yet on her final day in Colombia with Prince Harry, wearing a white vest with a sequinned midi skirt Just not seeing the point here. Maybe we can all save some money by eating the rich. John Nettles shifted his focus to a very different career after stepping down from his role in Midsomer Murders. Find out more here… Halle Berry had her faith in men "restored" by working with Pierce Brosnan on the 2002 James Bond film 'Die Another Day'. The Fall TV season is right around the corner! And to help you keep tabs on it all, TVLine presents a handy round-up of September, October and November premiere dates. After three years of fall schedules being tempered by the pandemic and then the dual Hollywood strikes, this year’s slate is as rrrrrrobust as ever, … Louise Redknapp looked incredible on Instagram wearing a black blazer dress which the former wife of Jamie Redknapp teamed with a pair of over the knee boots.