While the benefits  of this new digital era are plentiful, the risk landscape has significantly  changed compared to, say, a decade ago. As risk exposure evolves, companies may  have an easier time managing certain risks, such as workplace safety issues,  while others related to data, security, third-party relationships, supply chain,  company finances and workforce may be tougher to manage. This shifting  environment requires manufacturers to rethink and renew risk management  practices to reap the potential rewards of the digital revolution. Machines,  assembly lines, smart sensors, robots and other devices generate enormous  amounts of industrial data. Historically, manufacturers have not taken  advantage of this wealth of data; however, the advancements in machine learning  and artificial intelligence have created a prime opportunity for organizations  to capitalize on the information they gather. Vast data  offer significant opportunity, but only if properly secured. For many  companies, security has been a primary driver in delaying the adoption of Industry  4.0. A lack of clear security protocols to reduce the threat of industrial  espionage, intellectual property theft and production sabotage makes it  difficult to fully embrace advanced capabilities. Manufacturers with clear  protocols will be better positioned to optimize processes, improve  decision-making, secure the environment, strengthen risk-management procedures  and ultimately gain a competitive edge. As factories  have become more connected and data-driven, they have also become more  intertwined with third parties. Manufacturers, and any third parties they  engage with, need to raise the bar in terms of how they protect themselves in  an environment where workers, machines, supply chains and organizations are  becoming digitally connected more than ever. To best mitigate risks posed by  third-party relationships, companies need to understand wireless network access  points, protect those access points and monitor and audit third parties. Technology is making  it easier for companies to rethink and adjust the location of operations and  equipment. We expect companies will continue setting up manufacturing  operations closer to their customers, with a greater focus on regionalized  operations (e.g., “China for China,” a strategy through which manufacturing  operations in China sell only into China or Asian markets). We also anticipate  more companies will adopt business models using advanced technologies like 3D  printing, which can enable automated facilities that personnel elsewhere can  control remotely. The varied  operating models that entail owning equipment or operations in multiple  locations in a geopolitically sensitive environment will require companies to  not only safeguard their operations but also make sure cash and resources are  not trapped in these locations—especially cash that could otherwise be  repatriated to the United States. Companies can explore proactive treasury and  international transfer pricing strategies to ensure regular and timely access  to cash and profits generated in these countries, while mitigating cash  accumulation and reactive measures. Smart  manufacturing, like traditional manufacturing, requires high capital  investments. But what elevates the risk profile for smart manufacturing is the  complexity and interconnectedness of the systems, processes, and technologies. Instead  of a breakdown in one part of the assembly process, the entire interconnected  assembly line could fail if a system goes down. What’s more is those plant  systems may be connected to broader operational and financial systems. Inefficiencies  in the system may be hard to detect and less obvious than a machine breaking  down or defective output. Changing technologies and systems is cumbersome and  complicated, so getting the initial technology plan right is paramount to  obtain the anticipated paybacks. Companies will  also need to invest in hiring new talent to work with smart machines and invest  in retraining talent. This is a significant financial investment – especially  in a high-interest-rate environment. While smart manufacturing has the immense  potential to reduce waste and resource consumption and increase productivity,  it very much depends on the effectiveness of the digital blueprint. In order to  have an effective blueprint, companies should obtain input from all relevant  departments. Solutions such as digital twins can help simulate builds before  such systems are physically implemented, which can eliminate inefficiencies and  help teams understand more precisely how those new systems would work. Despite the  benefits, smart manufacturing is not a panacea, and the risk profile can vary  significantly depending on a company’s workforce issues. In the roles  blue-collar workers used to fill, we see a "new-collar" worker rising  in manufacturing; these employees need a specific skill set that is more  technologically capable of operating the advanced technologies on the plant  floors. In this tight labor market, these skilled candidates remain scarce and  high in demand. In addition to  drawing and retaining employees, manufacturers need to have a thorough  understanding of the unique workforce issues raised by more automated  environments. While automation and other advanced technologies make plant  floors more efficient, there is also the inherent risk of limited to no live  personnel available to fix a problem. In a completely automated facility, there  needs to be sufficient emergency detection systems, because human personnel may  not be on site to detect, for example, a fire. Because of automation and  digitization, employees may not develop deep expertise on how a machine works  and may not be able to troubleshoot quickly and effectively.  A shop floor worker today could detect issues  by just listening to the sound a machine makes – such domain will hopefully evolve.    Digitization is  also having a profound impact on culture as it relates to access, production,  learning and participation. Manufacturers need to prioritize a digital culture that  equips employees with sustaining values, behaviors and skills, or risk losing  the ability to thrive in the digital manufacturing revolution. With the pace  of change and advancements in today’s highly digital world, manufacturers  cannot only think about risks that are happening right now, or respond to those  that are already in the rearview mirror. Rather, a forward-looking, windshield view  is critical to anticipate and focus on the future. With this approach, manufacturers  will be able to minimize exposure to the risks identified above, optimize the  efficiencies provided by advanced technologies—and ultimately reap the rewards  of the digital revolution.  Shruti Gupta has more than 15 years of experience advising multinational clients on their transfer pricing planning, supply chain structuring, global compliance and controversy management strategies. She is a senior analyst in RSM’s Industry Eminence Program, which positions its analysts to understand, forecast and communicate economic, business and technology trends shaping the industries RSM serves. Katie Landy is industrials senior analyst with  RSM US LLP.