We’ve put some small files called cookies on your device to make our site work. We’d also like to use analytics cookies. These send information about how our site is used to a service called Google Analytics. We use this information to improve our site. Let us know if this is OK. We’ll use a cookie to save your choice. You can read more about our cookies before you choose.   
Change my preferences
I'm OK with analytics cookies
 The British Medical Association (BMA) has announced junior doctors will take strike action from 7:00am on 27 June 2024 and ending 7:00am on 2 July 2024. This is part of an ongoing dispute between junior doctors and government. Junior doctors make up around half of all doctors in the NHS. Junior doctors are qualified doctors who have anywhere up to eight years’ experience working as a hospital doctor, depending on their specialty, or up to three years in general practice. During these strikes, other doctors (including consultants and other specialist doctors) will still be working. The NHS is working hard to ensure adequate staffing through the entirety of urgent care pathways, urgent elective cases, and other critical services. However, the disruption to staffing will cause a significant reduction in elective activity and this may mean some appointments and procedures may need to be rescheduled. We will only reschedule appointments and procedures where necessary and will rebook immediately, where possible. The BMA and Hospital Consultants and Specialists Association (HCSA) have stated junior doctors will undertake a full withdrawal of labour. The NHS will be working closely with unions to discuss any patient safety concerns and ensure safe staffing for emergency care continues to be available. If we have not contacted you, please attend your appointment as planned. The NHS will contact you if your appointment needs to be rescheduled due to strike action. The NHS is asking patients to choose services appropriately during industrial action and take simple steps to help ensure care is available to patients who need it most. This includes using 111 online as the first port of call for health needs, and only using 999 if it is a serious or life-threatening emergency. For more information on when to call 999 and when to go to A&E, you can visit the NHS UK website. GP practices will continue to be open during the junior doctors strike. Please continue to attend your GP and dental appointments, unless you are contacted and told otherwise. We have now seen over a year of industrial action across the NHS and staff continue to work hard to provide patients with the best possible care under the circumstances. Industrial action has impacted over 1.4 million hospital appointments across the NHS. The NHS is also asking the public to play their part during industrial action to look after themselves, loved ones and checking in on vulnerable family members and neighbours. Regardless of any strike action taking place, it is really important that patients who need urgent medical care continue to come forward as normal, especially in emergency and serious life-threatening cases – when someone is seriously ill or injured, or their life is at risk. Ahead of industrial action, please read the following advice if you are travelling to other parts of the country: Trade unions representing some NHS staff are in dispute with the Government over the 2022/23 pay award. A number of the unions have balloted their NHS members to take part in industrial action. As a result, members of the following unions have advised of plans to take strike action on the dates listed below: The strikes announced cover junior doctors across the NHS. This means action will impact every hospital in England. For more details please see the union websites: During these strikes, other doctors (including consultants, GPs and other specialist doctors) will still be working. The NHS is working hard to ensure adequate staffing through the entirety of urgent care pathways, urgent elective cases, and other services. However, the disruption to staffing will cause a significant reduction in elective activity and this may mean that some appointments and procedures may need to be rescheduled. We will only reschedule appointments and procedures where necessary and will rebook immediately, where possible. The BMA and HCSA have stated junior doctors will undertake a full withdrawal of labour. The NHS will be working closely with unions to discuss any concerns around patient safety and ensure that safe emergency care continues to be available. Anyone who needs urgent care should use NHS111 online to be assessed and directed to the right care for them. If you do not have internet access, then 111 helpline is available.When someone is seriously ill or injured and their life is at risk, you should seek emergency care in the normal way, by calling 999. This level of disruption to staffing will cause a significant reduction in elective activity. Where appropriate, urgent elective surgery (P1 and P2), Cardiac, Organ and Corneal transplant, cancer care (particularly for patients who have already been waiting over 62 days, or who are likely to pass day 62 if their appointment needs to be rescheduled), and long waiters should be the final cohorts to be rescheduled.  The NHS is working hard to minimise the risk to patient safety. This means we will prioritise resources to protect emergency treatment, critical care, neonatal care, maternity, and trauma, and ensure we prioritise patients who have waited the longest for elective care and cancer surgery. We will only reschedule appointments and procedures where it is necessary and will rebook immediately, where possible. Unfortunately, these strikes will have a significant impact upon planned and routine care. During strike action we will prioritise emergency treatment and patients seeking urgent treatment will be seen. Unfortunately, this means we may have to prioritise emergency care over some routine appointments and procedures. Everyone who has an appointment should attend as planned, unless your local NHS provider has contacted you to reschedule. If we have not contacted you, please attend your appointment even if your Trust is affected by strikes. Emergency care will continue to be available across all parts of the country. It is really important that in emergency and life-threatening cases – when someone is seriously ill, or their life is at risk, patients continue to come forward as normal. The NHS will contact you if your appointment needs to be rescheduled due to strike action. This is likely to be a text, phone call or a letter and you should be offered an alternative date for your appointment. If we have not contacted you, please attend your appointment as planned. Any appointments that need to be rescheduled will be done so as a priority. No, if we have not contacted you, please attend your appointment as planned. Please order your prescriptions in good time to avoid delays in getting your medicines or the risk of running out of medicines during strikes. All hospital inpatients will be informed of how their care will be impacted on a ward-by-ward basis by the staff involved in delivering their care. GP practices will continue to be open during the junior doctor’s strike. Please continue to attend your GP and dental appointments, unless you are contacted and told otherwise. Please continue to attend any dental appointments unless you are contacted and told otherwise. Patients should only call 999 if seriously ill or injured, and there is risk to life. Ambulances will be dispatched where clinically appropriate. The strike action by junior doctors in June and into July will last for 120 hours.