The Beef Wellington as been a Savoy Grill favorite for over one hundred years Having welcomed the likes of Marilyn Monroe, Oscar Wilde, and Frank Sinatra over the years, London's Savoy Grill has been a mecca for those seeking a taste of culinary history for over a century. Though it has seen slight tweaks to its menu over the past 125 years, many dishes have stood the test of time in one form or another: the arnold bennett soufflé (inspired by the classic omelette, packed with smoked haddock and Montgomery cheddar) and Duck a l'orange (with endive, picked orange and spiced jus), to name but a few. Yet, among its distinguished menu of oysters, caviar and more, a surprising dish continues to reign supreme as diners’ favorite: the humble Beef Wellington. I’d been told I “had to” try the dish for years, but never booked in to do so. As someone who has spent a good amount of time perfecting my own Beef Wellington recipe, I was dubious. While, on one hand, it is a technically-challenging dish, it is also a dish that gastropubs have been slapping onto menus for decades. In what world could the Savoy Grill’s version possibly warrant cult status—or a £65 ($81.50) price tag? Intrigued by the restaurant’s recent refurbishment, I booked in and bit the proverbial bullet. The refurbished restaurant boasts many of its original charms, with updated banquettes and ... [+] chandeliers My comeuppance, of course, was clear the moment I took a bite. The Savoy Grill’s Beef Wellington is a flawless rendition. The fillet extraordinarily tender, seared to perfection, encased in a thin, flavor-packed layer of duxelles, and packed into golden, flaky pastry. The kind of dish that makes a person wish they could time travel and taste-test every version the restaurant had ever seen. (Or maybe that’s just me...) The Savoy Grill's new wine room As I passed my compliments on to the chefs (many of whom dedicate their entire time in the kitchen to Beef Wellingtons alone), I almost felt as though I’d stepped through time. And I think, all things considered, that’s why its legacy endures. The Savoy Grill's Beef Wellington is neither trendy nor Instagram-friendly: it’s just phenomenal cooking. Timeless. Meticulous. The kind of cooking that struggles to survive in today’s hyper-competitive restaurant landscape yet, here, continues to captivate diners and defy expectations. It stands, surrounded by a confit Roscoff onion and red wine jus, as a delicious testament to the lasting power of culinary tradition—and if that’s not worth a luxury price tag, I’m not sure what is.  One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts.  Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space. In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil. Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain: User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in: So, how can you be a power user? Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.