Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     The Bloodline has had one of the most intriguing storylines going in WWE, and professional wrestling in general, today. It has been one of the most dominant factions in history, with Roman Reigns on a historic run as Undisputed WWE Universal Champion and The Usos having a lengthy reign with the Undisputed WWE Tag Team Titles. There have been numerous twists and turns with The Bloodline, each bringing further depth and emotion to the story. Currently, Jimmy Uso has left the group, tired of Reigns’ rule. However, the most interesting character of this story is Jey Uso. As it happened a couple of years back, he once again finds himself stuck between having to pick between Jimmy, his brother, and Reigns and The Bloodline.
      RELATED: Why The Bloodline Is Already One Of The Best Factions In Wrestling History 
                     In the early stages of The Bloodline story, Reigns had just won the Universal Championship and one of his first challengers was Jey Uso. Jey was embarking on a singles run while Jimmy was out with injury. Jey ended up winning a number one contender’s fatal four way match and got a shot at Reigns’ title. This led to a very personal story, which evoked much discussion of the Anoa’i family and Reigns’ position within it. After a series of brutal matches, Reigns beat Jey and remained champion. Eventually, Jey aligned himself with Reigns.
      RELATED: A Complete WWE Timeline Of Sami Zayn's Time In The Bloodline, Explained
                     From the second Jimmy returned and saw what Jey and Reigns were doing, he was not okay with it. Nevertheless, The Usos were reunited. They set forth on once again becoming champions and dominating the tag team division. However, this is not exactly what happened. They lost in matches for the SmackDown Tag Team Titles against The Mysterios. This led to Reigns involving himself in this to seemingly “help” The Usos. However, he was also using the tension that was present in order to get both of The Usos on his side. Paired with the managerial talents of Paul Heyman, eventual joining of Solo Sikoa, and the temporary admittance of Sami Zayn, the group were unstoppable.
                         However, there were always questions of loyalty with The Bloodline. Reigns made members prove that they were loyal to him. This led to Zayn attacking Reigns. One of the main aspects was the friendship of Zayn and Jey. Zayn tried to show him what Reigns was doing, but Jey stuck with his family. This led to an Undisputed WWE Tag Team Title match at WrestleMania 39 Night One, where The Usos lost to Zayn and Owens. Needless to say, Reigns was disappointed, especially since he had retained his championship.
      RELATED: WWE Nailed Sami Zayn's Betrayal Of The Bloodline Perfectly At The Royal Rumble
                     Eventually, Reigns thought that The Usos did not have what it took to bring back the titles to The Bloodline. He and Solo challenged Zayn and Owens for the Undisputed WWE Tag Team Titles at Night of Champions, but they did not win. On this night, Jimmy’s feelings of annoyance with Reigns resurfaced. He superkicked Reigns, and was subsequently kicked out of The Bloodline on SmackDown.
                         The story of The Bloodline finds itself at a full circle moment. The tactics and mind games that Reigns used in order to protect himself are now working against him. Jimmy’s distrust from the beginning was suppressed but could not be prevented from coming back. Heyman and Solo remain loyal to Reigns, but Jey’s feelings are not clear. This has been a constant of the storyline throughout the years. Jey has been made aware and questioned the choices of Reigns, but now it is unknown where his allegiance truly lies. On the June 9, 2023, edition of SmackDown, he told Heyman regarding his loyalty to The Bloodline, “Hey, I’ll get back to you on that.” However, later in the night when he had a US Title against Austin Theory, he continued to have issues with Jimmy, who cost him the title.
                         The great thing about The Bloodline story is that everyone within it has done their parts extremely well. The storytelling has shown the internal issues within the faction and steady build up to the implosion that is happening on TV right now. While Reigns is the champion, the story of Jey’s allegiance has been central to it. He was the first member recruited into The Bloodline by Reigns. He took Reigns to his limits emotionally. As the story unfolds, there will no doubt be continued questions as to what Jey will do. However, unlike in the past, it does not seem like he will simply fall in line as Reigns wants fans to believe.
     Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. Roman Reigns hasn't suffered many clean losses in WWE. Here's every clean loss in his career, explained. Several things are missing from the Original Tribal Chief's resume, with Roman Reigns missing out on a few accomplishments.  Even though WWE fans know who these wrestlers are, they often have no clue what their finishing move is because they rarely get to see it. No mention of MVP, though. There are plenty of WWE contracts that are up in 2024. Will the promotion be able to re-sign them all? Rhea Ripley has got a dream opponent in WWE that would create a big beefy encounter.