SEARCH LANGUAGE FOLLOW US ON FEEDBACK Mahesh Bhatt also attended the opening ceremony of the 28th Kolkata International Film Festival held on December 15.  Among many others, renowned director Mahesh Bhatt also attended the inauguration ceremony of the 28th Kolkata International Film Festival, held on Thursday. During his speech, the director remembered Indian poet Rabindranath Tagore. He used a few lines said by Tagore during his acceptance speech for being honoured with the Nobel Prize for Gitanjali.  “I do not think it is the spirit of India to reject anything, reject any race, any culture. The spirit of India has always proclaimed the idea of unity. The ideal of unity never rejects anything, any race or any culture, it comprehends all and it has to be the highest aim of our spiritual exertion, to be able to penetrate all things with one soul, to comprehend all things as they are and not to keep out anything in the whole universe to comprehend all things with sympathy and love. This is the spirit of India,” said Bhatt. He further added, “Now when in the present time of political unrest, the children of the same grade India cry for rejection of the west I feel hurt. I feel it is a lesson that they have received from the west. Such is not our mission. India is there to unite all races. These are the words of India's greatest son Shri Rabindranath Tagore and they wreck echo in my heart as they should echo in the heart of every Indian, 101 years later.” Meanwhile, Shah Rukh Khan spoke extensively about the hate campaign against Bollywood films, ahead of the release of his comeback movie Pathaan. Simultaneously, Amitabh Bachchan also shared his piece of mind regarding civil liberties and freedom of expression. Talking about the KIFF, it will continue till December 22 in Kolkata. Also Read: Mahesh Bhatt records his book, the biography of U.G. Krishnamurti as a dedication to his granddaughter Raha Catch us for latest Bollywood News, New Bollywood Movies update, Box office collection, New Movies Release , Bollywood News Hindi, Entertainment News, Bollywood Live News Today & Upcoming Movies 2024 and stay updated with latest hindi movies only on Bollywood Hungama. No Releated Data       Skip this step for now   5000  characters remaining