Cobra Kai season six is officially with us. Well, part of it anyway. Part one of the finale season debuted on Netflix on July 18. While it's going to be tough to say goodbye to these beloved Karate Kid characters after so many seasons on the streaming platform, it's comforting to know that the dojos' swansong will be spread over three parts meaning we get to savour the final chapter. In even better news, co-creator Hayden Schlossberg has confirmed this sixth season will be the show's longest yet, with 15 episodes in total and a bumper run time for the finale. Here's everything you need to know about what lies ahead for Cobra Kai season six, billed as a "three-part event". Not including oboe solos. As mentioned above, Cobra Kai season six will be split into three parts with the first five episodes available to stream now on Netflix. The remaining episodes will also drop in five-episode batches with part two arriving on November 28, while the final five episodes will hit Netflix in 2025 – with an exact release date yet to be revealed. Those wishing to bulk-watch the releases in one sitting may wish to think again as co-creator and co-showrunner Jon Hurwitz took to X/Twitter to give some guidance on how best to enjoy Cobra Kai's final outing(s).  "My advice is to stop thinking of season six as one final season and instead view it as three distinct mini seasons," Hurwitz wrote in response to a fan who was concerned that waiting for all episodes to land would inevitably lead to spoilers. Hurwitz continued: "Each batch was written knowing the release plan, so the experience was designed to be enjoyed in five episode chunks. "Waiting for all 15 episodes to come out will not enhance your viewing experience." When part one arrived, so did our favourite characters and they really ramped up the tension. We expect to see the following cast members step back to the mat for more iconic moments in season six parts two and three: • Ralph Macchio as Daniel LaRusso• William Zabka as Johnny Lawrence• Yuji Okumoto as Chozen• Tanner Buchanan as Robby • Xolo Maridueña as Miguel• Peyton List as Tory• Mary Mouser as Sam • Jacob Bertrand as Eli/Hawk• Gianni DeCenzo as Demetri• Oona O'Brien as Devon• Dallas Dupree Young as Kenny• Martin Kove as John Kreese• Alicia Hannah-Kim as Kim Da-Eun• Courtney Henggeler as Amanda LaRusso• Vanessa Rubio as Carmen The dojos may have come together but that doesn't mean things are wax-on-wax-off smooth. In fact, that insane Tori twist at the end is the only part of their problem (but admittedly a large one). Tori's grief over her mother's death caused friction between Danny and Johnny once again with neither being able to agree over whether Tori should compete for captaincy for the Sekai Taikai. In the heat of the moment and under the strain of her emotions, Tori quit Miyagi-do, aligning herself with Cobra Kai now lead by the indestructible Kreese and Kim-Da-Eun. (Seriously, will Kreese ever stay gone?) Tori is a powerful fighter but one whose anger and grief might fuel her to make the wrong moves at the competition and possibly go one-step too far if someone isn't there to rein her in. However, as we said, that is just the most obvious symptom of Miyagi-do's problems. Daniel and Johnny have once again fallen out but are determined to work together for the sake of the kids but can they? Johnny's money worries are making him tense and finding balance has not been such a smooth path for him. Meanwhile Daniel is struggling with the weight of knowing that Mr Miyagi had a secret, but not able to make sense of the pieces. This new knowledge threatens to unmake the man he held up on a pedastal, whose learnings Daniel has based his life and dojo around. Will he be able to cope once the truth is out? Needless to say, it's not putting either sensei in an amicable headspace. Best buds Eli and Demetri are also at odds with one another when Eli revealed that he's not sure about going to MIT college with Demetri, and old tensions appear to be flaring between Robby and Miguel. Can Miyagi-do sort their issues out in time to win the Sekai Taikai or will all this in-house fighting cause them to suffer a catastrophic defeat? Roll on part two so we can find out. Fans may not get a trailer for part two of Cobra Kai, we're afraid. When it comes to a Netflix split-release, we don't always get a new trailer, but if there is one it'll likely be much closer to its release, we estimate late October/early November. We'll keep you updated. Cobra Kai seasons 1-5 and season 6 part 1 are available to watch now on Netflix.  You Might Also Like PS5 consoles for sale – PlayStation 5 stock and restocks: Where to buy PS5 today? IS MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE 7 THE BEST IN THE SERIES? OUR REVIEW AEW game is a modern mix of No Mercy and SmackDown Sir Rod Stewart was forced to cancel his 200th show in Las Vegas after falling ill and sharing an update with fans, and now his wife Penny Lancaster has offered her own personal update Fans complimented the 61-year-old on her new look Good Morning Britain star Kate Garraway has shared a heartbreaking message as she revealed that her daughter Darcey had shared her A-Level results with her late dad Derek I'd never really thought about it before, but I wouldn't expect this to be the origins of 'o'clock'. The whole plot for actress Helen Worth's departure has been 'rewritten' since actor Sean Wilson quit the ITV soap The bookies have come up with their own theories about who could replace Neil Dudgeon in the ITV drama if he were ever to leave Filming has commenced for the third series of the hit Death in Paradise spin-off, Beyond Paradise, but a health scare could see one main character exit the show Louise Redknapp looked incredible on Instagram wearing a black blazer dress which the former wife of Jamie Redknapp teamed with a pair of over the knee boots. John Nettles shifted his focus to a very different career after stepping down from his role in Midsomer Murders. Find out more here… Sydney Sweeney has levelled up swimwear by rocking a high-cut, plunging wetsuit and posting the pics to her IG - stealing hearts in the process Stacey Dooley and Kevin Clifton are raising their daughter Minnie in Liverpool after falling in love with a period property in the countryside. The Strictly Come Dancing stars have decorated their dining room in the most unexpected way - see photo Joe Sugg has dropped a major hint that he and girlfriend Dianne Buswell are planning to make a major move in their lives – and it'll certainly have an impact on her career with Strictly Come Dancing EastEnders fans think they have worked out the BBC soap's Christmas 2024 storylines, with deaths, exits, secrets exposed and returns all rumoured to be on the cards this festive period Belle has been trying to escape the violent grip of her husband Tom but as he ramps up abuse, including emotional blackmail, some fans have worked out how his creepy antics will be exposed Richard Osman has welcomed a new family member, with the television star announcing the news via social media. Maybe we can all save some money by eating the rich. As King Charles and Prince Andrew reportedly still disagree over the younger royal's living arrangements, he has been offered the exclusive use of the Queen's old Balmoral cottage The Duke and Duchess of Sussex's final day in South America included salsa dancing during a visit to a youth organization Our Yorkshire Farm star Reuben Owen has been updating fans on the future of his new solo show, Life in the Dales after it was feared that the programme had been axed Please take me to the universe where Old Yeller lives.