The Forbes Home editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Home site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.  This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.  Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Home. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Home does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. 
										Fact Checked
									 As the appliance to help keep your kitchen clear of odors and smoke while cooking, it’s no wonder so many range hood brand options exist. After all, who doesn’t want a pleasant place to prepare food, chat, cook, drink wine and eat in? A kitchen is one of the important social centers of a home, and it doesn’t hurt to include a new range hood if you’re planning a kitchen remodel. A properly functioning and efficient range hood will help it stay that way—or turn a formerly smokey kitchen into a clean, welcoming space where you and your loved ones can gather. In order to help you narrow down your search for a range hood, we have reviewed the top range hood brands and selected the top 10. This guide will help you decide which brands make range hoods capable of meeting the needs of your home. All the brands in this list manufacture a variety of range hood types. We developed our list of the best range hood brands by first identifying competitors that met basic criteria, then reviewing the 18 most widely available range hoods from that list and scoring them all based on a variety of different attributes. We further pared our list down to the top brands. Our ratings take into account factors like average price, customer reviews, types of range hoods available, number of retailers available, warranty and number of available finish and color options. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Why you can trust Forbes Home: The Forbes Home team is committed to bringing you independent, unbiased ratings and information. We use data and expert advice to inform all of our content. Plus, our advisory board of licensed professionals fact-checks and reviews our content for accuracy and relevancy. Planning A Kitchen Remodeling Project? Avoid the stress of doing it yourself. Update your countertops, cabinets, sink, and more through top-rated kitchen remodeling services from Angi. Cosmo    Cosmo Appliances manufactures affordable luxury kitchen appliances. Though the company only produces under-cabinet, wall-mount and island range hoods typically made from stainless steel, it does offer three-year manufacturer warranty on all its range hoods, guaranteeing replacement of defective parts if they meet the warranty requirements.  The company’s website is easy to navigate and provides plenty of customer support, including calling, email and text chat options. For owners who have purchased a Cosmo range hood and registered the product with the company, the brand also offers a dedicated online Customer Care hub, with access to manuals, FAQs, troubleshooting guides and warranty support. Cosmo’s products are available from a wide range of distributors. ProLine    The ProLine brand is an excellent choice if you want options, and lots of them. ProLine manufactures professional quality range hoods in six different types, including custom inserts and under-cabinet, island and outdoor hoods. Each style comes in six or more sizes (typically from 30” to 60”) and is varied in design, features and finishes–including the ability to customize a finish if so desired.  The company offers extensive customer support in the form of FAQs, detailed specifications, a customer portal for registered customers and plenty of support articles to cover a wide variety of topics. ProLine offers three-year limited warranties on all its range hoods, with the first year notably covering both parts and labor costs. Broan    Broan range hoods offer extreme affordability with prices as low as $54 (as of publish date) on Amazon. The company also sells from appliance-carrying distributors like Lowe’s, The Home Depot and AJ Madison. It manufactures a huge variety of range hoods in many different sizes, styles and color finishes with wall-mounted and under-cabinet range hoods having the most number of products by far.  Many of the range hoods are convertible from a ducted to a ductless system, though the charcoal filters required are sold separately. Broan has been awarded the International Service Excellence Award from the Customer Service Institute of America for the past three years—a reasonably certain guarantee any response from the company will be quick and helpful. Hauslane    Hauslane is a brand specializing primarily in range hoods. The company sells units and accessories ranging from under-cabinet to built-in range hoods and charcoal filters to chimney extensions. The products are high quality and primarily made of stainless steel with a decent range of designs and finish. The range hoods come with a lifetime motor warranty and free returns and can be bought directly from Hauslane.  Customer support is easily accessible through a live chat, by phone, SMS or email, or simply by using the online form on the company website. You can also purchase Hauslane range hoods from all common kitchen appliance retailers and Amazon. ZLINE    ZLINE is a brand dedicated to providing a luxury appliance experience to homeowners on an affordable budget. The company has a wide variety of range hoods, materials and finishes. Beside the common stainless steel, copper, wood and black stainless steel are all available for purchase. ZLINE sells wall-mounted, island, under-cabinet and insert range hoods, and ensures that there is a size to fit every cooktop.  The company also offers package deals so consumers can buy a range with a range hood or even a collection of appliances including a range hood. Resources, including product manuals, videos, FAQs, registration services and warranty information are easily found on the brand’s website. ZLINE products are available from retailers. Awoco    Awoco manufactures ventilation products, including range hoods. The brand primarily carries under-cabinet, wall-mounted and island range hoods, but also sells inserts for those who need them. Product prices fall between $300 and $500, placing them firmly in the middle of the road. The company also sells refurbished and used range hoods at reduced prices (typically below $300).  A one-year limited warranty of free parts, repair or exchange is guaranteed. If you need customer support, Awoco provides both a phone number and a convenient online contact form. Products can be bought directly from the company site as well as common online kitchen appliance retailers. IKTCH    As a brand conducting most of its business on Amazon, IKTCH produces inexpensive range hoods in several common types and styles. Most IKTCH range hoods come with a variety of modern features such as gesture sensing, a timer and delayed shut-off, or a remote control. Converting from a ducted to a ductless system is possible with some models, and as a nice change the charcoal filter kit is often listed as included (though it can also be bought separately).  The brand is limited by the fact that it seems to only sell through third-party retailers and has no clear or response-guaranteed way for customers to contact the company directly for service or support: despite claiming to provide between five to 10 years of technical support in product descriptions. FOTILE    As a global company with research and design teams around the world, Fotile is known for its high-quality and professional range hoods. Fotile hoods are available as wall-mount and under-cabinet only and do not offer much variation with finish, design and size. The brand offers several packages so you can purchase a range hood along with an oven, stove top or even in-sink dishwasher. In general, Fotile units are around $1,000, but some models are significantly more. The price, however, does buy more than most: over 1,000 CFM of airflow is available with these units—a truly impressive amount. Contact-wise Fotile offers a toll free number and email address. The company also features an extensive support section on its website, including more information about warranties, troubleshooting help and user manual downloads. Retailers include US Appliance, Lowe’s, Amazon and The Home Depot. Winflo by Winslyn    Winslyn Industries touts “creative living” as its slogan, and the range hood line (called Winflo®) delivers in a variety of wall-mounted, under-cabinet and island range hoods. From blocky chimney-shapes to elegantly curved hoods to wood frames, these designs come in a variety of finishes. The brand website is sparse but straight to the point, highlighting products and a few key specifications for each.  Customer service and sales inquiries are directed toward an email address, a telephone number and an online contact form. Other than this there is no further information on the website. Not warranty information, prices or more in-depth specifications. Retailers include Lowe’s, Amazon, Walmart and The Home Depot. It’s likely you’ll be looking for a specific type of range hood, whether it needs to fit an island, go under a cabinet or has to have a ductless (recirculating) ventilation option. While all brands will carry at least one or two models of each type, some brands manufacture more of a single type than others—meaning it’s highly likely the craftsmanship and quality will live up to expectations. If you already know what kind of range hood you’ll need, it may help you to look for a brand that seems to “specialize” and go from there. Similarly, some companies are more likely than others to support recirculation kits or an equivalent: in other words, the materials necessary to turn a range hood unit from a ductwork to a ductless system. Not all range hoods are convertible and when they are you usually have to use products sold by the parent company to make the conversion possible. If you need this service or want to keep the option of a ductless system open make sure the brand can support your endeavor and replacement products—like carbon filters—are easy to find and purchase. Some brands offer installation services or extra customer support through the installation process. Since installing a range hood can be a time-consuming and confusing process—especially for larger units like island range hoods or where a complicated ductwork set-up intensifies the labor—some extra help on speed dial can offer a real benefit. The same is true for any issues you may have with your unit after installation. A competent and reachable customer service department will help minimize your stress and keep you headache free, even if you’re calling from the middle of an unexpectedly smoky kitchen. Take a look at the kind of warranties a brand will offer on its products. In general, you want to choose brands with as close to full-coverage warranties as possible. If your product breaks or arrives damaged, you’ll be able to get a refund or replacement—sometimes for a specific part, sometimes for the entire unit. Brands with thorough and reasonable warranties demonstrate confidence in the quality of products, which should afford you some peace of mind about your purchase. If your preferred retail store doesn’t carry the brand of range hood you want, it’s better to know before you have your heart set on a particular model. Thanks to online delivery services, this isn’t likely a huge consideration for most shoppers. If you like to test the product in person, live somewhere not easily accessible by standard delivery services or prefer the experience of buying in-store, be sure to take this factor into account when choosing a brand to purchase from. Also worth considering is how accessible replacement parts or installation/repair services will be if you ever end up in a situation where you need them. Have a kitchen with an island range? You’ll want to look into island range hoods: units mounted on the ceiling so they hang suspended over your stovetop. Ductwork is installed in the ceiling, which must be high enough to meet the clearance guidelines over your stovetop. Island range hoods are typically designed to draw the eye, since they often take on a centerpiece role in your kitchen. As a result of all these factors, they are generally more expensive and have a more complicated installation process than other range hoods. Downdraft range hoods are a practical choice if you cannot install ductwork in your ceiling or walls. Instead, the system is installed in the floor, allowing for venting after the downdraft range hood draws and redirects polluted air downwards. While they can appear quite stylish and modern (since they are often installed as vent units that pop-up from your counter or island) these units are known to lack power and are not as efficient at removing air pollutants from your kitchen compared to other types of range hoods. If the space above your stove top is empty of cabinetry or constructions, you can install a wall-mounted range hood (also known as a chimney hood due to its appearance and the function of the ventilation system). These come in ducted and ductless versions and can handle high CPM rates. These units are also often a statement piece in a kitchen—much like an island range hood—thanks to the wide variety of shapes, colors, sizes and designs available for purchase. If you already have cabinets installed over your stovetop, you likely need an under-cabinet range hood. Designed specifically to be mounted on the underside of existing cabinetry, these units are both lighter and smaller than other types of range hoods. They come in ducted and ductless models and often can be converted. Under-cabinet range hoods can usually handle high CPMs and can come with fancy features like their larger counterparts, so there is no need to worry you’re missing out on quality or efficiency if you purchase an under-cabinet range hood. For everyday cooks who want to keep at least some cabinet space, this type of range hood is likely the best option. If you’re looking to upgrade your appliance, here are the best under-cabinet range hoods to make your kitchen renovation complete. Microwave range hoods are built directly into the underside of your microwave unit. Installed directly over your stove-top much like an under-cabinet range hood, microwave range hoods typically use a recirculating system to filter and vent air. Microwave range hoods are popular because of the convenience, affordable price point and space efficiency: you essentially see two appliances in one. Microwave range hoods are not usually as powerful or efficient as your standard range hood. You should not expect your microwave range hood to be able to totally clear the air while stir-frying, for example, while this would be perfectly reasonable to expect for a wall-mounted unit with higher CPM. A range hood is an essential purchase in a kitchen remodel. Still, homeowners don’t typically want their range hood to cost more than frequently used appliances like the refrigerator or a stove. Luckily, finding a range hood with a price that matches your budget and looks beautiful in your kitchen is easier than you might think. The range hood costs vary from $50 for one-speed recirculating canopy units to $6,000 for artisan-grade riveted, hammered copper range hoods. Range hoods help to remove smoke and grease from your cooking area, keeping the air in your kitchen fresh and clean. Therefore, they also play an essential role in your kitchen setup. When shopping for a range hood, there are a few things to keep in mind, such as: When looking for a range hood, it’s essential to ensure it’s the right size for your kitchen. If you have a small kitchen or your stovetop is very wide, you’ll want a range hood that can handle the extra space. To determine what size range hood is best for your cooking area, measure the width of your range top and compare it with the dimensions of available models, typically 30 or 36 inches. You want to choose a range hood that covers all your stovetop or at least most of it.  If you’re installing a range hood, you’ll have to decide whether to vent it or use a ductless/recirculating model. For comparison, vented hoods vent the air and pollutants outside through ductwork, while ductless hoods filter the air and release it back into the kitchen.  Another thing to note is that vented hoods are generally more efficient in removing smoke and odors but require proper ductwork installation. In contrast, ductless hoods are easier to install but may be less effective in eliminating airborne contaminants. Consider your kitchen’s layout, ventilation options and local building codes when deciding on the vent type. When choosing a range hood, its airflow capacity is an essential factor to consider. This number is usually measured in cubic feet per minute (CFM) and indicates how much air a range hood can move. The higher the CFM rating, the more suction power your hood has and the more effectively it can remove smoke and odors from your kitchen. The most significant benefit of a range hood is that it removes smoke and cooking odors. A range hood features a powerful motor and fan that pulls smoke, steam and cooking odors from your kitchen. Without a range hood, these hazardous gasses can build up in your home’s air, creating a potentially harmful environment for you, your family and your pets. A range hood is one of the simplest ways to remove grease from your home. The hood uses a fan to pull air from your kitchen, blowing it into the outside venting system. This process filters out smoke and sucks up grease particles before they can spread across the room. Upgrade the look of your kitchen with the best range hood. From rustic to modern aesthetics and everything in between, choose from countless stylish hood options that are practical and great additions to any kitchen redesign project. Plus, with a wide selection of colors and finishes, finding a range hood that coordinates with your existing décor or a brand-new kitchen design is simple. To determine the best range hood brands ranking, the Forbes Home Improvement editorial team analyzed third-party data on 18 companies. Each company’s star rating is determined by evaluating a variety of metrics, including: Pricing was a 20% factor when deciding the best range hood brands, and the team compared pricing from a number of platforms including retailer websites and Google. Customer ratings accounted for 20% of the total ranking and were analyzed across numerous platforms like retailer websites, Consumer Affairs, Google and more. The number of range hood types available gained or lost a brand company points totaling 20% of the ranking. The number of retailers available gained or lost a brand company points totaling 15% of the ranking. Whether a range hood brand offered a comprehensive and long warranty gained or lost it points totaling 15% of the ranking. Each range hood brand’s number of available finish and color options gained or lost it points totaling 10% of the ranking. When you measure for a range hood, start by measuring the size of the stovetop. In order for your range hood to have the most effect in your kitchen, the width of the unit needs to match the width of your cooking surface. This will ensure all polluted air will be successfully drawn into the unit and ventilated. Also take measurements of the height and depth of your cooking surface to make sure your set-up will meet any necessary requirements—including product clearance height or space around your range hood—a model or brand may have. You can clean your range hood using a mix of soap and warm water. Multi-surface and all-purpose cleaners will also work well. For heavier particles, like layers of grease, store-bought degreasers will have the most effect. Vinegar solutions and baking soda can also break down heavy layers of grease or gunk on your unit. Use soft cloth and cleaning supplies that will not scratch the surface of your unit. 65dB (or 13 sones) is loud for a range hood, though not necessarily unbearable. A typical conversation is around 60dB, so aim to find a range hood around this noise level but that doesn’t exceed it too much. If you are thinking of purchasing a range hood that runs at 65dB, it would be best to product test it first in-person so you can decide if the noise is too much for you. Remember to ask neighbors, friends and family for recommendations—what works for people in similar situations will likely work for you, too. Look for a minimum 100 CFM of airflow for every 12 inches of stovetop width (aka the unit will process 100 cubic feet per minute of air for every foot of cooking surface). This should meet the needs of any everyday home cook and provide adequate ventilation for your kitchen. The exact best CFM for a range hood will depend on several factors, including the size of your kitchen, how often you cook (and what kind of recipes) and how much noise you’re willing to tolerate. The higher the CFM, the more air your range hood will be able to process at a time. Range hoods come in different sizes, depending on the size and shape of your kitchen. Generally, a standard range hood is between 28 and 36 inches from your cooktop. If your hood is too close to the cooktop, it could be damaged by heat. If your hood is too far from the cooktop, it will not funnel air away from your cooktop efficiently. 
				Chauncey grew up on a farm in rural northern California. At 18 he ran away and saw the world with a backpack and a credit card, discovering that the true value of any point or mile is the experience it facilitates. He remains most at home on a tractor, but has learned that opportunity is where he finds it and discomfort is more interesting than complacency.
			 
				Corinne Tynan is a highly skilled contributing editor at Forbes Home, with a wealth of knowledge and expertise in various areas such as interior design and home improvement. With over 10 years of experience in writing, editing and SEO content strategy for digital properties, such as Bed Bath & Beyond, buybuy BABY, Harmon and Macy's, Corinne brings a unique perspective and deep understanding of all things related to enhancing and beautifying homes.
			 
				Lexie is a deputy editor at Forbes Home and has over 6 years of professional experience as a writer and editor in the home improvement space. She's previously worked at sites such as HomeAdvisor and Angi (formerly Angie's List).
			