No offers found Shop smart this B Corp month and help save our planet.  
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
 Keen to invest in sustainable clothing brands that are doing their bit to counter climate change? Look no further, as we've rounded up our go-to B Corp brands truly doing their bit to build a better tomorrow. In fact, did you know there is even a B Corp Month? That's right, every March marks an entire month dedicated to celebrating the certification and inspiring people globally to shop more sustainably. But that doesn't mean that shopping sustainably need only be condensed into a single month of the year. In keeping, this year's B Corp Month theme was "This Way Forward," encouraging others to look to B Corp businesses and the changes they are making to better both business and the planet - all year round. Not sure what a B Corp is or why buying from certified B Corp brands is so important? In short, it's a certification which indicates that a business is genuinely doing good. Buying from them is important because, if the UN's IPCC report taught us anything, it's to be kind. Not just to ourselves or each other, but to our planet, too, with the "code red" report last year showing that it's nearly too late. Sadly, shopping sustainably can feel like a minefield at the best of times. How do you avoid greenwashing? And identify brands endorsing fast fashion? And spot ethical clothing brands from the not-so-ethical? By looking for the B Corp stamp of approval, that's how. While it's not the be all and end all - there are many smaller, independent sustainable brands that don't have a B Corp certification yet - it is a really easy way to identify if a brand is actually doing good sustainability-wise, and opting for businesses practices that don't harm our planet. Keen to read up on what it actually means, which B Corp brands are our favourite and our top picks to shop? Keep reading. Fun fact: as of February 2024, there are 8,254 certified B Corporations across 162 industries in 96 countries. In 2022, the UK reached 1,000 certified B Corp businesses - which is a lot. But what does being B Corp actually mean? Celebrity news, beauty, fashion advice, and fascinating features, delivered straight to your inbox! As stated on the Certified B Corporation website, B Corp brands: "Meet high standards of verified social and environmental performance, public transparency, and legal accountability to balance profit and purpose. B Corps are accelerating a global culture shift to redefine success in business and build a more inclusive and sustainable economy." Or, in simpler terms, a B Corp brand is a sustainable company that puts sustainable practice first. And people are certainly starting to understand the importance of B Corp, too, with new statistics from the B Lab brand showing that one in seven people have heard of the B Corp movement in Europe. W&B are the latest company to become a B Corp brand. Their website is a goldmine of ethically sourced clothes, shoes, homeware and beauty products from small and independent businesses - trust us, it's a good'un. wolfandbadger.com A post shared by Emily Fenves—Sustainable Fashion Advocate (@thelanderline) A photo posted by on    Certified B Corp since December 2011, Patagonia have long championed a simple and waste-free production approach. They design clothes made to last for generations or that can be recycled, so the production doesn't harm the planet in the process. Plus, they admit that they're a work in process, always championing new and fun ways to make their business even more eco-friendly. eu.patagonia.com A post shared by Patagonia (@patagonia) A photo posted by on    Allbirds have been making merino wool footwear - what they call 'the world's best natural materials' - for years now, and were certified B Corp in 2016. Founder Tim Brown wanted to use the wool - a 'remarkable, sustainable resource [that] was virtually absent in the footwear industry' - to create a never-seen-before product. And that, he has. Working with engineer and renewables expert Joey Zwillinger, they made Allbirds - shoes made from mother nature's materials that don't harm the planet. Win, win. allbirds.co.uk A post shared by Allbirds (@allbirds) A photo posted by on    You might have guessed from the name that Vivobarefoot design shoes to help you reconnect with nature via barefoot design principles. Invented by two cousins from a family of cobblers, Galahad and Asher Clark, the shoes have been found to help improve foot health, plus use a business model designed to help 'regenerate and restore the environment'. Fun fact: last year, the brand launched ReVivo, their first programme to allow customers to return used footwear and have them reconditioned. vivobarefoot.com A post shared by VIVOBAREFOOT (@vivobarefoot) A photo posted by on    A clothing brand with a long-term commitment to sustainability, Finisterre re-certified as a B Corp last year, improving its score from 80.8 to 93.2. Founded on three commitments to people, environment and product - they were one of the original brands to certify and continue to push for sustainable steps every day. finisterre.com A post shared by Finisterre (@finisterre) A photo posted by on    You'll have heard of TOMS - the footwear brand - but you might not be aware that since 2006, they've been building a business for good that promises to improve lives, too. Supporting the work of non-profit organisations around the world, they commit a third of profits to grassroots good and, in their words, "in support of the people working to build a more equitable tomorrow". Another fun fact for you: in 2021, the brand was recognised in the top 5% of B corps in the Community category and increased its overall score to 121.5 points - 25% higher than previously. Not bad. toms.com/uk A post shared by TOMS (@toms) A photo posted by on    Fashion rental company HURR officially became a B Corp last year garnering a score of 87.1. As a business, HURR wants to reinvent the concept of ownership helping people build a sustainable wardrobe through renting rather than buying new. Beyond just its circular fashion model, HURR also works with sustainable suppliers. RePack reusable packaging is used to send its products, while the brand also has a partnership with sustainable dry cleaning service OxWash. www.hurrcollective.com A post shared by HURR (@hurr) A photo posted by on    Chloé was the first luxury label to gain B Corp certification, achieving the status shortly after Gabriela Hearst took helm of the brand as creative director. Chloé has set out its intentions and hopes to achieve 90% lower-impact materials in collections and 30% fair-trade sourcing by 2025. www.chloe.com A post shared by Chloé (@chloe) A photo posted by on    With Nothing Underneath is all about creating wardrobe staples you will keep for life, most prominently perfect button-down shirts. From the selection of materials to the conditions of garment workers, WNU takes it all into consideration when creating its timeless products. When applying for B Corp, the company achieved a 91.7 overall impact score. www.withnothingunderneath.com A post shared by WNU (@withnothingunderneath) A photo posted by on    A certified B Corp since 2021, Faithfull The Brand has achieved a 96.3 overall impact score. The brand works with artisans across Bali to hand-make its garments, supporting family-run factories in Indonesia. As a brand, Faithfull is known for its coveted summer essentials that are beloved by influencers and fashion editors alike. faithfullthebrand.com  A post shared by Faithfull the Brand (@faithfullthebrand) A photo posted by on    Luxury re-sale site Vestiaire Collective is on a mission to give fashion a second life, with its extensive collection of shoppable second-hand and vintage products. Given the fact that it's re-sale, Vestiaire already avoids 100% of the environmental impact involved in actually producing products, giving the brand a head start on its sustainability efforts. As a company, Vestiaire scored a 89.4 on the overall impact score. www.vestiairecollective.com A post shared by Vestiaire Collective (@vestiaireco) A photo posted by on    As a business, Ganni strives to be as responsible as possible, taking into account people and the planet. The brand publishes an annual responsibility report and aims to be radically transparent with its supply chain. The label has also launched initiatives including Ganni Resale, which enables customers to seamlessly resell their pre-loved products in order to extend the lifespan of their clothes, thereby minimising an item's overall environmental footprint. Ganni achieved B Corp status in September 2022 with an overall score of 90.6 www.ganni.com A post shared by GANNI (@ganni) A photo posted by on    One of Scotland’s oldest family-owned businesses, Johnstons of Elgin recently achieved its B Corp status. As Royal Warrant holders, they've been experts in natural fibres since 1797, crafting cashmere and merino wool products in Elgin and Hawick. Chris Gaffney, Chief Executive at Johnstons of Elgin, said of their recent certification: "Our team at Johnston's has done great work to get us to the point where we could meet the stringent criteria required to become a B Corp and this, in turn, has made us a better company. There remains much work to do, but it is very fulfilling as a Chief Executive and a Board to be so clearly empowered by our family owners to make decisions that will continue us on a journey to becoming a fully sustainable company." johnstonsofelgin.com   A beauty brand manufactured in the UK, Balance Me formulations are 99% natural, microplastic free, and formulated without silicones, sulphates, parabens, phthalates, petrolatum, propylene glycol, mineral oil, synthetic fragrance, synthetic colours, TEA, DEA, MIT, CMIT, and PEGS. All their fragrances come from pure essential oils blended in Somerset and packaging is a mix of glass and mono plastics. At least 96% of what they use is recyclable, from recycled content, renewable, reusable and they don’t use outer plastic wrapping, shives, gold embossing. Plus, 20% of profits at retail go to good causes – this year they are supporting Hygiene Banks. www.balanceme.com A post shared by Balance Me Natural Skincare (@balancemeskincare) A photo posted by on    Beauty power brand Elemis has made sustainability a focus - and as a result they have made some big changes in the past two years such as reducing its environmental impact, including every aspect of the supply chain - raw materials, manufacturing, packaging, and transportation; and renewable energy is now used at all facilities. Their biotech alternatives to natural ingredients will help reduce their impact on the planet and protect and preserve our future biodiversity. In terms of restoring biodiversity, they focus on carbon sink projects such as a peatlands restoration project which sequesters carbon. www.elemis.com A post shared by ELEMIS UK & Ireland (@elemis_uki) A photo posted by on    Evolve considers sustainability in every aspect of their natural product line, from raw materials - that are renewable and GMO free - to production, where most are handmade in small batches on the premises, all using environmentally-friendly processes. All paper and card is made from grass and printed with vegetable ink. These farm-to-face beauty products are independently verified and certified COSMOS Organic and Natural. www.evolvebeauty.co.uk A post shared by EVOLVE ORGANIC BEAUTY (@evolvebeautyuk) A photo posted by on    You'll all have heard of Aesop - a luxury skincare brand that sells skincare, soaps, and more. Not only do they have a B Corp certification, but a Leaping Bunny, too, proving that they have (and never will) test their products on animals. All products are 100% vegan, too. aesop.com A post shared by Aesop (@aesopskincare) A photo posted by on    TikTok hit UpCircle shows that it’s possible to make a beautiful and effective product by using upcycled ingredients which would usually go to landfill. Founders Anna and William Brightman house products in recyclable, refillable jars made of glass with aluminium lids. Marketing materials are all plastic-free/biodegradable. UpCircle are certified Plastic Negative, as they remove more plastic waste than they create. www.upcirclebeauty.com A post shared by ZeroWasteStore.com (@zerowastestore) A photo posted by on    Neom’s fragrances are 100% natural, and they source their essential oils through traceable, sustainable, and ethical supply chains. NEOM is a Living Wage Employer and offers employees four wellbeing days a year with mental health support central to the culture of the business. This brand’s jars are made from 50% PCR with either no paper cartons or those that are FSC certified. They have just introduced their first aluminium bottle into the range. To protect the survival of endangered species, the formulators have reformulated 30% of their essential oil blends to remove Brazilian Rosewood and Guicwood and continue to source raw materials for more sustainable alternatives. A company-wide recovery and recycling program has been implemented across the UK. neomwellbeing.com A post shared by NEOM (@neomorganics) A photo posted by on    Arkive aims to create a world that makes a positive difference to how people feel about themselves. They call this Headcare. Founded by celebrity hairstylist Adam Reed, all Arkive packaging is made from 40% PCR plastic. For their scrubs, they use cellulose derived exfoliating beads derived from wood pulp which is 100% renewable, sustainable, and biodegradable. All outer packaging distributed via suppliers is made from 100% PCR plastic and is 100% recyclable. www.arkiveheadcare.com A post shared by ARKIVE HEADCARE (@arkiveheadcare) A photo posted by on    More than 85% of Aveda’s containers are 100% PCR, all products are vegan, and their new launches will be silicone-free. Aveda’s primary facility manufactures products using 100% wind and solar power. For transparency in 2020, the brand completed one of the largest blockchain pilots in the beauty industry to trace vanilla from the source in Madagascar to its manufacturing facility in Minnesota. Aveda is committed to raising awareness and funds to help provide clean water globally and help protect clean water locally. Since 1999, Aveda has raised more than £55 million for hundreds of global and local environmental organisations, providing clean water to more than 1.5 million people. www.aveda.co.uk A post shared by Aveda (@aveda) A photo posted by on    We all love Proper snacks - hello, tasty, tasty popcorn and lentil crisps - but did you know they've been a B Corp brand since 2018? They were the first snack brand in the UK to be certified, and sell vegan snacks made from 100% natural ingredients. proper.co.uk A post shared by PROPER (@proper) A photo posted by on    Form have always had sustainability at the core of what they do. Co-founder Damian Soong said: "Giving and social responsibility is woven into Form’s DNA – even at our pre-launch, we gave a meal for every sign-up." Co-founder Natalia Bojanic agrees, adding: "We don’t see the point of being a business if you aren’t doing good in the world. In our view, companies have a social, economic and environmental responsibility to bring positive impact to society." formnutrition.com A post shared by Form Nutrition (@formnutrition) A photo posted by on    Graze - a subscription-based snack service that can be directly delivered to your door - became a B Corp earlier this year. They said on the move: "We've joined thousands of businesses who, like us, believe in being a force for good in the world. It means we're challenging ourselves to imagine even better ways of doing things right for people and the planet. And we think that's an idea that really counts." As part of their eco-movement they've made a pledge to go carbon neutral by 2030. "We've measured our footprint, and are already working on reducing it as much as we can first and foremost. Case in point - all the electricity at our factory and our bakery is now 100% carbon neutral and comes from a windfarm in a particularly windy bit of Scotland. There's lots more work to do, and we're excited to share our progress as we go," they share. graze.com A post shared by graze snacks (@grazesnacks) A photo posted by on    As per the Ocean Bottle website, 22 million kilograms of plastic enter the ocean every day. "That’s one truckload every minute," they share. As a certified B Corp, they not only produce sustainable and eco-friendly water bottles from plastic waste, but they set up recycling infrastructure in coastal communities with high levels of plastic pollution, too. Fun fact: so far, they claim to have stopped 8.7 million kilograms of plastic from entering the ocean. Not bad. oceanbottle.co A post shared by Ocean Bottle (@oceanbottle) A photo posted by on    In a nutshell: a health supplement brand with a heart. They share that from the very beginning, their aim was to shake things up a little and carve a new path. "To create products with purpose, backed by science, and using natural ingredients of exceptional quality," shares the B Corp website. Sold in 52 countries globally, the brand is big on supporting the planet, offering eco-friendly packaging and a business model that, first and foremost, respects the environment and natural order of things. wildnutrition.com A post shared by Wild Nutrition (@wildnutritionltd) A photo posted by on    The first tea company to be certified plastic-free, Teapigs was born in 2006 with the aim of getting the nation to drink good quality tea again. Both founders worked at Tetley before launching the company. They were certified as a B Corporation in 2019, "joining a community that considers people, environment, and profit in equal measure when making business decisions," they share. teapigs.co.uk A post shared by teapigs (@teapigs) A photo posted by on    If you like healthy food but also frequently find yourself time short, you'll love Strongroots, which makes plant-based freezer food and was awarded a B Corp last year. They said at the time: "This year, for the first time, we’re so proud to announce that we have been awarded B Corp certification, following a rigorous assessment of our social and environmental performance to date. We’re extra proud to say that this makes us the first Irish plant-based food business that has B Corp status." strongroots.com/uk A post shared by STRONG ROOTS Plant Based Food (@strongroots) A photo posted by on    The Uncommon produce seriously tasty English sparkling wines and spritzers in cans and, fun fact: all grapes are sustainably grown and hand-picked from vineyards in Kent, Surrey, and Hampshire. They’re on a mission to prove you can get high-quality wine in the more sustainable canned format and recently became the UK’s first winemaker to become a Certified B Corporation. Henry Connell, Co-Founder of The Uncommon, says: “From day one, The Uncommon’s mission has been simple; to make great quality wine in the right way, with a positive impact on people and planet. We’re proud to be the first UK winemaker to join the B Corp community and hope to pave the way for others in the industry to break tradition for the better. Our ultimate ambition is to be the most sustainable wine brand in Europe, and we wholeheartedly believe that our format and small footprint has a part to play in the future of the wine industry.” He adds: “We’re particularly proud of our low carbon footprint, achieved through a fully domestic supply chain, absence of single-use packaging materials, and commitment to local production. Our vineyards are all located in the Southeast of England, within 50 miles of our Sustainable Wine of Great Britain accredited winery.” wearetheuncommon.co.uk A post shared by The Uncommon - Wine of England (@wearetheuncommon) A photo posted by on    Alex and JP - the founders of allplants - reckon the world would be a better place if people ate more plants. That's where the idea for allplants came from. It's as simple as ordering some of their plant-based, veg-packed meals online and popping them in your freezer for when you've had a long day in the office but still fancy a nutrient-dense meal. Climbing from 82B in 2018 to an impressive 102B, allplants has served up four million plant-based meals since its conception in 2016. It’s also committed to a ‘planet kind’ promise, assessing its packaging, company carbon footprint, supply chain, and more to further improve its B Corp score, and is calling on more UK businesses to do the same. allplants.com A post shared by allplants (@allplants) A photo posted by on    Making delicious nut butters, Pip & Nut - founded by Pip Murray in 2013 - have been a B Corp since 2019 and promise never to use palm oil in their products. It took them over a year to earn their status, which shows how rigorous and thorough B Corp are with only awarding brands that are genuinely doing their bit. pipandnut.com A post shared by Pip & Nut (@pipandnut) A photo posted by on    The only 100% British-made cleaning brand scores over 96 points on the B Corp scale, showing that Delphis truly are doing their bit to make sure every step of their supply chain is as eco as possible. On their website, they share that "being a B Corp means not only caring for the planet but putting it first in our processes and decisions. We know business can make a big difference - it’s why we make sure that we are green at every stage of each decision we make" delphiseco.com A post shared by Delphis Eco | B Corp (@delphiseco) A photo posted by on    If you like the sound of saying goodbye to toxic chemicals and single-use plastics. The premise is simple: buy the bottles once and get plastic-free refills sent to your door, so you need never throw away an empty plastic cleaning bottle again. On being awarded a B Corp this year, they said: "We’ve been working towards this certification even before we officially launched because we wanted to embed the B Corp values into the foundations of our business. It strengthens our honest commitment to people and the planet." wearespruce.co A post shared by Spruce | Refillable Cleaning (@we.are.spruce) A photo posted by on    Fun fact: Dame launched the world's first reusable tampon applicator and have one main aim: to eliminate plastic, waste, and chemicals from period products. The company was certified a B Corp in January 2019. wearedame.co A post shared by DAME | Changing Periods For Good (@wearedame_) A photo posted by on    Good question. According to the B Corp website, the assessment 'evaluates how your company’s operations and business model impact your workers, community, environment, and customers. From your supply chain and input materials to your charitable giving and employee benefits, B Corp Certification proves your business is high standards of verified social and environmental performance.' So, essentially, it takes a deep dive into your business model and practices to make sure every step of the process is sustainable for both people and planet. B Corp brands treat employees well, and the planet well, too. Only brands verified by their 'B Lab' actually make it to B Corp status - it's notoriously thorough and difficult to get the badge of honour, making sure only businesses who are genuinely going the extra mile are accredited. It's not-for-profit and wants to inspire people globally to use business as a force of good. Plus, B Corp brands don't claim to be perfect - actually, far from it. The stamp means they're doing the best they can - and a fair bit more than most brands without the stamp - and, as per the Propercorn website, a certified B Corp, are 'alike in their motivation to do more and grow in the right way'. So, why is buying from these businesses so important? Silly question, really: we're facing a climate crisis and, if we don't change our ways soon, risk destroying our planet. Shopping with brands making a difference is not longer just a nice way to reduce your carbon footprint - it's essential for everyone to survive. It's pretty simple: just look out for the below logo on the packaging or website of your favourite brands. Most of the time, it'll be displayed with pride the bottom of their homepage, on their social media, or on their packaging. Keep an eye out.  For more information on becoming a B Corp or to check out the extensive directory of brands, head to the Certified B Corporation website. Research by Rosie Grant Ally Head is Marie Claire UK's Senior Health, Sustainability, and Relationships Editor, nine-time marathoner, and Boston Qualifying runner. Day-to-day, she works across site strategy, features, and e-commerce, reporting on the latest health updates, writing the must-read health and wellness content, and rounding up the genuinely sustainable and squat-proof gym leggings worth *adding to basket*. She's won a BSME for her sustainability work, regularly hosts panels and presents for events like the Sustainability Awards, and is a stickler for a strong stat, too, seeing over nine million total impressions on the January 2023 Wellness Issue she oversaw. Follow Ally on Instagram for more or get in touch. 
She is 'putting herself first' ahead of her tour
 
By Jadie Troy-Pryde
 
 
By Jenny Proudfoot
 
Here are 7 affordable alternatives
 
By Mischa Anouk Smith
 
Living sustainably doesn't need to feel unattainable or overwhelming.
 
By Ally Head
 
The tiny plastics are more harmful than you'd imagine.
 
By Dionne Brighton
 
This Earth Month, educate yourself on the most obvious red flags.
 
By Ally Head
 
As a conscious consumer navigating the sea of green claims, I find ethical brands with B Corp certification offer clear guidance.
 
By Lisa Oxenham
 
It's time to celebrate businesses that are a force for good.
 
By Ally Head
 
This B Corp month, we chat to a dynamic changemaker about building businesses that are a genuine force for good.
 
By Ally Head
 
Despite facing discrimination, she's a role model for women in science and conservation, advocating tirelessly for equality and representation.
 
By Lisa Oxenham
 
Waste not, want not.
 
By Ally Head
 Marie Claire UK is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site.
©
Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury,
Bath
BA1 1UA. All rights reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885. 