Find anything you save across the site in your account  Find anything you save across the site in your account  7.6 Genre: Jazz Label: Impulse! Reviewed: April 14, 2023 The community of genre-bending harpists is small. Few have the temerity to tackle the massive but delicate instrument, and those that do must grapple with its tendency to recede into the background. But most who have dragged the harp out of the classical context can trace their roots back to Dorothy Ashby, the pioneering Detroit harpist whose 1968 album Afro-Harping laid the foundation for the instrument’s role in post-bop jazz. And few embody that legacy better than Brandee Younger. In many ways, Younger’s career mirrors Ashby’s: Each tested the harp’s limitations, blurring genre lines and forcefully establishing the instrument as a lead role in contemporary jazz. And they both became the go-to harpist for pop musicians of their era (Bill Withers, Minnie Riperton, and Stevie Wonder for Ashby; Beyoncé, Lauryn Hill, and John Legend for Younger). But while Younger had Ashby and Alice Coltrane as role models for a Black woman redefining the possibilities of a classical instrument, Ashby had no choice but to blaze her own trail, at a time when civil rights for non-whites was only just beginning to gain traction. Brand New Life is Younger’s tribute to Ashby’s achievements. Most of the pieces on Brand New Life were originally written or performed by Ashby, including Stevie Wonder’s “If It’s Magic”—one of Younger’s first exposures to Ashby’s playing, before she even knew who she was. And she has the unique honor of being the first to record Ashby’s “You’re a Girl for One Man Only,” a shimmering ballad punctuated by Makaya McCraven’s loose, airy percussion. She transforms Ashby’s “Dust”—composed and recorded for The Rubáiyát of Dorothy Ashby, a 1968 exploration of the Japanese koto—into an infectious easy-listening dub groove with help from Meshell Ndegeocello. “Running Games” and “Livin’ and Lovin’ in My Own Way” provide the clearest evidence of Ashby’s direct influence on Younger, reimagining her original compositions with a modern POV made possible only by the elder’s groundbreaking presence. Younger says creating the album was “a lifelong dream,” one she hadn’t quite felt prepared to make until now. But Brand New Life merely formalizes an influence on her work that has long been apparent. Younger’s flawless technique allows for a freedom of movement that gives her harp a vocal quality, whether leading a composition or in conversation with a guest vocalist like Mumu Fresh (“Brand New Life”). She pulls off intricate arpeggios that would be difficult—or impossible?—on another instrument. Occasionally her plucks and percussive strikes take on qualities of a guitar or piano, drawing from Ashby’s deep understanding of the harp’s design. The most fascinating moments on Brand New Life lie in the cross-generational conversation between Ashby, hip-hop, and contemporary jazz. Ashby’s work has been sampled hundreds of times by producers drawn to her infusion of funk and soul into post-bop jazz; Afro-Harping, in particular, shows up on records by GZA, 9th Wonder, Mac Miller, and Flying Lotus. Pete Rock’s flip of “Come Live With Me” on “For Pete’s Sake” was among Younger’s first exposures to Ashby’s harp, evidence that contemporary artists like her and McCraven—who produced and plays drums on the entire record—are students not just of jazz, but of the music it inspired and evolved into. Pete Rock and 9th Wonder’s boom-bap turntablist contributions to Brand New Life do more than just complete the circle of inspiration; they add texture to a feedback loop that grows richer with each new interpretation. The result is a record that scans as adult-contemporary hip-hop (in a good way!), music fueled by the joy of discovery and the shared love of an artist whose work has remained in conversation across generations. Many post-bop jazz records look to standards for inspiration, but few breathe such life into the legacy they inherit. All products featured on Pitchfork are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. By signing up you agree to our User Agreement (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions), our Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement and to receive marketing and account-related emails from Pitchfork. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. More From Pitchfork Events © 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Pitchfork may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment