

			By Diana Panuncial | 		
January 29, 2023
 A makerspace at the library geared for 2–6 year olds may be a bit difficult to imagine, but all it takes to start is a few things: small ramps, flashlights, a repurposed overhead projector, and in many cases, an assortment of toy balls will do. And at home, it can look like a variety of disposable cups, flour, and food coloring.  A makerspace at the library geared for 2–6 year olds may be a bit difficult to imagine, but all it takes to start is a few things: small ramps, flashlights, a repurposed overhead projector, and in many cases, an assortment of toy balls will do. And at home, it can look like a variety of disposable cups, flour, and food coloring.  “Sometimes, parents will ask us, ‘What can we do with a cup?’” said Amy Kraemer, youth services librarian at Keene (N.H.) Public Library (KPL). “Maybe your kid thinks it’s a cup, maybe they don’t. You can fill it up with beans and shake it, make a parachute out of it. Let your kid think about it.” Kraemer, joined by Gail Zachariah, head of engagement and youth services at KPL, talked about their Little Makers program, its benefits, and how it shifted during the pandemic at “Starting Young: How to Launch Family Making Experiences at the Library,” a January 29 session at the American Library Association’s 2023 LibLearn X conference in New Orleans.  KPL’s Little Makers program, which began in 2018, aims to encourage children to tinker with and tailor objects through the process of play, involve parents and caregivers to encourage co-learning between them and their children, and demystify STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) concepts. With a focus on open-ended play, Kraemer said that a challenge was getting parents to let go of leading their children and instead encourage them to let their kids experiment. The activities didn’t have a set outcome. “We’re adults. We already know that if you slide a ball off a table, it’s going to fall. But the kids don’t,” she said. “So a big part of our job was to help the parents hold back but assist, and be the helpers or the co-learners with their children.” At times, parents can also be confused or intimidated by the term “STEM.” Kraemer and Zachariah said they emphasized how STEM can be as simple as playing with light and rolling different-shaped objects down a ramp. “You don’t have to be an expert,” Kraemer said.  The program has worked in person but also shifted online due to the pandemic. “We really tried to avoid the idea of calling it ‘virtual,’ because it really wasn’t virtual. We called it ‘at-home,’” Zachariah said. KPL produced take-home kits and encouraged families to participate and record their activities on Goosechase, an app that can replicate a real-world interactive experience inspired by scavenger hunts.  “One of the best things about the at-home program was people really did understand how science is all around you,” Kraemer said. “Things that are engineered are part of your daily life, but you don’t really think about it. Part of our goal was to get [parents and caregivers] to think about that.” DIANA PANUNCIAL is an associate editor at American Libraries. RELATED POSTS: The Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) and Independent Publishers Group (IPG) have announced an agreement that will allow libraries around the country to purchase tens of thousands of ebook and audiobook titles and own them in perpetuity, rather than license them. Dozens of independent publishers are participating in the deal. Libraries will be able to purchase books through the Palace Marketplace, a non-profit ebook and audiobook platform developed by The Palace Project in consultation with libraries.
 The Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) and Independent Publishers Group (IPG) have announced an agreement that will allow libraries around the country to purchase tens of thousands of ebook and audiobook titles and own them in perpetuity, rather than license them. Dozens of independent publishers are participating in the deal. Libraries will be able to purchase books through the Palace Marketplace, a non-profit ebook and audiobook platform developed by The Palace Project in consultation with libraries. Digital Public Library of America, Aug. 13 Terra Dankowski writes: “Connie Chung has made an indelible mark on broadcast journalism—and even inspired a younger generation of Connies. Now she reflects on her life with her memoir, Connie (Grand Central Publishing, September), which traces her family’s immigration to the US, the stories she broke, and the legacy she hopes to leave behind. American Libraries talked with Chung after her appearance at the American Library Association’s 2024 Annual Conference and Exhibition in San Diego about her forthcoming book, the state of journalism, and her childhood library.”
 Terra Dankowski writes: “Connie Chung has made an indelible mark on broadcast journalism—and even inspired a younger generation of Connies. Now she reflects on her life with her memoir, Connie (Grand Central Publishing, September), which traces her family’s immigration to the US, the stories she broke, and the legacy she hopes to leave behind. American Libraries talked with Chung after her appearance at the American Library Association’s 2024 Annual Conference and Exhibition in San Diego about her forthcoming book, the state of journalism, and her childhood library.” American Libraries, July/August WZTVKaitlin Miller writes: “A Wilson County [Tennessee] high school is warning teachers to skip classroom libraries and closed the school library over concerns surrounding a new state law. Under the law, any brief mention of sex, nudity, or excess violence can lead to a book ban. The Wilson County Director of Schools says they are temporarily closing the library at Green Hill High School in Mount Juliet to sort through books to make sure they get rid of the those that are required to be banned. What makes this law different than a previous law is the context of the material does not matter.”
 WZTVKaitlin Miller writes: “A Wilson County [Tennessee] high school is warning teachers to skip classroom libraries and closed the school library over concerns surrounding a new state law. Under the law, any brief mention of sex, nudity, or excess violence can lead to a book ban. The Wilson County Director of Schools says they are temporarily closing the library at Green Hill High School in Mount Juliet to sort through books to make sure they get rid of the those that are required to be banned. What makes this law different than a previous law is the context of the material does not matter.” WZTV-TV (Nashville), Aug. 5 Jake Peterson and Jeff Somers write: “From the moment ChatGPT introduced the world to generative AI in late 2022, it was apparent that you can no longer trust that something you’re reading was written by a human. You can ask an AI program like ChatGPT to write something—anything at all—and it will, in mere seconds. So how can you trust that what you’re reading came from the mind of a person, and not the product of an algorithm?” The six-part series also includes stories on identifying chatbots and AI-generated music, speech, video, and pictures.
 Jake Peterson and Jeff Somers write: “From the moment ChatGPT introduced the world to generative AI in late 2022, it was apparent that you can no longer trust that something you’re reading was written by a human. You can ask an AI program like ChatGPT to write something—anything at all—and it will, in mere seconds. So how can you trust that what you’re reading came from the mind of a person, and not the product of an algorithm?” The six-part series also includes stories on identifying chatbots and AI-generated music, speech, video, and pictures. Lifehacker, Aug. 12 Jaime Eastman writes: “As library professionals working with children, we often emphasize play. Last month, I wrote about defining our play space standards. This month, I’m tackling the next step: creating tools and resources to support staff in our play spaces. When you’re familiar with early literacy and child development concepts, play is intuitive. It’s part of what we do. For some staff, though, those connections aren’t as obvious. We wanted to create resources that not only meet staff where they are but also support our unique and changing communities. Here’s what we did.”
 Jaime Eastman writes: “As library professionals working with children, we often emphasize play. Last month, I wrote about defining our play space standards. This month, I’m tackling the next step: creating tools and resources to support staff in our play spaces. When you’re familiar with early literacy and child development concepts, play is intuitive. It’s part of what we do. For some staff, though, those connections aren’t as obvious. We wanted to create resources that not only meet staff where they are but also support our unique and changing communities. Here’s what we did.” ALSC Blog, Aug. 7 Becky Spratford writes: “President Obama’s annual list of his favorite books of the summer just dropped. I understand that sharing his list could be problematic at some libraries due to the partisan nature of American life. To that end, I suggest you do some searching and find other summer lists. No matter how you do it, the middle of August is a great time to start the conversation with your patrons about what books they most enjoyed over the summer. Never underestimate how much people like being asked to share things they enjoyed.”
 Becky Spratford writes: “President Obama’s annual list of his favorite books of the summer just dropped. I understand that sharing his list could be problematic at some libraries due to the partisan nature of American life. To that end, I suggest you do some searching and find other summer lists. No matter how you do it, the middle of August is a great time to start the conversation with your patrons about what books they most enjoyed over the summer. Never underestimate how much people like being asked to share things they enjoyed.” RA For All, Aug. 13 Ashley Belanger writes: “After US District Judge Amit Mehta ruled that Google has a monopoly in two markets—general search services and general text advertising—everybody is wondering how Google might be forced to change its search business. Specifically, the judge ruled that Google’s exclusive deals with browser and device developers secured Google’s monopoly. These so-called default agreements funneled the majority of online searches to Google search engine result pages, where results could be found among text ads that have long generated the bulk of Google’s revenue.”
 Ashley Belanger writes: “After US District Judge Amit Mehta ruled that Google has a monopoly in two markets—general search services and general text advertising—everybody is wondering how Google might be forced to change its search business. Specifically, the judge ruled that Google’s exclusive deals with browser and device developers secured Google’s monopoly. These so-called default agreements funneled the majority of online searches to Google search engine result pages, where results could be found among text ads that have long generated the bulk of Google’s revenue.” Ars Technica, Aug. 7; Aug. 5   A publication of the American Library Association 225 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 1300, Chicago, IL 60601 1.800.545.2433 © 2009–2024 American Library Association