PMY Group has acquired Waco-based True North Consulting Group in a strategic move that PMY said underscores its commitment to excellence in the public sector space. PMY Group CEO Paul Yeomans PMY Group, headquartered in Carrollton, is a leading technology solutions company specializing in providing innovative platforms and services to infrastructure, public venues, and major events. No financial details were released. PMY Group CEO Paul Yeomans said that while PMY Group is “well recognized in the sports and venues industry,” the company continues to diversify its business into other major infrastructure classes. “Our global design house, WJHW, has had a strong footprint in the Texas K-12 market for some time, and the inclusion of True North into our group further enhances our positioning in public sector markets,” Yeomans added in a statement. “The addition of True North aligns with our growth trajectory and positions us for continued success in the public sector space.” PMY said that True North built its reputation by providing a range of consulting services, including comprehensive technology planning, technical design, cyber security, physical security risk & vulnerability assessments, instructional technology, funding, governance, and bond programming to public agencies, such as state and local municipalities, K-12, and higher education. “Combining PMY, WJHW, and True North into a single team just makes sense. Our culture and approach to consulting are well aligned, and our resources and expertise are incredibly complimentary,” True North CEO Russ Johnson said in a statement. “With the addition of decades of experience in large venue sports and performing arts, no other consulting firm will be able to match the technical diversity of our combined teams.” WJHW President René Garza said the deal made sense for the companies. “Having worked alongside True North on various projects, adding them as part of the PMY family was a natural progression of our relationship,” Garza said in a statement. PMY said the group emphasizes the combined ability to leverage resources and expertise to deliver innovative solutions and value to clients. Schools and educational institutions stand to gain from a richer pool of talent, expertise, and innovative solutions that only such a collaboration can offer, PMY added. True North will continue to operate under Johnson’s leadership as CEO, and its current management group. Johnson will join the PMY global as senior executive and will be instrumental in the strategic growth of the SLED offering globally. In July, PMY announced its first institutional capital raise since the company’s 2009 founding in Melbourne by Paul Yeomans.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   Don't miss your chance to get our biggest-ever Dallas Innovates magazine. Request a complimentary copy of the once-a-year limited edition now. Find your passion and give with purpose to support our community. The once-a-year summit on September 22 and 23 is an innovation multiplier for capital, collaboration, and commercialization. Experts in the field will discuss strategy and exchange insights—and what's driving life science success across the region. UNT and Dallas-based communications tech company COMSovereign are partnering to develop and launch a new 5G edge-centric infrastructure test platform, funded in part by a grant from the North Central Texas Council of Governments. With the new program, UNT's Dr. Kamesh Namuduri says his team will "be able to expand our focus on wireless connectivity and research into Advanced Air Mobility technologies including UAVs, where UNT is already actively engaged with an expanding network of industry and government partners." A 100th birthday is a big deal—especially when every Texan can join the party. So to celebrate its 2023 centennial, Texas Parks & Wildlife is hosting a photo contest almost all year long. And some of the best images may be waiting for us at the end of the year right here in North Texas, when Palo Pinto Mountains State Park opens 80 miles west of Fort Worth. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... Dallas-based parking operator Platinum Parking has been acquired by Denver’s The Broe Group in partnership with New York’s Hudson Valley Parking Trust. The Broe Group said the acquisition expands the partners’ operational reach into 19 new markets across six high-growth states.... Arlington-based health system Texas Health Resources announced that it’s expanding services in Kaufman County—including building a new full-service hospital and on-campus medical office building in Forney, one of the nation’s fastest-growing cities.... One of the nation’s top design events of the year, the fifth annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, will be open to the public for three weeks beginning October 25 at 2999 Turtle Creek Blvd.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.