E-Edition Sign up for email newsletters to submit an obituary 
To place an obituary Monday through Friday, 8:30am to 4:00pm, please email obits@pottsmerc.com or call us at 610-235-2690 for further information.
 
Saturday & Sunday, please contact obits@pottsmerc.com
  Sign up for email newsletters E-Edition 
			TRENDING:		 A lot of fucus has been placed on the inequitable funding of Pennsylvania’s public schools this year, and rightly so. The unchecked discrepancies that we have lived with for decades have compounded on themselves, creating a clear set of winners and losers. Unfortunately, and quite predictably, free-market economics has fueled the division by allowing wealthy families to buy into high performing districts, increasing the tax base (and therefore the funding available to those districts) while also displacing lower income families into lower performing districts.While we need to get ahold of this problem with both hands and fix it, there is another education problem here in Pennsylvania we need to grapple with. Our state university system seems set up to create a “brain drain,” encouraging collegebound students to attend out of state institutions whence many will not return.Why? Because college graduates tend to stay near their colleges, not their hometowns. In fact, nearly half of all graduates end up living within 50 miles of their alma mater.This is costing Pennsylvania an untold fortune. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the jobless rate among college grads is 40% lower than that of high school grads. (Think about the importance to a community of some of the fields where a college degree is required, like education, medicine, and engineering.)Moreover, the average annual income of college grads is about 68% higher than that of high school grads. So college graduates are significantly more likely to be employed and will earn significantly more money.I understand that money is not everything. More importantly, Pennsylvania employs and needs all kinds of workers with all kinds of education, and all kinds of skills, and all kinds of experience. That is how we have kept our state’s broad-based economy.But from the point of view of statewide economics, with their higher employment levels and higher pay, college graduates increase the state’s tax base substantially.The difference in state income taxes between the average high school graduate and the average college graduate is $924 per year. If you figure a college graduate works from their early 20s to retirement age, that’s a total of over $35,000.

At the federal level, the difference in taxes is over $200,000 at retirement.Taken together, all of these statistics suggest how we should view our state institutions for higher education. They are not merely stand-alone ivory towers dedicated to educating a relatively small number of our residents (even if they sometimes feel like this). They are not profit centers in-and-of themselves (even if they sometimes feel like this, too). They are long term public investments that can keep students in Pennsylvania while also attracting new people to Pennsylvania. Many of those people will become employed residents who, over time, provide a high return on investment while also fulfilling some of the important roles in our communities.Last year my son applied to 12 colleges and was accepted to all 12. After all the scholarships were factored in, the University of Pittsburgh was the most expensive of his final four schools. He had better financial options as a non-resident at one New Jersey state school and at a couple of private universities.Now it is true, some of those schools were apples, some were oranges, but it is also true that Pennsylvania is ranked the third most expensive state for in-state tuition. If that is how it is for in-state students, you can imagine the chilling effect these high costs have on enticing students to give Pennsylvania a try.We have a lot of very good public colleges here, but we have not cornered the market on them, and that is why so many of my son’s classmates will be making the long drive to schools in other states over the next week.If the above statistics hold true, many of those bright young students will not return in four years. They will find jobs near their newly adopted hometowns, pay taxes there, and diversify those states’ workforces.As a state, Pennsylvania needs to start being serious about education. It starts with ensuring that all Pennsylvania’s children receive the same primary and secondary educational opportunities, but it must extend through high school and beyond. Building and maintaining a robust and diverse workforce requires that we invest strongly in higher education.Will Wood is a small business owner, veteran, and half-decent runner. He lives, works, and writes in West Chester. While we need to get ahold of this problem with both hands and fix it, there is another education problem here in Pennsylvania we need to grapple with. Our state university system seems set up to create a “brain drain,” encouraging collegebound students to attend out of state institutions whence many will not return. Why? Because college graduates tend to stay near their colleges, not their hometowns. In fact, nearly half of all graduates end up living within 50 miles of their alma mater. This is costing Pennsylvania an untold fortune. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the jobless rate among college grads is 40% lower than that of high school grads. (Think about the importance to a community of some of the fields where a college degree is required, like education, medicine, and engineering.) Moreover, the average annual income of college grads is about 68% higher than that of high school grads. So college graduates are significantly more likely to be employed and will earn significantly more money. I understand that money is not everything. More importantly, Pennsylvania employs and needs all kinds of workers with all kinds of education, and all kinds of skills, and all kinds of experience. That is how we have kept our state’s broad-based economy. But from the point of view of statewide economics, with their higher employment levels and higher pay, college graduates increase the state’s tax base substantially. The difference in state income taxes between the average high school graduate and the average college graduate is $924 per year. If you figure a college graduate works from their early 20s to retirement age, that’s a total of over $35,000. At the federal level, the difference in taxes is over $200,000 at retirement. Taken together, all of these statistics suggest how we should view our state institutions for higher education. They are not merely stand-alone ivory towers dedicated to educating a relatively small number of our residents (even if they sometimes feel like this). They are not profit centers in-and-of themselves (even if they sometimes feel like this, too). They are long term public investments that can keep students in Pennsylvania while also attracting new people to Pennsylvania. Many of those people will become employed residents who, over time, provide a high return on investment while also fulfilling some of the important roles in our communities. Last year my son applied to 12 colleges and was accepted to all 12. After all the scholarships were factored in, the University of Pittsburgh was the most expensive of his final four schools. He had better financial options as a non-resident at one New Jersey state school and at a couple of private universities. Now it is true, some of those schools were apples, some were oranges, but it is also true that Pennsylvania is ranked the third most expensive state for in-state tuition. If that is how it is for in-state students, you can imagine the chilling effect these high costs have on enticing students to give Pennsylvania a try. We have a lot of very good public colleges here, but we have not cornered the market on them, and that is why so many of my son’s classmates will be making the long drive to schools in other states over the next week. If the above statistics hold true, many of those bright young students will not return in four years. They will find jobs near their newly adopted hometowns, pay taxes there, and diversify those states’ workforces. As a state, Pennsylvania needs to start being serious about education. It starts with ensuring that all Pennsylvania’s children receive the same primary and secondary educational opportunities, but it must extend through high school and beyond. Building and maintaining a robust and diverse workforce requires that we invest strongly in higher education. Will Wood is a small business owner, veteran, and half-decent runner. He lives, works, and writes in West Chester. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group