
                            By
                                Mika Pangilinan
 Australian life insurer TAL has entered an agreement to sell Affinia Financial Advisers to CountPlus Limited, a financial services provider. The best interests of Affinia practices, advisers and their clients were considered in the decision to sell its financial advice licensee, according to a press release from TAL, with the insurer noting that CountPlus is “best placed” to continue enabling Affinia’s strategy and growth.  “We are pleased to have found in CountPlus a business which shares Affinia’s commitment to financial advisers and passion for delivering high quality financial advice to its clients,” said TAL group CEO and managing director Brett Clark. “Financial advisers have a vital role in the community through helping Australians make financial decisions and plan with confidence for the future. “We remain committed to supporting and building lasting relationships with advisers and will continue to advocate for the value financial advisers deliver to their clients and community.” CountPlus CEO Hugh Humphrey called the acquisition of Affinia “great news” for its investors. “This strategic acquisition clearly cements CountPlus as the leading advisory firm and positions CountPlus as a major player in the future of wealth management in Australia,” Humphrey said, adding that Affinia’s advisers have a “reputation for delivering quality financial advice which makes them a natural fit for our community.” Earlier this month, TAL was named an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality by the Commonwealth Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) for the ninth consecutive year. “Driving and embedding gender equality as part of our broader diversity, equity & inclusion (DE&I) strategy helps ensure all our people are treated equally, can perform their roles to the best of their ability, and have the opportunity for personal growth and development,” Clark said of the award. TAL also runs a professional education program through the platform TAL Risk Academy. The 2023 course program introduces 20 new courses, totalling over 110 on-demand courses on the adviser education platform.