
                
                    
                        Let CFO Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              NEW YORK – FORVIS, a professional services firm providing assurance, tax, and advisory services, is pleased to announce the launch of TALENT SHIFT, LLC, a gig-work marketplace that matches accounting, tax and advisory professionals with dynamic project opportunities on a fixed-term basis. TALENT SHIFT is a wholly owned subsidiary of FORVIS. “The world of work is changing, and highly skilled professionals are taking greater control over how and when they work—and what they want to work on,” said Christina Howard, FORVIS partner and leader of the TALENT SHIFT team. “At the same time, executives and organizations are searching to find the right people to perform important business roles in a timely manner.” TALENT SHIFT is a digital talent marketplace that connects gig workers with projects that fit their skill sets and interests, as well as their desire for hybrid and flexible work schedules. Going beyond merely offering contract work, TALENT SHIFT team members are benefits-eligible FORVIS employees who will connect with teams across the firm as they work on client engagements. They will be able to connect with others who have similar passions through talent affinity groups. “We’re seeking to build a true community of professionals who are passionate about what they do and want to further their careers but may also be in a season of life where they have chosen to pursue hourly gig employment,” Howard said. “TALENT SHIFT allows them to do both.” TALENT SHIFT benefits client companies as well. FORVIS has seen a growing demand from clients for support on projects that require specific talent on a fixed-term basis. These organizations represent a wide range of industries such as health care, technology, private equity, real estate, nonprofit, manufacturing and more. Companies will be able to reach out to TALENT SHIFT with specific project needs and skill set requests that can be fulfilled in a timely manner at an appropriate scale. TALENT SHIFT is investing in an innovative digital platform to support services and enhance connectivity between communities of professionals and clients. “We have received numerous requests from our advisory clients, in particular, for this kind of assistance,” said FORVIS CEO Tom Watson. “At the same time, these clients have asked us to grow a vibrant community of highly skilled and trusted gig professionals to help them navigate the transition to a hybrid workforce strategy. TALENT SHIFT is a direct response to those needs.” The subsidiary launch comes six months after FORVIS was formed following the merger of equals of BKD and DHG. TALENT SHIFT is currently recruiting professionals and helping solve talent needs for businesses. If you’re interested in working with TALENT SHIFT, email [email protected]. Go to talentshift.com and follow Talent Shift on LinkedIn to learn more. FORVIS, LLP is a professional services firm providing assurance, tax, and advisory services. Created by the merger of equals of BKD, LLP and Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP (DHG), FORVIS is driven by the commitment to use our forward vision to deliver an Unmatched Client Experience™. Ranked among the top 10 public accounting firms in the country, FORVIS has 5,700 dedicated professionals who serve clients in all 50 states as well as across the globe. FORVIS is built upon the strong legacies of BKD and DHG, which are reflected in a name that comprises partner initials and represents our unique focus on preparing our clients for what is next. Visit forvis.com for additional information. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines