Jayson Tatum of the Boston Celtics is the current frontrunner to win this season's league MVP award by Vegas odds and the media. He was the NBA’s fourth-leading scorer (30.8 points per game), and fifth in 3s made (82), heading into Wednesday night's game against the Suns at Footprint Center. Plus, the defending Eastern conference champion Boston Celtics have the league’s best record (20-5 prior to Wednesday's game, which started after The Republic's deadline) and top-ranked offense. Like the Phoenix Suns’ Devin Booker, Tatum is coming off being an All-NBA First Team selection last season. Tatum spoke during the Celtics' pregame media availability at Footprint Center before Wednesday's game agains the West-leading Suns (16-8). He discussed Boston's sudden coaching change in September after the Ime Udoka scandal led to his one-year suspension in September for violating its organization's rules, the impact of Colin Kaepernick on NBA players during the 2020 bubble, and more. On whether Celtics’ change to interim head coach Joe Mazzulla after Udoka’s suspension helped drive the team to where it is so far or more the talented roster: "Probably a mixture of both. I think with all of the stuff that we went through in the beginning of the season just kind of brought us together. You know, made us closer and just kind of gave us the option to. We had a choice to we could either make excuses or figure it out. We chose to try and figure it out and we got a great group, and we still got some guys out that will be even better when they get back. And the coach (Mazzulla) has done a great job as well, so it’s just a mixture of everybody being on the same page." On the Suns’ team makeup that motivates Tatum and the Celtics to play against them: "They’re a really good team. They went to the finals two years ago. I think they had the best record in the league last year, great coach (Monty Williams) … CP (Chris Paul) obviously one of the best point guards of all time, as well as Book how he’s been playing these past few years. They’re just a well constructed team and they just complement each other really well." On improvements he needs to make in his skill set: “I don’t think I have anything mastered. I think I’m pretty good but still a long way from where I truly want to get to. So I think just everyday of trying to get a little bit better overall and it’s a long journey.” Colin Kaepernick was at the Celtics-Raptors game on Monday. Tatum talks about his advice to players when they contemplated a 2020 playoffs boycott during nationwide Black Lives Matter protests. “That was great. That was unexpected to see him there (in Toronto), but I got a chance to talk to him a little bit this summer on Nike campus. So seeing him courtside the other day and the reaction that he got, I was happy to see that. You know his impact, how much that means. So it’s great to have him at the game. … “His voice and his impact and things that he stood for, and to this day the stance that he took and the things that he sacrificed honestly went a long way. He was definitely like a voice of reason and somebody that helped us navigate through those times in the bubble. Somebody that I respect a lot." On whether Tatum being a frontrunner in the media’s early season MVP conversation is a distraction or motivational factor for him. "Not a distraction. It’s something that I’m aware of, but I think a lot of it has to do with our team’s success. I think I keep playing the way I am and everybody individually, and we keep complementing each other the way we are, and continue to win, then everybody’s going to get individually what they deserve. So I guess the main focus is to keep trying to be one of the best teams and keep trying to win and just get closer to our ultimate goal of getting back to the finals." Have tips for us? Reach the reporter at dana.scott@azcentral.com or at 480-486-4721. Follow his Twitter @iam_DanaScott. Support local journalism. Start your online subscription today.