Come explore with us!   
	Mothers use higher-pitched whistles around their babies Bottlenose dolphin moms make their distinctive whistles more high-pitched when their calves are near, a new study suggests. Sarasota Dolphin Research Program. Photo taken under NMFS MMPA Permit No. 20455 By McKenzie Prillaman July 27, 2023 at 6:30 am When speaking to young kids, people often use squeaky, high-pitched baby talk. Some dolphins do, too, it turns out. When their babies are nearby, bottlenose dolphin moms pitch their whistles differently. This “parentese” could serve a similar role as it seems to in humans. It might boost the calves’ attention, researchers suggest. This might aid bonding and vocal learning. Researchers shared their findings June 26 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. During the first few months of life, each common bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) develops a unique tune. This signature whistle is like a name. The dolphins shout out their own “names” in the water. The calls likely serve as “a way to keep track of each other,” says marine biologist Laela Sayigh. She works at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts. But dolphin moms seem to tweak their tunes when they’re with their calves. Young dolphins tend to stick by mom’s side for three to six years. Sayigh first noticed a change in the moms’ whistles in 2009. It was part of a study done by her student. Back then, they didn’t get a chance to dig into it. Now, Sayigh and her colleagues followed up on that observation. They analyzed signature whistles from 19 female dolphins — both with and without their babies close by. This wild population lives near Sarasota Bay, Fla. Scientists have been studying this community of dolphins for more than 50 years. The audio was recorded during catch-and-release health checks done from 1984 to 2018. The researchers examined 40 instances of each dolphin’s signature whistle. Half of each mother’s whistles were voiced in the presence of her baby. Whistles when youngsters were around used a wider range of pitches. On average, the highest pitch was a bit higher than when calves weren’t near. The lowest pitch was slightly lower. Those changes echo human baby talk, Sayigh says. When their babies are around, bottlenose dolphin moms modify their signature whistles. They use higher pitches and a wider pitch range than normal. The first audio clip presents a mother’s typical whistle. The second is of her whistle with her calf nearby. To make the high frequency vocalizations audible to human ears, both clips were slowed to one-eighth normal speed. Human caregivers speak to babies with real words but use distinct inflections. Typically, baby talk uses higher pitches and a wider pitch range, like what was observed in the dolphins. “Bottlenose dolphins are a prime candidate” for kid-focused chatter, says Quincy Gibson. She did not take part in this study, but she does study the behavior of marine mammals. She directs dolphin research at the University of North Florida in Jacksonville. Much like people, Gibson says, these dolphins form strong mother-baby bonds and learn to vocalize. But she points out that the studied sounds were made during catch-and-release situations. To better understand how dolphins communicate, scientists should listen to freely swimming dolphin moms too, she says. “We do need to look at this question in more natural and undisturbed conditions.” Plus, notes Mauricio Cantor, it’s one thing to guess that parentese could have the same roles in dolphins as people. But no one can be certain, he says — at least “until the day we can ask the dolphins what they’re actually doing.” Cantor, who studies animal behavior, did not take part in this study. He works at Oregon State University’s Marine Mammal Institute in Newport. Still, Sayigh says, it “is just really cool” that different species might talk to their babies like we do. Weekly updates to help you use Science News Explores in the learning environment Thank you for signing up! There was a problem signing you up. attention: The phenomenon of focusing mental resources on a specific object or event. audio: Having to do with sound. average: (in science) A term for the arithmetic mean, which is the sum of a group of numbers that is then divided by the size of the group. behavior: The way something, often a person or other organism, acts towards others, or conducts itself. biologist: A scientist involved in the study of living things. bottlenose dolphin: A common species of dolphin (Tursiops truncate), which belongs to the order Cetacea among marine mammals. These dolphins are found all over the world. colleague: Someone who works with another; a co-worker or team member. develop: To emerge or to make come into being, either naturally or through human intervention, such as by manufacturing. echo: To bounce back. For example, sound bouncing off walls of a tunnel, and returning to their source. Radio waves emitted above the surface can also bounce off the bedrock underneath an ice sheet — then return to the surface.  Or ideas or events that seem to reflect one or more others, as a reverberating sound might. marine biologist: A scientist who studies creatures that live in ocean water, from bacteria and shellfish to kelp and whales. marine mammal: Any of many types of mammals that spend most of its life in the ocean environment. These include whales and dolphins, walruses and sea lions, seals and sea otters, manatees and dugongs — even polar bears. pitch: (in acoustics) The word musicians use for sound frequency. It describes how high or low a sound is, which will be determined by the vibrations that created that sound. population: (in biology) A group of individuals (belonging to the same species) that lives in a given area. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences: A prestigious journal publishing original scientific research, begun in 1914. The journal's content spans the biological, physical and social sciences. Each of the more than 3,000 papers it publishes each year, now, are not only peer reviewed but also approved by a member of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences. range: The full extent or distribution of something. For instance, a plant or animal’s range is the area over which it naturally exists. (in math or for measurements) The extent to which values can vary (such as the highest to lowest temperatures). Also, the distance within which something can be reached or perceived. species: A group of similar organisms capable of producing offspring that can survive and reproduce. unique: Something that is unlike anything else; the only one of its kind. Journal: L.S. Sayigh et al. Bottlenose dolphin mothers modify signature whistles in the presence of their own calves. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Published online June 26, 2023. doi: 10.1073/pnas.2300262120. Journal: H.C. Esch et al. Whistles as potential indicators of stress in bottlenose dolphins. Journal of Mammalogy. Vol. 90, June 2, 2009, p. 638. doi: 10.1644/08-MAMM-A-069R.1. McKenzie Prillaman is the Spring 2023 science writing intern at Science News. She holds a bachelor’s degree in neuroscience with a minor in bioethics from the University of Virginia and a master’s degree in science communication from the University of California, Santa Cruz. 
				Free educator resources are available for this article. Register to access:			 
Already Registered?
			Enter your e-mail address above.		 
						Readability Score: 7.2					 
HS-LS2-8, MS-LS2-2  Founded in 2003, Science News Explores is a free, award-winning online publication dedicated to providing age-appropriate science news to learners, parents and educators. The publication, as well as Science News magazine, are published by the Society for Science, a nonprofit 501(c)(3) membership organization dedicated to public engagement in scientific research and education.  
				© Society for Science & the Public 2000–2024. All rights reserved.			