 Jamie Carragher has made clear his opinion on Mauricio Pochettino becoming the next England manager. Pochettino is the favourite to replace Gareth Southgate but Carragher insists the Three Lions boss must be English. Southgate is currently mulling over his own future following England's exit from the World Cup in Qatar. He saw his side crash out at the quarter-final stage with a 2-1 defeat to tournament favourites France. Harry Kane suffered penalty heartache, missing a spot kick in the closing stages of normal time to draw level. Southgate has a contract with the FA until after Euro 2024. But the former defender insisted he will consider his position, as he has after every tournament he has been in charge of. Ex-Tottenham and Paris Saint-Germain manager Pochettino is the leading candidate to replace Southgate if he were to leave. Thomas Tuchel and Brendan Rodgers are also among the contenders. But Carragher made his feelings clear on Tuesday morning with a blunt tweet. READ MORE: Ben White speaks for first time since England exit with three-word message  The former Liverpool defender insists England must avoid appointing a foreign coach. Carragher tweeted: "The @England manager should always be English!" England have only ever had two foreign managers and Carragher played under both of them. Swede Sven-Goran Eriksson managed between 2001 and 2006, leading the Three Lions to three quarter-finals in three successive tournaments. Italian Fabio Capello replaced Steve McClaren in 2008 but saw his side knocked out of the 2020 World Cup in the round of 16. He resigned just months before Euro 2012 after the FA decided to remove the captaincy from John Terry. Aside from Sam Allardyce's one game in charge, Capello has had the best win percentage as England manager at 66.7 per cent. But ultimately the position is judged on performances at major tournaments. DON'T MISSFIFA make decision on sending England vs France referee homeEnglish TV crew 'stunned' as FIFA denied four requests to show crucial imageMan Utd urged to give Fernandes new partner as 'perfect' star pinpointed  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy  Pochettino has been out of work since being sacked by PSG in the summer. And he recently said he would be open to managing a country that wasn't Argentina. He told Sky Sports: "It wasn't under my consideration to go [into international management] but now, yes I am open. Why not? "Yes, of course we are still young, full of energy, and day-by-day I like the adrenaline to train, to be involved. Maybe the national team is a different job, but why not. "If it's not the next job, then maybe in the future. It's not specific that all I want is Argentina. If another country, why not? For sure, that would be good also."  Want the latest Premier League news as we publish it on Express Sport? Join our new Facebook group by clicking here SEARCH CONNECT WITH US TODAY'S PAPER  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. EXPRESS.CO.UK Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?