The Home of the Security Bloggers Network Home » Security Boulevard (Original) » Enterprises Move Toward Passwordless, But There’s a Long Way to Go Stop me if you’ve heard this one before: Next year is the year we will finally eliminate passwords. That statement has been a staple of annual cybersecurity predictions for at least a decade, but could 2023 actually be the year that we see a major shift toward the passwordless workplace? Digital Identity thinks so. They predicted that by the end of 2023, 80% of Fortune 500 companies would have the processes and budgets in place to make the leap away from passwords, and half of these companies will be implementing the changes in remote access and operating systems authentication as they are the two areas most commonly targeted. Many companies already use some sort of passwordless authentication, most often as part of a 2FA or MFA solution. Passwords are still required, but the second form of authentication usually requires a passcode or PIN. However, threat actors are already compromising these methods. Organizations want to find new authentication methods because passwords and passcodes aren’t doing their job anymore. The security around them is flimsy, and stolen or compromised passwords remain one of the top causes of security incidents. But is going passwordless feasible or is it just an impossible dream? Before we get rid of passwords, we need something else to take their place. “There are typically two components involved in passwordless authentication—a private ‘key’ that stays with the user and a biometric,” explained Mike Engle, chief strategy officer and co-founder of 1Kosmos, in an email interview. The key is stored locally on the user’s device, like a phone or laptop, and it stays in the user’s control. The biometric option covers technologies such as touch ID, face ID or taking a live selfie (live ID). “Together,” said Engle, “These components represent two factors that cannot be easily stolen or phished from the end user.” As technology advances, authentication will upgrade in progressional tandem. “Organizations that can easily adopt emerging technology without having to rip and replace legacy infrastructure will find it far easier to embrace passwordless authentication,” Timothy Morris, chief security advisor at Tanium, said via email commentary. “For example, as more organizations make the move to the cloud, passwordless authentication becomes a much more attainable reality.” Passwordless deployment will come in a phased approach, Engle predicted, where users will be gently encouraged to follow the path. But, he added, once they start their passwordless journey, they won’t ever return to the previous authentication method. Where we’re most likely to see passwordless deployed first is on a VPN or remote access portal for employees or the main log-on page for customers, he explained. “For employees,” said Engle, “putting passwordless on the operating system and in front of the existing SSO system, such as Okta, Ping, Forgerock, Active Directory, Azure, Siteminder, etc., will result in an 80% reduction in passwords for all users.” As with most technology evolutions, change won’t happen all at once; it will take time for adoption to spread. Perhaps large enterprises will make a move toward passwordless authentication in 2023, but we’re not going to see widespread adoption just yet. “While significant strides have been made with regard to the consumerization of IT, the unfortunate reality is that there are still a multitude of technologies that are using old authentication systems and haven’t adopted single sign-on or the use of biometrics,” said Morris. “Progress will continue and some applications may move to adopt passwordless authentication, but there’s no way my password manager will be empty come 2023.” And even though organizations are looking for ways to eliminate the security risks that come with weak passwords and cut down on password-related IT tickets from employees, passwords are going to be here for the foreseeable future. “Every website, native application, system and database still requires passwords at some level—even if passwordless solutions are used for convenience,” said Darren Guccione, CEO and co-founder at Keeper Security. “The fact is that robust encryption keys cannot be generated without a password. Even single sign-on solutions require a password at some level in the architecture to authenticate a user—prior to the user transacting with SAML-compliant authentication services.” Passwordless technologies are a feature that can improve the user experience, Guccione added, but they are not a wholesale password replacement. “To be sure, the latest innovations are brilliant and more will appear, but it is just not realistic to believe that passwords will disappear in 2023 or anytime soon,” Guccione said. “The reality is that passwords are essential to the way our connected devices operate and, given the billions of websites and companies that require passwords, we are a long way off from a true passwordless future.” Sue Poremba is freelance writer based in central Pennsylvania. She's been writing about cybersecurity and technology trends since 2008. sue-poremba has 271 posts and counting.See all posts by sue-poremba   Application Security Check Up





Step 1 of 8


12%


Do you develop your own software in your organization?(Required)


Yes



No



Not sure








What portion of your cyber risk is Application Security (AppSec)? (Select one)(Required)


We over-focus on AppSec



We focus on AppSec to match the risk



We under-focus on AppSec



 




What are the biggest challenges you face implementing a robust AppSec strategy? (Select all that apply)


Lack of budget



Insufficient skilled personnel



Complexity of integrating security into the development lifecycle



Resistance from development teams



Keeping up with evolving security threats



Lack of executive buy-in



Other (please specify)



Other



 




Which DevSecOps practices are widely used for actively developed projects (not legacy) (Select all that apply):(Required)

Automated unit and functional tests for quality run in the pipeline with merge blocking


Automated application security testing (AST) in development and (SAST/IAST) runs in the pipeline


Automated AST tools to find vulnerabilities in the code you import (SCA) run in the pipeline


Merge blocking at current policy level for AST checks


Secrets management so no secrets stored in source code repositories



 




How do you assess and mitigate risk of For NON actively developed products (legacy) (Select all that apply):

In-production scans using DAST products like Qualys, Nessus, etc.


Periodic penetration testing


Periodic running of AST tools


Manual code reviews by security specialists


Use of third-party security assessment services


No assessment or mitigation effort is happening



 




How do you resolve the security issues found? (Select all that apply):(Required)

In-production scans using DAST products like Qualys, Nessus, etc.


Periodic penetration testing


Periodic running of AST tools


Manual code reviews by security specialists


Use of third-party security assessment services


No assessment or mitigation effort is happening



 




Which best describes security training for your developers? (Select all that apply)(Required)

Monthly


Quarterly


Annually


As part of onboarding


Just-in-time via integration with AST tools when a vulnerability is found


No formal training provided



 




How do you determine your level of investment in AppSec? (Select all that apply)(Required)

Perceived risk and threat landscape


Industry benchmarks and standards


Historical spending patterns / budget constraints


Recommendations from third-parties


We do not have a formal process

  









Δ



  Step 1 of 8
 Δ