It's 11:59 on a Sunday night, and your company's computer  system has been shut down until a ransom is paid. Will anyone even notice  before the office opens on Monday? Will anyone know what to do when the doors open but the computer system is offline? These “ransomware” attacks routinely make headlines, as American  businesses, government offices, hospitals, and schools all have fallen victim to  cybercriminals, typically based overseas. And trucking is not immune. Additionally, any business that  moves items of high value must always take security measures, and modern technology  brings a whole new element to old-fashioned highway robbery. And the coming era  of truck autonomy adds even more levels of concern for vehicle security and  safety. So what’s a fleet to do? First and foremost, how do we avoid  that midnight crisis in the first place? The National Motor Freight Traffic Association (NMFTA) hopes  to provide some answers. The organization, traditionally focused on LTL issues,  put out an industry-wide invitation to its annual Digital  Solutions Conference on Cybersecurity. Held recently in Alexandria, Virginia, the  event drew a range of fleet representatives, cybersecurity experts, and policymakers for a couple of days of presentations that ran the gamut from  Ph.D.-level cellular network vulnerabilities to common e-mail scams. Ben Gardiner, NMFTA’s senior cybersecurity research engineer,  bridged the gap between the theoretical and the practical with the opening slide  deck of the conference. Specifically, Gardiner outlined his successful  remote attack on the hydraulic braking system of a tractor-trailer via the J2497  trailer databus, using about $300 of off-the-shelf electronics. The good news: Gardiner is a good guy, a “white hat” hacker  who looks for vulnerabilities and works to resolve them. (His primer on truck  hacking is YouTubed below; similarly, for those unfamiliar with the CyberTruck Challenge, follow that link.) So, because so much of the conference was so far over my  head, I sat down with Gardiner for a few minutes to glean some perspective. “We’ve tried to tread that line between making it enticing  for the experts to participate, and making it practical and actionable for the  fleets,” he said. “It doesn't take a lot to imagine a truck  getting ransomwared someday. People are making a lot of money off ransomware  and it's pretty obvious that you could ransom a fleet of trucks.” Among the challenge for fleets, of course, is that a key asset—the  truck—is mobile. But as Gardiner discovered in working to resolve truck security  vulnerabilities, today’s trucks feature a lot of technology yet very few  people understand both the software and the heavy-duty hardware. “What I experienced with multiple fleets was either  deferring vehicle cybersecurity decisions to their IT department or not really  having anyone to deal with cybersecurity vehicle decisions and problems,” he said.  “It's not a stretch to say that a lot of IT people don't get what the  maintenance people get, and maintenance people understand how the trucks work  but don’t understand what the IT people do. So both sides need to learn from each other to  be able to really secure those rolling assets.” See also: Zero trust: Chaos creates cybercriminal opportunities But, as was obvious at the conference, it takes graduate-level  education—and/or a lot of time pursuing the dark web—to understand and mitigate the threats. Surely that’s beyond the expertise  (and budgets) of even the most tech-savvy folks at many fleets. “The LTLs are big enough and have enough resources to have  their own IT, their own in-house software development, their own access to  resources to secure themselves,” Gardiner said. “They need to start taking more  of an industrial control system approach, where their maintenance and their IT  staff consider both the IT and the things that roll, to give a unified security  perspective on their operations. That's where it's going to have to go to be  ahead of that attack.” And for the rest of us? “If you're small and you can't spend the money to hire the  experts, use cloud services,” Gardiner said. “By purchasing that solution, you're going to have their security teams working for you. So that's a big bang  for the buck.” Additionally, NMFTA has developed resources to ease the anxiety for fleet  executives looking at tech investments:  the telematics  security requirement matrix, or TSRM. The solution is open-sourced and  available for developers on GitHub  as well, he noted. “It's a series of cybersecurity requirements in the form of  a questionnaire,” Gardiner said. “The fleets can take the questionnaire and  give it to two or three telematics service providers that they're thinking of purchasing from in the procurement phase, and then evaluate who has the better  cybersecurity. We're trying to move that visibility of cybersecurity closer to  the wallet to the people that make the decisions.” Likewise, NMFTA is working on heavy-duty  vehicle cybersecurity requirements. For NMFTA Executive Director Debbie Sparks, the conference was  about “building a community” of experts to guide the industry as it faces “new  challenges in the digital era.” “NMFTA is a leader in cybersecurity and digital  transactions, so we understand the importance of making sure that the  transportation community is aware of what's at stake and how we work together  to make sure that what we do is safe and secure,” Sparks said. More to come from the meeting—much more—once my brain quits  spinning (so yours doesn't have to). Kevin has served as editor-in-chief of Trailer/Body Builders magazine since 2017—just the third editor in the magazine’s 60 years. He is also editorial director for Endeavor Business Media’s Commercial Vehicle group, which includes FleetOwner, Bulk Transporter, Refrigerated Transporter, American Trucker, and Fleet Maintenance magazines and websites. Working from Little Rock, Kevin has covered trucking and manufacturing for 15 years. His writing and commentary about the trucking industry and, previously, business and government, has been recognized with numerous state, regional, and national journalism awards.