Well, it’s that time of year folks. Yes, as we inch into December and towards 2023, the time has finally come to tally up the greatest (read: worst, most unfortunate, most ridiculous) hacking episodes of the year. As far as cybersecurity disasters go, 2022 wasn’t quite as bad as other recent years. There were fewer high-profile ransomware attacks this year. No giant, SolarWinds-style  scandals graced the headlines…and yet, things still weren’t that great. Cryptocurrency hacks led to billions of dollars in losses, droves of giant corporations proved they lacked basic digital security, and, once again, cybercriminals demonstrated that that their business model is  an extremely profitable one. Let’s be honest, digital insecurity in the U.S. was—as per usual—a shit-show. Take a quick look back with us, as we review this year’s most memorable hacking episodes and data breaches. Let this be your reminder to update your browser and invest in a password manager (but be careful which one, because sometimes those get hacked too) 
          High-level racers now have a new form of sabotage to worry about. 
         
          Pixel Screenshots app will let you categorize, search through, and add notes to your screenshots. Best of all, it's not auto-screenshotting everything on your phone.

         
          Google’s next-gen Pixel 9 Pro Fold is the biggest book-style foldable we’ve seen yet. It has taken cues from Samsung Galaxy Z Fold and the OnePlus Open, and mostly for the better.
         
          A Microsoft report cited by the campaign details a June phishing attack carried out by "Iranian actors."
         
          Feds say the knobs on 30 separate Samsung-brand ranges were too easy to turn, resulting in around 250 fires over the past decade.
         
          The manufacturing problems on the buds have apparently been fixed.
         We may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites.
©2024 GIZMODO USA LLC. All rights reserved. Mode 
                Follow us
               Mode 
                Follow us
              