
Tanium, the industry's only provider of converged endpoint management (XEM), today announced the release of its new certificate manager and enhanced policy management capabilities, offering organizations convenient tool consolidation, cost and time savings, and more accurate reporting via Tanium's XEM platform.
 
Organizations today struggle to see and manage digital certificates; the average modern enterprise manages up to hundreds of thousands of certificates, often through manual means. When digital certificates are not managed properly, the resulting downtime can impact business operations and cause financial and reputational damage, with recent research estimating that unplanned downtime from expired certificates costs organizations upwards of $300,000 per hour.
 
"IT environments continue to grow in complexity, leaving organizations to grapple with countless disparate tools and manual processes to find and patch vulnerabilities, configure policies, and manage certificates, all while keeping pace with the increasing frequency and sophistication of cyber threats," said Nic Surpatanu, chief product officer, Tanium. "By adding new capabilities to our XEM platform for certificate management, device management for macOS, and enhanced policy for Windows, organizations are able to consolidate point solutions with a single management platform across all endpoints."
 
Unlike other certificate management solutions, Tanium's XEM platform can uniquely modernize certificate management to accurately inventory certificates across all endpoints, even ones invisible to existing tools, provide visibility into expiring or unauthorized certificates, and find ciphers and certificates vulnerable to compromise, in real-time via a single endpoint management platform. It also enables organizations to inventory cryptographic services in preparation for moving to quantum resistant encryption.
 
"Effective certificate management is essential for organizations to achieve their cybersecurity and vulnerability and risk management hygiene goals. The sheer number of certificates that each organization must identify and manage across the business make certificate management incredibly challenging," said Jennifer Glenn, research director for IDC's Security and Trust Group. "Capabilities that add visibility and automated inventory of digital certificates, like those in the Tanium XEM platform, allow enterprises to more proactively manage expiring certificates, helping to minimize the risk of costly outages that can take down business-value systems."
 
Tanium also expanded its XEM platform with major enhancements to Tanium Enforce, which provides unified policy and configuration management at scale, allowing organizations to simplify and centralize management of their devices. New features and capabilities include:
 
As organizations continue to embrace digital transformation, speed, scale, and visibility are crucial to prepare for the cyber threats of today ? and tomorrow. To learn more about how Tanium helps customers future-proof their organization with these enhanced capabilities, register to attend our upcoming webinar.
 
About Tanium
 
Tanium, the industry's only provider of converged endpoint management (XEM), leads the paradigm shift in legacy approaches to managing complex security and technology environments. Only Tanium unifies teams and workflows and protects every endpoint from cyber threats by integrating IT, Compliance, Security, and Risk into a single platform that delivers comprehensive visibility across devices, a unified set of controls, and a common taxonomy for a single shared purpose: to protect critical information and infrastructure at scale. Tanium has been named to the Forbes Cloud 100 list for seven consecutive years and ranks on Fortune's list of the Best Large Workplaces in Technology. In fact, more than half of the Fortune 100 and the U.S. armed forces trust Tanium to protect people; defend data; secure systems; and see and control every endpoint, team, and workflow everywhere. That's the power of certainty. Visit www.tanium.com and follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter.
