Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics.                     Mojang Studios has released a new Minecraft cinematic trailer putting the spotlight on a variety of Minecraft Marketplace premium DLC content. The Minecraft Marketplace has been a focus of significant controversy within the Minecraft community, partly due to distrust in digital content monetization. Yet Mojang is continuing to move forward with robust support for the Minecraft Marketplace, with no sign of slowing down in the future.
                         The Minecraft Marketplace, known as the Minecraft Store on PlayStation, first launched in 2017. The Marketplace is where Minecraft content creators can partner with Mojang to release skins, texture packs, custom worlds, mini-games, and more, with profits shared between creator and publisher. Substantial support for the Marketplace has been provided in the years since, though content and not features have been the priority since around 2020.
      RELATED: Minecraft Fan Is Constructing a Beautiful 'Ecological Futuristic' City
                     A new trailer from Mojang once again puts the spotlight on Minecraft Marketplace. The in-engine cinematic video introduces a number of popular Minecraft DLC packs that players playing the Bedrock Edition can purchase. It's unclear if any of the worlds are newly available or if Mojang is simply showing off some of the cool content that creators have made available. Regardless, it's good of Mojang to put its support behind creators within the community, even if it does benefit significantly from the practice.
                         The worlds shown in the trailer include Advanced Dragons 2 from Pixelbiester, the Ultra Cute Texture Pack from Cyclone, SpongeBob SquarePants from Spark Universe, City Living from Noxcrew, Morph Into Mobs! from Pickaxe Studios, and WDW Magic Kingdom Adventure from Everbloom Games. These are some of Minecraft's largest creators, many of which have been involved with major licensing projects. Mojang takes these partnerships very seriously.
                         It bears repeating that the Minecraft Marketplace remains a controversial subject within the Minecraft community. While few are necessarily averse to the idea of creators being paid for their work, Minecraft Marketpalce still represents a contrary idea in the face of what the game once stood for. Minecraft once had no DLC. It was simply available on PC and broadly supported by modding, done for free out of passion by creators. Some would say the Minecraft Marketplace has harmed the modding scene and led to a worse overall Minecraft experience.
                         While opinions on the Minecraft Marketplace are certainly divided, that's not going to slow down what's become an incredibly lucrative aspect of Minecraft for Xbox. So long as there are content creators willing to do work for Minecraft, and marketing partners like SpongeBob SquarePants and Disney willing to license their content for DLC, the Minecraft Marketplace will flourish.
      Minecraft is available now for Mobile, PC, PS4, Switch, Xbox One, and legacy platforms.
      MORE: Minecraft May Be Ready for In-Game Lore Books After Legends Releases
 Your changes have been saved  Email is sent Email has already been sent Please verify your email address. You’ve reached your account maximum for followed topics. A new Minecraft update seemingly removes a feature from the game that was present for 14 years, despite not actually doing anything. JJK is nearing its end with chapter 267. The mystery behind Sukuna's finger starts unveiling. How to find Johnson's Acre in Fallout 76's Savage Divide. From a kindhearted bear to a medieval artist to humanity's supersoldier, these Xbox characters stand out for their personality. Longtime Call of Duty fans want a beloved 'legendary' SMG from Treyarch's past entries to make its triumphant return in Black Ops 6. Dragon Age: The Veilguard seems primed and ready to benefit from a Dragon's Dogma 2 pre-release tactic that became a huge hit among fans. A Pokemon fan designs a new form for Rotom, reimagining the iconic Electric/Ghost-type creature from Gen 4 as a coffee machine.