You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Fact Checked Updated: Feb 15, 2024, 5:22am The Affordable Care Act (ACA) health insurance marketplace is an option if you can’t get an employer-sponsored health insurance plan. ACA health plans, sometimes called Obamacare, offer comprehensive coverage. They’re also the only type of health insurance with premium tax credits that reduce the cost of health insurance, if you qualify. Featured Health Insurance Partners 1 Aetna Offers plans in all 50 states and Washington, D.C. About 1.2 million $20 1 Aetna On Healthcare.com's Website 2 Blue Cross Blue Shield Offers plans in all 50 states and Washington, D.C. About 1.7 million $10 2 Blue Cross Blue Shield On Healthcare.com's Website 3 Cigna Offers plans in all 50 states and Washington, D.C. About 1.5 million $0 3 Cigna On Healthcare.com's Website The ACA set up the marketplace, also called the exchanges, which lets people compare health plans offered by private health insurance companies. The health insurance marketplace is an easy way for people to find health insurance plans available in their area. There are two types of health insurance marketplaces: There aren’t strict eligibility requirements for ACA health insurance plans, which makes them unlike Medicare and Medicaid. To qualify for a marketplace health insurance plan, you must meet these requirements: You may qualify for cheaper health insurance based on household income and size. ACA marketplace plans are the only ones that offer premium tax credits to reduce health insurance premiums. Households with incomes between 100% and 400% of the federal poverty level receive premium tax credits to lower health care costs. That can be key since unsubsidized marketplace plans typically cost more than group health insurance through employers. Source: Health and Human Services. If your household income is below 138% of the federal poverty level, you typically qualify for Medicaid, a federal/state health insurance program with low or no costs based on your income. Fewer than 10 states have less generous Medicaid coverage because they have so far declined to expand eligibility under a provision of the Affordable Care Act. The marketplace offers health plan benefits similar to ones found in employer-sponsored health insurance plans, with many of the same comprehensive benefits like doctor visits, outpatient care, prescription drugs, emergency care and mental health services. One difference is that the health insurance marketplace indicates a health plan’s costs by metal tier, so you can know whether the plan will have higher premiums vs. higher out-of-pocket costs. There are platinum, gold, silver and bronze health plans. The Affordable Care Act requires health plans in the marketplace to cover at a minimum the 10 essential health benefits: Marketplace plans also have to cover birth control and breastfeeding services. Though not mandated, some insurance companies also offer vision and/or dental services and medical management programs for specific health problems, such as diabetes and back pain. The health insurance marketplace has four types of metal tiers: bronze, silver, gold and platinum. Their differences are: Metal tier differences are solely based on premium and out-of-pocket costs. A metal tier doesn’t dictate coverage, such as whether you need to stay in-network or get referrals to see a specialist. For those details, look at the plan’s “benefit design.” Bronze and silver plans have the lowest premiums but higher out-of-pocket costs compared to gold or platinum. Gold and platinum plans have higher premiums, but you pay less when you need care. The average cost of health insurance through the marketplace is $469 a month for a 40-year-old individual. Source: Healthcare.gov. Based on unsubsidized ACA plans. Average for 40-year-old individual coverage. Health insurance companies offer multiple types of benefit designs in the marketplace, including health maintenance organization (HMO), exclusive provider organization (EPO), preferred provider organization (PPO) and point of service (POS) health plans. Employer benefits packages also have these types of plans, so they likely sound familiar. Plan design plays a considerable role in costs. Our analysis of ACA marketplace costs found a more than $100 monthly average cost difference between some types of plans. Source: Healthcare.gov. Based on unsubsidized ACA plans. Averages are for a 40-year-old with individual coverage. You can get health insurance through the marketplace during the annual open enrollment period, which is Nov. 1 to Jan. 15 in most states. States with their own marketplaces may have slightly different dates for open enrollment. You can buy coverage at other times of the year if you qualify for a special enrollment period. You’ll need to have a qualifying life event. Qualifying life events that spark a special enrollment period of 60 days during any time of the year include: 
 You don’t have to buy health insurance through the Affordable Care Act (ACA) marketplace. Most pre-retirement-age Americans get coverage through their employers, which is often more affordable than a marketplace plan. Or you could get health insurance directly from the insurance company rather than buying through the marketplace. These plans may be the same as plans found on the marketplace or an insurance company may offer coverage not found on the marketplace. Individual health insurance plans sold directly from the insurance company don’t qualify for income-based premium tax credits found in the marketplace. The ACA marketplace helps you find health insurance coverage available in your area and shows the costs for premiums, deductibles and copayments. The health insurance marketplace can also help you get more affordable health insurance if you qualify for premium tax credits. These tax credits, found only on the marketplace, can reduce your cost of health insurance based on your household income. The cost-saving measure is available for people with household incomes between 100% and 400% of the federal poverty level. One exception is California, which has wider eligibility for subsidies. The federal marketplace is operated by the federal government, while a state marketplace is provided by a state. Each state decides whether to use the federal framework or its own state-run marketplace. The 17 states (and the District of Columbia) with their own marketplaces may have slightly different open enrollment periods at the end of the year. Open enrollment is the time of year when you can sign up for a marketplace plan or change coverage. One exception is if you qualify for a special enrollment period at another time of the year because you lost other health insurance or you have another reason that makes you eligible for a special enrollment period. 

 Les Masterson is a deputy editor and insurance analyst at Forbes Advisor. He has been a journalist, reporter, editor and content creator for more than 25 years. He has covered insurance for a decade, including auto, home, life and health. Before covering insurance, Les was a news editor and reporter for Patch and Community Newspaper Company and also covered health care, mortgages, credit cards and personal loans for multiple websites.