UNESCO Pan-African Forum for the Culture of Peace Public access to information is a key component of UNESCO's commitment to transparency and its accountability. Based on human rights and fundamental freedoms, the 2005 Convention ultimately provides a new framework for informed, transparent and  UNESCO’s e-Platform on intercultural dialogue is designed for organizations and individuals to learn from shared knowledge or experiences from infl Established in 2002, the GEM Report is an editorially independent report, hosted and published by UNESCO. To recovery and beyond: The report takes stock of the global progress on the adoption and implementation of legal guarantees on Access to Info Addressing culture as a global public good For almost 75 years, the UNESCO Courier has served as a platform for international debates on issues that concern the entire pla Lifelong learning is key to overcoming global challenges and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Main UNESCO website UNESCO Digital Library website. The Value of water Groundwater, making the invisible visible UNESCO The Application Deadline is now extended to Thursday, 31 May 2024, 12am Paris time. Useful links of documents for the 2024 edition:  For enquires, please contact agh.poland@unesco.org. With a view to promoting human resource capacities in the developing countries and to enhancing international understanding and friendship among nations and peoples , the Polish National Commission for UNESCO and the UNESCO Chair for Science, Technology, and Engineering at the AGH University of Krakow (Poland) are placing at the disposal of UNESCO thirty (30) fellowships for the benefit of a number of developing Member States . Beneficiaries of these fellowships will be given the opportunity to undertake an individual research programme in the field of Science, Technology and Engineering for a duration of 6 months between 1 October 2024 and 31 March 2025.  AFRICA (31 Member States) • Angola • Benin •Burkina Faso • Cameroon • Cape Verde • Chad • Côte d'Ivoire • Democratic Republic of the Congo • Eritrea • Ethiopia • Gabon • Gambia • Ghana • Kenya • Lesotho • Madagascar • Malawi • Mali • Mauritius • Mozambique • Niger • Nigeria • Senegal • South Africa • Togo •The Comoros • Uganda • United Republic of Tanzania • Zambia • Zimbabwe ARAB STATES (1 Member States) • Iraq • Syrian Arab Republic (the) • Bahrain  ASIA AND THE PACIFIC (28 Member States)  • Bangladesh • Bhutan • Brunei Darussalam • Cambodia • Fiji • India • Independent State of Samoa • Kazakhstan • Kyrgyzstan • Lao People's Democratic Republic • Mongolia • Nauru • Nepal • Pakistan • Palau • Papua New Guinea • Republic of Kiribati • Republic of Maldives • Sri Lanka • Tajikistan • Thailand • The Solomon Islands • Tonga • Turkmenistan • Tuvalu • Uzbekistan • Vanuatu • Viet Nam LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (14 Member States) • Barbados • Bolivia (Plurinational State of) • Cuba • Dominican Republic • El Salvador • Haiti • Jamaica • Mexico • Peru • Saint Kitts and Nevis • Saint Lucia • Saint Vincent and Grenadines • Trinidad and Tobago • The Bahamas The fellowship will last for 6 months and take place at the AGH University of Krakow, UNESCO AGH Chair (A. Mickiewicza Ave 30, PL 30-059 Krakow, Poland).  For more information regarding the host university, please visit www.unesco.agh.edu.pl. Candidates should refer to the Annex III for the specific criteria and qualifications required by each field of research and project. Note that for some fields of research and projects, only the candidates from certain regions are eligible to apply. Please refer to Annex IV for detailed information. Before you start your application, please check Annex I (List of Invited Member States) and Annex IV to make sure your country (nationality) is eligible for your intended project/field of research. Step 1:Read carefully Annex II (Terms and Conditions) and Annex III (List of fields of researches & projects and their respective criteria) for the 2024 edition of UNESCO/Poland Co-Sponsored Fellowships in Engineering) to understand the requirements for eligible candidatures and the procedures for application submission.Step 2:Contact the National Commission for UNESCO of your country to enquire the application procedures at national level. Click here for the contact information of the National Commissions for UNESCO. Step 3:Prepare your application, including the following supporting documents to the National Commissions of your country of Origin as mentioned in the Annex II: Step 4:Submit your application with all the supporting documents mentioned above to the National Commission for UNESCO of your country. NOTE: As National Commission for UNESCO of the invited countries will select and transmit the applications of nominated candidates to UNESCO Paris Headquarter by 31 May 2024 at the latest, applicants are advised to submit their application to the National Commissions as early as possible. Step 5:As soon as you are informed by the National Commission for UNESCO of your country that you are endorsed and nominated as a candidate for this programme, you should submit your application by email to to agh.poland@unesco.org (with unesco24@agh.edu.pl and j.markiewicz@unesco.pl in copy) and then complete and submit the online information sheet in mat this link.  Step 6:As the last step of submission, you should fill the form at the website of the AGH University of Krakow: https://panel-unesco.agh.edu.pl/registration2024a/. Note: Only applications endorsed  by the National Commission will be accepted by UNESCO. It is mandatory for each endorsed candidate to submit his/er information sheet by Friday 31 May 2024, 12am Paris time at the latest.  Due to the intergovernmental character of UNESCO, individual applications will not be accepted by UNESCO. Only applications endorsed by the National Commissions for UNESCO will be considered. Applicants should submit their application documents through the National Commissions.  The National Commission of invited Member States will select qualified candidates and transmit to UNESCO the Letters of Endorsement and all the application documents of the nominated candidates, by e-mail to agh.poland@unesco.org (with unesco24@agh.edu.pl and j.markiewicz@unesco.pl in copy) by Friday 31 May 2024, 12am Paris time at the latest. Candidatures with incomplete applications, or submitted after this deadline won't be considered. The selection of fellowship recipients will be made and decided by the concerned Polish authorities, taking into consideration gender equality and diversity. The National Commissions for UNESCO of the selected fellows will be duly informed by UNESCO.   Fellows from countries where Polish Embassies or Consulates exist need to obtain their entry visa to Poland prior to their departure. Fellows, from countries where no such Embassy or Consulate exists, must acquire their visa through the nearest Embassy or Consulate of the Republic of Poland. UNESCO and the Government of the Republic of Poland provide no allowance to defray passport and visa expenses. Fellows shall secure their own visas themselves.