A Unique College. A Superior Education. Learn more about our unmatched opportunities for deaf and hard-of-hearing students. Apply for Fall 2025 Get an early start on your application and learn what we look for. How to apply:
First-year students
Transfer students
Interpreting students Meet us on campus or virtually Attend an info session, event, or schedule a campus tour. More ways to experience RIT Coming to RIT/NTID is about getting access to opportunities and people who will support you and challenge you to be your best. It's about getting experiences that will shape you and take you where you want to go. We are creating the most powerful, successful network of deaf and hard-of-hearing professionals in the world. Join us and help move the world forward. If you would like to receive detailed information about RIT/NTID, please follow the link below. Request Information 
		1st
 
				College of Its Kind
			 NTID is the first and largest technological college in the world for deaf and hard-of-hearing students. 
		1.1k
	 
				Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing Students
			 RIT/NTID serves more than 1,100 deaf and hard-of-hearing students from around the United States and the world who live, study, and work alongside hearing students on the mainstream RIT campus. 
		96%
 
				Employed
			 RIT/NTID graduates are successful in a broad range of career fields. 
		93%
 
				Receive Financial Assistance
			 The percentage of full-time deaf and hard-of-hearing undergraduate students who receive financial assistance. 
	  			Experiential Learning
	  		 
	  			Programs of Study
	  		 
	  			Beyond Academics
	  		 
	  			Research @ NTID
	  		 
		    	Bringing Deaf Culture to the Big Screen
		     Walker wants to share Deaf and hard-of-hearing stories to bridge the gap between cultures and represent the Deaf community in Hollywood. 
		    	Medicine's Future
		     By working on a faculty-guided research project, Pannullo has gained hands-on research experience to pursue a future in regenerative medicine. It’s one way Pannullo is putting experiential learning to work. 
		    	Picture Perfect
		     With only a split second to get the perfect shot, Hamilton's passion for capturing emotion is an asset to creating authentic images in the moment. 
		    	Visual Exploration
		     As outreach coordinator for Sunshine 2.0, a theater group at RIT's National Institute for the Deaf, Beam and his troupe provide performances and activities for deaf and hard-of-hearing children and adults that highlight the fields of deaf culture, literacy, and STEM. NTID has revolutionized education for deaf and hard-of-hearing students. Everything we do is focused on providing the education and experiences these students need to pursue their goals and lead successful lives. No other university in the world provides better support for deaf and hard-of-hearing students, and no other college provides better outcomes. 
			August 13, 2024
		 
						AI interview showcases a Syracuse start-up's breakthrough in sign language translation    WSTM-TV highlights the work of Nikolas Kelly ’20 (supply chain management) on his interpreting tool Sign-Speak. 
			August 13, 2024
		 
						RIT grad is on American Ninja Warrior Monday. Get to know Kyle Schulze    The Democrat and Chronicle features Kyle Schulze '24 (mechatronics engineering technology) ahead of his appearance on the American Ninja Warrior semifinals. 
			August 8, 2024
		 
						'Deaf Ninja' Kyle Schulze reaches American Ninja Warrior semifinals. When to watch    The Democrat and Chronicle features Kyle Schulze '24 (mechatronics engineering technology) as he heads to the semifinals of American Ninja Warrior. 
			August 7, 2024
		 
						Strange planets could be forming inside dying stars    New Scientist speaks with Jason Nordhaus, associate professor in the Department of Science and Mathematics, about the phenomenon. (This content will require a subscription to read). See More Stories   
				                	August 29				             
Deaf ROC conference

 
				                	August 30				             
Deaf ROC conference

 
				                	September 4				             
Roar the Vote: Voter Registration at NTID

 
				                	September 6				             
27th AppleFest

 All Events    RIT/NTID is committed to ensuring a welcoming, inclusive, vibrant, and accessible environment for everyone. NTID's Antiracism and Social Justice Plan 
 Follow @ritntid
 Address and Phone 
									52 Lomb Memorial Drive
									Rochester, NY 14623-5608
								 Address and Phone 
					One Lomb Memorial Drive
					Rochester, NY 14623
					585-475-2411
				 
				Copyright © Rochester Institute of Technology. All Rights Reserved.
Land Acknowledgment.
				Disclaimer.
				Copyright Infringement.
				Privacy Statement.
				Nondiscrimination.
				Accessibility.
				Emergency Information.
			