Koddi, a Fort Worth-based pioneer in advertising technology, has appointed three executives to lead key areas of the business. Nanda Lella has been named chief technology officer, Harsh Jiandani has been named chief commercial officer, and Trevor Narayan has been named chief of staff. “Commerce media is quickly evolving towards more personalized, privacy-focused advertising both onsite and offsite,” Koddi President Nicholas Ward said in a statement. “The brands we work with are prioritizing advertiser and user experiences, a solid foundation with fast and scalable infrastructure, and the ability to maximize new partnerships and opportunities quickly. With the addition of these senior executives to Koddi, we can deliver even more improvements and innovations in the areas our customers and partners are prioritizing while ensuring they receive unmatched value.” The company said the appointments bring a wealth of experience to the company and will contribute to expanding on its enterprise-grade capabilities and teams. Lella has more than 20 years of experience and recently served as director of engineering at Meta where he was responsible for leading the team launching and building Meta’s privacy and regulation framework and tools across their Ads business. Before that, Lella was a senior engineering leader at Amazon where he was responsible for the product vision, roadmap, team strategy, and overall execution of Amazon Live, as well as building their video ads delivery platform. At Koddi, Lella is responsible for the product strategy, roadmap, and execution across the product, engineering, and data science teams. “Koddi is at the forefront of technological innovation in the industry,” Lella said in a statement. “As a part of Koddi’s best-in-class team, I look forward to continuing to push the boundaries of what is possible in advertising technology and using AI to help our customers optimize their digital advertising efforts.” Jiandani has global experience in the adtech industry, and recently was the chief revenue officer at PromoteIQ, a Microsoft company, where he was responsible for revenue generation, go-to-market strategy, customer delivery, and partnerships. Before that, Jiandani was general manager and head of sales at Xandr, formerly AppNexus, where he successfully navigated one of AT&T’s largest Ad Tech acquisitions in Xandr. In his role at Koddi, Jiandani is responsible for the marketing, sales, and partnership strategies and teams to drive revenue growth and market expansion. “The Koddi team is continuously advancing advertising technology to help our customers succeed, and I am thrilled to be a part of the forward-thinking team to accelerate growth, build strong partnerships, and deliver innovative solutions to drive growth for our customers,” Jiandani said in a statement. Narayan has extensive experience in the technology industry, having recently served as a senior product manager at DoorDash where he was integral to building the DoorDash ads business. Previously, Narayan held positions at Google where he worked on the travel search team. Narayan’s role at Koddi includes developing and implementing strategic plans for the company. “I’ve known the Koddi team for 8 years and have closely followed their journey to become a leader in the advertising technology industry,” Narayan said in a statement. “I am excited to now be part of the team and serve as a strategic partner for the leadership team to ensure that we are well-positioned for long-term success.” Koddi’s software and services empower advertisers and publishers to increase awareness, generate demand, and drive revenue. Its commerce media platform, Koddi Ads, enables retailers and CPG companies, marketplaces, and publishers to build their own media networks, powered by first-party data and next-generation user experiences.  Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day. One quick signup, and you’re done.   The startup's nail painting robot provides a "fast-casual" version of a manicure. Here’s how your company could be named one of the most innovative, fastest-growing companies in North America. The prestigious Fast 500 rankings honor companies large and small, public and private. Time is ticking: Apply by June 23, 2023. “It’s thrilling to see the Proto M step out into the real world.” David Nussbaum Inventor and Founder Proto Inc. .…on bringing the first public activation of Proto's new hologram device to Dallas Proto Inc. is the creator of technology that makes hologram-based communication a reality. With awards from CES, SXSW, and Fast Company, the Tim Draper-backed startup is the innovator of a plug-and-play, self-contained holoportation device. Nussbaum's original holoportation device, a human-sized Epic (above) has grabbed headlines for beaming people around the world in 3D, lifesize form. Now it's launched a mini-me version of the Epic called the Proto… The nation’s highest honor for technological achievement will be bestowed by President Biden, the USPTO said. The medal is awarded to individuals, teams, and companies for outstanding contributions to the nation’s economic, environmental, and social well-being—through tech products, tech innovation, and strengthening America's tech workforce. Todd Tucker and Bill Milkereit both hail from TRG—formerly The Richards Group—and are responsible for some memorable advertising work in recent years, including spots for Chick-fil-A’s EAT MOR CHIKIN Cow campaign, The Home Depot, and Fruit of the Loom. North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... North Texas is a big place, with plenty to do, see, hear, and watch. So, we scour the internet every week to find events and activities for you. As always, things may change at any time, so be sure to check the official website or registration page for the latest details.... After setting records in grantmaking and fundraising at Communities Foundation of Texas, Monica Christopher has turned her focus to higher education. With 25 years of nonprofit and community leadership behind her, she began exploring new career paths last year.... SignalPET, a Dallas-based medical technology innovator in the veterinary industry, has announced two key leadership changes that it said bolsters the launch of a groundbreaking new telemedicine solution and expansion initiatives.... Veteran homebuilding executive Will Grimes has been appointed vice president of sales and marketing for Dallas-based Landsea Homes Corp., a publicly traded residential homebuilder. “Will’s experience in growing a new homebuilding division, along with his extensive local market experience and sales and customer service expertise, will ensure our team’s continued growth and success in the Dallas-Fort Worth market,” Melissa Kelly, president of Landsea’s expanding DFW division, said in a statement.... David Berg has been named CEO of Plano-based European Wax Center, the largest and fastest-growing franchisor and operator of out-of-home waxing services in the U.S. He succeeds  David Willis, who served as CEO and previously held various positions including president, COO, and CFO.... A collaboration of the Dallas Regional Chamber and Dallas Next, Dallas Innovates is an online news platform covering what's new + next in Dallas - Fort Worth innovation. © Copyright 2024 | All rights reserved.