While face sunblock, body sunscreen and SPF moisturizer are certainly your best protection against the blazing sun, you should also consider wearing sun-protective clothing as another layer of defense. Historically, UPF clothing hasn’t been the most fashionable, but luckily there are now a handful of stylish and protective options from various brands online.  In an effort to help you find the most reliable sun-protective garments, the New York Post interviewed a handful of doctors and experts on the best UPF brands — plus the importance of wearing UPF clothing.  UPF stands for Ultraviolet Protection Factor.  “A UPF rating is given to fabrics that protect your skin from the sun and indicates what fraction of the sun’s ultraviolet rays can penetrate a piece of fabric,” Lisa Chipps, MD, a board-certified dermatologist practicing in Beverly Hills and a spokesperson for the Skin Cancer Foundation, told The Post. “The [SCF] recommends choosing clothing with a UPF of at least 30 to provide sufficient sun protection. A UPF of 30 to 49 offers very good protection, while UPF 50+ is best.” “Protecting yourself against the sun’s harmful UV rays can reduce your risk of developing skin cancer and prevent premature skin aging,” Chipps said, noting that “about 90 percent of non-melanoma skin cancers and 86 percent of melanomas are caused by UV radiation.” “Using sun protective clothing is one part of an effective sun protection routine, which also includes applying sunscreen, seeking shade, and avoiding exposure at peak sun hours between 10 AM and 4 PM.” While you may love wearing your favorite T-shirt to the beach, it won’t necessarily be the best line of defense when it comes to UV protection.  “A UPF of 50 blocks out 49/50 or 98% of UV rays when worn,” board-certified dermatologist Dr. Azadeh Shirazi said. “A white t-shirt only has an SPF of 8.” Chipps further explained that while covering your skin with any clothing is a step in the right direction, “not all clothing is created equal.” “There are a few things to keep in mind when choosing a fabric for sun protection purposes,” Chipps said. “First, look at the tightness of the fabric’s weave. A tightly woven piece with smaller holes between the thread, like denim, will offer more protection than one with an open weave, like a crocheted shawl.” “Next, thicker and darker fabrics are more protective than thin, light fabrics. A bleached cotton offers little protection, whereas a black corduroy would block more UV radiation.” Chipps said. “Finally, synthetic materials are better for UV protection than natural ones. The advantage of wearing clothing with a UPF rating is that it ensures you can be confident about the level of protection that clothing is providing.” While we focused mainly on UPF clothing for women, many of the following brands also sell options for men, kids and babies as well. Celebrity esthetician Candace Marino loves Solbari UPF clothing, a brand that offers a variety of items ranging from women’s and men’s clothing as well as skincare and accessories.  “Solbari does basics really well, and they’re lightweight, making them wearable or [easy to layer] for any climate. They [have many different] UPF clothing [options] for all occasions and their styles range from athleisure to business,” said Marino. “I personally have a few of their long-sleeve T-shirts and leggings. Their lightweight fabric is perfect for a hike and I’ll keep a [Solbari] shirt in my bag any time I’m at the beach or by a pool.” Two experts we interviewed for this piece really enjoy wearing and recommending Lilly Pulitzer UPF clothing. Whether you’re looking for a sun-protective sweatshirt to wear on a chillier day or a protective tennis skirt, the brand has you covered with tons of colorful options.  “I like the UPF clothing from Lilly Pulitzer because they have a wide variety of options,” said Shirazi. “From athletic wear, everyday pieces, swimwear and even clothing for the kids — it’s easy to find everything you need. It’s also very fashion-forward which I love.” “Lilly Pulitzer’s clothing is so cute, and the bright colors and patterns are perfect for summer,” Engelman added. “Their clothing takes you from the beach to gatherings with friends and family.” Dr. Dendy Engelman, a board-certified cosmetic dermatologist, can’t say enough great things about Mott50. The trendy UPF swimwear and clothing brand offers options for women, men, kids, babies and more.  “My family and I love Mott50, and I feel confident that my children are comfortable and well protected in Mott50’s lightweight, UPF 50+ fabric,” Engelman raved. “Mott50 offers so many bright, beautiful patterns and styles that there’s something for everyone, and it’s fun to mix and match their different pieces.” Marino also really enjoys Mott50 UPF clothing specifically the Dapper Lounge Pants. “Oftentimes when people think about sun protection they think of the upper half of the body and forget that our legs need protection too,” Marino said. “These pants make it easy to ensure the lower half of the body is just as protected. [They] can be dressed up or worn casually and are great for travel.” If you’re on the hunt for a fashionable UPF-friendly sun hat and don’t mind spending a few extra bucks, Janessa Leoné is the perfect place to shop.  “This is the only brand doing UPF products that’s actually fashion-forward,” Marino stated. “While most brands’ designs are catering to children and seniors, her hats are something that will become an instant staple in anyone’s wardrobe and no one will know that you’re wearing a UPF product.”  Engelman is a big advocate for Cabana Life due to its brand story.  “Cabana Life was founded after one of its two female founders was diagnosed with skin cancer,” Engelman said. “The two women decided to create stylish clothing that also offers great sun protection.” “As a dermatologist and Moh’s surgeon, I see a lot of patients who suffer from skin cancer or have concerning spots due to sun damage, so I am constantly advising my patients to protect themselves properly,” Engelman added. “I really appreciate the thoughtfulness that goes into Cabana Life’s clothing and the message they are sharing about sun safety.” Coolibar is a unique brand that sells a variety of fashionable UPF clothing for both men and women and claims to be the world’s leader in UPF 50+ fabric technology. They make styles for swim, active, fishing, travel, resort and everyday life.  Baleaf has a wide selection of UPF-friendly clothing and accessories for men and women. Ranging from long-sleeve shirts that are great for hours on end on the water and athletic shorts that are ideal for running around town and beyond.  Kühl offers a wide variety of trendy but protective clothing that you can wear for hours in the sun. From hoodies to tank tops, there’s bound to be something you love. For more content, check out the New York Post Shopping section. 