Take a chunk o' change off some of our test team's favorite shoes—and score yourself some discounted clothes and accessories while you're there.  We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. Why Trust Us? Are you in the market for a new pair of Saucony running shoes? Perhaps a technical tee or a pair of running shorts? You're in luck: From now until midnight on September 5, Saucony is offering 20 percent off a range of items on their website, as well as some sneakier discounts that can save you up to $50. One discount in particular has all of our attention, though: Saucony's Triumph 20, which was test editor Amanda Furrer's default shoe on Strava last November, is 30 percent off for the duration of the brand's sale, likely to clear the way for the Triumph 21 and RFG models that recently debuted. On top of that, you can find price cuts on older models of race-day shoes, trail shoes, and even some pairs of casual kicks. We also recommend checking out the apparel items on sale—all 392 of them. From moisture-wicking tees and tanks to breezy shorts and hats, these discounts offer a chance to beef up your wardrobe while showing your wallet a little more mercy. To secure these savings, all you have to do is enter the discount code "LABOR2023" at checkout. It's best to act quick, though: Even though these sales will last through the holiday, we can't guarantee that anything will stay in stock. To save you some time, we've put together some of the best deals we've found from scrounging Saucony's site. While the Triumph 20 is by far the best deal you'll score on a shoe this weekend, there are plenty more options worth taking a look at, including limited stock of the Peregrine 12, another test team-approved pick, and the comfy Endorphin Shift recovery day shoe. The brand also has discounts on select color swatches of their casual Jazz sneaker, so you can deck yourself out in Saucony swag even on your rest days. The changing of the seasons is upon us, making this the perfect time to swipe some discounted cold-weather gear while also saving on some lightweight clothes left over from the summer. Saucony has hundreds of items on sale, including some of the brand's high-end tights and jackets, which means you can save upwards of $30 on individual items. Celebrate with a steak dinner on your Monday off, perhaps? As a diehard headwear lover, I couldn't ignore the bountiful hat selection Saucony included in its sale. The brand has something for every season, from skull caps to balaclavas to caps, all made with premium sweat-wicking materials. Saucony also has a good few deals on its running belts and storage vests—a must for carrying your essentials on your longest runs, especially as the fall marathon training season rounds its last bend. Adam Schram is an Assistant Editor of Commerce at Runner's World, though you might see his byline on Bicycling and Popular Mechanics, too. A lover of all things outdoors, Adam's writing career comes after six years as a bike mechanic in his hometown of State College, PA. His journalism experience is steeped in cycling and running gear reviews, and he's also a published creative nonfiction and satire author. When he's not writing, riding, or running, you can catch Adam at home mixing cocktails, watching Star Wars, or trying in vain to do the Sunday crossword. You can check out his latest work below. Running Shoe Sales for August 2024 Score These Running Gear Finds at lululemon Now Post-Prime Day Shokz Open-Ear Headphones Deal 2024 The Best Post-Prime Day Running Shoe Deals 2024 The Best Prime Day Running Gear Deals of 2024 The Best Prime Day Massage Gun Deals 2024 Apple Watch Prime Day Deals 2024 The Best Prime Day Treadmill Deals  The Best Prime Day Running Headphones Deals 2024 Prime Day Garmin Running Watch Deals 2024 The Best Walking Shoe Prime Day Deals of 2024 Home Gym Equipment Is up to 62% off on Amazon Now A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.