Beat the heat and stay looking cool. Katherine J. Igoe has been a full-time freelancer for over a decade with a focus on style, lifestyle, and parenting.  When you're headed to the beach, it can be hard to balance comfort with style. You've got your swimsuit, of course, if you're planning on sunbathing or going swimming. But you might want some more coverage, especially if it's an all-day affair with drinks, food, and socializing. It should also be an extension of your natural style, just modified to fit the context. Stitch Fix stylist Alex Rivera, noting that the styling service calls the trend "Everyday Vacay," explains that your beach style should combine "the effortless ease of vacation style mixed into your everyday attire, with a focus on linen and flowing silhouettes." You'll want to think strategically about each element of your outfit, from casual footwear to waterproof accessories to cover-ups that'll get you to your next location.
  So, whether you've got a warm weather vacation planned or you happen to live somewhere with sun and surf (lucky!), keep scrolling. We have all the outfit inspo you need.
 Getty  Perhaps the most important fashion choice you'll make for your beachwear outfit is your footwear: it has to be comfortable enough to walk in but still feel like a cohesive part of your outfit. "Slip into a pair of comfortable slides or sandals that you can easily kick off when strolling along the sandy shores," says Christy Dawn, Founder & CEO of Christy Dawn. "Look for styles with cushioned soles for all-day wearability."
 Getty  If you want a one-and-done beach outfit, pair a summer dress with a great bag. "Opt for a lightweight, flowy maxi dress in breathable fabric like regenerative cotton or linen," says Dawn, adding that a woven bag or clutch is the perfect beachy touch. "Not only does it complement the beach aesthetic, but it also adds texture and interest to your outfit."
 Getty  "It’s always a good idea to integrate a summer floral print, as it requires no coordination," says fashion stylist and style expert Naina Singla. But, if a dress isn't your vibe, how about a matching set of pants and a crop top? With a pattern, you can let the design be the focal point and style the rest of your outfit simply (like with this wide-brimmed hat to keep the sun out of your eyes, as Dawn notes).
 Getty  A matching set (like this PJ-inspired top and shorts) makes it look like you put a ton of effort into your outfit and still lets your bathing suit steal the show. "This look is the epitome of beachside comfort, yet the coordinated set still makes it feel elevated and put together," says Rivera, noting that you can achieve the same look with a linen top and pants. Shop the full list of our favorite beach cover-ups for even more inspiration.
 Getty  If you're not particularly interested in layering over your bikini (or minimal crop top and shorts), you can still add in a little layering with some subtle jewelry and a great pair of sunglasses — which are also very functional in the sun. Singla calls the perfect shades one of those "ideal accessories that are beach-friendly."
 Getty  As Singla explains, "To stay cool, try breathable and lightweight linen pants over a bikini or one-piece. Throw on an oversized shirt over top. This is a perfect go-to look to transition from breakfast to the pool." A blazer works as a great alternative, with the caveat that it's probably too heavy to wear to the beach itself.
 Getty  With a few tweaks, this summer street style look will be beach-ready in a snap. "To be prepared for a look that works for day to night, wear a black bikini with a sheer black cover up maxi dress. Add simple gold jewelry, a white clutch, and throw your hair into a sleek ponytail for a look that easily goes from day to night," says Singla.
  This linen off-the-shoulder dress looks easy-breezy, but the bag really levels up the outfit — plus it serves an important function. "Pair your dress with strappy sandals and a colorful tote that can fit all your beach and evening essentials," says Rivera. This would be a look you could wear if you didn't want to change all day; just wear it over your swimsuit.
 Getty  If a more structured dress feels too restrictive for your casual beach day, "layer your bikini with a lightweight kimono or cover-up for extra coverage without compromising on breathability," says Dawn. "Opt for sheer fabrics or crochet designs for a breezy feel."
 Any outfit that you wear to Coachella or another summer festival can be repurposed for the beach: just swap out your sneakers for sandals and opt for shorts instead of pants. Getty  Denim might feel a bit too heavy for the beach, so opt for short shorts and a matching chambray shirt that's still breathable but gives a little extra coverage when you need it. "This look is both relaxed and casual," says Singla. The button-down is extremely versatile: you can wear it open or closed, with a knot at the front or worn long.
 Getty  If you've got a super-simple look, the best way to add life and personality is through accessories like a hat and jewelry. "Add an accent of a few silver chain necklaces and strappy sandals. It’s a polished look that is also comfortable," says Singla. This very simple festival-appropriate look will be ready for the beach in no time — just swap out the boots for sandals.
 Getty  "To elevate your beachwear, combine a wrap skirt around your waist with a two-piece and a pair of simple flat or kitten heel sandals," says Singla. Bonus points if your skirt matches your pretty floral swimwear—we love a coordinated moment—and add a nice bag and some bracelets if you're headed to dinner.
 Getty  I realize that high heels don't immediately come to mind when you're thinking of a beach vacay. But a small kitten heel helps "make the look feel more dressy and dinner appropriate," says Singla. As part of the Stitch Fix "waterproofing formula," Rivera suggests shoes that are made of "water-friendly materials like patent leather or rubber, to ensure you stay dry and fashionable." That way, you won't ruin your shoes even if they do get some sea water on them.
 Getty  Crochet isn't just a fun '70s throwback: they're also a great pattern for an eye-catching cover-up. As Singla explains, "This material is not only breathable, but also wrinkle-resistant and slightly transparent. It can work for brunch or drinks at the beach." As with a lot of other options on this list, you can throw this over your bathing suit and head out.
 Getty  "I recommend opting for a wide-leg silhouette for linen pants, which are ideal for leisurely walks along the shore or beach games with friends (this is also a fun opportunity to test out a wider leg silhouette if you’ve been curious to dip a toe!)," Rivera says. If it feels like a lot, make your whole outfit the same color — and white is always right for summer!
