PERCIVAL is the men's fashion brand winning over a legion of fans, thanks to its stylish designs being worn by Hollywood's finest. The UK menswear clothing line has been spotted on the backs of A-listers like Shawn Mendes, The Rock, Chris Evans and Tom Holland and we've scored an exclusive discount code to save on your next shop. The brand's famous knitted shirt took over Hollywood in 2022 and continues to be a bestseller. Combining relaxed vibes with a suave and stylish look, Percival is the menswear brand to watch.  If it's your first time shopping with the brand, we've got a discount that's exclusive to Sun readers.  Simply use code: SUN15 for 15% off your purchase.  This offer is valid for all items on the website, but excludes sales items. For SS23, Percival has the ultimate essentials for guys who want to look smart, cool and relaxed as the weather hots up. The collection focuses on key items to help you build head-turning looks for the season, with relaxed linen shirts, lightweight chino style shorts and tailored blazers. Also hot on the fashion agenda for the season Percival's ultimate linen suit, a fan favourite that is back in a variety of spring shades.  It's ideal for the summer wedding season. If you're looking for some new threads to switch up your signature style, you should make a beeline for Percival's new collection. Here are some of our favourite items from the range. Perfect for a warm summer day and just as nice for a cool spring evening - this shirt has the right amount of classic. The tapestry cuban shirt screams holiday vibes, boasts a Cuban collar and is made from 100% linen with a traditional embroidery. This blazer is part of the linen collection, boasting full summer vibes. The Linen Collection is now live, made from 100% linen in a range of colours and matching trousers too. Your summer dreams are just a few clicks away. These linen trousers can be dressed up or dressed down, worn to the office or beach. Named the everyday linen trouser, they can be worn every day and provide comfort with a drawcord waist and a slightly wider leg than a tailored trouser. One of the hero pieces in our SS23 Blue Willow Club collection. This crocheted top is made from high quality cotton with delicate details. It can be worn solo with shorts or as a statement piece under a jacket. Looking for more stylish savings at your favourite fashion chains? Visit Sun Vouchers where you’ll find amazing discounts and voucher codes for hundreds of fashion retailers including ASOS, Very, River Island, Roman Originals, New Look and more. ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link: thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/