e-Edition Get the latest news delivered daily!  Get the latest news delivered daily! e-Edition 
			Trending:		 An art exhibit, titled “Exploring the Coast to Crest Trail,” runs through Jan. 25 at the Dove Library in Carlsbad. The exhibit features 20 works by artist Sue Britt of Carmel Valley. Britt calls the pieces “Paper Tapestry,” in which she weaves stories out of paper.The exhibit was inspired by Britt’s hike along the Coast to Crest Trail from the coast at Del Mar to Volcan Mountain, a trail spearheaded by the San Dieguito River Valley Conservancy. Britt participated in the conservancy’s program called “Experiencing a Sense of Place,” a program of learning through hiking that furthered Britt’s connection to the trails.“Forty-nine miles, horizon to horizon, of inspiration,” Britt said in her artist statement about the exhibit.“Though I hiked the trails multiple times, it is easy to see something new every time. I go home and sketch, remembering what I saw, pondering what I felt, capturing new thoughts from research about the botany of plants and the history of the land,” Britt said.The work is done in a technique Britt said she created, which she calls Paper Tapestry. A substrate of foam board is cut into pieces, carved and then covered in decorative papers of various colors.The technique preserves the line work of a sketch, adds texture through carving and uses a large collection of decorative papers for color.“After two years of hiking and writing and making art I am attached to this place that is the Coast to Crest Trail,” Britt said. “I want to share the beauty and stories I found on the trail.”Britt talks about the sense of awe she feels on her hikes and her wish to share that with her audience.

“My art work is a reflection of that awe I feel in nature and this is my attempt to inspire the same feeling in the viewer of my art,” Britt said.The Dove Library is open from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Mondays and 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays at 1775 Dove Lane.To see more of Britt’s work, visit papertapestry.net. To find a map of the Coast to Crest Trail, visit sdrvc.org. The exhibit was inspired by Britt’s hike along the Coast to Crest Trail from the coast at Del Mar to Volcan Mountain, a trail spearheaded by the San Dieguito River Valley Conservancy. Britt participated in the conservancy’s program called “Experiencing a Sense of Place,” a program of learning through hiking that furthered Britt’s connection to the trails. “Forty-nine miles, horizon to horizon, of inspiration,” Britt said in her artist statement about the exhibit. “Though I hiked the trails multiple times, it is easy to see something new every time. I go home and sketch, remembering what I saw, pondering what I felt, capturing new thoughts from research about the botany of plants and the history of the land,” Britt said. The work is done in a technique Britt said she created, which she calls Paper Tapestry. A substrate of foam board is cut into pieces, carved and then covered in decorative papers of various colors. The technique preserves the line work of a sketch, adds texture through carving and uses a large collection of decorative papers for color. “After two years of hiking and writing and making art I am attached to this place that is the Coast to Crest Trail,” Britt said. “I want to share the beauty and stories I found on the trail.” Britt talks about the sense of awe she feels on her hikes and her wish to share that with her audience. “My art work is a reflection of that awe I feel in nature and this is my attempt to inspire the same feeling in the viewer of my art,” Britt said. The Dove Library is open from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Mondays and 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays at 1775 Dove Lane. To see more of Britt’s work, visit papertapestry.net. To find a map of the Coast to Crest Trail, visit sdrvc.org. Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group