
	From lemonade stands to clothing companies, dozens of young entrepreneurs were at Tapestry Hall in Cambridge on Sunday for the second annual Waterloo Region Children’s Business Fair. 
	More than 75 business owners participated in the one-day event, aimed at giving children the opportunity to launch their own start-up business. 
	With the age requirement set at 17 years old or younger, some of the young entrepreneurs haven’t even started high school yet. 
	“I sell custom apparel. Mostly Disney related because Disney is a really iconic character. A lot of kids love them,” said 13-year-old Ireoluwa Olabisi. 
	Participants got a taste for business as they were asked to develop a brand, create a product or service, and then build a marketing strategy before opening for customers at the market on Sunday. 
	There was also a bigger lesson. 
	“Taking something very small, learning that you have a community to support you and to grow beyond,” said Megan Gallinger, an organizer of the fair. 
	More than $1,000 in grants and prizes were awarded to participants. The lawyer for 'Freedom Convoy' organizer Chris Barber told a judge Monday that a court order banning honking in downtown Ottawa during the protest wasn't clear enough.  The Liberal Party of Canada is the latest major group to withdraw from the annual Ottawa Pride parade after organizers pledged solidarity with Palestinians in a statement earlier this month. The federal political party's decision comes as some embassies, civil servants, and local organizations pulled out of the event amid the controversy.  Statistics Canada says the median family after-tax income in 2022 fell compared with 2021, after adjustment for inflation, with young people being the hardest hit.  Party faithful are feeling invigorated by U.S. Vice-President Kamala Harris's swift ascension to the top of the ticket as the Democratic National Convention kicks off in Chicago on Monday following a tumultuous month for the party.  Former U.S. president Donald Trump has posted a fake social media image of pop superstar Taylor Swift asking people to vote for him in the November election.  British tech magnate Mike Lynch and five other people were missing after their luxury superyacht sank during a freak storm off Sicily early Monday, Italy’s civil protection and authorities said. Lynch’s wife and 14 other people survived.  Over time, Jon Kotwicki says he and his team are 'creating, you know, kind of our own little airport amusement park' in Wasilla, Alaska.  Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. could be on the verge of dominating the world's convenience store market after it offered to buy one of the sector's biggest players.  U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Monday that Israel has accepted a proposal to bridge differences holding up a ceasefire and hostage release in Gaza, and he called on Hamas to do the same, without saying whether concerns cited by the militant group had been addressed.  The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us. An arrest was made after a two-hour standoff in West Lorne Monday afternoon.  Critics of leadership at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) are calling the departure of two high paid executives a step in the right direction.  Matthew McQuarrie was sentenced to life in prison for stabbing Emerson Sprung to death, and burying him in a shallow grave in a Meaford, Ont. park in May 2020.  As water leaks into both his child's bedroom and the family room of his west-end apartment unit, Daniel Banner says his family is stuck in a precarious housing situation they can’t escape.  Dozens of people gathered on Windsor’s riverfront to commemorate the 82th anniversary of the Dieppe Raid.  A 24-year-old Wallaceburg motorcyclist has been charged with impaired driving after a crash.  Thick smoke has blanketed much of Barrie after a fire broke out at a scrapyard in central Barrie on Monday morning.  A Woodbridge, Ont. man accused of murder in the 2010 death of his friend will stand trial in March.  Two men were injured in an incident that occurred at a Barrie plaza around Cundles Road East and Sperling Drive early Monday morning.  In hopes that it will help their investigation, Greater Sudbury Police have released the name of a man who was found dead at Bell on July 31  Sometimes, despite couples' best efforts to stay together, marriages come to an end far earlier than either party hoped or predicted. Here is some advice from Barry Nussbaum, a family lawyer who has counselled countless couples, about the details you don't want to neglect when getting divorced.  A sentencing hearing began Monday in a Sudbury for Liam Stinson, who was found guilty in May of three counts of first-degree murder and arson causing bodily harm.  The number of organizations and leaders in Ottawa pulling out of Capital Pride events continues to grow in response to a statement the group made expressing solidarity with Palestinians last week.  In the biggest change to Ottawa's curbside waste policy since 2012, households will be limited to three items of curbside waste every two weeks starting Sept. 30.  The lawyer for 'Freedom Convoy' organizer Chris Barber told a judge Monday that a court order banning honking in downtown Ottawa during the protest wasn't clear enough.  Toronto has shattered records for the wettest summer season after a weekend of intense rain and windy weather.  Flooding in Toronto and southern Ontario last month resulted in more than $940 million worth of insured damage, the Insurance Bureau of Canada (IBC) announced Monday.  A portion of Danforth Avenue that was closed in Toronto’s Greektown area after the driver of a custom Ford Model T crashed into a tree or a sign and was ejected from their vehicle has reopened.  Montreal officials are continuing their analysis to find out what led to a major water main break that caused immense flooding just under the Jacques Cartier Bridge.  CTV Montreal was forced to set up a makeshift studio on Nuns' Island after a water main break caused water to flood into our building.  The Montreal Canadiens have acquired star forward Patrik Laine and a second-round pick in the 2026 NHL draft in a trade with the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenceman Jordan Harris.  The sentencing hearing for the youth charged with stabbing two staff members at Charles P. Allen High School in Bedford, N.S., resumed on Monday morning.  A search for a kayaker who went missing in Halifax on Sunday is underway.  Two lifeguards who helped rescue four swimmers at Black Brook Beach along the Cabot Trail in Cape Breton said high waves created a dangerous situation on Sunday.  Residents of a Manitoba community are in shock following an apparent triple homicide and suicide last week, as RCMP continues to investigate.  A Winnipeg business owner wants something to be done after his office was broken into at least four times in the past two months.  The first group of dogs – who were part of a seizure of over 130 pups from a home north of Winnipeg – are ready for adoption.  A suspicious death Friday evening in the northwest Calgary community of Carrington has community members concerned.  Local businesses and consumers are sounding the alarm as a nationwide rail strike looms.  Some quick-thinking Calgarians used a garden hose to put out a fire spreading up the side of their home on Monday afternoon.  Workers at Canada's two main railways could go on strike as early as Thursday, stranding $55 million worth of Alberta cargo per day.  Stony Plain Road will be closed until the end of November so Marigold can complete extra work on the Valley Line West LRT.  The roads heading into Jasper, Alta., are open, but officials say tourists won't be welcome in the Rocky Mountain town for the foreseeable future.  Staffing issues have prompted yet another temporary closure of South Okanagan General Hospital's emergency department – this time from Monday afternoon into Tuesday morning.  The federal government has fined a Vancouver film company and its drone operator $30,000 for unlawful use of a drone to capture video of endangered killer whales off the British Columbia coast.  A 25-year-old man who was wanted Canada-wide for his alleged role in a shooting in Ontario has been arrested on Vancouver Island.  © 2024 

 All rights reserved. Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy