
                
                    
                        Let CFO Dive's free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.
                    
                
              Kevin Wills is taking the New York City-based company’s CFO seat as the firm is once again contemplating going public. It shelved previous IPO plans in 2021. Wills’ hiring comes as the conglomerate — whose brand portfolio includes Forever 21, Lucky Brand, Nine West, and Reebok — may be reconsidering going public after halting a bid to do so in late 2021. The company filed for an initial public offering in 2021 before withdrawing its application, instead selling a $12.7 billion equity stake in the business to stakeholders including private equity firm CVC Capital, according to a 2021 CNBC report. The company would target an IPO in 2023 or 2024, Salter said at the time.   Late last month, the retail conglomerate announced a $500 million follow-on investment from its existing investor, General Atlantic which first invested in the company in 2017 — bringing its total invested capital in the company to $2 billion, Authentic Brands said. The investment brings the retail conglomerate’s total valuation up to over $20 billion, a company spokesperson confirmed to CFO Dive in an email. Its portfolio of over 40 brands generates over $25 billion in global annual retail sales, according to the retail conglomerate. Authentic Brands declined to comment on any plans to go public or on details of Wills’ appointment beyond those included in its Thursday press release. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Executives aiming to rise to the CFO seat have faced a bright landscape in recent years, with turnover unusually high. The company’s average “days beyond terms” jumped from 15 in December to 30 in January, reaching 57 as of March. Subscribe to CFO Dive for top news, trends & analysis Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts Executives aiming to rise to the CFO seat have faced a bright landscape in recent years, with turnover unusually high. The company’s average “days beyond terms” jumped from 15 in December to 30 in January, reaching 57 as of March. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines