Stocks worth taking a closer look at are fewer known companies such as Etsy (ETSY), Tapestry, Inc (TPR) and Garmin Ltd (GRMN).   For example, Etsy operates the top 10 e-commerce market operators in the US and UK, with significant operations in Germany, France, Australia and Canada. The company dominates the exchange of vintage and artisanal goods. In 2022, the consolidated gross merchandise volume exceeded $13 billion. And at the end of last year, the firm connected more than 95 million buyers and 7.5 million sellers on its sites. The fundamental potential for an average target price is $115.   Meanwhile, Tapestry, Inc owns clothing and accessories brands such as Coach, Kate Spade and Stuart Weitzman. TPR has a strong brand, category, and channel mix at an attractive price. The stock is strongly undervalued and the fundamental potential for an average target price stands at $50.70.   Garmin Ltd. is a manufacturer of wireless devices. The company is particularly renowned for its wide range of products, including portable GPS devices for cars, aviation, marine and outdoor activities, as well as fitness trackers, smart watches and cycling computers. Four of GRMN's five segments showed double-digit revenue growth. For example, in the first quarter, revenues from the fitness segment grew by 11%, from the aviation segment by 22%, from the marine segment by 10% and from the automotive OEM segment by 11%. And the company's net profit is 19.94% of revenue. The stock is moving in a medium-term upward channel, testing resistance in the form of a local high, in case of a breakdown it could move to $119.50.   As for the IPOs, Freedom Finance Analysts expect two US companies to go public by the end of 2023: Fogo Hospitality and Turo Inc. The former is a chain of Brazilian steakhouses in the US called Fogo de Chao. In total, it has more than 75 locations, of which 67 are company-owned and eight franchisees. On average, 151,000 people visit one Fogo Hospitality restaurant a year.    Turo is a platform that connects car owners with renters. The platform offers registered car rental trips for hours, days or weeks. As of 31 March 2023, it had more than 165,000 active hosts, more than 330,000 cars and 3.1 million active guests.   Disclaimer: Capital is at risk. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Presented material is not meant to represent "Investment advice" or provide "Investment research" services. It is important to do your own analysis before making any investment in the stock market.    Maxim Manturov began his career as investment analyst in 2017, conducting a credit analysis of global market companies and stock fluctuations assessment. He also participated in development of fixed income portfolio strategy which included more than 100 security names. © 2020 FXMAG. All Rights ReservedRisk Disclosure: Trading in financial instruments and/or cryptocurrencies involves high risks including the risk of losing some, or all, of your investment amount, and may not be suitable for all investors. Prices of cryptocurrencies are extremely volatile and may be affected by external factors such as financial, regulatory or political events. Trading on margin increases the financial risks. Before deciding to trade in financial instrument or cryptocurrencies you should be fully informed of the risks and costs associated with trading the financial markets, carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite, and seek professional advice where needed. FXMAG would like to remind you that the data contained in this website is not necessarily real-time nor accurate. The data and prices on the website are not necessarily provided by any market or exchange, but may be provided bymarket makers, and so prices may not be accurate and may differ from the actual price at any given market, meaning prices are indicative and not appropriate for trading purposes. FXMAG and any provider of the data contained in this websitewill not accept liability for any loss or damage as a result of your trading, or your reliance on the information contained within this website. It is prohibited to use, store, reproduce, display, modify, transmit or distribute the data contained in this website without the explicit prior written permission of FXMAG and/or the data provider. All intellectual property rights are reserved by the providers and/or the exchange providing the data contained in this website. FXMAG may be compensated by the advertisers that appear on the website, based on your interaction with the advertisements or advertisers.