Cashless payments expertise provider Tappit has contracted Nordic Wristbands, making Nordic its exclusive provider for consumables worldwide By teaming up, Nordic will provide Tappit’s customers with RFID-enabled wristbands and cards. This includes the NBA, NHL and MLS Leagues in North America or the Abu Dhabi F1 Grand Prix in the UAE. Nordic Eco Wristbands are made of recycled and renewable materials, often from environmentally friendly materials such as biodegradable, renewable plant-based fibres or recycled plastics. 
                                The gold standard of business intelligence.
                             
                                    Find out more
                                    



 Jason Thomas, CEO at Tappit, said: “Nordic makes an ideal partner who share our values around sustainability and ethics, with a strong International reach. “We looked hard at the market, considering pricing, distribution and the ability to fulfil a fast turnaround given the last-minute decisions we often face, all of which Nordic scored highly on”, Thomas continued. “They particularly stood out with their sustainability credentials, the combination of their biodegradable produce range and the Stand for Trees program in place, which was an important factor in selecting them.” Tappit has been a promoter of cashless payment technology in sports events. In 2019, the company signed a three-year deal with Formula 1 Australian Grand Prix to implement its cashless technology as the exclusive payment method at Club 15 bars at the Albert Park circuit. In addition, Tappit partnered with Manchester City Group and two other football clubs, becoming their official events cashless payment partner. Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge. Your download email will arrive shortly We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
                     Nordic Wristbands CEO Jone Nuutinen commented on the new contract signed with Tappit. “We’re delighted to be working with Tappit, giving us the opportunity to introduce our sustainable products to new markets in the UAE and North America and hopefully help inspire more conversations around the environment while helping to reduce the carbon impact on these high-profile events”, Nuutinen said. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. 
                The gold standard of business intelligence.
             

                    Find out more
                    



 Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.  





 




                                                                                                                                Thematic Take (monthly)                                                                                                                        


 


                                                    I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance with  Privacy Policy

 View all newsletters from across the GlobalData Media network. 
		The leading site for news and procurement in the Electronic Payments International 
				Powered by
				
 © Verdict Media Limited 2024