Jennifer Lopez, Gigi Hadid and Emma Stone are just a few of the big names adopting this elegant, dance-inspired style Steve Granitz/FilmMagic, Pierre Suu/GC Images, Gotham/GC Images  "Balletcore" is the latest fashion trend to spin its way into celebrity wardrobes. Stars like Hailey Bieber, Natalie Portman, Emma Stone and Gigi Hadid are all adopting this romantic, dance-inspired style. Posh ballet flats, chic tights, pristinely slicked-back hairstyles, frills and different shades of pink can be spotted on red carpets and in their street style.
  See how these stars are tapping into their inner ballerinas and embracing this elegant aesthetic.
 Gotham/GC Images  Gigi Hadid looks graceful on and off the runway, especially when she leans into this soft and clean aesthetic. Between her white tights and nude ballet flats, the model could wear her hair up or down and still execute the trend perfectly.
 Sean Zanni/Patrick McMullan via Getty  In her feathery white minidress, Stone looked like a dance dream at the 2022 Met Gala and on the day she married Dave McCary. Louis Vuitton shared insider details about the actress' red carpet attire on Instagram, explaining that the elegant dress was "specially designed for her wedding after-party."
 Robert Kamau/GC Images  Hailey Bieber might look like she's about to pirouette on stage in her glossy blush dress and slingback flats, but she was just headed out to dinner in Manhattan. Leave it to the queen of street style to turn balletcore into casual wear.
 Pierre Suu/GC Images  The multi-hyphenate's flats and hairstyle raised the barre for casual ballerina style.
 Steve Granitz/FilmMagic  The Euphoria star aced balletcore in a rosy-sleeved, ruffled skirt and pink tights.
 Gisela Schober/Getty   It's no surprise that the star of Black Swan would look effortlessly elegant in anything reminiscent of balletcore. Between her petaled gown and smooth hairstyle, Portman embodied the romantic trend at Cannes Film Festival in May 2023.
 Marc Piasecki/WireImage  Soft pinks, sheer fabrics and frilly skirts are all it takes to look like an off-duty dancer, as shown by YouTuber-turned-trendsetter Emma Chamberlain.
 Gareth Cattermole/Getty  Maude Apatow looked on pointe in a tulle skirt and matching headwear, though she could also pass for a princess in her sequin-embellished two piece.
 Iris Apatow/Instagram  The younger Apatow sister, Iris, showed off her love of the classic leg warmer look in an Instagram Reel. In her color-coordinated athleisure, the young star could pass for a ballerina getting ready to learn a new number.
