On July 7, 2023, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department issued a statement regarding “its investigation of the alleged battery that occurred on July 5, 2023” and determined that “no charges would be filed against the person involved.” The police investigated a police report filed by Britney Spears, who says she was hit in the face by a member of basketball player Victor Wembanyama’s security team. In a widely circulated video of the altercation caught on camera, Spears can be seen walking up behind the 7'5" San Antonio Spurs star and tapping him on the shoulder. Wembanyama, who’s surrounded by a team of security, does not turn around. In the video, a security guard can be seen shoving Spears’ arm away; Spears’ head jerks back at the moment of impact. Another man alongside Wembanyama is then captured shoving Spears aside. RELATED: 5 Unusual 'Rules' Amber Heard Reportedly Made Johnny Depp Follow         Spears took to social media to clarify her interpretation of the altercation, posting two separate messages on her Instagram account. Spears wrote, “Traumatic experiences are not new to me and I have had my fair share of them. I was not prepared for what happened to me last night.” She continued, stating, “I recognized an athlete in my hotel lobby as I was heading to dinner. I later went to a restaurant at a different hotel and saw him again. I decided to approach him and congratulate him on his success. It was really loud, so I tapped him on the shoulder to get his attention. I am aware of the player’s statement where he mentions ‘I grabbed him from behind’ but I simply tapped him on the shoulder. His security then backhanded me in the face without looking back, in front of a crowd.” RELATED: Owen Wilson Allegedly Still Refuses To Meet His 4-Year-Old Daughter — Her Mom Says She 'Needs A Father'             View this post on Instagram                         A post shared by Maria River Red (@britneyspears) Spears pointed out that in her experience as a celebrity, she’s consistently swarmed by fans. She noted that same night, “I was swarmed by a group of at least 20 fans. My security team didn’t hit any of them.” “This story is super embarrassing to share with the world but it’s out there already,” she explained. She also noted, “I also don’t appreciate nor do I think this is a laughing matter. Watching the player smile and laugh was cruel and demoralizing with the situation that took place.” Spears made an astute and valuable assessment of the altercation between her and Wembanyama’s security guard. For the majority of her career, and in light of recent mental health concerns, Spears has been skewered by the media. RELATED: Why Tom Cruise 'Chooses Not To See' His Daughter 11 Years After Their Last Sighting Together   For Spears to be told by an institution like the police department that she didn’t experience what she clearly did experience, it's a way of denying her reality. Unfortunately, what happened to Spears is a part of a larger common narrative for victims of assault — to be told that their hurt isn’t real. Spears acknowledged the prevalence of physical violence that happens “often behind closed doors.” She also made a follow-up post in Instagram, in which she reiterated that during her time in the industry, “not one time in my life has a security guard ever hit another person!!! I’m not sharing this to be a victim.” She also said, “I have felt helpless in most situations and my experience in Vegas and my reaction was a cry out on all levels... No, I don’t feel like I have been treated as an equal person in this country.” RELATED: Rumors That Bob Saget Behaved Inappropriately With The Olsen Twins On ‘Full House’ Set Resurface After His Death             View this post on Instagram                         A post shared by Maria River Red (@britneyspears) Spears also stated, “Either way I’m still a huge fan of the NBA player... it’s not his fault his security hit me.” Ultimately, Spears shouldn’t feel that what happened to her was “super embarrassing,” as she claimed to feel. Living in her reality, one of extreme fame and public critique, doesn't mean that her account of lived experience should be denied, as the police have apparently done. RELATED: Fans Accuse Britney Spears’ Husband Of Cheating On Her & Marrying Her For Money After Allegations Resurface Alexandra Blogier is a writer on YourTango's news and entertainment team. She covers celebrity gossip, pop culture analysis and all things to do with the entertainment industry. This article originally appeared on YourTango New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Who will take over coaching Team USA for the Los Angeles Olympics? Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market.