Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. Why trust us? Microsoft has just taken a vital step towards better protecting your devices from malware, and it’s one that could stop viruses dead in their tracks. Interestingly, though, the Redmond giant seems to have made no mention of the change, despite its significance. The new policy might sound minor on the surface: Microsoft’s SharePoint cloud storage service can apparently now scan files that are encrypted or password-protected. Previously, this wasn’t thought to be possible. The importance of this move lies in the nefarious tactics of hackers and malware writers. The fact that antivirus apps have struggled to read password-protected files for so long has made them an attractive method of attack. Now that SharePoint can penetrate into their murky depths, you should have a much better idea of whether the file you uploaded can be trusted. The change was noticed by Andrew Brandt, Principal Researcher at cybersecurity firm Sophos. Brandt stumbled upon the new policy after it affected their own SharePoint directory, which contained an archive of malware strains stored in password-protected zip files. Unfortunately for Brandt, the update was not entirely welcome. As they explained on their Mastodon page, “a couple of password-protected Zips are flagged as “Malware detected” which limits what I can do with those files — they are basically dead space now.” “While I totally understand doing this for anyone other than a malware analyst,” Brandt continued, “this kind of nosy, get-inside-your-business way of handling this is going to become a big problem for people like me who need to send their colleagues malware samples.” While that is undoubtedly a frustrating development for malware researchers using SharePoint in this manner, it is surely a good thing for everyday users who might upload infected files without knowing the contents of the encrypted files. Brandt sheds some light on what SharePoint will do with password-protected files that it deems to be malicious, although it’s not immediately clear from their message how user actions are limited by Microsoft. However, a Microsoft support page explains that its Safe Attachments feature will scan files in SharePoint, OneDrive, and Teams. Files determined to be malware are “locked,” which means “people can’t open, copy, move, or share” them. You can still view and delete the files, though. Yet the support page doesn’t mention encrypted or password-protected files, and Microsoft has made no announcement of the policy change on its security blog. That’s a touch surprising given how important the new stance could be. Still, it’s good to see Microsoft take action on password-protected files that have long eluded close inspection due to their locked-up nature. Although it might be an inconvenience to security researchers, it is no doubt a boon for everyday users. Hopefully, Microsoft can quickly find a solution that doesn’t impede researchers’ work. Microsoft announced a new cybersecurity-based initiative that will allow small businesses and huge enterprises alike to tap into the tech giant’s in-house security services and personnel. Named Microsoft Security Experts, the program will offer security services in the form of three distinct platforms. There was a period in 2021 when the computing world was gripped by fear of a dizzyingly effective hacking group fittingly named REvil -- until its website was seized by the FBI and its members arrested by Russia’s security services, that is. Yet like a malevolent curse that just can’t be dispelled, it now seems the group’s websites are back online. Has the group returned to spread discord and wreak havoc once again? In case you missed them the first time around, REvil came to global attention by hacking into various high-profile targets, pilfering secret documents, then threatening their release unless a ransom was paid. In a notable case, the group stole and published files from Apple supplier Quanta Computer, including some that spilled the beans on unreleased product designs. Hackers have managed to find a way to successfully gain access to uninterruptable power supply (UPS) computer systems, according to a report from The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). As reported by Bleeping Computer and Tom’s Hardware, both the Department of Energy and CISA issued a warning to organizations based in the U.S. that malicious threat actors have started to focus on infiltrating UPS devices, which are used by data centers, server rooms, and hospitals. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.