These are the best digital photo frames in multiple sizes based on ease of use, image quality and features 
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
  The list in brief
1. Best overall
2. Best value
3. Best image quality
4. Best touch screen
5. Most versatile
6. Best midsize photo frame
7. Best art gallery frame
8. Best for grandparents
9. Best midsize connected frame
10. Best compact frame
11. Best non-connected budget frame
12. How to choose
13. How we test
14. FAQs You can use the best digital photo frames to share the latest photos of you and your family with parents and grandparents over the internet. Snap a picture of your kid on your phone, and you can send it instantly to your grandma's photo frame regardless of distance. But, with so many digital photo frame brands out there, how can you tell which will offer you the best image and design? After reviewing dozens of frames, we found the $200 Pix-Star 15-inch Wi-Fi Cloud Digital Photo Frame is the best overall, boasting crisp images, local storage, and a motion sensor to turn it off. If you're looking for something cheaper, the $60 Atatat Digital Photo Frame performed well for the price. There are many other options in this guide, all of which have been tested for picture quality, connectivity features, storage, and ease of use, so you can find the one that best fits your needs.   Best overall  The Pix-Star Wi-Fi Cloud frame provides superb image quality, with crisp and clear detail. It's packed with features too. There’s 4GB of internal memory and a handy motion sensor to save energy.  Read more below Best value  The Atatat model provides premium performance at a great price. It can support videos and music while the vibrant display really helps colors pop. There’s no app necessary for installation either, keeping things simple.   Read more below Best image quality  For the best image quality, the Aura Mason Luxe frame is the digital photo frame to get. Its high resolution display is outstanding; colors look realistic and the detail is precise. The swipe interface makes it easy to use too.  Read more below Best touch screen  The Nixplay Touch Smart frame features a touch screen which lets you navigate seamlessly. It’s quick and simple to upload images via social media, plus friends and family can email them directly too.   Read more below Most versatile  The Photospring 10 offers two viewing modes, with or without the frame. The touch screen display is clear and bright, supporting videos. The Premium version gives you four hours of battery life for wireless operation.  Read more below Best midsize  With built-in wall-mounting, the Nixplay Smart frame can be displayed on a desk or hung up for all to see. There’s a huge 8GB of storage for photos and videos, plus a magnetic remote to keep things together.    Read more below Why you can trust Tom's Guide 


Our writers and editors spend hours analyzing and reviewing products, services, and apps to help find what's best for you. Find out more about how we test, analyze, and rate.  Our expert review: The best thing about the Pix-Star 15-inch Wi-Fi Cloud Digital Photo Frame is its stunning photo quality. With the 4:3 aspect ratio on a 1024 x 768-pixel screen, images look crisp, bright and clear. You can make adjustments to the LED backlit screen for brightness, hue and contrast depending on ambient lighting. The Pix-Star has many smart extras. You can stream broadcasts from a number of international radio stations to play music over a slideshow, and there are many transitions available to customize image presentation. You can also set reminders, use the built-in calculator and play simple puzzles, Sudoku and other games. From a single account, this gadget allows you to link up to 25 frames, where you can send and receive images and audio messages directly to and from connected frames. You can also view pictures from web albums, including Google Photos and Facebook. Another bonus is the frame's 4GB of in-built memory, which also supports USB thumb drives and SDHC/SDXC camera cards. Overall, the Pix-Star is the best digital photo frame you can buy. Read our full Pix-Star Wi-Fi Cloud Digital Photo Frame 15-inch review.   Our expert review: The Atatat Digital Photo Frame impressed us with its visual quality, offering a vibrant display without artificially punching up the colors. While it’s a small screen, the widescreen format gives the impression of shots being bigger than they actually are. It’s quite a versatile design too, with calendar utilities and the ability to play images, movies and music over a slideshow.  This model comes with a separate remote control, rather than a touch screen — so you don’t need to worry about marring the screen with fingerprints. It’s also very easy to set up and intuitive to use, as there’s no software or app connectivity necessary; simply plug in a memory card or USB drive, and it does the rest. This makes it perfect for the non-tech-savvy members of the family. Bear in mind that there’s no internal memory, so you’re limited by what your SD card or USB thumb drive can hold. Having said that, at less than $70, this is a great entry-level digital photo frame which will cover the basics and do it well. You can find it in 7, 8, and 10-inch sizes. Read our full Atatat Digital Photo Frame review.    Our expert review: If image quality means more to you than anything else, the Aura Mason Luxe Frame is the photo frame to beat. With a sharp 2K resolution of 2048 x 1536 on a 9.7-inch screen, its quality can only be described as outstanding. Colors couldn’t be more vibrant or realistic and coupled with its two touch bar controls, the operation of this frame is as intuitive as it gets. While there’s no touchscreen, this only saves the screen from oily fingerprints obstructing the view. The only downside to this frame is the lack of a motion sensor and internal memory, both of which our winning frame, the Pix-Star features. While it can adjust the screen based on ambient light, a dark room doesn’t necessarily mean it’s unoccupied. No internal storage also means you have to rely on cloud input. But, other than that there’s little to argue against this digital photo frame. It looks great on display and supports both video and sound as well as still images.  Read our full Aura Mason Luxe Frame review.   Our expert review: The Nixplay Smart Photo Frame 10.1 Inch Touch is the latest addition to company's range of digital frames. It offers a compact midsize design which will fit in to most rooms and the display is bright enough to add character to your images and really make the landscapes 'pop'. It won't waste electricity, thanks to the voice and motion activated sensors, and it couldn't be more easy to use with the touch screen navigation. Because of this, it would suit those who are new or experienced with digital photo frames.  Friends and family can easily upload photos to this frame from their own Nixplay account or email them to the frame directly. There's plenty of social media image access as well, including Facebook, Google Photos, Instagram, Dropbox, Flickr, and Verison. There's very little to complain about this frame, other than the lack of onboard SD cards or memory sticks. There's no remote to lose, it's intuitive to operate and the design is simple, yet sophisticated.  Read our full Nixplay Smart Photo Frame 10.1 Inch Touch Review.     Our expert review: If you want the options of a classic matte style, or a more contemporary look, PhotoSpring 10 offers the best of both worlds. Equipped with two different visual frame modes, it has a matted look with a black, gallery-style outer frame and a streamlined modern mode to switch between. In our review, we were impressed by the build quality of the device and how nicely the plain white frame sets off your images, however, this down to preference.  Currently, this frame is for tabletops only, but if you wanted to mount it to your wall, the company advises you purchase a separate power cable with a 90-degree magnetic connector. PhotoSpring’s flexibility extends to its mode of input, allowing the user to send up to 30MB of photos directly to the frame via email, proprietary app, text, photos app share button, or from a browser. All media uploaded to the frame is automatically stored on the device. High-resolution videos of up to five minutes in length (or 1GB file size) play automatically in an integrated slideshow, though the frame does not recognize Apple’s Live Photos as videos, only stills.  Various onscreen controls are accessible via a subtle green dot at the upper right corner. It's not the easiest to get to grips with at first, and it may require you checking the instructions.  However, when you discover it and tap, it will show the current image zooming out to reveal handy on-screen controls. These will let you hide, delete, alter rotation, favorite, adjust formatting, or mail images to or from the frame. A settings menu facilitates the management of cloud accounts like Google Photos for sync or backup or Flickr for sync.  The interface also lets you invite friends to upload images to your frame, change brightness and volume levels, schedule the frame on and off, and set up parameters for viewing slideshows and onscreen EXIF info for each image. We tested the Premium version of the frame, which features four hours of battery life, as opposed to the standard version, which you must keep plugged in.  PhotoSpring is easy to use with most tasks accomplished with a quick tap and simple on/off switches — ideal for its non-technical target audience. Image quality is high resolution for the frame’s size, and because you can schedule on-off intervals, a motion sensor is not sorely missed.  Read our full PhotoSpring 10 Digital Photo Frame review.   Our expert review: Nixplay's 10.1 inch Smart Digital Picture Frame, with its 1280 x 800 pixel display, and wide 16:10 aspect ratio, makes your photos and videos pop with dazzling color and detail. Watch photos and videos a part of a playlist and set up slideshows with multiple timed transitions for endless entertainment in either portrait or landscape orientation. While as a free-standing frame, it’s compact enough to sit nicely on a desk or living room mantle, it’s also specifically wall mountable by removing a small cover from the back and re-attaching the cord. On the tabletop, Nixplay’s remote can magnetically adhere to the back of the frame so it stays securely within reach. The frame’s mobile app lets you lets you connect to and control your frame from anywhere, which is especially useful for elderly or non-technical family members. Because it works via Wi-Fi, there’s no physical input, such as SD cards or USB sticks, but the frame does have 8GB of onboard memory for direct storage of photos and video. Read our full Nixplay 10.1 inch Smart Digital Picture Frame review.   Our expert review: The Netgear Meural WiFi Photo Frame is a more compact, photo-focused version of the museum-worthy Netgear Meural Canvas II. While the Canvas II excels at bringing art from the louvre to your living room, the charcoal grey WiFi Photo Frame drops the mat framing for a homier look.  Of course, to maintain a gorgeous 1920 x 1080-pixel display the WiFi Photo Frame is rather large compared to many of the best digital photo frames. As a result, it might not fit well on some side tables or desks. But if you have the space for this 15.6-inch full HD display, you won't be disappointed.  What's more impressive is the Meural WiFi Photo Frame anti-glare coating. This enables the frame to display a clear picture from any angle, while responsive gesture controls let you navigate your photo albums and settings. In addition, you can control the frame with the Meural app, which offers both Meural's expansive library of art and a suite for creating collaborative photo albums for your frame.   Read our full Meural WiFi Photo Frame review.   Our expert review: If you want to invest in one of the best digital photo frames, but you’re not particularly tech-savvy, the Skylight Frame is the one to get, especially for grandparents. It provides all of the premium specs you would expect, including a detailed 1280 x 800 resolution display, Wi-Fi connectivity, touch screen control and video playback, while still being easy to access and use.  Photos can be uploaded using a single email address, or via the free mobile app. Organizing the images once they’re in your library is straightforward too — you can create albums, rotate images and even crop shots by pinching the screen. It’s also great that you can keep viewing your images should the Wi-Fi stop working, thanks to the 8GB internal storage.  However, be aware that there’s no ambient light sensor and no motion sensor. That means it’s not exactly energy-efficient. You will have to adjust the brightness of the screen manually, and rely on the sleep setting to switch it off. As with some other digital photo frames, you won't have access to everything unless you take out the yearly subscription as well, without which you can’t upload and view videos, store and back up photos in the cloud, add photo captions, and create discreet albums.  These restricted features are why the Skylight Frame features lower on our list. However, if you won't miss them, this frame offers a brilliant balance of image quality and ease of use.   Our expert review: If you're after a versatile frame, the Dragon Touch is a good option. The frame’s 10.1-inch, 16:10 touch screen allows you to view a variety of things. These include static images and slideshows with special effects transitions, to 30-second video clips. What's more, it comes with a headphone jack for audio, and multiple ways to upload images, including an SD card, USB thumb drive, and Wi-Fi modes. The OurPhoto app is the easiest way to upload photos to the frame. You can also add remote users to the frame to let friends and family upload images via the app. And if you're looking for enhanced, color quality, you'll find a impressive image quality with bright detail. The Dragon Touch has some cool goodies, including video with sound, an alarm, calendar, and local weather. While there is no motion sensor to power down the frame when there’s no one in the room to view it, you can set a schedule.  The frame casing does not seem especially durable, as the paint started to chip on our model. And many frames shipped to addresses in the U.S. arrive with European or Asian power connections that do not fit into wall sockets. I received one of those for review, but was able to use it with an adapter that I had on hand.  Read our full Dragon Touch Classic 10 Digital Picture Frame review.   Our expert review: The Feelcare is a compact, handy picture frame that displays your images beautifully. Its black matte plastic exterior is low key and subtle so it looks nice in any room. With a 1024 x 600, 16:9 picture, image quality is crisp and clear, and you can use the touch screen to adjust brightness. The frame operates via a proprietary app for iOS or Android, or you can manually load images via a micro SD card directly into the frame, which has 8GB of internal storage. The frame saves the photos and videos to the built-in memory and you can use the touch screen to delete, hide, and adjust photos. Note that videos play for only 15 seconds. You can send photos from the Frameo app or from the photo sharing utility in your smartphone gallery and add up to 500 friends who can also send photos to your frame. The lack of a motion sensor is a drawback, but there is a timer. Despite a dearth of extras, Feelcare’s basic operation is flexible enough for its target audience of non-technical family members.  Read our full Feelcare 7-Inch Smart WiFi Digital Picture Frame review.  Our expert review: There's not much to the Aluratek 8 inch Digital Photo Frame except extreme simplicity, which is why it's still one of the best digital photo frames for some users who just want to display some photos and not mess with networks. The unit has no touch screen, no built-in memory and no remote control. The 800 x 600 TFT LCD screen resolution offers some basic adjustments for positioning images on screen, how long each image lingers and the screen brightness. You can plug in SD camera cards (up to 32GB) or a USB stick. The navigational controls are on the back of the unit and each command registers with a toy-like click, but you must put your hands on the frame to change controls. Strangely, you can't change any of the controls unless all SD cards and USB drives are removed from the unit. The unit features a generic plastic frame that comes with a screw-in plastic stand, but there is no hole for wall hanging. Normal-size USB drives stick out of the frame's side. You have the option of 11 transition styles to choose from, and display photos from 3 seconds to 1 hour. Read our full Aluratek 8-inch LCD Digital Photo Frame review.  We test the best digital photo frames on a variety of criteria.  Image quality First, we assess at image quality and aspect ratio. The digital recreations of photos must look sharp and realistic, while maintaining a natural-looking crop. We look for a high resolutions with colors that ‘pop’. Ease of use Ease of use is another element we consider while reviewing the best digital photo frames. If a frame is simple and intuitive to set up and navigate, it often has more value. However, an expansive offering of connected features is important, too. For instance, does it offer motion sensors and , if speakers are included, how is the sound quality? We think most of the photo frames on this list strike a solid balance.  We didn’t forget about the basics either. When is comes to uploading and removing images from the gallery the process should be seamless, ideally with compatible Cloud services. Storage Additional specs we look at are storage and sensors. Some digital photo frames feature onboard memory, while others rely on Wi-Fi streaming, USB thumb drives or camera SD cards. If you must use a camera card or a USB stick, be sure that the frame's body adequately keeps them out of sight.  Meanwhile, a motion sensor is practically a must. Digital photo frames do not need to waste energy by playing all day long if no one is in the room to view them. Design Apart from the images themselves, a photo frame has to look good on its own. Higher-end models have a more refined finish, while cheaper ones tend to look plasticky. We even assessed the stability of the frame and the likelihood of a messy display if it features a touchscreen.  Extra features Many frames offer calendar, clock, reminders, games, calculators, weather app widgets and speaker ports. These features aren't expectations, but make nice extras. Resolution First of all, you need to consider what you want from your digital photo frame. Regardless of how much you're looking to spend, the images should look realistic and appear of a high quality on your display. You should be aiming for a high resolution (we recommend 1024 x 768 as a minimum), vibrant colors and a sharp focus. Be cautious of frames which display dull colors, low contrast and soft images.  Size Digital photo frames are generally the size of a regular photo frame, typically ranging from 5-6 inches to upwards of 10 or 11 inches. Consider where it's going to be placed before deciding which size is best. Price Digital photo frames range widely in price, from less than $100 to more than $300. As with most things, the greater the price, the more features you get.  Your (and your parent's) technical know-how You should also take account of how technical you — of your parents or grandparents are — and where your photos are stored. If you don't want to spend hours on the phone playing tech support because they don't know how to connect the frame to Wi-Fi, you may want to go with a simpler model. Non-connected frames tend to be the easiest to use because you don’t have to set up accounts or networks to transfer the images. Instead, you can insert camera cards or USB thumb drives directly into the frame and load up to 32GB of footage.  However, if you do opt for a connected frame, these offer much more flexibility in sourcing and sorting your images, whether from social media sites or directly from your phone. If your images are scattered on social media rather than concentrated on thumb drives, you will be better off with a connected digital photo frame.  Digital photo frames can start from as little as $40, and go as high as $250, so there’s quite a difference in price depending on the brand and the design that you choose. Generally speaking, the more you’re willing to spend, the more features you will have access to. Premium features include video playback along with built-in speakers. To get the best display resolution, you need to be prepared to spend a little more as well. Although, as our test results show, you don’t have to spend a fortune to get one of the best digital photo frames.   You shouldn’t be tempted by special features which add to the price tag. Unless you intend to specifically use those extras, it's a waste of cash. Instead, we recommend that you have a solid budget in mind as well as a list of the key specifications you’re after before you start browsing. That way, you can stay on target and ensure that you don’t overspend. Even if you know what you’re looking for, there are so many options on the market that it can be intimidating to search. If you want a hand finding the best digital photo frame for you, check out our list above. We’ve considered every circumstance and budget.  Most digital photo frames will offer in the region of 4-8GB of internal storage, which equates to storing approximately 30,000 photos, depending on their quality and size. However, many offer cloud storage, so you can store all the images you need without having to worry. Just like any other photo frame, a digital photo frame will become dusty over time, and it will also collect a few fingerprints if you tend to pick it up. Before giving it a clean, unplug the device and then carefully wipe away any dust and fingerprints with a soft cloth. You can also use a specialist LCD cleaner designed for electronic screens. Although don’t apply the cleaning solution directly to the screen, apply it to a soft cloth first. Get instant access to breaking news, the hottest reviews, great deals and helpful tips. Katie looks after everything homes-related, from kitchen appliances to gardening tools. She also covers smart home products too, so is the best point of contact for any household advice! She has tested and reviewed appliances for over 6 years, so she knows what to look for when finding the best. Her favorite thing to test has to be air purifiers, as the information provided and the difference between performances is extensive.  Fujifilm Instax mini LiPlay review Elgato Prompter review: A content creator’s dream iPhone 17 Slim rumors — everything we know so far Tom's Guide is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site. ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 