Sony Interactive Entertainment President and CEO Jim Ryan is retiring after 30 years. The PlayStation boss will formally leave his role in March 2024 with a successor yet to be named. Jim Ryan has been working with PlayStation since 1994 when he joined Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe. Since then, he’s become the key figurehead for the PlayStation brand, similar to Phil Spencer’s role within Xbox. His most recent success has come from the launch of the PlayStation 5, which has already surpassed a 40 million unit milestone. Today, Sony announced that Ryan plans to retire from the role. Plans are already in place to fill that gap according to a press release from Sony. Sony Group COO and CFO Hiroki Totoki will be stepping into Ryan’s role as an interim CEO while continuing his role within the Sony Group. During that time, he’ll work with Sony Group Corporation Chairman and CEO Kenichiro Yoshida to “define the next chapter of PlayStation’s future.” That will include naming an official successor to Ryan. Ryan explained the surprise shift in a press release, citing a logistical reason for his departure: the difficulty of balancing a life in Europe with a North American job. “After 30 years, I have made the decision to retire from SIE in March 2024,” Ryan writes. “I’ve relished the opportunity to have a job I love in a very special company, working with great people and incredible partners. But I’ve found it increasingly difficult to reconcile living in Europe and working in North America. I will leave having been privileged to work on products that have touched millions of lives across the world; PlayStation will always be part of my life, and I feel more optimistic than ever about the future of SIE. I want to thank Yoshida-san for placing so much trust in me and being an incredibly sensitive and supportive leader.” Totoki will step into an era of change for PlayStation, as Sony is currently prepping a more aggressive dive into live service with titles like Marathon and FairGame$. It remains to be seen if new leadership will have any impact on the company’s plans going forward. If you've been on the fence about playing Rise of the Ronin, Sony is here to help you make a decision with a new free demo released on Wednesday. The demo for this PlayStation 5 exclusive covers the game's first chapter, which features the battle with Gonzo and offers you your first major choice. If you're ready for the full experience, you'll be able to port your demo save data over. There are also four free avatars for your PSN ID now available. The latest PlayStation beta, announced Wednesday, will be introducing a bunch of in-progress features that better personalize your PlayStation 5 experience, including adaptive charging support for controllers — but only for the latest models. Sony laid out the beta updates in a blog, but noted that adaptive charging, which will work on PS5-era controllers (although not the PlayStation Portal) and can adjust the power sent to them based on battery level, will only be available for the newest PS5 model, which is slimmer and has a larger internal SSD for more storage. Many newer phones have this feature so that the battery doesn't get overcharged and fried over time. As the walls of exclusivity begin to crumble and development costs soar ever higher, PlayStation is looking to every possible market to grow. PCs were the first obvious target since they aren't generally considered a direct competitor to dedicated hardware and give PlayStation a way to entice those players into its own ecosystem. While there are still growing pains to work out there, specifically with the forced PSN accounts even for single-player games like God of War: Ragnarok, PlayStation has more to gain in its budding relationship with Nintendo hardware. I imagine it was a harder pill to swallow given the history between these two companies, which is why it took so long. We've only seen one example so far, but PlayStation embracing the Switch (and eventual Switch successor) could end up being an even bigger boon to business than PC.
The best of both worlds
While I believe it is somewhat overblown about how similar PlayStation first-party games have been since The Last of Us, we can at least agree that the PS5 has a distinct lack of family-friendly games. After Sackboy: A Big Adventure at the system's launch and Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart not long after, first-party titles have been aimed squarely at older teens and adults. Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.