You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website. Reviewed Updated: May 6, 2024, 8:04am Digital marketing management is a timely career choice for innovative thinkers who want to work on the cutting edge of their field. As print advertising declines, digital marketing channels have emerged as crucial avenues for customer outreach and retention. Specialists in digital marketing help businesses use these powerful channels effectively. Our guide offers an in-depth look at how to become a digital marketing manager. Find out more about what these managers do, discover job outlook in the field and explore the steps to this career. Forbes Advisor’s education editors are committed to producing unbiased rankings and informative articles covering online colleges, tech bootcamps and career paths. Our ranking methodologies use data from the National Center for Education Statistics, education providers, and reputable educational and professional organizations. An advisory board of educators and other subject matter experts reviews and verifies our content to bring you trustworthy, up-to-date information. Advertisers do not influence our rankings or editorial content. Digital marketing managers oversee their employers’ or clients’ electronic media marketing strategies, including channels like email, social media, blogs, websites and SMS. These professionals often lead teams of professionals who specialize in areas such as search engine optimization (SEO), search engine marketing (SEM), content creation, email marketing, pay-per-click advertising (PPC) and influencer marketing. Some digital marketing managers work for individual companies, where they gain deep knowledge of customer needs in specific industries. Others work for marketing and advertising agencies with multiple clients in different industries. Major marketing firms like Accenture and Deloitte Digital hire digital marketing managers, as do digital marketing pioneers like Razorfish. Marketing careers offer widespread remote work opportunities, particularly in the tech industry and among companies that primarily make sales online. About 40% of the 2023 CMO Survey respondents reported that their teams worked exclusively from home, and 57% stated that they worked from home some of the time. Remote work means many digital marketing specialists can accept jobs anywhere without relocating. If you’re planning a digital marketing career, start by studying the field to build your skills and knowledge. How you choose to learn depends on your background and personal strengths. For example, a recent high school graduate might pursue a traditional bachelor’s in marketing or a bachelor’s in business. On the other hand, a career-changer who already has a bachelor’s in another field may prefer to supplement their existing degree with a digital marketing bootcamp or opt for a short certificate program from an academic institution like UCLA or Oregon State University. If you lack a related degree, you can still learn job-relevant skills through bootcamps, certificate programs and low-cost or free online courses. You can also pursue an online digital marketing degree if you need more scheduling flexibility. People often confuse certifications with certificates. Both credentials can help advance your career, but academic institutions issue certificates, while industry leaders like businesses and professional organizations issue certifications. Certification requirements may include coursework, exams, previous degrees and professional experience. Earning a certification can help you showcase the skills and knowledge employers are looking for. Digital marketing certifications often focus on key industry software, tools and practices like SEO and PPC marketing. Popular digital marketing certification providers include the American Marketing Association, HubSpot, Google and Meta. A strong portfolio can help you stand out among candidates with similar backgrounds. Think of your portfolio as an opportunity to market one of your most important clients—yourself. A digital marketing portfolio typically includes several components: Some professionals also may include blogs, client testimonials and a list of their rates and services. Networking is one of the most effective job search practices. A 2022 report from Aptitude Research showed that 54% of new hires found their jobs through employee referrals. If you’re a student, your class cohort may be one of the first places you develop network connections, along with your professors and internships. As you progress toward your goals, connect with potential allies and mentors by attending marketing-focused events and conferences. Also, follow industry leaders, companies and professionals you admire on social media. Maintain your network, even when you’re not looking for a job. Digital marketing managers are part of a fast-growing, forward-thinking field. According to Expert Market Research, the global digital marketing industry value stood at $363.05 billion as of 2023, and is projected to grow to $1.1 trillion by 2032. The COVID-19 pandemic accelerated the marketing industry’s shift toward digital channels and increased overall marketing budgets. While marketing budgets have dropped back toward pre-2020 levels as the pandemic has receded, the increasing digitization of daily life continues to push more and more commerce activities online. According to the 2023 CMO survey, digital marketing efforts make up about 54% of companies’ marketing budgets on average, making now a great time to consider becoming a digital marketer. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reports a 2023 median salary of $157,620 for all marketing managers, including digital marketing managers and those in other marketing specializations. The BLS also projects job growth of 7% (double the national average) for these professionals from 2022 to 2032. Payscale data from April 2024 shows an average annual salary of about $74,300 for individuals with the digital marketing manager job title. However, as marketing professionals gain experience and rise through the ranks, their job titles may change as their earning power increases. A director of digital marketing earns about $112,000 a year, while marketing VPs average nearly $154,000.  Digital marketing managers need a mix of soft and hard skills. They should be creative, flexible thinkers with strong communication, project management and leadership abilities. On the hard skills side, they need proficiency in SEO, SEM, PPC and data analytics. There’s no set timeline for becoming a digital marketing manager. Earning a bachelor’s degree in a related field usually takes about four years, and some professionals also earn M.B.A.s or master’s degrees in marketing, typically adding another two years. Timelines vary for individuals learning through non-degree formats. After completing your education, you may spend several years in junior roles before landing a managerial position. You don’t need a degree to become a digital marketer, although many people in this career hold bachelor’s degrees in marketing and business. Aspiring digital marketing specialists without related degrees can break into the profession through bootcamps, online courses and self-study. 

 With five years of experience as a writer and editor in the higher education and career development space, Ilana has a passion for creating accessible, relevant content that demystifies the higher-ed landscape for traditional and nontraditional learners alike. Prior to joining Forbes Advisor's education team, Ilana wrote and edited for websites such as BestColleges.com and AffordableCollegesOnline.org.