Brecksville voters will decide Nov. 7 whether to rezone the Central Elementary School property on Ohio 82. (Bob Sandrick, special to cleveland.com) BRECKSVILLE, Ohio -- Voters here will decide in November whether to allow retail businesses along Ohio 82 on the site of the former Central Elementary School, just west of Brecksville Road. Issue 24, if passed by Brecksville voters, would also allow potentially five new homes along Arlington Street to the south. The city might also permit apartments on the Central School site, but only on a case-by-case basis and only on the second floor or higher of a retail building. Issue 24 is a rezoning of the Central School site, plus part of a residential lot next door and land along Arlington.  It’s still uncertain whether the school building will be preserved and repurposed as part of the project or torn down. “That (the school building’s fate) is for a future decision and overall future plan,” Mayor Jerry Hruby told cleveland.com in an email last week. The issue will appear on the Nov. 7 ballot. Early voting starts Wednesday (Oct. 11). Under the Brecksville municipal charter, 55 percent of those voting in an election must vote yes for a rezoning issue to pass. Breaking it down The Central School site is off the south side of Ohio 82, next to and west of Brecksville United Church of Christ and across from the Brecksville Public Square gazebo. The parcel extends south to Arlington, an Old Town residential street that runs parallel to Ohio 82. The rezoning would involve three parcels: · The Central School lot, which measures slightly more than 3½ acres. It’s owned by the city and extends south to Arlington. · Part of the Brecksville United Church of Christ property that abuts Central School to the east. The lot stretches south to Arlington and measures slightly more than 1½ acres. However, the rezoned portion, behind the church building, would extend only 125 feet north from Arlington. ·  A slice, about 50 feet wide, of a city-owned residential lot containing a historic home known as the Comstock house on Highland Drive. This lot, measuring just less than 1 acre, abuts the Central School lot to the west. The school and church-owned lots are now zoned a community facility district, where schools, religious institutions, public parks, swimming pools, stables, libraries, museums, indoor recreation centers, private clubs, police and fire stations, childcare businesses, golf courses, cemeteries, athletic fields, picnic areas and hospitals are permitted. The Comstock lot is zoned residential. The Planning Commission and City Council have proposed rezoning most of the school lot and the 50-foot-wide portion of the Comstock house parcel into a local business district, where retail stores selling food, beverages, pharmaceuticals, books, gifts, hardware, appliances, electronics, clothes, flowers, sporting goods, musical instruments and other items would be permitted. Local business zoning also allows laundromats, beauty and barber shops, tailors, automobile service stations, and photographic and art studios. The city would allow apartments on the upper floors of retail buildings, but only with special permission from the planning commission. Freestanding apartment buildings would be prohibited.  The Comstock house will be preserved in any scenario. Meanwhile, the southern portion of the Central School and church-owned sites, extending 125 feet north from Arlington, would become an R-8A residential district where single-family, detached homes are permitted. Monica Bartkiewicz, the city’s director of planning and community development, said in May that the R-8A section would allow for enough room for five new houses on Arlington. A landscape buffer would separate the local business and residential sections of the rezoned property. In May, Hruby said the all-residential option for the Central School site was rejected because it would add too many living units to the downtown population. A little history The city obtained the Central property and the house next door, plus 10.5 acres on Stadium Drive, from the Brecksville-Broadview Heights City School District in exchange for 25 acres on the municipally owned Blossom Hill property on Oakes Road. Both parties signed the land-swap agreement in 2018. The district has since built a new elementary school on the Blossom Hill land. City officials announced in 2019 that they would choose and work with a developer to convert the 106-year-old Central School into condominiums, another type of housing or a mixed-use site that might include condominiums or apartments above retail stores or offices. The city entertained two competing plans -- one by DiGeronimo Development LLC, the Independence firm that is developing Valor Acres at Brecksville and Miller roads; another by United Community Developers in Brecksville -- but rejected both of them in September 2021. Brecksville officials decided to start over after residents living in the historic Old Town district, which includes Central School, expressed opposition to the two plans. Since then, no new plans have been brought forward. Read more from the Sun Star Courier. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices