Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition Sign up for email newsletters  Sign up for email newsletters Daily e-Edition Evening e-Edition 
			Trending:		 There’s been a lot of good retail news lately for our furry friends and the people that love them.So in this week’s Retail Watch, we’ll take a look at a few projects that seek to make life better for our pets.First up, Chaar‘s fourth location in the Lehigh Valley is getting closer to opening. The store —which will be on Mill Creek Road in Lower Macungie Township, near the Walmart — is looking to have a soft opening later this month, said AJ ElChaar, the business’ vice president.Founded in 2001 by the ElChaar family, Chaar specializes in premium food, supplies, toys and more for pets of all kinds as well as pet-grooming services. Along with furry friends, Chaar has items for humans including hiking and work boots and accompanying apparel.Chaar currently has three locations: Its anchor store at 1635 Airport Road, Allentown; and two more stores at 3673 Route 378 in Lower Saucon and 291 Town Center Blvd., Forks Township.Info: https://www.chaar.us/The owners of Upper Macungie Township’s Leader of the Pack Canine Institute are planning to open a second multimillion dollar location on 3 ½ acres in a Forks Township business park at 1200 Braden Blvd.Jeff Barber of Lehigh Financial Group LLC arranged the construction loan that John and Lisa McDonald of Schnecksville will use to build the facility, which will offer training, day care, boarding, grooming and pet supplies for all breeds of dogs.

The Forks location, which will have a 28,125-square-foot facility, is expected to be open by next spring. The McDonalds opened their flagship Leader of the Pack location at 6346 Farm Bureau Road in Upper Macungie Township in 2009.Info: https://lopci.com/We also shared the news recently that The Sanctuary at Haafsville said it is moving all of its cat rescue and adoption operations to the former Orefield Veterinary Clinic building at 7209 Kernsville Road, Lowhill Township, and hopes to open in mid-June. The facility will be called The Sanctuary Cat Adoption Center. Dog rescue and adoptions will remain at the original facility at 901 Nestle Way in Breinigsville and will be called The Sanctuary Dog Adoption Center.The Sanctuary at Haafsville, a no-kill center, has been operating for more than a dozen years, saving over 12,000 animals. The sanctuary partners with shelters that are overcrowded, rescues dogs and cats from natural disasters, accept dogs and cats from owners who need to relinquish them and works to place animals into new homes.Info: info@thesanctuarypa.org or thesanctuarypa.orgA green new tenantFD Market has opened at the Promenade Shops, between Carter’s/Oshkosh and Lens Crafters. FD Market sells refillable products including shampoo and dishwasher pods, toilet bombs and natural deodorant. The company sources and carry products that are completely sustainable, including the packaging. The store also offers educational resources and insight on how to use its products to live more sustainably.The local business has another store at 158 Northampton St., Easton. They had outgrown their Emmaus location, which was at 348 Main St. That store closed in late April so they could move into the larger space at the Promenade.It’s the latest tenant added to the Promenade Shops, which has seen a flurry of new tenants since the beginning of the year including Love Obsessed, Batch Microcreamery and Handmade Mystic Healing Crystals and Jewelry.From pop-up to permanentDollhouse & Co. recently held a grand opening ceremony at its new permanent location, 26 N. Sixth St., Suite 160, Allentown. The beauty business, which started as part of City Center Investment Corp.’s successful pop-up business program, offers lash and brow services.Info: thedollhouseand.co/ Checking in on SheetzThe Lehigh Valley’s newest Sheetz should be open by late summer, a company spokesperson said.  The project at 2939 Lehigh St. will be the Lehigh Valley’s eighth Sheetz location.The popular chain operates 664 store locations across Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, Ohio and Maryland, with all locations open 24/7, 365 days a year.Sheetz faces tough competition at the spot for not only gas customers but those looking for quick, customizable food. Just across the street is a Turkey Hill Mini Market. And there’s a Wawa location nearby on Lehigh Street as well as one on Cedar Crest Boulevard in Emmaus.Golf-centric eatery says goodbyeSweet Spot Bar & Grill will close by June 30, according to the restaurant’s Facebook page. The golf-centric restaurant is at 2805 Lehigh St., Allentown right at the exit for Interstate 78.The full-service restaurant and bar, which opened in 2019, has five Topgolf Swing Suite simulator bays and offers golf as well as other virtual activities such as hockey, soccer, baseball pitching and carnival games. Menu features a host of burgers, sandwiches and sides.The restaurant attributes the closing to COVID and the effect the pandemic had on business.“Unfortunately, the COVID closures hit us very hard and we never truly recovered. We have struggled with raising awareness about our business and the amazing fun and food we offer and just simply have run out of resources to continue,” the post reads. “We hope that you can find time to come in one last time to enjoy the experience before we are gone forever.”The scoop on a new shopJust Chill Creamery has opened at 5503 MacArthur Road, its second location in the Lehigh Valley (the other is in Emmaus). If that address seems familiar, it’s because for more than three decades it was the site of King Kone, a legendary ice cream destination.King Kone moved this year to 4128 Springmill Road, which is directly across the street.Just Chill offers a wide variety of hard-serve and soft-serve ice cream styles as well as Italian ice and frozen yogurt.Keep those tips comingReach out if you see any openings and closings of new retail businesses or restaurants around the Valley. Email: jsheehan@mcall.com and include “Retail Watch” in the subject line.    So in this week’s Retail Watch, we’ll take a look at a few projects that seek to make life better for our pets. First up, Chaar‘s fourth location in the Lehigh Valley is getting closer to opening. The store —which will be on Mill Creek Road in Lower Macungie Township, near the Walmart — is looking to have a soft opening later this month, said AJ ElChaar, the business’ vice president. Founded in 2001 by the ElChaar family, Chaar specializes in premium food, supplies, toys and more for pets of all kinds as well as pet-grooming services. Along with furry friends, Chaar has items for humans including hiking and work boots and accompanying apparel. Chaar currently has three locations: Its anchor store at 1635 Airport Road, Allentown; and two more stores at 3673 Route 378 in Lower Saucon and 291 Town Center Blvd., Forks Township. Info: https://www.chaar.us/ The owners of Upper Macungie Township’s Leader of the Pack Canine Institute are planning to open a second multimillion dollar location on 3 ½ acres in a Forks Township business park at 1200 Braden Blvd. Jeff Barber of Lehigh Financial Group LLC arranged the construction loan that John and Lisa McDonald of Schnecksville will use to build the facility, which will offer training, day care, boarding, grooming and pet supplies for all breeds of dogs. The Forks location, which will have a 28,125-square-foot facility, is expected to be open by next spring. The McDonalds opened their flagship Leader of the Pack location at 6346 Farm Bureau Road in Upper Macungie Township in 2009. Info: https://lopci.com/ We also shared the news recently that The Sanctuary at Haafsville said it is moving all of its cat rescue and adoption operations to the former Orefield Veterinary Clinic building at 7209 Kernsville Road, Lowhill Township, and hopes to open in mid-June. The facility will be called The Sanctuary Cat Adoption Center. Dog rescue and adoptions will remain at the original facility at 901 Nestle Way in Breinigsville and will be called The Sanctuary Dog Adoption Center. The Sanctuary at Haafsville, a no-kill center, has been operating for more than a dozen years, saving over 12,000 animals. The sanctuary partners with shelters that are overcrowded, rescues dogs and cats from natural disasters, accept dogs and cats from owners who need to relinquish them and works to place animals into new homes. Info: info@thesanctuarypa.org or thesanctuarypa.org FD Market has opened at the Promenade Shops, between Carter’s/Oshkosh and Lens Crafters. FD Market sells refillable products including shampoo and dishwasher pods, toilet bombs and natural deodorant. The company sources and carry products that are completely sustainable, including the packaging. The store also offers educational resources and insight on how to use its products to live more sustainably. The local business has another store at 158 Northampton St., Easton. They had outgrown their Emmaus location, which was at 348 Main St. That store closed in late April so they could move into the larger space at the Promenade. It’s the latest tenant added to the Promenade Shops, which has seen a flurry of new tenants since the beginning of the year including Love Obsessed, Batch Microcreamery and Handmade Mystic Healing Crystals and Jewelry. Dollhouse & Co. recently held a grand opening ceremony at its new permanent location, 26 N. Sixth St., Suite 160, Allentown. The beauty business, which started as part of City Center Investment Corp.’s successful pop-up business program, offers lash and brow services. Info: thedollhouseand.co/  The Lehigh Valley’s newest Sheetz should be open by late summer, a company spokesperson said.  The project at 2939 Lehigh St. will be the Lehigh Valley’s eighth Sheetz location. The popular chain operates 664 store locations across Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, Ohio and Maryland, with all locations open 24/7, 365 days a year. Sheetz faces tough competition at the spot for not only gas customers but those looking for quick, customizable food. Just across the street is a Turkey Hill Mini Market. And there’s a Wawa location nearby on Lehigh Street as well as one on Cedar Crest Boulevard in Emmaus. Sweet Spot Bar & Grill will close by June 30, according to the restaurant’s Facebook page. The golf-centric restaurant is at 2805 Lehigh St., Allentown right at the exit for Interstate 78. The full-service restaurant and bar, which opened in 2019, has five Topgolf Swing Suite simulator bays and offers golf as well as other virtual activities such as hockey, soccer, baseball pitching and carnival games. Menu features a host of burgers, sandwiches and sides. The restaurant attributes the closing to COVID and the effect the pandemic had on business. “Unfortunately, the COVID closures hit us very hard and we never truly recovered. We have struggled with raising awareness about our business and the amazing fun and food we offer and just simply have run out of resources to continue,” the post reads. “We hope that you can find time to come in one last time to enjoy the experience before we are gone forever.” Just Chill Creamery has opened at 5503 MacArthur Road, its second location in the Lehigh Valley (the other is in Emmaus). If that address seems familiar, it’s because for more than three decades it was the site of King Kone, a legendary ice cream destination. King Kone moved this year to 4128 Springmill Road, which is directly across the street. Just Chill offers a wide variety of hard-serve and soft-serve ice cream styles as well as Italian ice and frozen yogurt. Reach out if you see any openings and closings of new retail businesses or restaurants around the Valley. Email: jsheehan@mcall.com and include “Retail Watch” in the subject line.       Copyright © 2024 The Morning Call