Goldman Sachs analyst Lisa Deng reiterated a Sell rating on Wesfarmers Limited (WFAFF – Research Report) today. The company’s shares closed last Tuesday at $34.91. According to TipRanks, Deng is an analyst with an average return of -8.2% and a 34.62% success rate. Currently, the analyst consensus on Wesfarmers Limited is a Hold with an average price target of $31.90. See today’s best-performing stocks on TipRanks >> The company has a one-year high of $36.17  and a one-year low of $26.91. Currently, Wesfarmers Limited has an average volume of 5,342.
		  Based on the recent corporate insider activity of 10 insiders, corporate insider sentiment is negative on the stock. This means that over the past quarter there has been an increase of insiders selling their shares of WFAFF in relation to earlier this year. TipRanks has tracked 36,000 company insiders and found that a few of them are better than others when it comes to timing their transactions. See which 3 stocks are most likely to make moves following their insider activities. Wesfarmers Ltd. provides fresh food, groceries, general merchandise, liquor, fuel and financial services. It engages in the operation of supermarkets; department stores; home improvement and office supplies; coal production and export; chemicals, energy and fertilizers; industrial and safety products. It operates through the following segments: Retail, Industrial and Other. The Retail segment engages in supermarket, liquor retailer including a hotel portfolio; retail of fuel and operation of convenience stores; retailer of building material and home and garden improvement products; and retailer & supplier of office products and solutions for home, small-to-medium size businesses and education. The Industrial segment engages in coal mining and development; supplier and distributor of maintenance, repair and operating products; specialized supplier and distributor of industrial safety products and services; and manufacturer and marketing of chemicals for industry, mining and mineral processing. The Other segment includes forest products, property, investment banking, private equity investment, and corporate. The company was founded in 1914 and is headquartered in Perth, Australia.  Read More on WFAFF: Indices Commodities Currencies Stocks