The exterior of the REI Co-op in Portland’s Pearl District, pictured on Monday, April 17, 2023. The retail giant announced Monday it would close the location in early 2024 after nearly 20 years in the Pearl District. Sean Meagher/The Oregonian Outdoor retailer REI announced on Monday it would close its sole Portland store in February 2024 when its lease expires, citing incidences of break-ins and theft. In one instance last November, someone drove into the store’s front doors to break in and steal clothing, according to KGW. “The safety of our employees, members and customers is always our number one priority. In recent years, Portland has been dealing with increased crime in our neighborhood and beyond. Last year, REI Portland had its highest number of break-ins and thefts in two decades, despite actions to provide extra security,” REI told store members. The outdoor retailer also added that it had outgrown its current Portland outpost and could not give customers and employees a proper “experience” at REI. This follows the closings of other major stores in the Portland area, including one Nike location, two remaining Walmart locations and three remaining Cracker Barrel restaurants. Nike and Walmart reported that the increase in theft and break-ins are to blame. Meanwhile, Cracker Barrel said it was unable to recuperate from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. REI, which is based in Washington, has over 160 stores in 42 states and Washington DC. There are four locations in New Jersey. REI’s seven other Oregon stores will remain open. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement, (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our   Privacy Policy,  and Your Privacy Choices and Rights  (updated 7/1/2024). © 2024 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here. Ad Choices