
NOT FOR REPRINT
 
Page Printed from:
globest.com/2023/05/03/bed-bath-beyonds-bankruptcy-could-hurt-landlords-after-all/?slreturn=20240819161316   Maybe there are plenty of replacement tenants, but where is the economy going? There's been an ongoing assumption throughout the trials and pain of Bed Bath & Beyond that landlords could look beyond a coming bankruptcy to new tenants lining up for the space. That story line started in January as the Wall Street Journal reported that "landlords who own big-box space occupied by the troubled home-goods retailer are more confident about finding new tenants than they would have been in years past, according to property owners and retail analysts." Names like Sephora, Trader Joe's, Dick's Sporting Goods Inc., T.J. Maxx, Ross Stores Inc., and HomeGoods came up. "Already, chains including TJ Maxx, HomeGoods and Ross have scooped up the vacant stores," wrote CNN in March. "Burlington, Five Below, Nordstrom Rack and budget gym Planet Fitness may also fill up the spaces, say retail landlords and real estate analysts." 
Register and gain access to:
 
Already have an account?
Sign In Now 
© 2024 ALM Global, LLC, All Rights Reserved. Request
academic re-use from
www.copyright.com.
All other uses, submit a request to

[email protected].
For more information visit
Asset & Logo Licensing. By Anthony Russo |  August 19, 2024 It includes four buildings, spanning 139,545 square feet. By Erika Morphy |  August 19, 2024 The market is on a path for recovery. By Kristen Smithberg |  August 19, 2024 Attitudes about office amenities vary by generation. 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by Placer Labs Inc.
 Migration Hotspots in a Cool 2024 Market Discover the latest insights on domestic migration trends in 2024 with this comprehensive white paper. Uncover the changing patterns and emerging hotspots shaping the CRE landscape today and what it means for you. Browse More Resources › 
White Paper
 
Sponsored by TheGuarantors
 Cracking the Renters Insurance Conundrum Multifamily owners and operators are seeing rising expenses squeezing margins, making it essential to identify new revenue streams and cut unnecessary costs. Learn how to crack the renters insurance conundrum with solutions tailored to your goals, allowing you to mitigate risk, streamline operations, and uncover new ancillary revenue opportunities. Browse More Resources › 
eBook
 
Sponsored by LeaseAccelerator
 9 Ways to Save with Real Estate Lease Administration Download this eBook to find ways to reduce 2-4% in costs across your real estate lease portfolio. Browse More Resources › 
Already have an account?
 Sign In Now  Follow Us On 
Copyright © 2024 ALM Global, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
