Recent Market News Headlines Free Guide Introduction to Forex News Trading Recent Trading Strategies Headlines Free Guide The Fundamentals of Range Trading Recent Currencies Headlines Recent Commodities Headlines Recent Stocks Headlines Recent Cryptocurrencies Headlines Free Guide How to Use IG Client Sentiment in Your Trading Trading Tools Rates Live forex rates at a glance Earnings Calendar Keep track of companies that are about to announce their earnings Sentiment Discover who is going long and short DNA FX Check what kind of trader you are Economic Calendar Explore key global events on the horizon Live Chart Latest price data across forex and major assets Support & Resistance View S&R levels for forex, commodities and indices 
View All Tools



 Economic Calendar Free Trading Guides Forex for Beginners Traits of Successful Traders Cryptocurrency Trading Notify me about H M L  Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Note: Low and High figures are for the trading day. Share: The Fed hiking interest rates likely won't have a big impact on the current values of homes in the US. Chris and Victor break down why large swaths of the economy probably aren't a bubble, and how the solidification of prices may hurt or help the US economy.  00:00 The Fed and Housing Bubble  02:08 The US Needs a Recession  04:01 Supply Chain and Inflation 04:32 US Policy Impact on Economy DailyFX provides forex news and technical analysis on the trends that influence the global currency markets. 
DISCLOSURES
 
Leveraged trading in foreign currency or off-exchange products on margin carries significant risk and may not be suitable for all investors. We advise you to carefully consider whether trading is appropriate for you based on your personal circumstances. Forex trading involves risk. Losses can exceed deposits. We recommend that you seek independent advice and ensure you fully understand the risks involved before trading.
Information presented by DailyFX Limited should be construed as market commentary, merely observing economical, political and market conditions. This information is made available for informational purposes only. It is not a solicitation or a recommendation to trade derivatives contracts or securities and should not be construed or interpreted as financial advice. Any examples given are provided for illustrative purposes only and no representation is being made that any person will, or is likely to, achieve profits or losses similar to those examples. DailyFX Limited is not responsible for any trading decisions taken by persons not intended to view this material.
  