SPL Rangers were fun. So much of their football of late has been a grind, but this was different. It was brimming with energy and personality all over the pitch. James Tavernier was driving with the ball, Glen Kamara was flawless, dancing his way through what was meant to be a midfield minefield. John Lundstram swept up four Hearts attacks in the first 15 minutes with the authority he showed on the road to Sevilla, while Malik Tillman and Ryan Kent were finding more space than they could wish for at Ibrox. Advertisement Wednesday’s 3-0 win over Hearts was the best display under Michael Beale and the most complete domestic performance in 18 months. And that sense of freedom was most embodied by the new strike duo of Alfredo Morelos and Fashion Sakala. They had 13 and 10 touches each in the box, six and four shots each, and scored another three offside goals. Beale had hinted at the prospect of playing two strikers up front against Hearts but rather than pair Antonio Colak with Morelos, he moved Sakala more central and positioned Kent behind the front two. For two players whose success usually lies in their individual strengths — Morelos’ physicality and Sakala’s pace — this was a different performance. It was based on intuition and partnership. Gone were the sloppy passing errors that have besmirched performances and in its place were crisp, flowing counter-attacks that seemed to arrive every few minutes. The two forwards look happy in each other’s company. Since the 3-2 win away to Aberdeen in December when Sakala made a rude gesture to the home fans at full-time before turning to Morelos, as if to check that the shy kid had wound them up properly, Sakala has grown into a role carved for him — one that allows his unique brand of chaos to flourish. “They’re making it really tough for me,” Beale said of their growing chemistry. “Todd Cantwell was our best player at the weekend but he had not played for three months so I wanted to give him a chance to see what Scottish football looks like from the side. “This is a place where the fans get up and I was expecting it to be a really frantic game. To leave him out was difficult but the other three have been so good. You have to earn the shirt. Glen Kamara scored and Jacko (Ryan Jack) was giving me the look since he wasn’t starting. Alex Lowry did well when he came on and Scott Wright has been pushing for a start for weeks. “It’s nice sometimes away from home as it opens up spaces and we have to have clear ideas. Certain players suit playing in different spaces so we try to prepare ourselves for every eventuality.” Inside the first three minutes, Borna Barisic had whipped a cross within inches of Sakala’s head, Tavernier’s cross had been glanced towards goal by Morelos and Sakala had almost broken through from a ball over the top. Rangers weren’t trying to be overly precise. This was a mission requiring as few steps as possible — a smother and strike strategy. Advertisement Within five minutes, Rangers had the ball in the net but it was the first of four offside ‘goals’. A long ball up to Sakala saw Tillman and Kent surround the ball…  The American latched onto it before driving forward and playing Sakala forward down the side…  Morelos drifted to the back post to create room for the ball to be squared but he went too early and his tap-in was ruled out…  Still, it was a warning to Hearts that they could not leave themselves this open. They ignored it. Hearts boss Robbie Neilson opted to play 18-year-old Newcastle United loanee Garang Kuol and former Rangers winger Barrie McKay as conventional central midfielders. It seemed a strange choice and left Robert Snodgrass isolated in midfield. In possession, Hearts quickly started to look apprehensive, wary of Rangers’ intent to squeeze the life out of them. With Kent behind the front two and the full-backs being so bold that they locked on to Hearts’ wing-backs, they were able to contain their opponents and force turnovers. Here, the square ball to Toby Sibbick triggered Sakala to lead the press…  The next pass wide to James Hill was obvious and Barisic sprinted to pressure his first touch…  He forced the turnover and Sakala was onto it…  Barisic was played on the overlap but Stephen Kingsley did well to beat Morelos to the header once the cross went in…  By the 25th minute, Rangers had a stranglehold as Kamara and Lundstram dominated midfield. Rangers were breaking at them with their front three so often it may as well have been a three-v-three attack-versus-defence drill. One of the smoothest breakaways started in their own corner as Tavernier won back possession…  He carried on his run and suddenly Rangers had three runners covering the entire width of the pitch…  Tavernier carried it forward until he could find Morelos…  Whose flick took it to Sakala at the back post…  But his left-footed shot was blocked by Kingsley.  Less than a minute later, Rangers ripped through Hearts again but this time, it was with a familiar Beale pattern, the sort of move that concerted the sense that the ideas were starting to click. It started with the ball going wide to Tavernier…  As he looked up to play into the front men, Kent spun and made a forward run…  He timed it perfectly for Morelos to delicately touch it into his path…  Kent had breached the midfield and Tillman was joining in, but he chose to play through Sakala who finished cooly — only for him to have gone too early.  Sakala and Morelos were linking up with a finesse that defied their usual deficiencies. A partnership could be seen forming with Sakala showing good awareness to peel wide to launch counters…  He played inside to Morelos…  Who had the vision to know he had two over on his left…   Kent waited so he could disguise the pass to Kamara but the Finland midfielder’s cutback to Morelos was intercepted…  Hearts changed to a 4-2-3-1 at half-time, removing Hill and Kuol, who had endured a torrid first half in unfamiliar positions. It did not matter much. In the 52nd minute, they were in again after Lundstram slid in to break up play…  Kent managed to win the loose ball. Their high and wide starting positions meant Sakala was close enough to take over the baton…   He played the perfect weight of pass to Morelos on the outside…  But the Colombia forward’s shot was saved by Zander Clark at the near post…  Rangers’ aggression was startling. Morelos was finding so much room to turn and play, coming from behind the defence to show for the ball…  He swivelled and played a brilliant through ball to Sakala…  … who was onside and finished well again, but Morelos had been narrowly offside when receiving the ball.  The difficulty in guarding against the front pairing was that Sakala would regularly drift into the wide right position and offer a threat in behind. Connor Goldson has that long diagonal pass in his locker and, on the 68th minute, he brought it out…  Sakala brought down the ball without having to break stride…  And timed the ball across the face of the goal to perfection…  Morelos tapped home and the goal stood after a VAR review overruled the original offside decision…  It took him to 121 Rangers goals, drawing him level with John Greig in the club’s all-time scoring charts. For Morelos, it was enough to warrant a post-VAR trademark knee slide in front of the Hearts fans who had been taunting his physique all night. “He seems to be calm and enjoying his football,” Beale said.”He could have had three or four at the weekend and I mentioned that to him the day after. He’s a little frustrated as the last twice he’s been on two goals I’ve taken him off, so I’m keeping him on his toes!” Get all-access to exclusive stories. Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us. Jordan Campbell  is a football writer for The Athletic, who regularly covers Arsenal. In 2024, he was named in the 30 to Watch journalism awards. He previously covered Glasgow Rangers and was twice nominated for Young Journalist of the Year at the Scottish Press Awards. Follow Jordan on Twitter @JordanC1107