       Life Issues Reporter    HOPKINSVILLE, Ky. (KT) – When Alpha Pregnancy Care Center heard about a safety device that allows for the secure and anonymous surrender of an infant, they pursued a Safe Haven Baby Box as another way to serve vulnerable women in their community. "We see women faced with unplanned pregnancy all the time," said Alpha Executive Director Angie Crawford. "We see the shock. We see the fear. We see the uncertainty of what to do. And when we heard that this existed, it just seemed like a natural extension, just another resource to offer her." A Safe Haven Baby Box allows a mother in crisis to safely, legally surrender a child who is less than 30 days old, automatically terminating her parental rights if she expresses no intent to return. (Facebook photo) After placing her baby in the climate-controlled, electronically monitored box and closing the door, the mother is free to leave without legal pursuit as the box automatically locks and triggers a series of silent alarms. An individual with emergency medical training is then able to respond within two minutes and take custody of the infant for ongoing care. Crawford started a dialogue about bringing a baby box to Christian County with the local fire department, and several months later the city of Hopkinsville entered into a contract with Safe Haven Baby Box, the organization behind baby boxes and the Safe Haven laws that legalize their use. (Facebook photo) Once the project is completed, the city and fire department/EMS will monitor the box by performing daily visual checks, run weekly alarm system tests and provide training for personnel, assuming responsibility for the community resource. "We've done things like contacting the Attorney (General) to make sure the location is acceptable for Safe Haven laws in Kentucky and coordinated the efforts, but the fire department…they already have the estimate to install it and they will set up the alarm system and they'll pay the annual fee," Crawford said. "We would step away once it's up and functional." But until then, Crawford and Alpha will be actively engaged by raising funds and awareness for the box. The project will require a minimum of $16,000 to cover the cost of the box itself, installation fees and the alarm technology—and while Alpha is leading fundraising efforts, monies raised will not funnel through the hands of center volunteers or staff. "Every penny that is raised goes directly to Safe Haven Baby Box," Crawford explained. "People can't write a check to Alpha and then us turn around and send it to them (Safe Haven). All checks are written to Safe Haven, and all money goes directly to them." Supporters can also give online through a secure link posted to Alpha's Facebook page. Diana Anderson, executive director of Pathway of Hope, addresses a crowd of community supporters at the blessing of the Muhlenberg County baby box. (Photo courtesy of Diana Anderson) Two weeks after announcing the project, donations have already surpassed $2,200. "We're excited," Crawford said. "We hope it comes quickly…People seem to be excited." Kentucky's 19th, and western-most, baby box will be at the Hopkinsville Fire Department/EMS headquarters. "Hopkinsville Fire Department is honored to partner with Alpha Pregnancy Care Center to help bring this safe and secure option to Hopkinsville," the department said in a Facebook post announcing the resource on June 26. For more information about Safe Haven Baby Boxes, visit shbb.org. To learn more about the Hopkinsville project or to give toward the $16,000 goal, call Alpha Pregnancy Care Center at 270-885-3820 or click here. If you are weighing the decision of safe and legal surrender for your child, you can call the 24-hour National Safe Haven Crisis line at 1-866-99BABY1. Life Issues Reporter   
Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.
             
Error! There was an error processing your request.
             Have the latest local news delivered every morning so you don't miss out on updates. If you're interested in submitting a Letter to the Editor, click here. Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: