32
New Articles








 
New Articles A case has just been transferred to the Eastern District of California from Washington and it is a putative class action against… AMAZON! Everyone’s favorite online store. And we have a bunch of alleged privacy violations including: (1) federal wiretap act, 18 U.S.C. §§ 2510, et seq., (2) Cal. Penal Code § 631, (3) Cal. Penal Code § 632, (4) Cal. Penal Code § 632.7, and (5) California Unfair Competition Law, Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200, et seq. Let’s start with the facts. On or around July 2022 through September 2022, Plaintiff Brian Heinz, visited Amazon.com on his phone on numerous occasions and had conversations with Amazon via the chat feature on Amazon’s website. Folks… I hope you are starting to see a real trend here. You have heard it from me before, these new wave of CIPA cases all have to deal with chat boxes! Heinz alleges that at no time during the conversations did Amazon disclose to him that they were being intercepted and recorded by a third-party. (This is your reminder, that if a chat box is being supplied by a third party, it is important to obtain CONSENT!) Based on this alleged violation, Heinz seeks to represent three classes: All persons in the United States whose inbound and outbound conversations via the chat feature on Defendant’s website were intercepted by Defendant or its agent/s within the applicable statute of limitations. All persons in California whose inbound and outbound conversations via the chat feature on Defendant’s website were recorded without their consent by Defendant or its agent/s within the one year prior to the filing of this action. All persons in California whose inbound and outbound conversations via the chat feature on Defendant’s website that were made with their cellular telephones and were recorded without their consent by Defendant or its agent/s within the one year prior to the filing of this action. This is dangerous. The case is still in its nascent stage so we will continue to keep you folks updated as the case progresses.   Sign Up for e-NewsBulletins   You are responsible for reading, understanding, and agreeing to the National Law Review's (NLR’s) and the National Law Forum LLC's  Terms of Use and Privacy Policy before using the National Law Review website. The National Law Review is a free-to-use, no-log-in database of legal and business articles. The content and links on www.NatLawReview.com are intended for general information purposes only. Any legal analysis, legislative updates, or other content and links should not be construed as legal or professional advice or a substitute for such advice. No attorney-client or confidential relationship is formed by the transmission of information between you and the National Law Review website or any of the law firms, attorneys, or other professionals or organizations who include content on the National Law Review website. If you require legal or professional advice, kindly contact an attorney or other suitable professional advisor.   Some states have laws and ethical rules regarding solicitation and advertisement practices by attorneys and/or other professionals. The National Law Review is not a law firm nor is www.NatLawReview.com  intended to be a referral service for attorneys and/or other professionals. The NLR does not wish, nor does it intend, to solicit the business of anyone or to refer anyone to an attorney or other professional.  NLR does not answer legal questions nor will we refer you to an attorney or other professional if you request such information from us.  Under certain state laws, the following statements may be required on this website and we have included them in order to be in full compliance with these rules. The choice of a lawyer or other professional is an important decision and should not be based solely upon advertisements. Attorney Advertising Notice: Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Statement in compliance with Texas Rules of Professional Conduct. Unless otherwise noted, attorneys are not certified by the Texas Board of Legal Specialization, nor can NLR attest to the accuracy of any notation of Legal Specialization or other Professional Credentials. The National Law Review - National Law Forum LLC 2070 Green Bay Rd., Suite 178, Highland Park, IL 60035  Telephone  (708) 357-3317 or toll-free (877) 357-3317.  If you would like to contact us via email please click here. Copyright ©2024 National Law Forum, LLC