Comment Consumers are all about being able to make purchases fast and easy, but some merchants don’t have the engineering or product teams to code for all of that. This is where Pack comes in. The San Diego–based company does most of the coding for merchants and delivers it via a front-end headless commerce platform for Shopify merchants so they can create a more seamless customer experience. Working in a headless environment means you can tinker with the front end of your website — for example, the look, feel and function of the site — without disturbing the back end, which is where the payments, order details and fulfillment live. Since being founded in 2019, Pack has built some of the first headless storefronts in North America and now works with e-commerce brands, including Truff, Liquid I.V., Cuts Clothing and Prima. The company said since Cuts began working with them, customer conversions grew by 200% year over year. Cory Cummings, Pack co-founder and CEO, told TechCrunch he worked in e-commerce for a decade building Shopify themes from scratch. That’s how he found that much of the work involved “shoving data into places where it didn’t feel right,” like in a platform versus front end. Merchants were left wondering why it was confusing to develop their storefronts. Pack is playing in a similar space with startups like Popup, fabric, Swell and Shopistry, but Cummings said that unlike other headless companies that try to do more than just storefronts, Pack just wants to do front end. “We put the guard rails in place so Instead of having to be a tech company or sign up for a bunch of different integrations, they can just do Pack,” he said. “We give them everything they need to be successful.” Today, Pack announced $3 million in seed financing to grow the company, secure strategic partnership and add to its team of engineers, product, design and go-to-market capabilities. This brings the company’s total fundraising to date to $6 million. The company is working with nearly 20 midmarket and enterprise-level customers and has a lot of growth in the pipeline, Cummings said. It spent the last year investing in its product and feature development, and this year has seen 470% growth in the product. “We definitely have an aggressive roadmap to build out features,” he added. “It’s important to us that when people go headless, it is easier for them to have control over their infrastructure. Plus, we have a Shopify focus today, but we want to look at back end verticals and integrate those in the future.” Meanwhile, Norwest Venture Partners led the round and was joined by existing investor Alpaca and new investor Vanterra Ventures. Scott Beechuk, partner at Norwest Venture Partners, told TechCrunch that a “major shift is happening in the world of retail,” and with that, more retailers want to move away from the “tightly bound, inflexible e-commerce platforms.” “Pack is unique in this market in that they are entirely focused on customer experience, presentation layer and the content that powers that,” Beechuk added. “Others focus on users or front-end, but also do orchestration or back-end, which dilutes the overall offering.” Quantifying the global e-commerce slowdown  Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 Waymo disclosed Tuesday it’s now giving more than 100,000 paid robotaxi rides every week across its three main commercial markets in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Phoenix. Those figures were…  Until recently, saving the world usually didn’t involve turning a profit. But as the world has warmed, a range of startups and investors have emerged that have squared the circle,…  The countdown continues! You have 4 days left to lock in your TechCrunch Disrupt 2024 tickets at the discounted rate. Don’t miss the chance to save up to $600 —…  On Monday, the U.S. government formally accused Iran of hacking the Donald Trump campaign. In a joint statement issued by the FBI, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence…  The United States Department of Justice filed a major lawsuit against Live Nation-Ticketmaster in May, arguing that the entertainment giant is acting as a monopoly. An additional 10 state attorneys…  Construction companies deal with a lot of documents — so many that it can be difficult to process and manage them all. According to one recent survey, a third of…  The Rounds, the startup that delivers recurring grocery and household essentials in reusable packaging, announced on Monday its $24 million Series B funding round. The new capital will go toward…  The U.S. Department of Defense is a mammoth organization. It not only employs millions of service members and hundreds of thousands of civilian employees, but also has the world’s largest…  Eppo has closed a new funding round that values the company at over $100 million.  Simulating the real world is a tremendously complex problem if you want to do it at any useful level of fidelity. Traditional techniques are holding back design teams at vehicle…  NASA and the space industry are in agreement: if we want to establish a permanent human presence on the moon, we’ll need to make use of every native resource we…  AI models have proven capable of many things, but what tasks do we actually want them doing? Preferably drudgery — and there’s plenty of that in research and academia. Reliant…  Update: Authorities have yet to access the inside of the sunken yacht, and Mike Lynch is still classified as missing. Other details have emerged in the interim. The accident appears…  Global technology giants are pushing back against attempts by India’s telecom networks to bring internet services under stricter regulation, rejecting arguments that such measures are necessary to create a “level…  Pakistani startup PostEx is entering Saudi Arabia as first global market after hitting $21 million ARR in the South Asian nation.  The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Powered by WordPress VIP