Comment Taiwanese automotive conglomerate Hotai Motor exposed reams of personal customer data from its car rental and carshare unit, iRent, until a security researcher found the data online last week. Even then, it took the company a week — and the intervention of the Taiwanese government — to act. Hotai Motor is one of the largest financial holdings companies in Taiwan, and also the Taiwanese distributor for Toyota. iRent is a popular auto service app, bought by Hotai in 2022, which allows customers to pay hourly to rent cars that can be found either free-floating or at a depot. iRent reportedly has over 1.1 million registered cars and 580,000 iRent users. Security researcher Anurag Sen discovered a database containing iRent customers’ full names, cell phone numbers and email addresses, home addresses, photos of their drivers’ licenses, and partially redacted payment card details, on a Hotai-owned cloud server that was inadvertently accessible from the internet. Because the database was not password-protected, anyone on the internet could access the iRent customer data just by knowing its IP address. Sen said the exposed database also contained millions of partial credit card numbers, and at least 100,000 customer identification documents, as well as selfies, signatures, and rental vehicle details. TechCrunch reviewed a portion of the exposed data and confirmed Sen’s findings. Internet records by Shodan, a search engine for exposed devices and databases, show the database was spilling data as far back as May 2022 and contained about 4.2 terabytes of data at the time it was secured. TechCrunch sent several emails this week to Hotai Motor with details of the exposed database, but we did not receive a reply. All the while, the database was updating with new customer data in real time. On January 28, TechCrunch subsequently contacted Taiwan’s Ministry of Digital Affairs, the government department that regulates and oversees the country’s internet and telecoms, for help in disclosing the security lapse to the company. In an emailed response, Taiwan’s minister for digital affairs Audrey Tang told TechCrunch that the exposed database had been flagged with Taiwan’s national computer emergency response team, known as TWCERT/CC. Within an hour, the exposed iRent database became inaccessible. A short time later, Hotai Motor confirmed it had secured the database. “We had blocked the outside connection to this IP immediately.” Hotai said that it would inform customers whose data was exposed. It’s not clear if anyone else, other than Sen, found the database during the nine months it was spilling data. It’s not the first time a car rental company has compromised its own customers’ data. Back in 2017, Hertz accidentally leaked the personal data of 36,000 customers. France’s national data protection authority fined Hertz France €40,000 at the time because the data was found to be easily accessible online. Elon takes the stand, Akio Toyoda hands over the CEO keys and layoffs come for Waymo  Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 The AI boom is fueling the demand for data centers and, in turn, driving up water consumption. (Water is used to cool the computing equipment inside data centers.) According to…  The group honking was an unintended consequence of Waymo’s tech.  OpenAI and Anthropic spend billions of dollars a year training models like GPT-4 and Claude, but competitive price dumping is making the business around these platforms rather precarious. Aidan Gomez,…  Hello, and welcome back to TechCrunch Space. Did you hear? Bridgit Mendler will be joining me onstage at this year’s TechCrunch Disrupt to talk all things ground stations. She’s just…  What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Powered by WordPress VIP