Comment Fresh off a $154 million funding round in March 2023, South Korean digital lender and neobank Toss Bank is close to raising another $154 million (200 billion won) in equity at a valuation of $2.1 billion (2.7 trillion won), and it is already planning a further $150 million round for the end of the year, sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch. The Seoul-based challenger bank is in advanced discussions for both funding injections with existing and new investors, including global private equity firms and corporations, the sources said without providing further details. In March of this year, Toss Bank raised $154 million at a valuation of $1.6 billion, a figure we have confirmed with the company directly (PitchBook notes a higher valuation, which the company told TechCrunch was incorrect). At the time of its last raise, Toss Bank had raised a total of over $1.2 billion since its inception in 2021.  That round came from online retail platform Home & Shopping, Premier Partners, Korea Investment Capital and other unnamed investors. Altos Ventures, Standard Chartered Korea, Hana Bank, Goodwater Capital, Ribbit Capital and Hanwha Investment & Securities Company are among Toss Bank’s other investors, alongside Viva Republica, which operates the financial super app Toss and remains the largest shareholder, owning a 32.1%, in Toss Bank. The massive capital injections are notable for coming at a time when funding remains largely constrained globally; and also to underscore the competitive stance that Toss Bank is taking in Korea, which has a number of other challenger banks vying to compete against incumbents to lend money and help consumers with their financial affairs. The new $154 million in funding is expected to be completed by the end of the third quarter of this year — that is, around September — according to the sources, who wished to remain anonymous since the deal is not yet public. The two-year-old digital lender is likely to make another raise swiftly after that, of at least $150 million, aiming to be completed as early as the end of 2023, the sources said. Toss Bank is raising capital to offer loans to its customers, hire more staff and expand its services, like the wealth management business, they added. A spokesperson at Toss Bank confirmed to TechCrunch that it is in the process of raising capital, but he declined to comment on its deal size and the company’s valuation. Bloomberg reported about Toss Bank’s early-stage funding talks in April. The Korean digital lender aims to turn profitable between year-end and early next year. The company posted a net loss of $203.1 million (264.4 billion won) in 2022. Its net loss each quarter in 2022 was around $46 million (60 billion won), but a net loss in the first quarter of 2023 dropped to $21.5 million (28 billion won), according to the sources. The quarterly net loss is expected to decline gradually this year, they noted. Since being launched in October 2021 by Viva Republica, Toss Bank said it has picked up 7 million customers as of July and now has 464 employees on its team. The internet-only bank benefits from its association with Viva Republica, which has about 26 million users and 15 million monthly active users overall. Viva Republica provides an array of financial services such as banking, money transfer, mobile-based stock trading, credit scoring, P2P lending and more in an all-in-one app, Toss. Toss Bank is one of the three Korean online banking service providers that has received licenses from the South Korean government, along with Kakao Bank and Bain Capital-backed K Bank. South Korean financial super app Toss closes $405M Series G as valuation rises 7%  Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in The Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government, and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Gogoro has deferred its India plans over delay in government incentives, but the Taiwanese company has partnered with Rapido for a bike-taxi pilot.  On Friday, the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz tweeted out a link to its guide on how to “build your social media presence” which features advice for founders.  OpenAI has banned a cluster of ChatGPT accounts linked to an Iranian influence operation that was generating content about the U.S. presidential election, according to a blog post on Friday.…  Apple is reportedly shifting into the world of home robots after the wheels came off its electric car. According to a new report from Bloomberg, a team of several hundred…  Welcome to Startups Weekly — your weekly recap of everything you can’t miss from the world of startups. I’m Anna Heim from TechCrunch’s international team, and I’ll be writing this newsletter…  MIT this week showcased tiny batteries designed specifically for the purpose of power these systems to execute varied tasks.  Rimac revealed Friday during The Quail, a Motorsports Gathering at Monterey Car Week the Nevera R, an all-electric hypercar that’s meant to push the performance bounds of its predecessor.  While the ethics of AI-generated porn are still under debate, using the technology to create nonconsensual sexual imagery of people is, I think we can all agree, reprehensible. One such…  Almost two weeks ago, TechCrunch reported that African e-commerce giant Jumia was planning to sell 20 million American depositary shares (ADSs) and raise more than $100 million, given its share…  Powered by WordPress VIP