Comment Investments in cybersecurity companies are beginning to turn a corner, seemingly. After a brutal summer, VC funding to security startups saw a slight (12%) uptick from Q3, according to Crunchbase — reaching nearly $1.9 billion compared to $1.7 billion in the second quarter. That’s still down 30% annually. But it’s a tepid sign that venture’s appetite for cyber is growing anew. Increasing enterprise cybersecurity budgets could be the reason. Per an IANS Research report, corporate budgets for IT security grew 6% between 2022 and 2023 — a modest but noteworthy amount. Most respondents cited “increased risk” and “digital transformation” — i.e. digitizing legacy apps, products and services —  as the motivators behind the budget upticks. One startup to benefit from all this is Censys, which provides customers with insights about critical internet-connected infrastructure. Censys this morning announced that it raised $50 million in a Series C funding round plus a $25 million debt round, bringing its total raised to $128.1 million. Decibel Partners led the round with participation from GV, Greylock and Intel Capital. Other participants included Ascension Ventures, Four Rivers Partners V, L.P. and accounts managed by Hamilton Lane. Censys has its roots in an internet scanning program, ZMap, developed by the company’s chief scientist Zakir Durumeric in 2013. By 2015, after coming to the realization that the software could be used to actually improve, rather than simply monitor, the state of security online, Durumeric had assembled a team to refine and improve ZMap’s capabilities. “We believe that perfect visibility of anything exposed to the internet is the only way to allow individuals and organizations to protect themselves from external threats,” Brad Brooks, Censys’ CEO, told TechCrunch in an email interview. “With the help of early investors, including Google Ventures, Greylock, Decibel and Intel Capital, our mission evolved, and we set out to create the best, most comprehensive, internet scanning engine in the world.” Today, Censys offers a range of tools to keep tabs on internet hosts and services and their security statuses. Customers get a database of vulnerable infrastructure “enriched with context,” as well as a platform for monitoring and analyzing their internet-facing assets (e.g. servers and desktops). Brooks says that most customers use the platform for threat hunting — that is, spotting and investigating signs of security compromise — and triaging exploits detected through Censys’ asset monitoring tech. Some also tap Censys to understand the impact of their security efforts, according to Brooks, including the duration and severity of risks. “Powered by leading internet intelligence, Censys gives leaders and their teams the data and capabilities needed to stay ahead of advanced threat actors,” Brooks said. “They can use Censys’ benchmarks to track performance over time and generate industry-standard metrics.” Recently — climbing aboard the generative AI hype train — Censys launched a chatbot that enables users to perform searches across its security database in natural language. For example, they can ask things like “Show me all servers in Australia that have both FTP and HTTP services” to have the platform surface the corresponding data. Or they can have the chatbot translate search syntax from a third-party threat-hunting platform, like Shodan or Zoomeye, into a format that Censys can understand. Censys, which claims to have 350,000 users on its free service and over 180 paying customers, including government agencies ranging from the FBI to the Department of Homeland Security, plans to put the proceeds from the most recent funding toward expanding its 134-person workforce. By the end of 2023, Censys — which is based in Ann Arbor, Michigan — expects to have 150 employees. “We’re lucky in that cybersecurity is still in high demand despite economic uncertainty,” Brooks said. “In fact, the pandemic provided a tailwind as major enterprises had to shift to cloud solutions and resituate thousands to a remote work setup, which drove demand and inquiries.” The challenge for Censys will maintaining momentum in the face of increasingly strong headwinds. Issues in Europe and between the U.S. and China threaten to keep venture funding in cyber relatively flat — or possibly even in decline — for the remainder of the year. Higher interest rates are hurting the ability for investors to raise new funds, in turn hurting startups’ ability to raise money. Meanwhile, hedge funds, late-stage and crossover funds that invest in both public and private companies have pulled back from the cyber market over fears of a recession — and disruption in the wider tech market. On the other hand — as alluded to earlier — there’s reason for optimism. According to a recent Spiceworks report, while the vast majority of companies are concerned about a recession in 2024, two-thirds (66%) still intend to increase their year-on-year IT spend, including spending on cybersecurity, while only 4% plan to decrease their spend. And IDC predicts that global cybersecurity spending will top $219 billion this year, growing to nearly $300 billion in 2026. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in The Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government, and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Brands can use Keychain to look up different products and see who actually manufactures them.  In this post, we explain the many Microsoft Copilots available and what they do, and highlight the key differences between each.  A hack on UnitedHealth-owned tech giant Change Healthcare likely stands as one of the biggest data breaches of U.S. medical data in history.  Gogoro has deferred its India plans over delay in government incentives, but the Taiwanese company has partnered with Rapido for a bike-taxi pilot.  On Friday, the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz tweeted out a link to its guide on how to “build your social media presence” which features advice for founders.  OpenAI has banned a cluster of ChatGPT accounts linked to an Iranian influence operation that was generating content about the U.S. presidential election, according to a blog post on Friday.…  Apple is reportedly shifting into the world of home robots after the wheels came off its electric car. According to a new report from Bloomberg, a team of several hundred…  Welcome to Startups Weekly — your weekly recap of everything you can’t miss from the world of startups. I’m Anna Heim from TechCrunch’s international team, and I’ll be writing this newsletter…  Powered by WordPress VIP