Sep. 20—Quintillion's subsea fiber optic cable cut — which for months has challenged communications across northern Alaska — has been repaired, the broadband provider said Tuesday. "Service to customers has been fully restored," Quintillion said in a statement. It might still take time for some residents to see improvements to their internet and cell service as telecom providers such as GCI transition back to using the fiber system. Several other providers have already restored their fiber service in northern communities. The breakage happened out of Oliktok Point west of Prudhoe Bay in the middle of June when sea ice severed the cable. The issue caused internet and cell outages in several North Slope and Northwest Arctic communities and affected thousands of Alaskans. Quintillion planned to repair the cut in about two months but had to wait for the ice to clear to get to the site, company President Michael "Mac" McHale has said. On Aug. 25, they started the multimillion-dollar repair to the cable, which is buried about 10 to 12 feet below the seabed floor, under 90 feet of water. [Subsea fiber repairs are underway off Arctic Alaska, but when services will be restored is unknown] A 42-member repair crew retrieved the shoreside cable that runs south from the Beaufort Sea, prepared it for future repair and placed it back on the seabed floor, McHale said. Then, for more than 10 days, they focused on retrieving the seaside aspect of the cable, excavating the seabed floor in low visibility and harsh weather conditions. The last step was to bring the shoreside cable back up and repair the middle section by connecting the two points with new fiber. Almost a month after beginning work on the severed cable, Quintillion announced that the repairs were complete. The company said it now plans to focus on improving the resiliency and sustainability of the Quintillion network. While the fiber cut is fixed, some telecom providers using the Quintillion system might still need time to switch back to the fiber network and improve internet and cell service to residents, McHale said. GCI is among the providers that are transitioning their customers in northern Alaska back to fiber service, company spokeswoman Heather Handyside said. "It may take a few days to complete the transition but customers in Nome and Kotzebue are already seeing greatly improved internet speeds," Handyside said. North Slope provider Arctic Slope Telephone Association Cooperative had reverted to the original fiber network by Tuesday evening, said Rebecca Kunugguk Sparks, ASTAC communications manager. OTZ Telecommunications, which serves Kotzebue, also moved back to fiber from satellite, company CEO Kelly Williams said. "It definitely is a better quality of service," Williams said about the fiber network. "But we're keeping those satellite services in place for now" as a backup. New Orleans Pelicans star Zion Williamson appears to have lost notable weight during the offseason, based on photos taken at his basketball camp in South Carolina. Michael Penix Jr. is done for the preseason, Raheem Morris said. Mike Tyson had little interest in trash-talking or insulting Jake Paul during the press conference for their Nov. 15 fight on Netflix. Friday’s collapse marks the seventh home to be swept into the ocean in the last four years. Russell Wilson got his first preseason start after being held out last week. In the long-running "Alien" movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying to make a profit from xenomorphs -- creatures with acid for blood and a penchant for violently bursting out of human hosts.  Sadly, as much as I liked “Alien: Romulus” (and I liked it a lot!), the new sequel (or "interquel") can’t escape a terrible idea of its own: Hollywood’s fixation on using CGI to de-age or resurrect beloved actors.  “Alien: Romulus” tries to pull off a similar trick — while it doesn't resurrect the exact same murderous android from the original “Alien,” it features an identical model, seemingly played by the same actor, Ian Holm, who died in 2020. iSeeCars' latest analysis found that a handful of models have a much greater chance of lasting 250,000 miles than others. Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck sees the company's Neutron rocket as "the last piece of the puzzle" in its ongoing quest to build out an end-to-end space company. He says it's also poised to threaten the lead Elon Musk's SpaceX has in the market. There are a lot of myths out there when it comes to washing your hair. It's time to set the record straight. These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. Rates have been inching up for a few days, but they're actually lower than last week. Lock in your rate today. The stylish star went big on black and white for her collection of dishes, decor and more with housewares brand Hudson Grace. A handy Yahoo News guide to the 2024 map. Jake Mintz & Jordan Shusterman talk about if the D-backs or Padres can catch the Dodgers in the NL West after their hot streak, the Astros doing typical Astros things and how realistic a 6 innings starter mandatory rule might be. With flag football making its Olympic debut in LA 2028, Team USA QB Darrell Doucette says NFL player won't be able to join the roster without a fight. Right before the 2024 season starts this Saturday, Dan Wetzel, Ross Dellenger and Pat Forde start the season on a positive note: by discussing which head coaches will get fired first. They inspect the hot seat situations for top names like Florida's Billy Napier, Baylor's Dave Aranda, and Arkansas' Sam Pittman. Bloomquist was one of the most successful dirt Late Model drivers ever. Muscles rather than high octane fuel will be powering the action next August 2 at the Bristol Motor Speedway when humans without machines — members of the Cincinnati Reds and the Atlanta Braves — gather for a regularly scheduled baseball game. While skepticism about Elliott’s explosiveness and perhaps his gross production is warranted, the Cowboys view Elliott’s role in their ecosystem more favorably than the broader public. Dricus du Plessis has now defeated three former middleweight champs in a row. Aubrey's kick doesn't officially count, but it was a pretty impressive boot.