Comment The troves of data collected by today’s modern connected cars has long been viewed as a cash cow — a yet untapped opportunity that could boost profits for automakers. Now one California agency wants to know exactly how that data might be used. The California Privacy Protection Agency announced plans this week to review the data privacy practices of automakers that make and sell connected vehicles embedded with all kinds of data-mining features, from cameras and location sharing to web-based entertainment and smartphone integration. “Modern vehicles are effectively connected computers on wheels. They’re able to collect a wealth of information via built-in apps, sensors, and cameras, which can monitor people both inside and near the vehicle,” CPPA executive director Ashkan Soltani said in a statement. The aim, Soltani said, is “to understand how these companies are complying with California law when they collect and use consumers’ data.” The CPPA’s review is a first in the United States, where automakers have enjoyed a more lax data privacy environment compared to Europe. But that could soon change, at least in states that have passed data privacy laws like California, Connecticut, Colorado, Utah and soon Virginia. So far, California is the first to conduct a review of how automakers use connected car data, an action that aligns with the state’s lead in data privacy laws. The Agency is conducting this review under the California Consumer Privacy Act, a law adopted in 2018 that gives individuals in the state the right to know the personal information collected about them by businesses, the right to delete that information and the right to stop its sale or sharing. Privacy advocates have raised concerns about the downside of connected cars for years because these vehicles often automatically gather consumers’ locations, personal preferences and other details about their daily lives. Those concerns have grown as automakers have stepped up their software game in a bid to catch up with Tesla. Today, a new 2023 model year vehicle likely has an infotainment system with an array of third-party apps as well as cameras, including one facing the driver as part of its advanced driver assistance system. A growing number of vehicles have “Google built-in,” software based on the company’s Android operating system that has been adapted for automotive and integrates all of Google’s app directly into the vehicle. The agency said California has more than 35 million vehicles registered in the state. That’s not counting the millions more registered in other states that are on California roads. This saturation of connected cars has implications even for individuals who don’t own the vehicle, including ride-hailing customers and even pedestrians. Internet-connected vehicles produce huge amounts of data when driven, data which is then shared with manufacturers and held for years under privacy policies that allow vast and near-unrestricted use of the data they collect. Manufacturers can share or sell that information with data brokers, which when combined with web browsing and phone data can be used to profile users for targeted advertising. Collecting huge amounts of vehicle data also makes it obtainable by law enforcement agencies, which can demand vehicle data from in-car entertainment systems, collected by car manufacturers, and used for tracking and surveillance. Google noted in a statement provided to TechCrunch that it does not have access to any vehicle data unless automakers choose to license Google products. “In all instances data is used in accordance with our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy,” the company said, providing a link to that policy. “Drivers also have the option to change privacy settings for Google apps and services at any time. This extends to what is shared with third parties.” GM pointed TechCrunch to its policy as well, noting that it is committed to protecting customers’ personal information. “GM takes data privacy seriously and is committed to safeguarding personal information,” the company said in an emailed statement. “For every GM vehicle, the vehicle owner must accept GM’s User Terms and Privacy Statement to use these products and services. These documents detail our data practices and are available online for consumers to review.” California’s Privacy Act: What you need to know now  Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, said today that it’s ending operations in Brazil, although the service will remain available to users in the country. The announcement…  One of the biggest questions looming over the drone space is how to best use the tech. Inspection has become a key driver, as the autonomous copters are deployed to…  Powered by WordPress VIP