PETERSBURG – Could e-scooters be the newest way to get around town? One micromobility company sure hopes so.  Bird Rides Inc will go before Petersburg City Council Tuesday evening to propose a pilot operating agreement for setting up dockless electric scooters that citizens schedule and pay for online. For $1 per minute, riders could use the scooters to go short distances within designated areas and not have to rely on cars or other transportation.  There would be no cost to Petersburg to run the pilot program.  “The purpose is to provide a low-cost transportation alternative, with focus on the first and last mile between a departure location and a destination,” planning and community development director Reggie Tabor wrote in a message to council. The average per-user trip is around $6, and all scheduling, pick-up and drop-off transactions are done online.  Tabor is asking council to schedule a public hearing June 20 on the issue.   The e-scooters would only run in areas designated by Petersburg and are automatically disabled if they leave those areas. Rides normally are not permitted after dusk, and the company assigns “chargers” to collect the scooters at night for charging and getting ready for the next day.  Bird requires that riders be at least 18 years old and sign agreements on how the scooters will be used. The company says it offers discounts to senior citizens, veterans, healthcare workers and college students on Pell grants.  According to the company’s website, Bird operates in 400 cities across 25 countries. It was founded in 2017.  Micromobility is not a new concept in Virginia. In Richmond, for example, residents have access to electric scooters and bicycles to reduce the number of vehicles on the road.  In 2018, Bird tried to enter the Richmond market by doing an unannounced drop of scooters around the city, but Richmond officials wound up impounding all the vehicles and told the company if it wanted to do business, it must follow the proper channels.  Bird now is one of two e-scooter services in Virginia’s capital. Both companies offer up to 500 scooters and pay the city an annual fee of $45,000 to operate.  Bird also has e-scooters in Arlington, Fairfax, Harrisonburg, Roanoke and Virginia Beach. Service is also available at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond and George Mason University in Fairfax. The e-scooter request will be presented during a council work session that begins at 5 p.m. Tuesday in the auditorium of the Petersburg Public Library.  More:Petersburg's sweet and sour biz buzz: We're in the know... More:Dinwiddie prosecutor stepping down in June to pursue studies, calls decision unrelated to Otieno case Bill Atkinson (he/him/his) is an award-winning journalist who covers breaking news, government and politics. Reach him at batkinson@progress-index.com or on Twitter at @BAtkinson_PI.