Comment Many apps today assume that data lives in only one location, typically a single cloud database. But the reality is more complex. Thanks to the proliferation of mobile devices and cloud infrastructure — the latter of which accelerated during the pandemic — apps now need to store and process data in more places, from the edge to the public cloud. That’s what drove Adam Fish and Max Alexander to found Ditto, which emerged from stealth today with $45 million in Series A funding led by Acrew Capital with participation from U.S. Innovative Technology Fund (USIT), True Ventures and Amity Ventures. Ditto provides a distributed database that runs “practically anywhere,” according to Fish and Alexander, enabling data distribution even in areas with limited or poor internet connectivity. “The pandemic exposed critical vulnerabilities in traditional network infrastructure, prompting a surge in demand for contactless solutions,” Fish, who serves as the company’s CEO, told TechCrunch in an email interview. “Businesses scrambled to transition their everyday processes to contactless alternatives; however, these applications often relied on an internet connection to function effectively. Ditto’s platform emerged as a solution to these challenges.” At a high level, Ditto provides a database that runs across edge devices and in the cloud, allowing developers to store and sync data peer-to-peer across mobile and edge devices. Developers can use it to subscribe to data that they need or want to see. Ditto works across Bluetooth, peer-to-peer Wi-Fi and local wired networks to automatically find and connect to other devices and then synchronize data. Changes to data locally will offline sync once Ditto discovers cloud or peer devices, according to Fish. Ditto offers different versions of its cloud database, from a tenant in a shared environment to dedicated environments that are managed in a customer’s own cloud account. Developers can opt to use the platform’s APIs or query-based sync — or both, depending on their needs. “By operating independently of an internet connection, Ditto’s platform enables industries to swiftly adopt contactless solutions, bolstering their apps and processes with added resiliency and redundancy,” Fish said. “This reduces the risk of downtime and potential revenue loss, allowing businesses to continue operations even in the face of connectivity issues.” The market for enterprise file sync and share tools could be worth $12.84 billion by 2026, according to Technavio. So it’s not surprising, really, that Ditto isn’t the only startup competing for a slice of it. There’s Whalesync, which transfers data between a range of software-as-a-service apps. PieSync connects cloud apps and syncs contacts stored in those apps two-way. And the open source, Airbyte-owned Grouparoo replicates info between databases and cloud-based tools. Fish doesn’t argue that Ditto is massively differentiated in any way, save that it has a respectable customer base numbering in the “tens of thousands,” including brands such as Alaska Airlines, Japan Airlines, Hugo and Lufthansa. Ditto maintains several active government and military contracts as well, Fish says, including a deal worth up to $950 million with the U.S. Air Force. “Strategic shifts in recent years led to a focus on resilient information sharing as a top priority across the U.S. government and allies,” Fish said. “In addition, the austere conditions and greater demands push our technology further in ways that are complementary to commercial use cases. With Ditto, strategic and tactical responders can communicate even in the face of damaged infrastructure, congested channels, dynamically formed disaster response teams, communication impediments, poor interoperability and security attacks. Ditto’s focus over the next few months will be expanding its software development kit and further commercializing its tech, Fish says, as well as acquiring customers in industries like travel, education and retail. “While the company was not in need of funding, we decided to raise so we could invest across customer-facing roles in sales and support,” Fish said. “Ditto aims to be the world’s next great database that runs everywhere — across cloud providers to edge servers and mobile devices.” Thomas Tull, the chairman of USIT, had this to say via email: “With technology permeating every aspect of our lives, the break-neck advances Ditto is making in data management and accessibility are crucial to the future of how data is managed and accessed. Ditto’s developments have a tremendous number of applications across sectors — from everyday life to business to the Pentagon — and that is why the work they are doing is so essential.” Mum’s the word on Ditto’s revenue. But Fish did reveal that the startup, which has raised $54 million to date, inclusive of a $9 million seed round closed in November 2021, plans to grow its workforce from 65 people to over 100 by the end of the year. Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. The latest Fintech news and analysis, delivered every Tuesday. TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
			 What’s the point of chatting with a human-like bot if it’s an unreliable narrator — and has a colorless personality? That’s the question I’ve been turning over in my head…  Zoom on Monday announced a new single-user webinar feature that caps out at 1 million attendees. The addition comes less than a month after the #WinWithBlackWomen fundraiser for Vice President…  On Sunday, former President Donald Trump posted a collection of memes on Truth Social — the platform owned by his media company — that make it seem like Taylor Swift…  Few truly autonomous systems are deployed on the battlefield, but one startup is looking to change that with robotic systems that use cooperative behavior to boost troops’ intelligence and tactical…  Former a16z-investor Balaji Srinivasan has booked out an island in Singapore to create his own “Network School.”  The flight tracking company says the misconfiguration exposed customer names, addresses, and pilot’s data, as well as Social Security numbers.  Over 30% of 7- to 9-year-olds have an X account, according to a new report.  Apple Podcasts can now be streamed from the web. Apple announced on Monday that its Apple Podcasts app is now available on all major web browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and…  Historic vehicles, flowing champagne and fashion have dominated the events at Monterey Car Week for decades now. But a change is afoot: EVs, tech-centric vehicles, startups and a heavy dose…  The clock is ticking! You’ve got just 5 days left to lock in discounted tickets for TechCrunch Disrupt 2024. Save up to $600 on individual ticket types. This limited-time offer ends…  General Motors is cutting around 1,000 software workers around the world in a bid to focus on more “high-priority” initiatives like improving its Super Cruise driver assistance system, the quality…  Popular iPad design app Procreate is coming out against generative AI, and has vowed never to introduce generative AI features into its products. The company said on its website that…  Mike Lynch, the investor and high-profile founder of U.K. tech firm Autonomy, has been declared missing at sea after the yacht he was on, the Bayesian, capsized in a storm…  ElevenLabs, which develops AI-powered tools to create and edit synthetic voices, is making its Reader app available globally with support for 32 languages.  AMD is acquiring ZT Systems, which provides compute design and infrastructure for AI, cloud and general purpose computing, for $4.9 billion.  Amazon is considering shifting its payments offerings in India into a standalone app, three sources familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, as the e-commerce giant aims to boost usage of…  Root helps food and beverage companies collect primary data on their agricultural supply chains.   In May, the African fintech processed up to $70 million in monthly payment volume.  This post contains spoilers for the movie “Alien: Romulus” In the long-running “Alien” movie franchise, the Weyland-Yutani Corporation can’t seem to let go of a terrible idea: It keeps trying…  Thomas Ingenlath is having perhaps a little too much fun in his Polestar 3, silently rocketing away from stop signs and swinging through tightening bends, grinning like a man far…  Some parents have reservations about the South Korean government’s plans to bring tablets with AI-powered textbooks into classrooms, according to a report in Financial Times. The tablets are scheduled to…  Featured Article Season 3 of “Industry” focuses on the fictional bank Pierpoint and blends the worlds — and drama — of tech, media, government and finance.  Featured Article Selling under such circumstances is often not as poor of an outcome for founders and key staff as it initially seems.   While the rapid pace of funding has slowed, many fintechs are continuing to see growth and expand their teams.  This is just one area of leadership where Parker Conrad takes a contrarian approach. He also said he doesn’t believe in top-down management.  Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi issued a statement late yesterday laying out her opposition to SB 1047, a California bill that seeks to regulate AI. “The view of many of us in…  Data analytics company Palantir has faced criticism and even protests over its work with the military, police, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but co-founder and CEO Alex Karp isn’t…  Timo Resch is basking in the sun. That’s literally true, as we speak on a gloriously clear California day at the Quail, one of Monterey Car Week’s most prestigious events.…  Made by Google was this week, featuring a full range of reveals from Google’s biggest hardware event. Google unveiled its new lineup of Pixel 9 phones, including the $1,799 Pixel…  I’ve been playing around with OpenAI’s Advanced Voice Mode for the last week, and it’s the most convincing taste I’ve had of an AI-powered future yet. This week, my phone…  Powered by WordPress VIP