From 31st August, 01 and 02 September, bus service changes will be taking place throughout South Yorkshire.  Many services will have updated timetables to improve punctuality, and a variety of services will also have route changes to provide new and improved local connections, such as to employment and health centres. Route changes in Sheffield and Rotherham will provide frequent direct connection to AMRC. If your service is not shown on the below list of service changes, then it is not subject to any upcoming changes. New route maps will be available in due course, please check back later.   Bus Service Changes  Supertram Service Changes   Rail Service Changes  Bank Holiday Services 2024   Barnsley  Doncaster  Rotherham  Sheffield  Click 'View more information' in the sections below to see details about the upcoming service changes, and download timetables and route maps.  From 01 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 01 September there will be changes to the timetable and stopping points.  View more information From 31 August timetable changes.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable improvements, with Monday to Saturday evening journeys now up to every 30 minutes.  View more information From 02 September there will be timetable changes, and a Saturday service will be introduced between Penistone and Stocksbridge.  View more information From 02 September this service will be withdrawn and partially replaced by new Saturday journeys on service 26.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 02 September there will be timetable and route improvements, and a Saturday service will be introduced.  View more information From 31 August there will be minor timetable changes to improve punctuality.   View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes including the introduction of extra evening journeys on Mondays to Saturdays.  View more information From 31 August there will be minor timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 02 September these services will be introduced, operating on Mondays only between Holmfirth and Sheffield via Meadowhall.  View more information From 02 September this service will be introduced operating on Wednesdays only, providing journeys between Holmfirth, Langsett and Castleton.  View more information From 02 September this service will be introduced, operating between Barnsley, Penistone and Holmfirth.  View more information From 31 August this service will be introduced, using the 218 route between Rotherham and Mexborough and then continuing via Wath to Cortonwood Retail Park.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable and route changes, with some journeys now operating as service 216.  View more information From 31 August this service will be renumbered 217, with timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 02 September this service will be withdrawn and partially replaced by new service 90.  View more information From 02 September this service will be withdrawn and partially replaced by new service 90 .  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information   Back to top   From 01 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 31 August this service will be introduced, using the 218 route between Rotherham and Mexborough and then continuing via Wath to Cortonwood Retail Park.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable and route changes, with some journeys now operating as service 216.  View more information From 31 August this service will be renumbered 217, with timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality and route changes.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve coordination with service X19 along Barnsley Road.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 30 August this service will be withdrawn. Details to follow, please check back later. From 01 September this service will be introduced, operating in the mornings for Sir Thomas Wharton Academy. Details to follow, please check back later. From 31 August there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information   Back to top   From 01 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable improvements, with Monday to Saturday evening journeys now up to every 30 minutes.  View more information From 02 September this service will be introduced, partially replacing services 41, 73 and X74.  View more information From 01 September these services will be introduced, providing journeys between Sheffield and Harthill via Darnall and Sheffield Business Park, replacing service X54 between Catcliffe and Harthill.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable and route changes, and Monday to Saturday daytime services will be withdrawn.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable and route changes, with new service variations 95b and 95s also introduced. Refer to amended services 75 and 76 for journeys to Northern General Hospital and Meadowhall.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable and route changes.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable and route changes, with all journeys now operating as service 207.  View more information From 31 August this service will be introduced, using the 218 route between Rotherham and Mexborough and then continuing via Wath to Cortonwood Retail Park.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable and route changes, with some journeys now operating as service 216.  View more information From 31 August this service will be renumbered 217, with timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality and route changes.  View more information From 01 September this service will be introduced, operating between Maltby and Rotherham. Details to follow, please check back later. From 01 September this service will be withdrawn and replaced by service 76a. Details to follow, please check back later. From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September this service will be withdrawn and partially replaced by new services 71, 71a and 95.  View more information From 02 September this service will be withdrawn and partially replaced by new service 70 and amended services 95/95a.  View more information   Back to top   From 02 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 01 September this service will be withdrawn and replaced by amended service 75.  View more information From 01 September this service will be withdrawn and replaced by new services 47 and 48, and amended services 75 and 76.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 01 September there will be changes to the timetable and stopping points.  View more information From 02 September there will be timetable changes, and the service will operate as a circular route (not terminating on Flat Street) enabling through journeys in Sheffield city centre.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes with some journeys now operating as service 8a.  View more information From 02 September these services will be withdrawn and partially replaced by new services M44 and M45.  View more information From 02 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September this service will be withdrawn and replaced by new services 47 and 48, and improved service 18.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable improvements and route changes.  View more information From 02 September there will be an increase in journey frequency and a route change to serve Sheffield Interchange.  View more information From 02 September this service will be withdrawn and replaced by new service M35.  View more information From 02 September this service will be withdrawn and partially replaced by amended service 8a and new service 70.  View more information From 02 September this service will be withdrawn and partially replaced by amended service 8a and new service 70.  View more information From 01 September this service will be renumbered 70a, with no changes to the route or timetable.  View more information From 01 September these services will be introduced, providing journeys between Shiregreen, Sheffield and Herdings in a circular loop.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable and route changes, with daytime service extending through to Hillsborough.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes with new Sunday daytime journeys introduced to Wisewood and Loxley.  View more information From 02 September this service will be withdrawn and replaced by new services M44, M45 and M55.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable and route changes, with an extension to Manor Park Centre via Manor Park crescent on Monday to Saturday daytimes.  View more information From 02 September there will be timetable changes, with additional journeys on Monday to Saturday evenings on service 57a.  View more information From 02 September these services will be introduced, operating on Thursdays only between Hillsborough and Holmfirth.  View more information From 02 September this service will be introduced, partially replacing services 41, 73 and X74.  View more information From 01 September these services will be introduced, providing journeys between Sheffield and Harthill via Darnall and Sheffield Business Park, replacing service X54 between Catcliffe and Harthill.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable and route changes, and Monday to Saturday daytime services will be withdrawn.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable and route changes to partially replace service 1a, and service 75a will be introduced to provide connection to Fox Hill.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable and route changes to partially replace services 95 and 95a, and services 76a and 76e will also be introduced.  View more information From 02 September this service will be renumbered M76, and there will be minor timetable and route changes to serve Sheffield Interchange.  View more information From 02 September these services will be introduced, operating on Mondays only between Holmfirth and Sheffield via Meadowhall.  View more information From 01 September the timetable will be improved with more regular intervals between journeys, and there will no longer be route variations to serve Millhouses.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes and a route change to serve Greystones, High Storrs and Bents Green.  View more information From 02 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 02 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 02 September this service will be introduced operating on Wednesdays only, providing journeys between Holmfirth, Langsett and Castleton.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable and route changes, with new service variations 95b and 95s also introduced. Refer to amended services 75 and 76 for journeys to Northern General Hospital and Meadowhall.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality and a route change to serve Western Bank in early mornings and evenings.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes, with some early morning journeys withdrawn.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes, with improved co-ordination with Stagecoach service 120.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable and route changes.  View more information From 31 August there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable and route changes, with all journeys now operating as service 207.  View more information From 01 September this service will be withdrawn and replaced by service 76a. Details to follow, please check back later. From 01 September there will be timetable changes. Details to follow, please check back later. From 01 September this service will be withdrawn. Details to follow, please check back later. From 02 September this service will be introduced, partially replacing service 35a.  View more information From 02 September these services will be introduced, providing journeys to Moorthorpe Medical Centre and Birley Medical Centre.  View more information From 02 September service 55 will be replaced by new service M55 between Crystal Peaks and Plumbley.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September there will be timetable changes to improve punctuality.  View more information From 01 September this service will be withdrawn and partially replaced by new services 71, 71a and 95.  View more information From 02 September this service will be withdrawn and partially replaced by new service 70 and amended services 95/95a.  View more information   Back to top   Full details for all Bank Holiday Bus, Tram, Tram Train and Train services are available in our PDF guide.    Timetable changes for each rail operator are available below. From Sunday 02 June 2024 there will be timetable changes to CrossCountry services. To check the most up to date times for CrossCountry services please visit  CrossCountry's website. From Sunday 02 June 2024 there will be timetable changes to East Midlands Railway (EMR) services. View timetables for the following services:  Nottingham - Sheffield  Sheffield - London St Pancras  Sheffield - Hathersage - Manchester To check the most up to date times for East Midlands Railway services please visit  EMR's website. From Sunday 02 June 2024 there will be timetable changes to LNER services. View timetables for the following services:  London - Doncaster - Leeds To check the most up to date times for LNER services please visit  LNER's website. From Sunday 02 June 2024 there will be timetable changes to Northern services.  Sheffield - Barnsley - Huddersfield  Nottingham - Sheffield - Barnsley - Leeds  Sheffield - Moorthorpe - Leeds  Doncaster - Adwick - Leeds  Sheffield - Rotherham - Doncaster - Adwick/Scunthorpe  Sheffield - Rotherham - Doncaster - Hull  Sheffield - Rotherham - York / Hull  Sheffield - Hathersage - Manchester  Sheffield - Lincoln / Cleethorpes To check the most up to date times for Northern services please visit  Northern's website. From Monday 03 June 2024 there will be timetable changes to TransPennine Express (TPE) services.   Cleethorpes - Doncaster - Sheffield - Liverpool To check the most up to date times for TransPennine Express services please visit  TransPennine Express' website.   There are no upcoming changes to Supertram services. Current Supertram timetable information is available in our Tram & Tram Train Guide:   Ongoing Network Improvements may temporarily affect Supertram services:   Back to top  Page last reviewed: 15 August 2024 Next review due: 16 August 2024  You may also be interested in:  Current disruptions
 Journey Planner
 Contact us
 Latest news Menu Support Travel tools 
© 2023 Travel South Yorkshire
