The latest and greatest gadgets with major wow factor (and fast shipping). Our product picks are editor-tested, expert-approved. We may earn a commission through links on our site. Why Trust Us? There's still time to find the perfect tech gift. The best tech gift does not have to be out-of-this world expensive either. In fact, because tech innovation moves so fast, the prices are quite reasonable. We hunted around and found the best tech gifts for men; gifts that will empower, improve lifestyles, and keep us all connected.  The best tech gifts for men can make tasks easier while camping, improve the way we drink coffee in the morning, and allow us to check out of real life and check in to a good game or show. Keep scrolling to view all the best tech gifts that are still in stock (at the time of this writing) and come with quick shipping. Best Tech Gifts for Men The best tech gifts ought to be inspiring too. Tech, after all, is the future and should change the way we see and enjoy the world. That doesn't mean wildly futuristic concepts with no use or purpose. Instead, these are tech gift with high IQs that continue to outperform their predecessors. From blenders and compression boots, to daypacks and outdoor TVs, they're the crème de la crème  of the modern tech world. Here they are, the best tech gifts for men. Best Gifts for Men | Secret Santa Gift Ideas | Best White Elephant Gifts | Best Gag Gifts | Best Wife Gifts | Best Stocking Stuffers for Men | Best Gifts for Teen Boys | Best Gifts for Whiskey Drinkers | Unique Gifts for Men | Best Luxury Gifts | Best Gifts for Husbands | Best Fitness Gifts for Him If you're looking for a last-minute gift that will knock his socks off, then look no further than a PlayStation 5 complete with our favorite game of the year, Spider-Man 2. Read more: Playstation 5 Slim Review Live a bit like The Matrix with these sophisticated shades in the iconic wayfarer mold. Yeah, they look great but they also provide the wearer with a sharp camera, voice control, and AI abilities. They're the smartest shades we've seen yet. Gift him a new hobby with this fun-to-use metal detector. He can join the vast community of treasure hunters out there and have the tech needed to find lost or washed-up items at the beach or local park or wherever. This gift comes straight from the future. A 3D printer that will allow you to create incredibly accurate models straight from your device. Precise is not the word, as the creations are pretty much perfect—at least in terms of build and desired dimensions. The new Freestyle 2nd Gen is the ultimate portable projector. It pops out to 100-inches and can go off-the-grid as long as you have the add-on battery pack with it (although you can still plug into a power station 12-volt port and use it that way too). Download your favorite movies, lob up your favorite streaming apps, or play your favorite games through the cloud-powered Gaming Hub; this thing does it all. If you feel like going hard, gift this incredible electric motorbike. It sports a classic design, akin to a highly-functional military vehicle from about 50 years ago. But it's a tech gift, so it has all the modern bell and whistles, from hydraulic brakes to a rugged frame built for just about anything. The editors and writers of Men's Health have found the Voltrx to be a game changer for making gains in 2023. It makes the best protein shakes, not only mixing them evenly but offering roughly a month of battery on a single short charge. Now that's tech at its best. Tech and wallets? You better believe it. This one brings carrying valuables gracefully into modern times with bumpers to keep cards from sliding and RFID blocking technology. The clean and low profile makes the whole thing sing. Breakthrough mixed reality is right. This console offers one of the coolest, most captivating experiences yet. Sure, real life is great but if he likes to get lost in fantasy worlds and game like he's actually there, we can't imagine a better system. Tech has gifted us the modern safe, far more portable than the one you see at banks or built in to your hotel wall. This portable biometric one from TROVA is great for travel, allowing you to secure your jewelry, watches, credit cards, legal drugs, or whatever needs a little more guarding.  Tech can be simple, like this straightforward shelf from Oakywood. It instantly turns your desk into a multi-floored apparatus, meaning more storage spice and optimal organization. Also, it looks incredibly sleek and comes in a few different grains. Feet deserve more, they're our tireless tires, logging massive shifts each and every day. Set him up with a massage machine that'll restore foot health and rub away any kind of pain or soreness. It can knead, roll, offer air pressure and just plain make you feet feel better. Your hands deserve better. Treat them to the ultimate massage with this device, which is rechargeable and portable. Whether arthritis is in the picture or you just need a good rub down, this contraption is ready to offer quick, temperature-regulated comfort. Make that galaxy not so far away with this cool Star Wars lamp. It comes with the Death Star and a couple of iconic spacecraft and can be adjusted by brightness and color. If there was a night light for grown ups, this is it. A portable power station with fold out solar panels for under $750? Count us in. The Jackery will provide reliable power after charging via electric at your home, but when you want to draw power from the sun all you have to do is pop open these solar panels. It's pretty awesome. Hand warmers are one of the easiest hacks to getting through winter. This magnetic set is sleek, rechargeable, and way cooler than your average clunker electric hand warmer. Get that grooming game in shape with this we and dry shaver. There's hardly a closer cut and the rotary system deals with the many contours and crevices of his face. What does a dude need an endoscope for? Think car maintenance, home inspections, electrical installation, HVAC repairs, and more. Cool spy gadgets vibes here. An overachieving tech gift if there ever was one, this perpetual motion machine offers ambient light and calming patterns for a more relaxed atmosphere. Whether you need some good energy in the home office or to be soothed during a yoga set, this is the machine for you. It can be customized any way you like and play music. Lose less with this magnetic pickup tool. It'll find all those little pieces you didn't know you misplaced. It's great for working in tight quarters, fit with an adjustable light with a telescoping neck. He might just enjoy doing repairs from now on. 65 Golf Gifts That Are Sure to Be a Hole-In-One 40 Useful Tool Gifts for Dad This Father's Day Cool Gifts for Dads You Can Give Anytime of Year 33 College Graduation Gifts He'll Actually Use 50 Perfect Last-Minute Mother's Day Gifts Found: the Perfect Gift for Any Guy Romantic Valentine's Day Gift Ideas She'll Love Thoughtful Valentine's Day Gifts for Your Wife 49 Cheap Valentine's Day Gifts Under $50 The 45 Best Long-Distance Relationship Gifts  The 46 Best Valentine's Day Gifts for New Couples 76 Foolproof Holiday Gift Ideas for Her A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazines, Inc. All Rights Reserved.