
  MEMBERS of the public are continuing the hunt for Echo the missing Workington Tegu, after she disappeared from her home at the weekend.
 
  Echo the lizard has became a local celebrity since she went missing, with many, including local police officers, joining the hunt for her.
 
Many people in the local area have joined in the hunt for Echo the tegu who has been missing from her home in Moorclose since Sunday, June 4.
 
  Since her escape, which is thought to have seen Echo tunnel herself out of her garden, the tegu has became a hit on social media, even making an appearance on ITV's Good Morning Britian earlier this week.
 
  Although she has been missing for a few days, Echo's owners say they 'remain hopeful' in the hunt for their much loved pet.
 
  Echo can last a few weeks without food according to owner Siobhan, however residents in the Moorclose area have been asked to keep an eye out in their paddling pools where she may have gone to look for water.
 
  In a statement yesterday, owner Siobhan Harkness at Pet Encounter Cumbria said: "Still no Echo!
 
  "We have been out again looking down the line, heading towards town at the back of Grasmere Avenue!
 
  "One person yesterday and one today have heard a noise that they don't recognise, and it might or might not be her, but we are hopeful.
 
  "She can go a couple of weeks without food and left on a full belly. She will probably be looking for water now, and we are only guessing, but we think she is heading towards the town area, that if it is her.
 
  "If anyone has a pool in your garden, please keep an eye as she might decide to have a dip in it contact us via message or on 07397548562."
 
  Tegus are omniverous, and in the wild feed on fruit, insects, frogs, small rodents, birds, eggs and carrion.
 
  When asked what members of the public do if they find Echo, Siobhan said: "Just drop us a message, call and keep an eye on her until we get there.
 
  "With it being a different environment I don't know how she would react."
 
                    We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
                 
                    Please report any comments that break our rules.
                 
                This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then please 
    contact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can
    contact IPSO here
 
© 2001-2024.  Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
             Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callback event. As a subscriber, you are shown 80% less display advertising when reading our articles. Those ads you do see are predominantly from local businesses promoting local services.  These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – the local community. It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.