We know how challenging it can be to shop for the men in your life. Even if you ask them what they want, the response is often a vague, not-so-helpful "anything is fine" or the dreaded "I don't know." The good news is that — at least in our shopping experience — gadgets and tech finds are always a failsafe gift to give, even if you're shopping for someone who has it all. From gadgets that will make life easier to some of the hottest products this year, we've curated a guide to the best tech gifts of 2024 — including items that he'll actually use and appreciate.  Whether it's a smart-home find that will make his life more efficient, or a pair of stylish noise-canceling headphones, he'll thank you endlessly for any of these awesome gifts. If he loves golfing in his free time, get him a smart watch that gives him all the data he needs to play his best game, like score-tracking, 360-degree yardages, and more. For something unique, gift him an LED face mask that not only has massage capabilities, but also looks like Jason's mask from "Halloween." We also found several fun presents for the gamer in your life, like the trendy Meta Quest VR device, a Nintendo Switch, and more.   If you're on the hunt for the coolest tech and a unique gift for the indecisive man in your life, these innovative picks won't disappoint. Hey, you might even want a few for yourself! Shop our picks for the best tech gifts for men below.  — Additional reporting by Kyley Warren iWalk Portable Charger ($21, originally $30)
 If they're always on their phone, scrolling through countless emails or just catching up on their Instagram feed, get them this handy portable charger that will ensure their battery never dies unexpectedly. The compact device serves as a power bank and can easily be inserted into an iPhone's USB port for easy charging. It comes in a variety of colors and is even a favorite of PS editors. 
 "Within the span of only an hour, the portable battery can be fully charged and ready to use as needed. With this tool, I can forgo a charging cord altogether as the product can be inserted straight into my iPhone's lightning port, which is fantastic because it's one less thing for me to have to worry about carrying around or transporting when I'm on the go," says one of our editors. Read our review of the iWalk Portable Charger to learn more. Oura Ring Gen3 ($299)
 Shopping for someone who wants to prioritize their wellness? Get them the Oura ring, which allows them to have a holistic view of their metrics, including heart rate, sleep stages, activity, and more. 
 "If you're already an active person or want to become more active, this is a high-quality tracker," says one of our editors. She also notes that it's comfortable, has a long battery life, and is ideal for those who want something discreet, minimalist, and fashion forward. It comes in two styles and in four band colors as well. Read our review of the Oura Ring for more information. Therabody TheraFace Mask: LED Light Therapy Skincare Device ($599)
 If they're looking to invest in their skin-care routine, and are curious about the world of LED masks, this one from Therabody offers more than just red and blue light therapy. With 648 medical-grade LED lights around the face, it's the only LED mask on the market that has vibration motors around the eyes and the top and back of the head, so they can experience a relaxing massage. 
 "I've tested several LED masks, but none relaxes me quite like this one," says one of our editors in her in-depth review of the TheraFace Mask. "It comes with a cool display stand, and it so closely resembles Jason's mask from 'Halloween,'" she says, which is an added bonus for the horror fan. Apple AirTag ($25, originally $29)
 The AirTag comes in handy for those who love to travel or often misplace things. Once the AirTag is placed in or on the item he wants to track, he'll always know where his stuff is. This is great for checked-in luggage and carry-on bags as well as wallets and purses. You can get them a pack of four for $80. 
 "They took about 30 seconds to set up; all you need is your iPhone close by, and they pair automatically. Using the Find My app that's installed on all iPhones, I was able to track our bags from check-in until takeoff, and again when we landed back in the States. I saw them all together in the European airport, and I was even able to track, based on an airport map, that they moved with us when we had to change planes due to an electrical issue," says one of our editors. For more info, check out our review of the Apple AirTags. Rocketbook Fusion Smart Reusable Notebook ($31, originally $35) 
 This smart notebook has a calendar, to-do lists, and note template pages for all his planning and note-taking needs. He can scan and export his written notes to his email or Google Docs and have them digitized. He can just wipe the pages clean and start all over. It's a great gift for multitaskers or college students. Plus, it comes in a ton of different colors. PhoneSoap 3 UV Phone Sanitizer & Charger ($60, originally $80)
 Get the PhoneSoap 3 for the one who's always sanitizing. The device uses UV lights to get your phone 99.9 percent germ-free, all while charging it. He can even clean his card holder, keys, and other small necessities. It comes in a variety of fun colors as well, so choose his favorite. 
 "It kills bacteria, and yes it even charges your phone too. It cleans your phone in just 10 minutes," says one of our editors. Read our in-depth review of the PhoneSoap 3 UV Phone Sanitizer & Charger. Viktor Jurgen Neck Massage Pillow ($30, originally $40)
 Treat him to this relaxing massage with this bestselling neck massage pillow. It's portable and great for a traveler, a work-from-home setup, and more. It has deep-kneading shiatsu-like nodes that rotate for a soothing, deep massage. Larq Self Cleaning Water Bottle ($99)
 No matter who you're shopping for, the Larq Self Cleaning Water Bottle is something they will use and appreciate, especially if they're a busy body. This water bottle actually cleans itself with a disinfecting UV light. Still wondering if the tool is really worth the hype? Our editor says, "here's what makes this bottle so special; it's self-cleaning. I'll let that sink in for a second before proceeding. If you've ever had a water bottle that does not pass the sniff test, you know what a game changer this is. The bottle also has a purification system within the cap." Read more in this Larq Self-Cleaning Water Bottle review. Hatch Restore 2 ($170, originally $200)
 Featuring a sound machine, ambient light, and sunrise alarm clock, the Hatch Restore is the bedside buddy that will be an integral part of his nighttime routine. He can program this sleek smart device to help him improve his sleep and wind down for the night, as well as gently wake him up to get him started for the day. 
 "It's suitable for anyone looking to improve their night and morning routines as it creates a personalized 10-step system allowing you to do so," our editor claims. Learn more about the machine's benefits in this Hatch Restore product review. Click & Grow Self-Watering Indoor Garden ($300)
 If you're shopping for the guy who wants to add something green to their space, the Click & Grow Self-Watering Indoor Garden makes it easier than ever for them to grow their own herbs and produce. Whether they're an amateur gardener or a total pro, they'll appreciate this useful yet unique gift that will perfect their green thumb. It has a built-in water reservoir that holds a month's worth of water and an LED lamp arm to provide vital light for photosynthesis. This one comes with three basil pods, but you can also get other pods for different fruits, veggies, and herbs.
 "The Click & Grow Smart Garden is a great home addition for both the beginner and advanced plant enthusiasts. For anyone who's too busy to grow traditionally, this is a perfect way to still get the experience of growing without the stress. It's also a great home addition for anyone who just wants to enjoy greenery in the home to brighten up a space — this minimal maintenance is worth the air-quality benefit alone," one of our editors said in this product review of the Click & Grow Smart Garden 9. Beats Studio Buds ($100, originally $150)
 He'll enjoy a truly immersive listening experience with these stylish Beats Studio Buds. They're noise-canceling earbuds with up to eight hours of listening time (or up to 24 hours when combined with the pocket-sized charging case). They are water-resistant and also come in white or red. Read our in-depth review of the Beats Studio Buds. 
 If he's looking for something more secure and built to support an active lifestyle, the Beats Fit Pro ($160, originally $200) is another great option to consider. These noise-canceling earbuds are also editor-backed, with one of editors stating, "the audio is crystal clear, with crisp vocals and deep bass. With its spatial audio features, these earbuds deliver a surround-sound-like experience that elevates your content." Plus, they don't compromise on comfort; as our editor says, "the Fit Pros fit into my ear like they were built for my ear canal, plus they are equipped with flexible wingtips that secure the earbud in place." Read her in-depth review of the Beats Fit Pro here. Ray Ban Stories Smart Glasses ($299)
 The Ray Ban Stories Smart Glasses are the most stylish techie sunnies he'll ever own. These smart glasses can take photos and videos hands-free with the built-in dual 5MP camera. No need to worry about the bad lighting; these sunnies will adjust automatically, so he'll be able to take high-resolution photos and quality video for up to 60 seconds. He can also take phone calls and play music with these since it has hidden open-ear speakers and three built-in microphones. 
 One of our editors tested it out and says, "I can seamlessly snap a photo of the view through my lenses, simply by touching the temple that's located on the side of the frames, or even through voice-activated commands. From there, I can easily import my captured moment into the Facebook View app and edit or upload the photos and videos directly to social media. Even a digital camera doesn't provide that kind of immediate convenience, and it's so cool to be able to capture a moment exactly as I see it and in the precise instant that I see it." Read the in-depth review of the Ray-Ban Stories Smart Glasses. Kindle Scribe ($340)
 The Kindle Scribe is perfect for both professionals and students. The e-reader lets him read and now write on a glare-free Paperwhite display. It comes with a Basic Pen that lets him create sticky notes, to-do lists, journals, and more. He can even import and write on Microsoft Word documents and PDFs, then export them via email. He'll be able to choose from a variety of note-taking templates like lined paper, grid paper, checklists, and more. It has a high-resolution display with an adjustable warm light and auto-adjusting front light. A single charge can last weeks as well.
 One of our editors tested it out and says, "The most underrated feature of the Kindle Scribe (and all Kindles, for that matter) is that it's stripped of all the distractions that regular tablets have. I can create note annotations and reflect immediately on certain passages or bookmark pages for when I want to reread something. It allows me to be attentive and present and truly understand what I'm reading." Check out the in-depth review of the Kindle Scribe here. Marshall Stanmore III Bluetooth Speaker ($350, originally $380)
 If you're shopping for the guy who adores music, the Marshall Stanmore III will fill his home with melodies for an immersive, concert-like experience. The sleek speaker fits both modern and vintage aesthetics as well as doubles as chic home decor on a shelf or side table. He'll be able to adjust the bass and treble for a customized sound. The Bluetooth speaker comes in three colors: black, a vintage cream, or a relaxed rustic brown. He can also connect via an aux cable. 
 It's also an editor favorite, with one claiming, "The way it plays music is incredibly captivating and fills my entire 750-square-foot apartment with rich sound. The listening experience is almost immersive, and that's what I love about the Stanmore III: you close your eyes and it's like the band is playing in front of you. It's a powerful speaker that packs a punch as soon as you switch it on, and it's incredibly easy to use." Read our in-depth review of the Marshall Stanmore III Bluetooth Speaker. Garmin Approach S42 GPS Golf Smartwatch ($270, originally $300)
 The Garmin Approach S42 GPS Golf Smartwatch is the best fitness tracker for avid golfers. It's a smart watch that provides all the data they need to play their best game, including yardages from the front, back, middle of the green via GPS; score tracking, and more. It has more than 42,000 preloaded courses from all over the world. Renpho Eyeris Eye Massager  ($70, originally $130)
 The Renpho Eyeris Eye Massager is an electric shiatsu eye massager that will help relieve the tension from eye fatigue and eye strain. It has built-in heating pads that provide a comfortable temperature for a hot compress. It's a gift that will truly keep on giving, and it even helps with eye puffiness and dryness. It comes in white and gray. DJI FPV First-Person View Drone UAV Quadcopter ($800, originally $999)
 This DJI FPV First-Person View Drone UAV Quadcopter is the ultimate gift for a drone enthusiast. It features a 4K camera and DJI FPV Goggles V2 for an immersive flight experience. It's perfect for those who love gaming or are adventure seekers. It makes for a unique and fun gift. Twelve South AirFly Pro ($55)
 If they're always on a plane, they know the struggle of having wireless headphones — and having to pay $2 to watch a movie on the plane's television. That's why the Twelve South AirFly Pro is so brilliant. Simply plug the device into the screen, and it syncs to your headphones. Now they'll really be able to use those AirPods on a plane for in-flight entertainment! Nintendo Switch OLED Model With White Joy-Con ($350)
 Get the gamer in your life something he'll obsess over, like the Nintendo Switch OLED Model. It has three modes of playtime — TV mode, tabletop mode, and handheld mode — for gaming whenever, wherever. When played in handheld and tabletop modes with the seven-inch OLED screen, he can enjoy an enhanced experience with the system's built-in speakers. It comes with a wide adjustable stand, a dock for TV mode, and 64 GB of internal storage. Furbo 360° Dog Camera Rotating ($147, originally $210)
 The Furbo 360° Dog Camera Rotating is a fun, useful gadget for the guy with pets. It's an HD WiFi-enabled surveillance camera that tosses treats on command. The camera has a 360-degree wide-angle view and works at night as well. It is compatible with Alexa and has a barking sensor that alerts them when the dog barks. Samsung 75-Inch Class Frame Series ($2,998)
 If you're looking for the gift that will truly wow the guy who loves to watch movies, shows, or games, there's no better gift than a brand-new TV! The Samsung Frame is a smart TV that turns into artwork when not in use. He can even access over 1,400 works of art from world-class museums and galleries. It has Alexa built in and can house streaming services like Netflix, Hulu, YouTube, and more. It has a 4K QLED resolution. It comes in sizes ranging from 32 inches to 85 inches. 
 It's an editor favorite as well, with one pointing out, "I appreciate the flexibility that comes with being able to easily switch up the art that I choose to display, which is something I wouldn't otherwise be able to do with large-scale art, which is its own investment. I can access a selection of free art from the Samsung art store, which partners with museums around the world and brands like Minted and Etsy." Read our in-depth review of the Samsung Class Frame Series. Anvita Reddy is an assistant editor for POPSUGAR Shopping. She has a passion for products and is an avid reviewer of everything including furniture, mattresses, home gadgets, cookware, tech, and more. Having dealt with acne as a teenager and into adulthood, her expertise lies in beauty. She has tried and tested plenty of skin care, makeup, hair care, and countless other beauty products. Kyley Warren is an award-winning writer, editor, and affiliate strategist with more than four years of experience in the publishing space. She currently works as an assistant editor on PS Shopping and is an expert on all things related to shopping and fashion. She previously worked with Entertainment Tonight as a style commerce writer, and her byline has appeared in publications globally.